-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thelegendofzelda/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling characters and story.
 outstanding world and puzzle design.
 longer than most action adventure games.
 terrific graphics, from an artistic perspective.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii-specific elements feel tacked on.
 graphics and sound sometimes go from nostalgic to dated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 9.5, 84 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 21,716 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Twilight Princess contains the same expertly designed puzzles and gameplay that you've come to expect, 
 though parts of its presentation feel stuck in the past. 

  When game consoles transitioned from offering primarily 2D games to polygonal 3D games about 10 
 years ago, all of the tricks and gameplay ideas that developers had been relying on for years flew 
 right out the window. During this time, Nintendo quickly found its footing and released masterful 
 takes on its old franchises that retained the fun and feeling of the older games while properly 
 updating them in exciting and impressive new ways. 1998's The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 
 was a prime example of this. It featured a more realistic take on the series' fantasy world than 
 ever before, while implementing innovative new controls and offering a good sense of freedom without 
 making the player feel lost. It's one of the greatest games of all time, so it's hard to fault 
 Nintendo for revisiting that same formula. And that's precisely what the latest game in the series, 
 Twilight Princess, does. For the most part, that's a very good thing, because Twilight Princess 
 is a lengthy adventure packed with many well-designed puzzles and some interesting characters. 
 But once you get over the rush of excitement from a big, new Zelda game having finally arrived, 
 it's hard not to feel a tinge of disappointment -- there's a very noticeable lack of evolution here, 
 which makes aspects of the game seem more dated than classic. Even so, there isn't much out there 
 that compares to Twilight Princess, except for the Zelda games that have come before it.  

          Link is back! In wolf form!     

  Like most other Zelda games, Twilight Princess is 
 a retelling of the same basic tale, though this one is not without its twists. There's a princess 
 named Zelda, a land called Hyrule, and a world that's on the verge of destruction if you don't 
 do something to save it. In this installment, there's a darkness creeping across the land, locking 
 it in the eternal dusk of the twilight realm. You play as Link, a humble, pointy-eared boy who 
 lives in a far-off village and herds goats for a living, yet he ends up getting involved in the 
 conflict. The twilight that's infected the land is an alternate reality of sorts, serving as the 
 game's equivalent of A Link to the Past's dark, alternate world, or in some cases, serving the 
 same purposes as the adult Link/child Link differences in Ocarina. The difference here is that 
 when you're in the twilight, you're transformed into a blue-eyed wolf.  

  Early on in the game, you meet up with one of the shadow dwellers, an impish little creature named 
 Midna. Midna rides around on your back while you're in wolf form and serves the same purposes as 
 Navi in Ocarina, providing you with the occasional hint. Link's beast form behaves roughly the 
 same as the human form, as far as combat is concerned, but you can't use items. You can, however, 
 access otherwise unreachable areas by following set jump paths that Midna will lead you through. 
 The wolf can also dig and go into a heightened-sense mode that shows off scent trails and other 
 hidden objects. For the first portion of the game, you'll be forced back and forth between forms, 
 but you eventually earn the ability to switch back and forth at will, and some of the game's later 
 puzzles will require you to do just that. You can also ride around on horseback, if you like, but 
 by the time you get to a point when you have large distances to cover, you'll also have the ability 
 to warp around, limiting the horse's usefulness to a couple of combat-oriented sequences.  

  Many of the early parts of the game take place outside in the game's overworld and in various 
 outdoor areas as you try to clear the darkness from the land. But along the way, you'll also enter 
 various temples and dungeons to collect new items, solve a wide variety of puzzles, and fight bosses. 
 While most of the game's story sequences take place above ground, these temples are the core of 
 the entire game, and they're very well done, even if they cover a lot of the same ground that you 
 may have seen in past Zelda installments. You start out with a forest temple, make your way to 
 a mine under Death Mountain for your fire temple, scratch your head and try to figure out the inner 
 workings of moving water around in the water temple, and so on. That's not to say they're all taken 
 from old blueprints, though, and some of the later temples take you to somewhat more interesting 
 locales, like a sky temple that demands that you make precise use of your grappling hookshot.  
 

          Most of the weapons and items you'd expect to see in a Zelda game are back in Twilight 
 Princess.     

  For the most part, the puzzles are great and rooted in logic. So if you stare at the map long enough 
 and figure out what each lever-pull does, deducing what's going on in the water temple isn't impossible. 
 And once you get movement-enhancing items like the hookshot, you'll be carefully looking at each 
 wall and ceiling, hoping to see a grapple-friendly target that will move you along. You'll push 
 blocks, you'll move cannonballs from room to room in hopes of finding a cannon and clearing a path, 
 you'll fire arrows at targets that cause blocks to move -- it's all pretty standard if you've been 
 keeping up with the Zelda series, but the formula still works quite well. However, with the way 
 the puzzles are designed, it's certainly possible for just about any of them to trip you up and 
 cause you to spend an hour or so just wandering around, staring at everything and trying to figure 
 out what to do next. However, none of the puzzles are especially fiendish, which means that you 
 might catch yourself feeling a little foolish when you finally realize that the solution was staring 
 you in the face the entire time. But really, figuring these puzzles out is where the majority of 
 the fun and sense of reward comes from as you play, because most of it's designed extremely well. 
     

  It's good that Twilight Princess' world and puzzle design can carry it, because the combat and 
 boss fights aren't very deep at all. Most enemies just require you to swing your sword at them, 
 which is done by shaking the Wii Remote or shaking the Nunchuk for a spin attack. You can lock 
 onto enemies with the Z trigger and strafe around them, hop back and forth, leap in for a jumping 
 attack, or jump back and out of the way -- the same basic moves as past installments. But normally 
 you can just keep on shaking the Wii Remote like a maniac and come out on top against most enemies. 
 There's no finesse to the way the Wii Remote is used, and at times you'll wish that you could just 
 hit a button to swing the sword instead of dealing with all the motion-sensing nonsense. This is 
 especially true in the rare cases that require you to time your sword swings properly, as well 
 as once you start learning a few extra moves, like the shield bash, which is done by shoving the 
 Nunchuk controller forward. Most of the time, performing this move resulted in a spin attack. The 
 combat controls using the Wii Remote may feel somewhat different from past games, but it doesn't 
 draw you into the experience any more than using a standard controller would, and at worst, it's 
 imprecise.  

          Twilight Princess' tale will take somewhere around 40 hours to complete. That's a long 
 time, especially for an action adventure game.     

  A few enemies require more advanced tactics, like spinning around to get behind them or using one 
 of your items to make them vulnerable. Just about every boss fight in the game requires you to 
 use more than just your sword and shield. Like in every other recent Zelda game, in Twilight Princess 
 you'll find a new item about halfway through a temple, and you can bet that you'll need that item 
 to take on the boss. There are a few tricky parts, but it's certainly feasible that you'll get 
 through the game's 35-to-40-hour story without running out of hearts and dying. That being said, 
 the boss fights make up for some of their ease by being pretty epic. Almost every one pits you 
 against a giant, screen-filling creature that at least looks tough, even if you're just going to 
 grapple your way onto it and stick your sword in its weak spot over and over again, or use your 
 ball and chain to bust it apart, without even breaking a sweat. Even the final confrontation is 
 relatively easy, and if you get stumped going against any boss, you can ask Midna for help and 
 get a fairly good idea about what you're supposed to be doing. If you want to go off the beaten 
 path, you can find a handful of side tasks to take on, like fishing and some other minigames, but 
 aside from the combat-filled Cave of Ordeals, which is a 50 stage area that acts as a sort of survival 
 mode, these aren't too exciting and the rewards you get for completing them aren't especially helpful. 

  Overall, the game is paced well and it keeps you moving more often than not. At one point you have 
 to move around to various statues that are stashed throughout the world, and this bogs down the 
 action a bit, but it's nowhere near the time sink that the late-game sailing marathon that padded 
 out the back end of Wind Waker was. Your time spent in Twilight Princess involves very little back-tracking, 
 and not too much repetition, keeping the focus squarely on original, interesting stuff.  

  The Wii was designed with relatively modest graphical capabilities, at least from a technical perspective. 
 So if you spend a lot of time trying to pick apart the visuals of Twilight Princess, you'd notice 
 plenty of low-res textures and jagged edges. But that would be missing the point. Twilight Princess 
 is an excellent-looking game due to some terrific art design. Much has already been said about 
 the art style reverting back to a more mature or realistic look after Wind Waker took the series 
 in a decidedly cartoonlike direction. While there's nothing terribly "mature" about this T-rated 
 game, it looks absolutely great from an artistic perspective. The world itself offers the sort 
 of variety you'd naturally expect from a fantasy game, with everything from lakes to deserts to 
 dungeons, but it's when you start seeing the twilight realm that the game really takes off, visually. 

  Twilight realm portals that open up do so with an almost  Tron -like glowing, computerized look, 
 and when you teleport around or change forms, that same style shows through, breaking your character 
 into cool, tiny black squares and reforming you in a new place or shape. You're also going to fight 
 a lot of crazy-looking dark shadow creatures, and many of the enemies in Twilight Princess look 
 really nice, up to and including those large boss opponents. At the same time, the game gets a 
 lot of little details right, too. You get a lot of close shots of characters' faces in the game's 
 cutscenes, and their faces are often filled with emotion. The eyes, particularly, convey a lot 
 of soul, which really helps make Link's wolf form work, too. It may have its rough edges here and 
 there, but Twilight Princess is the best-looking launch game on the Wii. Like most other Wii games, 
 you can play this one in 480p and widescreen, if you're so equipped. Playing in progressive scan 
 sharpens things up, which makes some objects look better, but it also makes the edges on everything 
 more jagged-looking.  

  The Legend of Zelda series' symphonic-style music has always been great, dating all the way back 
 to the NES original. That same music keeps getting updated, and more new themes have worked their 
 way into the series and become recurring, as well. You'll hear a lot of classic melodies in Twilight 
 Princess, and those help give the game a nostalgic feel. Much like the graphical portion of the 
 game, the music gets by on the strength of the compositions, but at the same time, all of the music 
 is rendered in the same sort of sample-driven, synthesized style that the series has had since 
 the Nintendo 64 days. While that might also give you a dose of nostalgia, it's also really dated. 
 Given that the Wii is running discs on a greater storage capacity than Nintendo games have had 
 in the past, and advances in standards for video game music, it's disappointing that the series 
 hasn't finally moved to full digital recordings. After all, these songs are worthy of an orchestra. 
 Similarly, it's surprising that the game's story is conveyed through text and text alone. Link 
 has always been that sort of blank-slate character that doesn't speak in games, and he doesn't 
 have any lines in Twilight Princess, either. That's a fine stylistic choice, but there's plenty 
 of dialogue in the game coming from other characters, and in this day and age, for a game whose 
 story is as much a factor as this one's is, it should have all been spoken. At least the dialogue 
 is well-written.  

          The game's puzzles might stump you from time to time, but they're logical and rewarding 
 to figure out.     

  The rest of Twilight Princess' sound is really weird. On one hand, it's using plenty of the same 
 sort of sound effects and battle yelps that the series has relied on, which again will tap into 
 fans' nostalgia for the series. So you'll get the familiar sound of swinging swords, exploding 
 bombs, and all of that. It generally sounds fine, but the game also makes frequent use of the speaker 
 on the Wii Remote, piping a lot of combat noises through it. Unfortunately, this speaker is cheap 
 and tinny, making everything that comes out of it sound distorted and poor. The audio coming through 
 this speaker also chops up fairly frequently, as if it can't maintain a decent connection with 
 the console. Hey, no big deal, right? Just turn the speaker down in the settings menu. That's an 
 option, but some sounds are either only played through the Wii Remote speaker or they're played 
 so quietly on the TV that they lose impact. Having some of the sounds play through this speaker 
 seems like a neat idea, but it doesn't work all that well in practice.  

  Objectively speaking, it's still a little disappointing that the series hasn't evolved much at 
 all with this latest installment. You'll almost certainly enjoy the game for its terrific puzzles, 
 colorful characters, and compelling story, but at some point the feeling of nostalgia crosses the 
 line and holds this game back from being as unbelievably good as some of its predecessors. So as 
 impressive of a game as it is, Twilight Princess seems like it could have been so much more with 
 a few presentational updates and more effective and interesting uses of the Wii's unique control 
 scheme. But even without those things, Twilight Princess is a great game that stays extremely true 
 to the Zelda franchise's past. That's excellent news for fans of the series, who'll find in Twilight 
 Princess a true-blue Zelda game with updated visuals, some new twists, plenty of challenging puzzles, 
 and a faithful dedication to the series' roots.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1870 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  the legend of zelda franchise had always great games like ocarina of time, majora's mask and windwaker. 
 this proves again that the legend of zelda haven't lost it's magic. just like in ocarina of time 
 you got epona (a horse) wich is very great so you don't have to walk evrywhere. they have added 
 and cut some items.
  
  
  
  The story begins as link is sleeping in his house (most of the games begins with link sleeping) ; 
 the some guy tells him that Illia (your main love interest) took your horse to the spring that 
 guy needs him to get its goats into the barn later link retrieve his horse does some task and he 
 get's the wooden sword. Later one of the children and a money get's captured by monsters so you 
 will save them with your horse; Illia noticed that your horse is hurt. Dhe is very angry and take 
 her to the spring so she can heal. one of the children (colin) explains her evything and link reaches 
 the fountain. illia says sorry and tells link he loves him. A minute later Illia and colin and 
 get captured by the same monster while punching link. Link wakes up follow them butt he see the 
 forest in a dark realm and a different monster captured him too and takes him in the dark realm 
 known as twillight. Link wakes up and seeing him in a castle and ow no! he is turned into a wolf! 
 Then an imp named midna shows up telling that he will help him get out if he does something for 
 her.
  
  This game is really great. It has evenbetter graphics than the gc version.
  The dungeons are imprssive and there is also twillight zones wich you have to turn into the world 
 of light. amazing puzzels.
  I wish they were some more side quest butt it's nott that bad.
  controls are way different than any other zelda game you have to swing the wii remote the use your 
 sword. Well it's actually quite simple.
  
  
  it is a great game for the wii. You should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldawarsgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time Nintendo released a 3-D Zelda games that actually took place on the ground 
 of Hyrule for the entire game. About 8 years are something like that, The first 3-D game, Ocarina 
 of time, is considered the greatest game of all time. Since then the games were actually really 
 good, MM taking place in an new land, WW had a totally different theme, but under that was a classic 
 Zelda game. Well, I'd better get back to Twilight Princess. The game is amazing. I'll start with 
 the storyline. It's starts like most of other games, Link is a farm boy learning how to use various 
 weapons like the sword and bow. At the beginning you get a sword a slingshot, and Epona (for those 
 first timers, that is link's best friend, but she's a horse) , sounds like OoT right? Well, it is 
 kinda like that, but then you one day you are walking and stumble upon monsters which take all 
 of your other freinds and in a desperate attempt to find them, you turn into a wolf. You go through 
 the land saving Hyrule from Twilight. Eventually it comes down to three people, you, Zelda, and______. 
 You also have the creature that replaces the fairies and the king of Red Lions. 
  Graphic: Amazing, but when you get close up it look kinda blurry, but the art. The master sword 
 looks amazing, the villages are great art, the twilight is just cool.
  Gameplay: same as the others except now you can only apply two weapons, Z is Midna. They really 
 should used her for R. But it's good swordplay including these moves like in WW.
  Music: Amazing good, but mini-tunes kike when you are face to face with an enemy is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Just4TheLolz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The good - Swing the Wii Remote to attrack - Similar to Ocarina of Time - Better graphics then 
 previous Zelda's - Use the Wii Remote to aim the Bow and Arrow - New collection of golden bugs
 
  
  The Bad - No masks - Somtimes swinging numchuck doen't work - Confusing when Link turns into wolf 
 for fisrt time
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess map is set a lot like Ocarina of Time but this is a good 
 thing. This time Link is living in a quiet village (as usaul) and he is given a quest to give a 
 sword to the royal family, but as he is propared to leave enemies attack Link and his friend. Link 
 is then dragged into the Twilight and transforms into a wolf and knocked. When Link wakes up he 
 is imprisioned and a mystirious creature offers to help Link out but as long as he does what it 
 says. It leads you to the Princess Zelda when you leave you relize you are in the castle and there 
 is Twilight everywhere. Now Link must rid of the Twilight in the Fields, Castle, Lakes, etc, save 
 his friends and protect the world from a pure evil...
  
  I think that this game is one of the best games for the Wii it is a must buy for any Wii owner. 
 At first I was thinking about returning it because of the fact that you turn into a wolf because 
 it is very confusing but hang on to it because 90% of the time you are human and once you understand 
 it is a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4GokuTim
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a game that many gamers have been anticipating for almost a decade. After 
 Ocarina of Time revolutionized the Zelda franchise on the Nintendo 64, it seemed as if no game 
 would ever live up to the standards set by the 1998 classic. Ocarina of Time's success is a double-edged 
 sword for longtime Zelda veteran designer Eiji Aonuma. While Mr. Aonuma is highly pleased that 
 Ocarina has been so well received, he has mixed feelings about the fact that no game he has ever 
 worked on since has surpassed it. Now, Twilight Princess has done the impossible.
  The game opens up similarly to many other Zelda titles. Link begins the game as a young swordsman 
 living in Ordon village as a rancher. Hyrule is at peace until a dark magic called twilight mysteriously 
 spreads over Hyrule, turning its denizens into spirits. Link, however, is spared from this, due 
 to the lineage of the Hero chosen by the goddesses, and it transformed into a wolf. In this form, 
 he meets Midna, a small being from the Twilight Realm who serves as Link's sidekick, or, arguably, 
 the other way around. Link travels with Midna, switching between wolf form and human form as they 
 return light to Hyrule. By the end of the game, Link must use the power of the Master Sword to 
 defeat the true evil behind Hyrule's sad state of affairs. The game's story is much darker than 
 in previous titles, and is, for this reason, much more compelling, as are the characters in the 
 game. Link has never been more heroic than he is this time around, and Midna undergoes a huge amount 
 of character development.
  Gameplay has been perfected since previous titles. You now gently swing the wii remote from side 
 to side to swing your sword, and no, your arms will not get tired. Multiple swings in a row and 
 moving the control stick in various directions while doing this creates more unique combos. Swinging 
 the nunchuck from side to side performs a spin attack, which must recharge for a few seconds afterward 
 before you can do it again. New to the franchise is the ability to swing your sword while riding 
 on horseback. Some of the boss battles that take place outside of dungeons revolve strictly around 
 horseback combat. Where the wii's controls really shine is during projectile aiming. Using the 
 wii's pointer to aim your bow offers unrivaled accuracy and allow you to be much more creative 
 in your kills. Another gameplay element that has been improved is fishing. You can now carry your 
 own fishing rod wherever you go, and can even go lure fishing on a canoe in the game's fishing 
 hole, which is much larger and more majestic than the small fishing hole of Ocarina of Time. Because 
 of the wii's controls, the game is now much more immersive and you will not want to go back to 
 a traditional control scheme. Wolf form, while not perfect, is functional and serves as another 
 weapon for Link.
  The game's environments have been vastly improved since earlier titles. While Ocarina's overworld 
 was severely lacking in enemies, Twilight Princess is littered with them. You can now traverse 
 Hyrule Field, now five times larger than that of Ocarina of Time, and defeat countless enemies. 
 While most of these enemies and bosses are fun to defeat, there is no step up in difficulty since 
 Ocarina. All of the boss fights are just as easy as before. And while the game has numerous minigames, 
 there are fewer sidequests this time around. The minigames that do exist, however, can be very 
 difficult when compared to the easy boss fights.
  So, even though Twilight Princess is lacking in a few minor departments, it proves to be the best 
 in the series by gameplay standards, perfecting everything that was made revolutionary ten years 
 ago. If you're the type of fan who can ignore hype and nostalgia for older games, Twilight Princess 
 is a good 40 to 70 hour game that you will thoroughly enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus_1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:58 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with a great sense of anticipation, having played previous Zelda games on the 
 SNES and Gameboy and enjoying them immensely. Plus I also read several positive reviews. However, 
 after playing this game I felt frustrated and disappointed.
  
  The main problem with the game is the control system. The novelty of swinging the Wii remote at 
 enemies becomes tiresome very quickly. Plus during a frantic encounter, the type of attack you 
 choose can appear random, despite pressing the correct combination of buttons. But, merely walking 
 and exploring an environment is a pain - with over sensitive controls resulting in Link running 
 off a platform when you merely intended to line him up to the edge. The fishing puzzle in the village 
 is spoiled by the controls too: I spent hours trying to master the technique of catching fish. 
 
  
  The camera positioning behind link is awkward at times. Though there is a button to align it manually 
 behind Link, it is still annoying when the camera pans round to the side, giving you an obscured 
 view of your surroundings. 
  
  The gameplay is extremely linear to the point of boring. At the beginning of the game you basically 
 have to travel from point A-B over and over again, and you are trapped in your current environment 
 (indicated by the map on screen) until you complete a series of tasks. The puzzles are fairly simple 
 and formulaic and do not provide a challenge. 
  
  After a few hours of this, I gave up and flogged the game on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE Zelda fan! This game didnt blow me away but it did still pack some off the great Zelda 
 feel!
  
  
  Story-The story is wierdly darker.... instead of a more EPIC feel link in OOT they go for a creepy 
 feel like majora..... Still its great i just dont dig some parts and you know what i hate? (This 
 is my second hated couple next to SonicXelise) LinkXMidna... WTF that is so stupid i hate it! I 
 didnt like the classic love story for LOZTP at all, i felt it tried to give link a new girl, and 
 other than that it had no epic feel the story just creeped me out a bit. Still had a nice Zelda 
 feel though but i wish it just was like OOT or very high and upbeat like WW.
  B-Great-8.0.
  
  Gameplay-This is where it really kicks off right when you open TP you are greeted by Epona 
 you get a wierd begging and you learn to blow a wistle after that you learn to ride her and you 
 have fun. One thing is this game is the largest Zelda Adventure to date and one of the longest 
 Action/Adventure RPG. TP goes for combat again like WW but still keeps fun gameplay. On my first 
 dungeon i thought the game was unique but on my second i saw it was just a bigger remake of OOT 
 it gives a small new weapons and.. Midna.. god.... link turns into a werewolf but the gameplay doesnt 
 differ your just permantly riding and killing enemies with less effort. One thing i have to say 
 is that NINTENDO put alot of effort into there really cool minigames i love the snowboard one the 
 most. Also the Motion controls work well, tahts all i can say i really like it but i find it just 
 a BIT outdated.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  Multiplayer-dont count cuz there none but thats cool.
  
  Graphics/Design- I dont understand 
 why people bash on TPS graphics i find them very great almost like a HD game, except for the cartoony 
 aniamations for spirtes.. oh yeah and link looks a BIT like a girl...... but its cool i dig it.
 
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  Music-Nintendo say goodbye to remixes cant we just have classic Zelda music like in WW?
  A-Superb-9.0.
 
  
  Learning Curve- a monkey can learn it.
  
  Overall- TP is a very nice edition to the Zelda franchise but isnt like the others instead of being 
 in the high ranks it only stands as an amazing game. And thats bad for Zelda standards.
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  
  Next Review-Sonic Adventure 2 Battle.
  Last Review: Super Mario Sunshine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonvoyage10122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, one of the Zelda games that Zelda fans have mixed feelings about. Some love 
 it, some are dissapointed. I, for one, like the game. It is incredibly addicting and fun, and has 
 a great story. The World is large and, for the most part, detailed and seems to draw you into Link's 
 world. One of the few things I have against it though is that there is no voice acting what-so-ever. 
 I know that Zelda games haven't ever had voice acting, but nowadays, it is almost a requirement 
 for voices. I mean, you could make the main character not say a word while the rest of the characters 
 in the game speak (like Metroid) , and it would work out fine. Another thing that kind of bugged 
 me was some of the graphics. TP looks great but many times, when entering a large field or plane, 
 the textures are repeated in way to obvious a fasion and remind you of something you would find 
 in a PS2 game! Also, the large fields and areas seem desolate, with not much being able to thrive 
 on them, which is I think the opposite of what the developers wanted you to feel. For example, 
 when I was about to enter the first large area in the game, I was kind of excited and was expecting 
 to see an amazing, lush landscape. What I ended up seeing was a bland looking area that seemed 
 to have not thought put into it whatsoever. Also, one more thing on graphics, when I hooked up 
 my Wii to my HDTV and had the special cable you should get in order for the picture to turn out 
 better (i can't remember the name of it) , TP looks AWFUL! Very "boxy..." And if you go into a town 
 or city that has buildings, try looking at them from far away and they just look like an ugly blotch 
 on the horizon. Everything that is far away looks horrible. Now, I know the Wii does't support 
 HD... but when I put Metroid Prime 3 in and played. It still looked amazing! No blotchiness or 
 ugliness anywhere! So the Nintendo team needs to work on making the next Zelda for a console (not 
 the DS cell-shaded crap) that has graphics, voices, and a gameplay experience worthy of the Zelda 
 name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniPlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: Twlight Princess still delivers that epic zelda experience that everyone would 
 expect from it. The series has always captured the imaginations of gamers cause there all so many 
 things to explore, places to go, people who would need help sometimes, that is why did game is beyond 
 good. One thing about it is it continues to carry this wonderful time-honored tradition that have 
 been out for years now, featuring a more mature Link than the past of games. Zelda pundits could 
 pontificate endlessly where each separate Link adventure matches up in the overall timeline of 
 the series, I find it's best to check reality at the Start screen and let your imagination take 
 over. If you've played at least two of the previous games to completion you'll know what to expect, 
 although that's not to suggest there won't be plenty of surprises along the way. Some have argued 
 that the series has become a total rehash, but ask any self-respecting Zelda fan and they'll tell 
 you they are quite fond of the recycling of concepts, characters, weapons and even locales in the 
 series, such as the familiar dungeon settings - Fire Temple, Water Temple, Forest Temple etc. These 
 elements are the foundation which each Zelda adventure is built upon and half of the fun is seeing 
 familiar faces and places completely reinvented.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the latest full story of the Zelda franchise for the home consoles, at the 
 beginning it looked that it could claim what Ocarina of times did but when you get it you noticed 
 it wont, don't misunderstand me, it is a good game but for having a lot of time they could have 
 made it better.
  Ok, Twilight princess like all Zelda games begin with no weapons and you must get everything and 
 start your adventure, one new thing is that Link now is and adult and not a kid like the older 
 games, you will be able to travel through Hyrule field with Epona and do different sidequests.
 
  One new element is that Link can transform into a wolf, at first unwillingly but later when you 
 get a weapon you will be able to turn into a wolf at will, as a wolf Link loses all his normal 
 abilities but in turn get new ones, also as a wolf you will be able to teleport to different places 
 thanks to Link's new ally, Midna.
  The story is well elaborated and is perhaps the most darkest of all at the moment, having all Hyrule 
 being covered by twilight and then freeing Hyrule from it, and defeating the king of twilight, 
 Zant. The graphics are good looking but don't expect to be the best for the Wii because literally 
 it is a port from the Gamecube to the Wii, if we all remember the game was being made for the cube.
 
  The gameplay for being one of the first wii games is acceptable but sometimes the wiimote can 
 annoy a little because the wii doesn't receive well the movements.
  Twilight Princess is a must have if you are a Zelda fan and if you have a wii, in the series it 
 is not the strongest of all but despite of this it is a great game that everyone who have a wii 
 should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizarroPat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  To be completely honest, I had never played a Zelda game for more than about 10-15 minutes before 
 I played this one. I had played Ocarina Of Time briefly and I had also rented Wind Waker once. 
 Neither of them ever really sucked me in. But Twilight Princess was different. 
  
  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an automatic must-own for any and I mean any Wii owner for 
 multiple reasons. The game's fun factor is very high though you may find yourself frustrated occassionally 
 over some of the puzzles or you may not know what to do next as there is nothing that says what 
 your objective clearly is. You must follow the hints that the characters' dialogue give you. But 
 besides that you'll get this incredible feeling that you actually are on a fantastic quest to save 
 both the worlds of light and shadow. 
  
  The game uses the controls of the Wii to its advantage and the Wii remote and nunchuck really add 
 a lot to Twilight Princess. To swing your sword you merely swing the Wii remote and when you use 
 projectiles such as your bow and arrow or your boomerang, you have to aim using the Wii remote. 
 It gives you a bigger feeling that you are actually part of the action. 
  
  The design of the game is absolutely beautiful! I was awe struck by how much I wanted to just spend 
 my time looking at the settings. Some notable enviroments for their design were Hyrule Castle, 
 Palace of Twilight, and just the complete vastness of Hyrule Fields.
  
  The boss battles can be challenging but not to the point where you'll be frustrated. They are actually 
 quite fun and force you to use the items you have obtained from that certain dungeon in unique 
 and innovative ways.
  
  Overall Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a blast to play on all levels. The designs are great, 
 the controls solid, and the epic scope of it... well... EPIC. So if you own a Wii, I highly reccomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel72296
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  This game is...... uhhhhh...... it's just so hard to describe in one word. If I had to, I would probably 
 be unable to say anything. This game is so masterful, it's impossible to describe in one word. 
 The gameplay is beyond amazing, from shooting arrows, to learning new moves with your sword. And 
 the story keeps you hooked from the very beginning. If you had never played a Zelda game before, 
 you would think that this game would be boring and probably give up on it. You start out in a peaceful 
 village and you're a teenager, you do odd-jobs around your village for people, and eventually a 
 man named Talo gives you a wooden sword as a gift. At that point, you're like, "Finally, I got 
 a weapon!" But the fun hasn't even started. Later, strange monkey's come and then some disastrous 
 things happen. I wouldn't like to ruin it for people that have not played it, but I would definitely 
 buy this game if I didn't have it. It's gotta be one of the longest Wii games out, and once you 
 beat after hours and hours of gameplay, you will be begging for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manametropolis
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  My god, what to begin with..... definitely the best graphic on a Zelda game ever made WOW this 
 time two thumbs up on that aspect. Ok I don't wanna just say the bad aspect but that what a review 
 is for, is it not? Whatever, there is not much to say but I don't like that after you hunt down 
 all the 60 poes Jovani only give you a 200 rupees.... and also that in Hyrule Castle there is to 
 much rupees my Giant Wallet was full after I made aft of this dungeon, so I couldn't get the others!? 
 Oh and I think that the Spin attack take to much time to recharge. I also don't like the rupee stealing 
 game Rollgoal what pain in my ass!
  
  Good now no more complaining because all the other faces of this game are EXTRA AWESOME UNBELIEVABLE 
 yeah like I said. Man I like the Story, Bosses, Side quests, I like the thing that if you don't 
 feel like using the Master Sword you can pick up your other sword and the same thing with your 
 Shields and Armors. I also like the fact that invented new Items and finely what I like the most 
 (this may sound cheesy) it is the ending short motion picture, I almost cry when I saw it (but 
 don't worry peoples that didn't play the game I will not tell you what happen) !!! And whit that 
 manametrepolis tell you go buy this game right now, you ear me right now! ;P cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coleslaw893
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  From the opening cinematic leading to the start menu showing Link riding his trusty Horse Epona 
 across Hyrule, You can tell that this going to be one epic game. And epic it is.
  
  This is easily the darkest, most mature, and compelling Zelda story yet. Twilight Princess also 
 has the most compelling and believable cast of characters yet in the series. It doesn't even matter 
 that there's no voice-overs, because the level of emotion these characters project through their 
 facial expressions and body language is incredible. You really grow to care about these characters, 
 and see them change through the course of the story on a level that only the Metal Gear Solid series 
 and Bioware RPG's have been able to accomplish.
  
  The gameplay in Twilight Princess is nothing short of perfection. Only a slight flick of the wrist 
 swings the sword, and it registers the movement flawlessly. And the targeting system has never 
 been better. Not only is the lock on system refined to perfection, but the long range targeting 
 for the bow and other ranged weapons is perfect as well. In fact, the long range targeting is so 
 precise that you will be bulls eying targets from very far away distances with amazing accuracy. 
 And again, it registers the movement of your wrist flawlessly. You wont even want to go back to 
 targeting with analog sticks.
  
  The controls for Horseback riding have been refined to a sheen as well. Controlling Epona feels 
 much smoother, faster, and more accurate. Controlling Wolf Link is like a blend between the controls 
 for Human Link and Epona. And it works wonderfully. Like Epona, there is a dash move that allows 
 for faster movement. And like Human Link, flicking the Wii Remote will pull off standard attacks. 
 Wolf Links attacks aren't quite as accurate as Human Links however, so targeting on to an enemy 
 then attacking is always much more effective. Wolf Link also has an area attack that can take out 
 multiple enemies at once. Which works so well you will probably rely on it the most for combat, 
 even just to take out single enemies.
  
  The dungeons in Twilight Princess are easily the most brilliant, imaginative, and toughest yet. 
 You need at least a basic education to complete most the puzzles found in them, because some are 
 so tricky they will humble you. The dungeon bosses are by far the most massive, imaginative, and 
 just plain coolest yet. However, none of these bosses are nearly as tough as they look. And you 
 probably wont lose more than a few hearts fighting most of them. Even though they don't put up 
 much of a challenge, you will still have a blast battling them.
  
  The graphics in Twilight Princess can best be described as a beautiful looking GameCube game. But 
 hey, its one of the best looking non 360/PS3 games you can find. And you will rarely ever come 
 across a nasty texture. Plus the framerate runs as smooth as butter, and there's no texture pop 
 in to be found. One of the most impressive parts about the graphics in Twilight Princess is the 
 superb water effects. And, Link will actually look wet when he gets out of the water! Something 
 that very few games have yet to master. All of this makes Twilight Princess a great looking game. 
 But the real eye catcher is the amazing art design true to the Zelda franchise.
  
  Anyone who has played a Zelda game before expects it sound fantastic, and Twilight Princess does 
 not disappoint in this area. All of the classic Zelda hymns and sounds are here, and hearing that 
 classic jingle when you complete certain puzzles is just as satisfying as ever. And even though 
 the newly composed tracks aren't quite as memorable as those of previous Zelda titles like Ocarina 
 of Time and Wind Waker, Its still some of the best sound work you will find in any video game. 
 The music can be haunting, and just plain beautiful. I found myself on numerous occasions just 
 stopping and listening to the music in places like lake Hylia. Twilight Princess reminds us why 
 Koji Kondo is one of the best music composers in the industry.
  
  Overall Twilight Princess is a love letter to anyone who has ever enjoyed a Zelda game before. 
 It has a wonderful story, deep and memorable characters, perfect gameplay, great visuals, terrific 
 sound work, a newly found cinematic flair, and those touching moments the series is known for. 
 Add to the fact that it takes roughly 40 hours to complete the main story quest, and can last nearly 
 twice that long to complete all of the side quests, and Twilight Princess becomes nothing short 
 of flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  Well, definately, this game is one of the best Wii games all time until today. It worths its money 
 and it playing. All zelda-funs were being waiting this game since the Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Zelda: Twilight 
 princess is an amzing game for both Nintendo Systems (Wii & NGC)
  
  Gameplay: What can I say? It's Zelda, and its battle system was already nearly perfected. The use 
 of the Wii controller adds more to the experience, and makes swordplay as easy as a flick of the 
 wrist.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are gorgeous, and in my opinion, they're the best I've seen in a long time. 
 Well, of course they aren't PS3 graphics, but the are amazing. Zelda supports hdtv (480p) and fortunately 
 Widescreen 16:9.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack uses some of the old songs, and then changes it around to give a somewhat 
 different experience. It could be much better if there was sound in the conversations.
  
  Lasting appeal: This game can keep you busy for many days or weeks. It depends if you play dventures 
 games more than the other gens.
  
  Overall: I can't say much else, so I'll leave you with this last statement. This game is perfect. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisM95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The news must have been over-whelming for Zelda fans everywhere when they heard that they're favorite 
 green cap wearing swordsman was coming to Wii. They had every reason to be excited, because The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is definetley one of the best games on Nintendo's console.
 
  
  
  Ups
  -Outstanding gameplay
  -Excellent story
  -HUGE open world enviroment
  -Playing as a wolf has never been so much fun
  -Fluid soundtrack
  -New characters are added 
 to the story, some old favorites return
  
  
  Downs
  -The game ends
  -Enemy AI is lackish
  
  So why is Twilight Princess the best game since Orcarina of Time? Lets 
 start with the gameplay. Link, the well known swordsman from the past games returns, and is every 
 bit as awesome as ever. The game is an open world, so Link can travel anywhere in the land of Hyrule 
 at any time. You can go fishing, horse riding, dungeon crawling, you get the picture. Also, new 
 to Twilight Princess is Hidden Skills. These skills range from finishers to back slashes to counter 
 attacks. There may not be many Hidden Skills, but they can make killing enemies alot more fun than 
 it already is - which is pretty hard. There are also many fun puzzles that can really test your 
 mind.
  The newest Zelda game's story revolves around Link (as usual) . Starting out as just a shepard in 
 a small village, Link soon finds himself thrusted into adventure when the village children are 
 kidnapped. Of course, the plot gets much more elaborate than that. He soon meets Zelda, the princess 
 of Hyrule, and Midna, his sidekick for the game who secretly is (SPOILER ALERT) the Twilight Princess. 
 
  Twilight Princess introduces many new characters into the Zelda universe while many favorites return, 
 like Ganondorf and the Gorons. 
  All in all, if you own a Wii, you should own The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, because it 
 is easily the best game for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Zelda will always be one of those games we play, that we know what is going to happen in the end, 
 but yet we still play it. Why is this? Because we wanna see how much better it is this time around? 
 Or is it cause Link sports some neat gadgets and it kills some time? Regardless, the Twilight Princess 
 almost set yet another perfect score (to me, and most reviewers) , but it lacked one thing, well 
 maybe three things that kept it from getting a ten. 
  
  First, I'd like to get the bad out of the way so we can focus on the good, because there is way 
 more good in this game than there is bad. My first major problem, and the main reason it didn't 
 get a 10 to me, is the recycling of Ocarina of time. The Twilight Princess copied a lot of ocarina 
 scenes, names, and items (though items is more forgivable, since it's Zelda reincarnated) and this 
 really sets it off from being original. The Temple of Time was the biggest scam off it, and the 
 woods (to the master sword) scene was a complete rip off as well. The second thing would be the 
 horrid displacement of items. The Slingshot is rarely used cause you get the bow right after, so 
 why use it? The horse bell (to call epona whenever) is given when you are 2/3 done with the game. 
 Also the poe soul thing... I won't ruin that but it's horribly placed as well. The third thing 
 would be the bosses. The dungeons are insanely hard but then lead up to a boss that is nothing 
 but a disappointment. Even Gannondorf was easy to kill...
  
  Of course, now you think "why not give it a 6/10..?". Well, those were -the only- bad things about 
 it. The sound is the Zelda music of all time, just even better quality, and the graphics were amazing, 
 very, very amazing for the wii. The controls were fantastic, and a great use to the wii's motion 
 censor. Using items like bow and clawshot to move from area to area or hit something was very fun, 
 and enjoyable. The storyline was different from all Zeldas, even with the ripoffs from ocarina. 
 How often does link go through all the troubles in the game for another woman? (not really a spoiler, 
 by the way, read the name of the game) . Still, it is a classic Zelda game, and came so close to 
 even beating ocarina of time in my opionon.
  
  I think if Nintendo learns to not ripoff the past, they can make a killer game, and I definatly 
 suggest buying this. I know I spent more time criticizing than complementing, but I just want to 
 emphasize why it didn't get a 10, yet it is still a 9.5. I'd recommend buying this, because this 
 will be something you will always want to play, and be depressed when it is beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_got_skillz_2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  If you have'nt played the other zelda games the puzzles will be hard. I think the boss fights are 
 easy. fun but dungeons get repetive. Like the wolf transformations. Poes make me angry for they 
 only apperar at night. Bosses easier than mid bosses. Midna's Orange hand rocks. major worries 
 for you, Darknuts! ha ha lies, weapons and tools, plot line. Dislikes: horse riding is cumbersome 
 and hard. Combat is too easy. Esspecially thge bosses. Most you can pound in seconds. I like the 
 hidden skills. bow is took hard to use in pitch combat. Some things are ridiculous like Darkhammer's 
 exposed tail, and Link's incredible luck. The Magic armor is a waste of money. The mortal draw 
 hidden skill is a cheapshot. Combat with everyday enemies needs to be improved and made harder. 
 Master sword looks awesome and cool.
  Overall, a great game , but has its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiphoneMan2008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The greatest of most of the Zelda Series! This game is JAM PACKED with amazing weapons and items! 
 You transform into a wolf when in the twilight world. You have so many things to do! many different 
 areas including desert lands and icy mountains, also there is waters lands and oceans and great 
 lakes that you swim in and walk on the bottom using your iron boots! use the Zora Armour to swim 
 underwater longer and faster! Includes many different temples and challenges to overcome! This 
 game will really send you all over the world! there is no online multiplayer but who needs it when 
 you can just re-do the game at anytime! you can have like 4 profiles so you can restart one without 
 losing your other one! The game has lots of twists and turns that send you into an emotional coma 
 lol that was an exaggeration lololol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CChannel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing from every aspect of the whole entire game from major temples to small 
 quests. This game will have you saying almost better than ocarina but not. The music tracks are 
 fantastic and have the same feeling as when you played ocarina of time for the nintendo 64. They 
 stick to the normal music and nothing to new which is fine because i love the music no matter what. 
 Now the graphics for the wii version are the best graphics than any game on any system, there has 
 been argument over this but it has already been proven, anyways the graphics make everything look 
 real, you can see your exact reflection in the water during the day and sometimes at night, you 
 can even see your shadow when the sun is in the correct place. The graphics will blow your mind. 
 Now apart from those two things the game is pretty much the same as the rest, you go to temples 
 and fight there bosses than afterwards fight the main boss, but this game managed to pull quite 
 a few plot twists which i quite enjoyed. The characters are almost the same with a couple new faces 
 including a whole new makeover for the mail man now and they made him somewhat faster. Oh and i 
 almost forgot, Hyrule Field in this game is huuuuuuuuuuuge. and that concludes my review, lastly 
 this game is a definent keeper and should not be rated 10 it should be rated 11 from now on. lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular controls that really are superior thanks to the Wii; a dark, deep story that 
 far surpasses any of the tales before it in the franchise; gorgeous graphics by any standard; excellent 
 artistic style; orchestrated sections are the best musical pieces in the series; a gigantic world 
 to explore; plenty of length and replayability; unique new characters add freshness to the formula; 
 cool new weapons; this control set-up is still excellent eight years after its creation; plenty 
 of things to do outside of the main story.
  
  The Bad: Music isn't fully orchestrated; Wii speaker sounds are pretty weak; the overworld is a 
 bit dead; some sidequests aren't worth the trouble; doesn't quite get out of the shadow of Ocarina 
 of Time.
  
  Zelda has come a long way in 22 years. From an 8-bit adventure over a sprawling world to the separation 
 of the Triforce to a twisted world called Termina to a massive sea, and now to the biggest Zelda 
 game ever made, Zelda has yet to truly slip up. Even if Zelda II didn't feel like Zelda it was 
 certainly a great game, and keeps the franchise on its feet as one of the greatest gaming franchises 
 ever.
  
  Nintendo took three years to accomplish this game after The Wind Waker, a great game that's underappreciated 
 thanks to its cartoony looking graphics. And they clearly put all their effort into making this 
 one of the greatest Zeldas yet, which they thoroughly achieve by making it massive, filled with 
 the best dungeons in the franchise, and epic like no action-adventure game before it.
  
  The game takes place in Hyrule, like many Zelda games before it, and focuses on a brand new teenage 
 Link, as many American fans had hoped for, with a darker, edgier story to come with him. Unlike 
 Ocarina of Time, it doesn't take long before Twilight Princess takes a shocking turn of events 
 and launches into Link's giant quest throughout the country.
  
  If you still haven't played this game, I really don't want to ruin the story for you, because it's 
 definitely the best story yet in the franchise, and the most brilliantly executed. You'll start 
 off in Ordon Village, a very peaceful little abode, but soon after, because two of your friends 
 are captured by evil goblin-like creatures, you'll go chasing after them. In order to do that though, 
 you'll have to destroy the darkness covering Hyrule with the aid of an imp named Midna, the most 
 unique, fun addition to the formula in the game. She's there to help you rid the world of Twilight, 
 a darkness that transforms Link into a wolf and makes everyone else into a wandering soul. She's 
 also there to collect a few items that will allow her to stop the demon that started the problem, 
 the King of Twilight, and save not just Link's friends, but Hyrule itself.
  
  Needless to say, you'll also be getting the girl, Princess Zelda, on your way, but the way you 
 get there is so unique and original that it doesn't feel cliche. The story goes on before then 
 though, because once you destroy the Twilight over Hyrule, you have to attempt to get into the 
 Twilight Realm to fully vanquish the evil within it. There and in Hyrule Castle lie your ultimate 
 enemies, who are stopping you from saving the land and becoming the new hero of Hyrule.
  
  That was a very brief overview of a game that adds depth to layer upon layer of an epic tale that 
 is better than most movie and book plotlines. Its only flaw is that many chunks of it aren't all 
 that original. While the Twilight Realm and such are brilliant twists, many sections are very familiar 
 to those who've kept up with the franchise. Zelda: Ocarina of Time vaguely copied Zelda: A Link 
 to the Past, and this one takes a bit from both. Originality is good in its story, but many bits 
 of the formula surrounding it are disappointingly unoriginal.
  
  On the upside, this formula has stood the test of time. Targeting enemies, equipping items, running, 
 jumping, rolling, and even talking to your helper (Midna in this case) works out as well as ever 
 and doesn't feel old. In fact, it gets a breath of fresh air with the Wii's power, which doesn't 
 change the formula a lot, but adds to it in a very positive way.
  
  In order to swing your sword, you'll be swiping the Wiimote side to side, as opposed to clicking 
 a button, a much better decision that makes for much more fun. And if you were wondering, you don't 
 have to swing like crazy; flicking your wrist is more than enough, so you won't get as tired as 
 Link probably would. But, even better, is the aiming system. Pointing at the screen and aiming 
 with the Wiimote feels much better than using a control stick, and makes the Clawshot and Bow and 
 Arrow, among other items, much cooler to use. It'll feel fresh even to those who have stuck with 
 Zelda forever, and will surely help make this Zelda, in your mind, be one of the best thus far.
 
  
  Meanwhile, you have graphics that are unbelievable. These are Gamecube graphics, but that doesn't 
 change that they're gorgeous artistically. For that matter, it does look good in terms of power 
 by any standard.
  
  The sound area is where Twilight Princess is most commonly criticized. The music is orchestrated 
 in some sections, but not throughout the game, which is a major disappointment. The bits that are 
 orchestrated are really beautiful, and the new Hyrule Field Theme rivals the original. Other parts 
 are really good MIDI, but they just can't compete with orchestrated work.
  
  There are also Wii Remote speaker sounds, but these are often a bit annoying. Some, like the twang 
 of your bow, sound good, but others, like a sword swipe, sound pretty weak. Turned down they sound 
 much better, and you can also turn them off, so it's not too big a deal, but it is a tad disappointing 
 since this is a cool feature of the Wiimote.
  
  Now for the thing everyone criticizes: no voice acting. I really don't mind that much because I 
 don't mind reading, so I won't dock points from the game. And Link shouldn't talk regardless, because 
 that lets you connect to him better. If they do add voice acting into a future game and it's good, 
 though, I'll add points. The game is powerful without voice acting, but it is true that it might 
 be even better in future to have some voices in there beyond the occasional grunt or yell.
  
  Another major reason I gave the game such a high rating is its sheer size. Twilight Princess 
 is so big that it became the first game to split Hyrule into provinces, and can fortunately be 
 travelled on horseback (where you can now swing your sword, an awesome addition) , because otherwise 
 it'd be impossible to traverse. It is a bit dead, but it's also pretty, and does sort of remind 
 you that you are the only hero there is.
  
  The dungeons, meanwhile, are unbelievable. Regardless of what you may think of the overworld (which 
 surprisingly doesn't have a lot of inhabitants) , the dungeons are certainly the greatest in Zelda 
 history. The bosses are a tad easy in some cases, but they're big, fun, mind-boggling, and sell 
 the game better than everything else. Plus, there's the Cave of Ordeals, the biggest challenge 
 in the game, which is even worth it thanks to the reward at the bottom. But getting through all 
 50 floors of it is a massive challenge, that fortunately isn't required, because otherwise half 
 the people who get the game probably wouldn't beat it.
  
  There are also plenty of sidequests and mini-games in there. There are tons of secret weapons and 
 weapon upgrades, heart pieces, Poe souls, and golden bugs to collect all over the world, all of 
 which will aid you on your quest to defeat Zant and the ultimate Zelda villain, Ganondorf. The 
 only one that's a bit annoying is the Poe souls, because the only reward to the massive journey 
 to collect them all is a bunch of Rupees, which aren't that hard to find in this game. This is 
 kind of a turn-off to actually bothering with it, but otherwise, the extra content is plenty of 
 fun.
  
  Including all those additions, the game will certainly take you from 50 to 100 hours without a 
 guide. With a guide, and having played it over and over, collecting everything, I got down to about 
 50 hours. It's that big. That makes it the biggest, and one of the best, action-adventure games 
 ever.
  
  Is it worth getting? Definitely. You haven't fully experienced the Wii until you get this game. 
 Is it the best Zelda yet? Maybe. It's up there with Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker, and A Link to 
 the Past, but it's kind of your opinion from there. It's your decision, but either way, this is 
 a big, dark, powerful Zelda that you can't possibly miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potter104105
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda twilight princess is a very long game and you may find it chalenging without the 
 game guide. Its a great game and a good story line with great boss battles (Some of them are too 
 easy though) , but once you beat the game, there's not much you can do. There are some side chalenges 
 to do but nothing else. There might be some times where you find youself wandering around with 
 no idea what to do. In the story you can transform into a wolf and that is a very different experience 
 than when you are a human (although i find it more fun to be a human, but thats just my opinion. 
 This game has some very funny parts to it aswell, for instance at a sertain point in the game there 
 is a baby who opens a shop and can sell items to you. This is a great game and any fan of the Zelda 
 series should deffinatly get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkiscool554
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best game of 2006. It is a really fun game to play. The dungeons are challenging, 
 yet fun. There is nothing like solving a difficult puzzle in one of the dungeons. The Water Temple 
 in particular was definitely the most difficult dungeon in any Zelda game. The combat feels fresh, 
 and it feels intense. It's not bloody, but it is still violent. The story feels surprisingly meaty, 
 with all the plot twists you can expect from a Zelda game. Also, this game has an amazing amount 
 of side quests. Once you get to Castle Town, you can walk around talking to people. When you talk 
 to them, most of them will ask for some kind of chore or favor. For example, in one of the houses 
 in Castle Town, there is a strange little girl who will say she is waiting for golden bugs to come 
 to her house. You can then go around Hyrule searching for golden bugs for the girl. If you give 
 her the bugs, she will reward you. The best part of this game is that it takes everything that 
 made the other Zelda games great and mixes it into one. This is one of the best games I have ever 
 played, hands down. Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetterbinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:49 pm PT
Review:  When I got The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess for my Wii, I had high expectations after buying 
 the classic Ocarina of Time on the Virtual Console and it was awesome. First of all the graphics. 
 The Graphics are pretty good for a debut title on the Wii that came out in late 2006 and pushed 
 the systems limits nearly. The only bad graphical problems, was a few bad textures, but thats quite 
 small. Second, the sound. This is the only category I had a problem with. Text! That was suitable 
 for N64 but in 2006!!! Nintendo screwed up on that. Besides the text, the sound is pretty great 
 with excellent sound effects and voice grunts (not!) . Third, the control. The game has very tight 
 controls, with great Wii remote swinging action and aiming at the screen with the controller. And 
 last and most importantly the gameplay. This game is very fun and addictive and great value. Over 
 40 hours of gameplay!!! There is also many side quests you may do after beating the game and the 
 boss battles are very amusing (a bit too easy though) . Overall this was an excellent experience 
 and I can't wait for a sequel, that will hopefully be better (with actual voice acting) I give 
 this game a 9.5 out of 10! Good job Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjo36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  After the controversial Wind Waker, Nintendo really needed to take a step up to the next level. 
 There is no doubting that Wind Waker was a great game but at times it just wasnt good enough. Twilight 
 Princess arrived on launch day, promising to be the best in the series; reverting to a more serious 
 graphical style. Sales show ho well recieved it was but is it really that great? Read my sort of 
 mini review to find out.
  
  Story
  
  Just incase you havent played the game, i wont reveal any story elements. I will say that it is 
 very very good and that the characters feel unique, in their own right. It is also a fairly long 
 game, with sidequests adding to the main bulk of the game
  
  Gameplay and Controls
  
  Sword swings are mapped to the wii remote and the spin attack uses the nunchuck. The rest is typical 
 Zelda and it all works really well. Again, there is a lack of a jumo button but the game simply 
 doesnt need it. The bow and arrow and boomerang are used with the wii remote pointer. It all works 
 very well in general. As with most zelda games, enemies are mostly simple to take down, partly 
 because of the handy lock on 'Z-target' system. Still, its fun to make a fight look as stylish 
 as possible. Boss fights are, again relatively easy, BUT they are all individual and they do look 
 very nice indeed. On to the graphics then.
  
  Graphics
  
  Because this game was also released on the gamecube, theres no denying that it doesnt take advantage 
 of the wiis extra power. That said, its one of the gamecubes best looking games. The style itself 
 of the game is fantastic. It all has a very warm and charming feel to it and it can be immersive. 
 The character models are great, with link looking distinctly cooler than ever. The enemies are 
 all great too and the style of the boss battles is great. Especially one in particular.
  
  Music
  
  In general the music is stunning. With remixed old school tunes that will keep you 
 humming away to new and undoubtedly special tunes. However, a couple have been recycled and some 
 will start to grate after a while. Its a minor complaint though.
  
  Replay Value
  
  In terms of actual replay value, once the story has been completed theres nothing to actually go 
 back to. Its a shame because it'd be great to show some of the best moments to mates. However, 
 there are diversions to the main plot. These come in the form of fishing, collecting bugs and heart 
 pieces and many more. Its all good, though once its over, youll be disappointed. Mainly because 
 its such a great game
  
  
  Story 10
  Gameplay and Controls 9
  Graphics 8
  Music 9
  Replay Value 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarshack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  My disappointments in this game are few and overall it is a great game but i do have a few bones 
 that i wish to pick.
  
  Firstly, this game was originally going to come out for the Gamecube, but was delayed numerous 
 times and then postponed till the Wii came out. The game we got on the Wii was basically a flat 
 out port of the game as it was to be on the Gamecube, with a few minor additions made to the controls 
 to try and incorporate the Wii's controls. While i think these controls do work quite well i feel 
 that just flat out porting the game was lazy and they could have done so much more with it if they 
 wanted. 
  
  Things which i would like to have seen.
  - Fully orchestrated Music
  - Optional Difficulty levels
  - Better side quest rewards
  - Added re-playable dungeons with 
 numerous bosses from earlier games.
  
  Now that we've gotten through the BAD.
  
  This game was fun. it was enjoyable, and the normally cliche story had an extra little twist.
 
  
  Visuals - Beautifully designed, hyrule has never looked so good. While its graphics are nothing 
 special in the new generation of gaming, the art in this game is absolutely magnificent. unmatched 
 by much else, as you would expect from a Zelda game. The monsters and bosses all look great and 
 are as fun to look at as they are to fight.
  
  Sounds - All the old Zelda tunes are back with a few new ones. The music is good and bad, the music 
 itself is great but the quality of the music sound isn't. i think the best example of this is when 
 traveling around the Hyrule fields at night. The old midi sounds from OOT are clearly heard and 
 sounds just like girl from lon lon ranch and its kind of irritating when it was entirely possible 
 for Nintendo to do better.
  
  Game play - Plays basically the same as the previous 3D Zelda games but will still be greatly enjoyed 
 by new and old players. For Older players alot of the puzzles will feel the same, The most enjoyable 
 part of this game may be simply going through the new dungeons as they are simply the best designed 
 in any Zelda game so far all of them taking 1-2 hours each to complete.
  
  Overall - Older players wont be overly happy if they thought this was going to be the best in the 
 series, but for most its not really possible to surpass what was done in link to the past, Ocarina 
 of time or Majoras mask (maybe even Wind Waker for some) . For anyone that had never played a Zelda 
 before this, you will most likely instantly love this and think it is the greatest Zelda of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serp_Cougar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  The Twilight Realm is invading Hyrule and of course Link must save the world and a certain princess. 
 He begins as a farm boy (what self-respecting would-be hero doesn't?) but soon the Twilight takes 
 over his village and turns him into a wolf. Link meets a denizen of the Twilight Realm called Midna 
 who decides to help him, and together they go off to free the world from darkness. The story is 
 about as deep  and just as linear  as the last few Zelda games, which is not necessarily a bad 
 thing.
  
  Princess Zelda had a surprisingly small part to play, only appearing in a couple cutscenes before 
 helping you out a tiny bit at the end. I felt much more attached to Midna than to the damsel in 
 distress of the series' title. Also, there were a couple small questions I thought were left unanswered 
 at the end of the game. The story was still entertaining, but not as good as I was expecting.
 
  
  Both the visuals and audio are adequate, but not spectacular. The graphics don't quite look as 
 good as you'd expect from this gen, but some things do look rather nice (Princess Zelda, for example) . 
 While the music contains some old favorite tunes from the series, most of the songs are nowhere 
 near as catchy as the music in past Zelda games, and some are just forgettable. Also, voice acting 
 has still not come to the series.
  
  However, the gameplay is as good as Zelda's had always been. Link obtains many new items and some 
 old ones that he uses in new ways. My favorites were a spinning top Link can ride on (cooler than 
 it sounds) , and the clawshot, an improvement on the hookshot from previous games. Additionally, 
 Link can also engage in combat while riding Epona. There are plenty of sidequests if that's your 
 thing, and I never found any bugs during my playthrough.
  
  All the temples and puzzles are well done and put the items to good use. It should be noted, though, 
 that Twilight Princess seemed easier than the other Zelda games I've played, taking away a lot 
 of the satisfaction and sense of accomplishment from progressing through the game. I hardly lost 
 any hearts in a majority of the boss battles!
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is a good game and definitely worth playing, though it's sad that it's 
 one of the best games on the Wii. It didn't really advance the series much more than a graphical 
 upgrade. Hopefully the next Zelda game will be truly outstanding, unlike this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronithofcork
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a game with such a good a story as this one. Thhe story is so beutiful it makes 
 me want to cry (jokeing its still an awsome story) . Great graphics and a lot of adventuring and 
 best of all its a long game. it took me 50 hours to beat the whole game. Battleing is fun but can 
 be sometimes avoided like for instanse u can just run over trools with youre horse. The moves are 
 cool and u can learn new ones to frome the golden wolf its loads of fun and ive played mine 3 times 
 i think a great and cherished game. sadly tho the Re-Deads arent very scary there just boney but 
 the only thing that barely scared me in this game waz the giant spiders the like pop outa nowhere 
 creepy! I give dis awsome game a 9.5/10. if ur a zelda fan do not hezitate to buy this game if dont 
 know of zelda buy it anyways im sure u will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first gave this game a playthrough, it almost felt like a spiritual remake of Ocarina of 
 Time to me. Which was fantastic. It was great to a see a more realistic Zelda game after playing 
 the cel-shaded Wind Waker. Hyrule Field looked great and every character model was highly detailed. 
 The dungeons were yet again very challenging with more of the epic boss fights we've come to know 
 and love from the series. The music is yet again beautifully conducted. I have never played the 
 Gamecube version of this game and as far as I know, the gamecube and Wii version's are mirrored. 
 So basically if a chest was on the right side of a room in the Cube version it would be on the 
 left side of the room in the Wii version. Overall, while still not quite as good as the N64 classic, 
 Ocarina of Time, this game comes close. The ability to turn into a wolf is also a welcome addition 
 to the game that opens up a whole new level of gameplay and depth to the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aag360360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  The next Ocarina of Time? Nope. The next Windwaker? Nah. I'm getting desperate... the next Majora's 
 Mask? Not quite...
  
  Twilight Princess bears one thing in common to every Zelda game we've seen; and that one thing 
 is, well... everything.
  
  It's about time Nintendo got some voice actors, some better hardware to work with, and some more 
 original gameplay elements... well, that's the thing: TP's gameplay WOULD BE original... if it 
 were released, oh about 20 years ago.
  
  It's the same thing we've seen in every Zelda game, but this time around, it feels MUCH less epic... 
 perhaps the Zelda franchise's age has finally caught up with it.
  
  Nintendo, this is a solid game, but my patience wears thin... when are we going to see a truly 
 epic Zelda game, one that feels next-gen and not 3-generations-ago? When will we have a Zelda game 
 that can stand up to fantasy role-playing giants like Oblivion?
  
  Despite these grievances, Twilight Princess is a game that I can highly recommend... to those who 
 have yet to experience a game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  OK, before you go on and flame me for the quick review comment, let me explain. I started playing 
 Zelda games with the first one. Ocarina of Time is definitely my favorite as it really did what 
 was needed to step things up. I had hoped this was the case for this one. Unfortunately, I feel 
 it's just more of the same with much prettier graphics. 
  
  As I played Twilight Princess, oddly enough, I found myself getting bored. Admittedly, the dungeons 
 were pretty awesome but I felt like Nintendo tried too hard to make this game "epic." I could almost 
 hear them talking about how they could figure out how to make this game the biggest and longest 
 game ever. Sadly, I feel like they wasted a lot of our time with the constant running around between 
 dungeons. Seriously, think about it. If you take out a lot of the mundane running around bits this 
 game would only clock in around 30 hours or so from start to finish. To the contrary, it seems 
 like every time I do something I have to do some random second and third thing to REALLY get what 
 it is I'm looking for. 
  
  In the end, this game IS a definite requirement for any Wii owner. It is definitely a solid game 
 but after playing Zelda for so many years I feel like Nintendo could have done much, much better. 
 Seriously, how many freakin' times are we going to have to fight Ganon as the final boss? It's 
 "classic" and all but it's REALLY starting to get old. You'd think they could think of some genuinely 
 fresh material rather than just rehashing the same general concept over and over again. 
  
  I must say that the graphics in this one were quite pretty and the musical score, at times, was 
 moving. Too, the attempts to make an original story were OK but, again, not what I expected from 
 the "next gen" of Nintendo. If it weren't for the upgraded graphics, which aren't really all that 
 upgraded by today's standards, this game would never have made it. However, as Wii owners we'll 
 be satisfied because we've finally gotten some pretty decent 3D Zelda action even if it isn't totally 
 next gen.
  
  I actually bought my Wii in early 2007 and one of the big reasons I bought it was for this game. 
 Interestingly, now that I'm done with this game, I really don't feel there is much more to play 
 on my Wii. I'd hope that the "big N" has some new tricks up their sleeves but I'm not so sure. 
 I'm sure there is more to come but I'm not going to be as anxious about it as I was this round. 
 
  
  I guess we'll see what happens... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I don't see why every Zelda fan doesn't like this game. Gamespot criticized it for being 
 too much like Ocarina of TIme; frankly, I'm ecstatic. I wouldn't expect anything less. 
  
  For one, the art direction is gorgeous. While the graphics may not be top-of-the-line, this goes 
 to show that they can still be just as impressive if they're made imaginatively. And there's tons 
 of new stuff beyond that dreadful Water Temple: let's just say that you get to snowboard down a 
 mountain, for one thing, and you get to walk on ceilings. Sound intriguing?
  
  Gameplay: Now you can swing your sword whilst on your horse! This leads to some very Lord-of-the-Rings-ish 
 scenarios, which I personally think are pretty damn cool. And I do believe there's one thing here 
 that is definitely better than Ocarina of TIme, and that is how Twilight Princess integrates the 
 gameplay with the storyline. In OOT, gameplay was pretty much categorized in "dungeons" or "side-quests", 
 which is just classic Zelda. Nothing wrong with that. But Twilight Princess actually puts you in 
 story-related scenarios, which I won't reveal for the sake of spoilers, and these go a long way 
 in creating a much better storyline and more interesting characters. There's much more of a sense 
 of culture here, that this world is peopled with different traditions and histories. 
  
  Each Zelda game features it's own "gimmick" (sounds worse than it should) such as time-travelling 
 or season-changing. Here it's..... Animorphs! Hahaha. As in, you get to be a wolf. And the makers 
 did a good job of making sure that wolf and human form each has its own unique benefits that balance 
 well with each other.
  
  Basically, there's enough new stuff to this Zelda game that truly add to it as an enriching, rewarding 
 experience that we've come to expect from the franchise.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdukefan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:40 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the greatest zelda game ever made. You can waste hours by hours playing this 
 game. What feels like ten minutes playing this game is really one or two hours. This game is highly 
 addicting and great. Anybody who has the wii should get this game. Unlike the previous Zelda's 
 where you could get stuck on the desert level, this game has no bad glitches. I would recommend 
 this game to any new wii owners or any zelda fans. This game unravels new plots from the original 
 games. It involves both strategy and trying to bash the sides of shadow's heads. Sometimes this 
 game can get frustrating when you can't find the way to get past the level, but if you think hard 
 you can always find a way to get past that obstacle. The bosses are also much cooler and stronger 
 than they were in the original zelda games. There are many side quests that you can do. I have 
 already said it once, and I'll say it again: This is a must have for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasty-man
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  As a all time fan of Zelda games I had been waiting for this game for years now, after Wind Waker 
 was released I felt that it was almost a different game, fun but not true to every other Zelda 
 game, this is why I love this game. You start out as a normal boy ,as custom you choose your own 
 name, you learn how to fish and do simple tasks for your neighbors without evening realizing your 
 going through a tutorial the whole time. Then something happens, I won't say what, and you go into 
 the forest and be badass. As the story picks up you learn different moves, acquire awesome weapons, 
 and well dare I say it kill some goblins. One of my favorite things about this game is it never 
 gets boring, hell I've beaten it 3 times now and just love it. This is a must buy for all Wii owners 
 a must buy! 
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  Great, almost looks like 360 graphics which is very unique 
  
  Gameplay:
  Is true to the 
 Wii's main purpose of motion sensors, swing of the remote swing the sword and a lot more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malibo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I cannot help feel asif Zelda is just one of those great games that was brought down simply because 
 of the notoriously high expectations that were placed upon its name before it was released.
  Upon completing this game i struggled to arise any problems that painstakingly stood out, temples 
 were large and contemplated the nostalgia we all know and came to love from prior series, all the 
 classic elements of exploring, concurring, finding and ingenious puzzle solving featured in this 
 game.
  I think the game deserves abit more recognition then it was applauded with, i own both a Nintendo 
 Wii and Playstation 3, and i can tell you on both formats this type of gameplay is rare to come 
 across.
  However just like the majority of games i admit there were a few dissapointments, considering its 
 vast development time i wasn't to satisfied with the graphics, i know this game came out as a launch 
 title for the Nintendo Wii so it is easily forgivable, but i know there is room for improvements, 
 like shown in Metroid prime 3 and Mario Galaxy.
  Aside from this i saw little problems, the control was always responsive for me, the control scheme 
 worked well and the story was enthralling.
  Overall i would suggest if you have a nintendo Wii, then make sure you pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tseo666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  Ok, first I have to say that I 've had great fun playing the classic Zelda on my Virtual Console, 
 so I was looking forward to trying Twilight Princess.
  
  So, The game is Wrapped in a great story of the Japanese sort. That is an epic, touching, slightly 
 psychedelic and even humoristic experience. Very, very addictive.... The visuals are simple, yet 
 wel done and the soundrack is just glorious.
  
  BUT... must be said, what is commonly considered to be perhaps the greatest game on Wii is soooo 
 annoying that I seriously consider quitting before I finish it. I mean, compare it to the original 
 Zelda, which was open ended (Produced in 1987 I think, and you could even visit the dungeons in 
 almost any order) and it strikes you immediately. There is no freedom of action. Everything goes 
 on as pre-designed series of generic battles with an unintuitive control system that still gives 
 me a hard time, and an endless series of frustrating, mini-games that won't give me a break (Moreover, 
 every time I fail one, I have to tolerate the same pointless dialogues before I retry, time and 
 again...) . I was left so clueless two or three times so far, I had to look up on the internet for 
 a walkthrough. And that was NOT for any optional side quests (There weren't any so far, anyway) 
 but for the main plot. 
  
  Hey! An action RPG is about battles and self-improvement, not adventure-like puzzles and mini games 
 instead! What a mess have they made with this one! Sure, Link is cool and the story unfolds so 
 smoothly and all, but maybe I need to take a break from this one, before my patience runs out.
 
  
  Maybe you guys who read this will hate me for saying this, but I my honest opinion this game is 
 an instant classic and a piece of crap at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achitka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I started at some point of Dec 12th and finished the game on Jan 1 at around 1am.
  
  It may or may not be a bad thing that I let my sons stay up to watch the end of it all, but the 
 older boy made me promise not to fight ********* without him being there... I don't know why agreed 
 to that - but they are on vacation so what the hooha.
  
  Besides all great battles are better with a cheering section - though it is hard to play with them 
 jumping on the bed and the younger glomped to my back. Is my own fault for turning them into rabid 
 LoZ fans... poor things.
  
  Now begins the 2nd quest to get all the stuff... and there is a lot of stuff to get. Things I didn't 
 bother with the first time may be easier to locate the second time around but I will likely linger 
 in places to take in the view so to speak. Don't plan to miss anything this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game a little while ago, and man, IT ROCKS! the game has an awesome difficulty 
 level, (not too easy while not too hard) and has great music, and i have absolutely no idea about 
 what gamespot called recycled music. whatever it is, it's good enough for me! The gameplay is awesome, 
 and the motion features don't feel "tacked on" at all. Also, link sound affects and shouts are 
 great. I mean, i know these are old, but sue me! this is my first zelda game! I like link's wolf 
 form, and midna as an awesome helper thing. The graphics are great, and i know the textures aren't 
 awesome, but this was originally a gc game, for god's sake! The models of characters are great, 
 and so it the design of the areas you move in. The weapons are also great, (my fave is the gale 
 boomerang) and all of the extra content (fishing, etc.) is great, too. Now, for my only qualm or 
 two about this game. The npcs just stand in one place like statues! no pacing! AAAAARRRRRGGGGHHH! 
 (it would be nice if the next zelda game would have something like the ai in oblivion) . Lastly, 
 i dont mind much, but voice acting would be nice. Awesome game, must-have on the wii! (which by 
 the way, is better than the gc version.)
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5: Great weapons, areas, characters, and items! (But statue-like npcs.)
  
  Graphics: 
 9: Good design, the textures don't bother me, but having them a bit better would be nice.
  
  Sound; 9: Good music, but lack of music in many areas, I was dissapointed. 
  
  Controls: 
 10: Takes some getting used too, but after that, they are awesome!
  
  Replayability: 10: Never gets boring! 
  
  
  Total: 9.5
  
  Controls: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  So, here it is. Our review of perhaps the most eagerly awaited game in the history of gaming. But 
 what could we possibly tell you that you don't already know? Over the past year we must have given 
 Twilight Princess enough coverage to warrant a magazine of its own, so why would you need a ten-page 
 review to regurgitate the same information all over again?
  
  Well, what if we told you that what you think you know only covers a fraction of what Link's new 
 adventure has to offer? What if we told you that we've clocked up nearly 40 hours of gameplay and 
 are still nowhere near seeing everything? What if we told you that this game is up there in the 
 giddying heights of interactive entertainment stardom mingling with titles like Resident Evil 4 
 and Ocarina Of Time, and in fact could well surpass them? You'd want to read on, wouldn't you?
 
  
  
  The truth is that you should forget anything you think you knew about Nintendo's epic adventure 
 game. You know nothing. Clear your mind, take a deep breath and we'll start again.
  
  A Legend Is Born
  Once upon a time, there was a game called The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time. 
 It was a sprawling, immersive adventure that told the story of an unlikely young hero and stole 
 the hearts of millions of gamer. Never before had a game offered such atmospheric worlds. Dungeons 
 oozing with evil and enemies that dwarfed our young hero all bowed down to a continent's worth 
 of exploration. 
  
  A few years later, Peter Jackson resurrected the Lord Of The Rings stories in cinemas and the similarities 
 with Ocarina were clear. After seeing a teaser of a realistic-looking Zelda game, fans dreamed 
 of a GameCube Zelda title that could mimic Jackson's films' majesty... yet it never came. But now, 
 six years after that demo, the wait is over. The spiritual successor to Ocarina Of Time is here 
 and it delivers on all of your wildest dreams. 
  
  Before we (finally) start this review we have to make one thing clear. Part of what makes this 
 game so utterly absorbing is not knowing what's going to happen next. We wouldn't normally say 
 this but to experience this game in its purest form we must advise you to stop reading. Turn to 
 the last page, read the summary and look at the score. That's really all you need to know to make 
 your decision. For those of you who are going to brave it, we accept no responsibility for any 
 disappointment caused by finding out any of the game's secrets, but we have tried to protect you 
 against any big spoilers by slapping a spoiler warning on the relevant sections. You have been 
 warned.
  
  
  
  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess places you in the body of young ranch-hand Link and sets 
 you down in a peaceful village in Hyrule where life trickles by at a snail's pace. Children run 
 around carefree and you can just sit in the sun and dream all day, because nothing else matters. 
 You'll most likely spend hours (and we do mean hours) wandering around chatting to people, picking 
 things up, shooting things with your slingshot and rounding up goats. It's a taste of the simple 
 life but, as you may have guessed, such innocence can't last.
  
  On his way to Hyrule Castle to deliver a gift for Princess Zelda, Link finds his path blocked by 
 a dark, mysterious wall of energy that picks him up and drags him inside. The next thing he knows 
 is that he's imprisoned in a dungeon and has been transformed into a wolf. He's barely spent two 
 minutes in beast form before a rather disturbing creature by the name of Midna appears and offers 
 to help him escape - for a price, of course. You will now be Midna's slave...
  
  A Beast Of A Game
  And so your adventure truly begins. You soon learn that a being known as the 
 Twilight King has imprisoned the four Light Spirits of Hyrule, plunging the land into darkness 
 and creating a Twilight Realm. It's already a great story for Link's grandchildren - and yours 
 - but your quest is only just beginning. From now on your existence revolves around returning light 
 to the world and giving back the inhabitants of Hyrule the life they knew.
  
  These unfortunate events set the scene for Twilight Princess and are a fitting overture for the 
 quest ahead of you. This is no light, fluffy game; this is a dark, sinister race against time. 
 From the soundtrack to the content to the storyline, this is a far more mature, cinematic and story-driven 
 experience than any Nintendo game before it.
  
  
  
  Within the first three hours you will have played as man and beast, both forms boasting very different 
 ways of playing. While Link is a master of weaponry and items, Wolf Link relies on his teeth, his 
 animal instincts and the skills of his rider, Midna, to get around. 
  
  Both characters have their advantages and disadvantages, of course. For starters, Link wouldn't 
 stand a chance in the dark, seedy underworld of the Twilight Realm. One side effect of the dark 
 veil is that it banishes human beings' human forms, leaving only their spirits. This means the 
 Twilight Realm is full of animals and ghosts, and while Wolf Link can walk and talk with the animals 
 he can also smell out human spirits and listen in on their conversations. 
  
  Then again, Wolf Link wouldn't know what to do with himself in most of the Light Spirit dungeons. 
 A human form and weapons such as the Hero's Bow are essential for defeating the many enemies hidden 
 within.
  
  And so you find yourself jumping back and forth every few hours. In order to save the Light Spirits 
 you need to first return light to their province. Only Wolf Link can do this as the ten Tears Of 
 Light needed to fill each Vessel Of Light are hidden in the Twilight Realm within the bodies of 
 ghostly Shadow Insects. You'll need to sniff these out and sometimes dig for them. With the light 
 returned, the Light Spirit from that province will then have the energy to return Link to his human 
 form and allow him to enter the corresponding dungeon and rid it of the dark beast within.
  
  So far, so outstanding, but we're getting carried away. We need to address a technical issue. 
 This was once a GameCube game but then Nintendo decided that it would make a great Wii launch title. 
 There's been much talk of the Wii version being an afterthought and the GameCube version being 
 the 'pure' version. That's nonsense. Having now played both versions it's quite apparent that as 
 soon as the developers got their heads around the Wii and its controllers there was no stopping 
 them. 
  
  
  
  The GameCube version is still an awesome experience (it's released a week after the Wii game, incidentally) 
 but the Wii version is mind-blowing. In fact, we'd even go so far as to say that you should knock 
 a few percent off Twilight Princess' final score for the Cube version because it's the Wii-specific 
 extras that really make this game shine.
  
  The extra power of the Wii's allows the game to run in true 16:9 widescreen (fear not, the Wii 
 can output in standard 4:3 too) with a bunch of advanced graphical effects. Gerudo Desert immediately 
 springs to mind here. As Link fights enemies on all sides the sun sets ahead of him, silhouetting 
 him, the enemies, the edges of the bump-mapped sand dunes and the plumes of sand that are flying 
 into the camera. It's a stunning scene and one that looks as good as any next-generation title 
 we've seen.
  
  Total Control
  But even if the graphics weren't bolstered by that extra power, even if it was 'just the GameCube' 
 along with some superb art direction and game design, it wouldn't matter because there's one other 
 aspect that lifts this game: the control system. You know those controller things that are supposedly 
 going to change the way we play games? Guess what? They do.
  
  While the pointing device of the Wii Remote does take some getting used to, once you reprogram 
 your brain there really is no going back. For much of the game you'll be using very similar controls 
 to past Zelda games - use the analogue stick to run around and the A button to interact with things. 
 It's when you come to the combat side of things that the Wii Remote really comes into its own. 
 Not only can you swipe the sword by gesturing with the Wii Remote, you can also use it to accurately 
 aim the sights for weapons 
  such as the Hero's Bow, the Gale Boomerang and the Hookshot. 
  
  
  
  Various options in the Wii Remote set-up allow you to calibrate your aim and the sensitivity 
 of your movements so that you're completely happy. The level of accuracy at your disposal is unrivalled. 
 You'd never get this much satisfaction out of a standard controller. 
  
  A perfect example is an enclosed, football pitch-sized gully in Death Mountain where about seven 
 Moblins are all firing arrows at you. There are a handful grouped together and a few up on the 
 left and right. Because of the distances involved, some of them are only separated by a few millimetres 
 on the screen, but you can take them all out with ease within around six seconds. It's literally 
 a case of pointing and tapping the B trigger to fire the arrows. The movement of the sights is 
 so smooth and accurate that it's an absolute joy to use. And no, before you ask, swiping the sword 
 and aiming doesn't get tiring. After three 12-hour sessions with the game we should know.
  
  The Wii Remote is more than just a control mechanism, though. Don't forget it has a built-in 
 speaker. We'll admit that when Nintendo first announced this feature we thought it was a bit of 
 a gimmick. With some other games we're still convinced it will be, but Twilight Princess has shown 
 us the light. By having sounds coming out of the Wii Remote not only do you get a kind of surround 
 sound effect but you also get drawn into the action more than ever before. 
  
  A variety of sounds are used: you hear the clash of your sword, the firing of weapons, the classic 
 'found a treasure' chime, the ring of you sword once it's charged (you need to wait a few seconds 
 for your sword to charge in order to perform a Spin Attack) and Midna's giggle (a signal that she 
 wants your attention) .
  
  
  
  In fact, the more we write about the game the more we're seeing a theme. There are so many little 
 extras that other games (and other consoles) simply can't match, and now that we have them we can't 
 imagine ever going back. The speaker noises become part of the action after a while, but if you 
 switch them off (you can alter the volume) you really miss them. Similarly, we don't see how we 
 could ever go back to analogue stick aiming, although it is an option in the settings.
  
  The Legend Continues
  There's so much more we could tell you - 
  and believe us, it's hard 
 to contain ourselves right now - but we feel there's enough information here for you to make your 
 decision. What we will say at this point is that this game is not for the faint-hearted. Forget 
 what Nintendo has been saying about making games shorter and easier in an effort to attract new 
 users. This mantra doesn't apply to Twilight Princess. 
  
  This is by far the most epic adventure Nintendo has ever created. And it's no pushover either. 
 This is a game made by the masters for the fans. This is hardcore. Several sections in the game 
 saw us swearing and cursing. Once or twice this was the fault of the game but most of the time 
 it was because the missions are just plain challenging for even the most experienced gamer.
  
  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a monumental slice of classic Nintendo that will 
 be remembered for decades to come. And there's so much more to this than we previously thought, 
 with moments of pure genius around every corner. Buy this on launch day and you won't move from 
 your TV until the new year. 
  
  If you own a GameCube, this is your reward for sticking by such a remarkable games console. If 
 you plan to own a Wii, how better to begin the new generation of gaming than with the best console 
 launch game of all time? Now go - pre-order, sell furniture, sell your gran's teeth... do what 
 you must, as this is one game you simply must own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalJWJ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game rock's !! the wolf mode is simply fantastique and fishing and all that stuff is really 
 fun with the wiimote !! and it's a long game so it's make the fun last longer !! this games is 
 make for: the fan's of zelda, the fan's of dungeons, the fan's of the interactive wii play !!! 
 So what are you wainting ?? go to the closer shop and buy it right now !!!! You really need to 
 be a stupide gut to think that it's a boaring games !! And the graphisme a superb !! The ardeste 
 part of the game is the start !! becaus you need to learn te bases and all that but after it's 
 ok !! So the one's how dont no if thei want to buy it, well go on !! You will love it !!
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheegot
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Its wisdom, power and courage. Princess Zelda, Ganondorf and "Link", and another similar setting 
 like previous installments. If you were hoping to get a real continuation to windwaker or majoras 
 mask, you'll be disappionted, as TP is just a filler like the wind waker was, where a more or less 
 random boy is the follower of an ancient hero (the hero of time, as a Kokiri-boy who lived in the 
 Kokiri forest)
  If Nintendo will ever go back in time and continue the story as it was, is unknown. Nontheless 
 TP brings an epic adventure, as expected.
  
  +A few very nice in-game cut scenes. New lovely characters. Fun mechanics. LOTS OF GAME (its long) . 
 Very good graphics (for a gamecube game, essentially)
  
  -It is essentially the same as the previous games The formula doesn't change, but isn't that why 
 we buy it? Some dungeons quickly get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaTP101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  What I like most about this game is that you play as Link and Wolf Link. It's better than just 
 playing a certain character throughout the whole game. The weapons that Link uses are very cool 
 such as the Gale Boomerang and Iron Boots. Wolf Link has cool stuff too. He can sence to find certain 
 things. The other thing I like about it is you can use Epona to travel places faster.
  
  It's best video game I've played ever. The puzzles you have to figure out in this game are perfect, 
 and the weapons and moves are too. The storyline and characters are terrific. When I first played 
 the game, I never wanted to put the controller down. I still don't when I play it. I don't think 
 there is a better game out there, and this is also the best of the Zelda series. I never get bored 
 of playing it. The graphics are much better than the other Zelda series games also. It's worth 
 buying and there's no way I would sell this game in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milster3191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a superb game in all senses. From gameplay to graphics to 
 storytelling, this game succeeds in being not only an incredibly fun game, but an entire experience 
 that will be remembered. The story starts out in a familiar way. You as Link are a humble farm 
 boy living in a peaceful village. To make a very long story short, you have to save the world from 
 eternal twilight. If you want to know more about what happens, simply play the game. The visual 
 style of the game is fantastic and it takes a little bit from windwaker and a little bit from ocarina 
 in its presentation. It is both artistically beautiful and (for the wii) technically proficient 
 in its own right. The sound is equally great. I didn't find myself once agitated or annoyed by 
 the new or nostalgic music. Also, the sounds in game are great. However, there are two things that 
 hinder an excellent audio presentation in the game. The first is that the characters do not talk. 
 I honestly did not find this a problem at all. Yet as many reviewers have already stated, Link's 
 silence is understandable, but what about everyone else? The text gets boring and it would have 
 been a better experience if there wasn't as much text to read. Especially in the midst of battle 
 and such. The other audio issue is the wiimote speaker. Again, I found it kind of fun to use; it 
 definitely grew on me after a while. But Nintendo should have made a better speaker before advertising 
 Zelda with it. The good thing is that you can turn it off and still get the whole Zelda experience. 
 The gameplay on the wii is very fun. Swinging the sword did not get repetitive and neither did 
 any of the other controls. Sometimes when I got lazy, I did find myself loathing the sword controls. 
 But then I realized. "I'm in battle! I have to swing this sword and kills these stupid grunts whether 
 I like it or not" Moments like those are why I call this game immersive. Pressing a button would 
 have been easy and would have been "fun" to be lazy. However, swinging the wiimote just made playing 
 Link feel like really playing Link. This being said, the controls aren't perfect and the need a 
 little precision and fine-tuning. But I still disagree with the gamespot review in that I do believe 
 that the developers are on the right track. All in all, Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an 
 excellent action-adventure game and it succeeds in mostly all of its endeavors with flying colors. 
 I consider myself to be in between a casual gamer and a hard-core gamer due to time restrictions 
 in my life. Yet I ended up spending over 40 hours playing this game and every moment was memorable 
 and fun. It deserves a 9.5 rating not because I thought it was "comfortable" number to give it, 
 but because it is among some of the best games of all times and deserves to be recognized and played 
 by anyone who is interested games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wookiemonster12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This Game has to be one of the best Legend of Zelda Games in History.
  
  Backstory: When you start out you are around 18 years old, so a young adult, who lives in a little 
 village called Ordon and you live their with your uncle, during the opening cutscene you are talking 
 to a man which turns out to be your uncle and you are taking a package to Hyrule. As the game progresses 
 you find your girlfriend captured and you knocked out and then you find out you are the hero of 
 Hyrule but i wont tell you anymore because of spoilers.
  
  Gameplay: in the new Legend of Zelda you can turn into a wolf and complete different puzzles, attack 
 differently, sense and dig. When you are a wolf you have a Shadow Dweller on your back called Midna, 
 Midna has the same purpose as Navi the fairy but can also do little tricks to get by puzzles for 
 instance she has a hand that can stretch out and grab different things. you can also play as link 
 in human form of course and he does things a wolf cant like open doors, hold a sword, shoot a bow 
 or slingshot ect. but if you want to do the side quests do them before you complete the story because 
 its all over once the story is finished and you have to revert to your last save point.
  
  Boss fights: Boss Fights i find have always been epic in Legend of Zelda and this game doesn't 
 disappoint. all bosses need different items to defeat them like for one you need a boomerang to 
 kill him ect. Their mini bosses that hold the items you need to kill the bosses.
  
  World map: like in all Legend of Zelda games there is a massive map with all different sorts of 
 places. The temples are all different sorts of temple like a forest temple which you have to fly 
 a Golden Cuccoo to get there and a snow temple where you can do snowboard races ect. but it all 
 is very fun and it wont disappoint.
  
  Endgame: This game was good fun but the puzzles are just too easy and can easily be completed and 
 wont take more than 7 hours for the main quest to be completed, but the side quest can easily keep 
 you occupied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dem0nD0nkey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I like this game it be a little hard and puzzleing but its so amazingly addictive but of course 
 thats what you want in a game you dont want it to be to easy. So here are my positive and negative 
 points on the game. My positive points are the graphics are excellent, the plot has depth but it 
 is easy to follow, you would think this game wouldn't be fun because of the controls but they are 
 actually good, the horse is a great added feature to have because it is extremely helpful, and 
 that makes 4 positives. The negatives are Nitendo only, extremely long story takes forever because 
 of all the little puzzles and repetition, and that only makes 2 negatives. So four positives against 
 two negatives. Overall this game is extremely good but if u had a GC and a Wii i would buy for 
 the wii even if it is cheaper for GC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersean7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda is a one of a kind adventure on wii with it's sword combos, great story, and playing 
 as a wolf. In the adventure Link plans to move to hyrule town and start a new life their until he 
 was unexpecticly attacked when he and his friend were talking about him leaving, his friend was 
 captured, and when Link was trying to get her back. He was pulled into the twilight zone and then 
 turned into a wolf. Then a mysterious being named Midna comes along and help you out. The wolf gameplay 
 though is pretty hard because Midna probaly might be their to help you but she is extremely annoying 
 and the combat isn't that easy because you half to wait a second and bite and it goes on and on. But 
 you get that classic feel when you play as regular link besides a Fantasic addition when you swing 
 the wii remote to swing your sword and aim to shoot a arrow or to grapple and much more! Also the 
 story is so thrilling i actuall cryed at the end when Midna never came back. So the actors and actresses 
 did a great job with their parts. So fight and adventure with the greaest wii game of the legend 
 of zelda series yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I think that there are two crowds who will play The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. There are 
 longtime Zelda and Nintendo fans who will gleefully greet another faithful entry to the series 
 with full accolades. Then, there are players like me who are skipped most or all of the previous 
 Zelda games and are eager to see what the fuss is about. As someone who fits firmly into the latter 
 category, I found it to be almost, but not quite, an excellent game. It has many of the parts in 
 place, but sometimes the package suffers from design problems that have been carried over directly 
 from the 1990s. Twilight Princess showcases everything that is both great and not-so-great about 
 Nintendo's recent offerings. It is a fun game and certainly one of the must-haves for Wii owners 
 who are fans of this genre. It would be a superb game, were it not for Nintendo's slavish devotions 
 to some outdated game design conventions.
  
  Nowadays, a game that lasts 40 hours without excessive copy-and-paste or boring, repetitive gameplay 
 is pretty rare. Twilight Princess is one of these unusual finds. It is for this reason that no 
 matter what nagging flaws it has, it is still a fun and compelling game. Every dungeon and every 
 major quest is vastly different from the last. In one dungeon, you will find yourself walking on 
 magnetic walls in a steamy, lava-filled mine. In another dungeon, you will find yourself on an 
 underwater spelunking adventure. In another, platforming dangerously miles above ground. Throughout 
 the game, you gradually accumulate a huge inventory of tools to help you navigate huge dungeons 
 by solving environmental puzzles. You will find a bow, bombs, a boomerang, a grappling hook, heavy 
 boots, and many other special items that you can equip and unequip with the flick of the D-pad 
 or by pushing the B button. Each item remains relevant throughout the game. Solving later puzzles 
 frequently involves looking through your inventory and brainstorming about how you can use your 
 items to affect your environment.
  
  Beyond the sheer variety of competent activities provided by the game, it is very difficult to 
 describe what makes it enjoyable. Twilight Princess is a classic example of a game that is worth 
 more than the sum of its parts. There aren't many elements in the game that stand out as superb. 
 Combat is functional, but not great. Most non-boss enemies can be dispatched in one or two hits 
 simply by swiping the Wii-mote. The puzzle solving is okay, but occasionally, obtuse. The story 
 is okay, but doesn't offer much besides the usual video game fare of the chosen one saving the 
 world from a great evil. There are a lot of items to collect, but your wallet fills up quickly, 
 leaving you with little incentive to look for them. The dungeons are interesting at times, but 
 all of them share a few elements that adhere strongly to a formula. There are a few cities and 
 towns in the world, but there isn't a lot to do in any of them. The manner in which all of these 
 parts coalesce into an epic adventure is what gives the game its strength.
  
  One aspect of the game that defies this trend is the boss battles. Twilight Princess has some truly 
 unforgettable boss battles. Just about every one of them is against some kind of colossus that 
 takes up most of the screen. They all look different from one another and each one is highly detailed 
 and impressively animated. Defeating them usually requires figuring out the trick for each stage, 
 and then using your skills to execute it. Usually, a little bit of experimenting is enough to find 
 out that trick (which almost always involves a special item that you recently found) . They generally 
 aren't very hard once you figure out what you need to do, since there are usually enough health 
 power ups to keep you alive after taking a lot of damage. The exception to this rule is the last 
 couple of bosses that you fight at the end of the game. Both of them are quite challenging and 
 satisfying to finally finish off.
  
  This game was also released on the Gamecube, and it has translated well onto the Wii. It makes 
 good use of the Wii's motion control when aiming an arrow or a grappling hook and it is refreshingly 
 free of the Wii-waggling Quick Time events that plague lots of games shoehorned onto the Wii. The 
 combat controls are solid and the way that you can manage your inventory with minimal button presses 
 is slick. If there is any shortcoming with the lack of controls, it is the absence of a jump button. 
 The game jumps for you when you run towards a ledge, occasionally killing you when it's not what 
 you intended.
  
  There aren't any Wii games that have truly great graphics, but Twilight Princess excels at squeezing 
 the most out of the outdated technology with excellent art direction. This strength doesn't show 
 up early in the game, when you are exploring rather mundane towns, fields, and caves. It starts 
 to show up the first time that you enter the twilight realm, the game's bizarre alternate reality. 
 The monsters, in particular, are frightening and impressive. One of the best enemies in the game 
 is a black, lion-like beast with a black, tentacled head. The tentacles wave and float as if the 
 beast is swimming through the air. It is one of the many beautiful details that you will notice 
 as you play through the game. The level of detail on the bosses is astounding, at times.
  
  Zelda: Twilight Princess does suffer occasionally from the outdated technology upon which it is 
 built. One problem that comes across almost immediately is the small size of most areas, the frequency 
 of the loading zones, and a lack of stuff to interact with in your environment, outside of a few 
 puzzle-related items. Big outdoor areas tend to be sparse and dull to traverse across. Travelling 
 from one room to another in a dungeon initiates a short cut scene that seems designed to disguise 
 a quick loading time.
  
  Technology isn't Zelda's primary problem, however. What brings it down is that it just feels like 
 an old game in ways that aren't necessary. It almost seems as if Nintendo purposely designed a 
 20th Century game as fan service instead of because of a belief that it makes for a better game. 
 No aspect of this game illustrates this problem more than the game's lousy, underachieving audio. 
 Instead of voice-acted lines, the game's story is told in pop up dialog boxes and occasional noises 
 like laughs, grunts, or some kind of gibberish. The absence of voice acting for the game's NPCs 
 and enemies is inexcusable. A big-budget flagship game like Zelda should have voice-acted NPCs 
 -- especially a story-driven game like Zelda, which doesn't overwhelm you with its dialog. In addition 
 to the lack of voice acting, many of the sound effects in the game are very plain or low quality. 
 The menu sounds would have been right at home in the 32-bit era. Nothing else from the sword swipes 
 to the explosions is impressive. The music is average when compared to the presentations that have 
 become standard for top-notch games nowadays.
  
  Many other features in the game also suffer from an occasional time warp. The dialog boxes that 
 still occasionally pop up towards the end of the game telling you that you have found some minor 
 treasure like a yellow rupee are absurd. Obtuse switch hunting and key finding that may have been 
 par for adventures ten years ago are annoying today. At least a few times, I got close to the end 
 of a dungeon and got stuck for a long time, only to discover that I was stuck because I missed 
 some switch or key a half hour ago. The dungeons, in general, are rife with backtracking. No matter 
 how thorough you are playing this game, you can easily miss a side path that will have you wandering 
 in circles for an hour looking for a solution when you get stuck. Enemies usually respawn in areas 
 once you have left and many puzzles reset themselves, a factor that adds to the annoyance of frequent 
 backtracking. The game's poor save system can also be an annoyance. If you quit the game in the 
 middle of a long dungeon, the next time you start up you will be all the way back at the beginning 
 of the dungeon. Sometimes, it takes 10 or 15 minutes just to get back to the point where you quit 
 the game. The complete lack of checkpoints in a dungeon with which to restart a saved game is yet 
 another convention that should never have found its way into this game. Minor issues abound. Issues 
 that feel like remnants of 1990s game design masquerading as nostalgia.
  
  Fortunately, none of these issues keep The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess from being a good 
 game, or even a great game. The game has so many places to see and so much to discover that it 
 always compels you to come back for more. Simply sticking to the main quest requires 30 or more 
 hours, and there are no prolonged weak spots in that time. It is a compelling adventure and it 
 is easily a game that should be in every Wii owner's collection, regardless of whether you have 
 played the previous games. I will be eagerly awaiting how the next game turns out, since the basic 
 pieces for a masterpiece are in place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  First things first, if you own a wii and you don't own Twilight Princess- regardless of whether 
 or not you've ever played any other Zelda game- you've made a huge mistake; and you'd be a fool 
 not to go out and buy it immediatly. That being said, just a few minor shortcomings, or perhaps 
 a better term would be dissapointments, keep it from being the best entry yet.
  
  However, let's not overlook the good things. First, the story; this game has the most epic and 
 arguably best story in a Zelda game to date. That's saying something because Zelda games are typically 
 known for their stories. It's so cinematic and well written that it's like playing through an oscar-worthy 
 hollywood movie. Just make sure you give the game a chance to get into it.
  
  Another good thing: horse-back riding. Now, I personally consider Wind Waker to be the best Zelda 
 yet, but I'll admit that the sailing in that game was at times cumbersome. That's why it's so refreshing 
 to be back on the horse again. I've spent litterally hours just exploring the staggeringly big 
 overworld on horseback- it's just that fun. And now with the new horseback combat system it's even 
 more fun than ever before.
  
  The best thing? The new controls- I absolutly dissagree with gamestop on this matter. They don't 
 feel tacked on and they really add to the experience- esspecially the pointer based aiming. Quite 
 simply, I don't ever don't want to go back to the old way.
  
  But there are some bad things. The first and foremost is that being a wolf really doesn't add all 
 that much- it's a cool idea to be sure, and there are some really neat concepts such as evesdropping 
 on people's conversations and following scent trails. They're just not used enough. In the beginning 
 of the game I actually dreaded being a wolf, not because it's not fun, it's just not AS fun as 
 being a human. Thankfully, you eventually earn the ability to transform into a wolf at will which 
 makes it much better.
  
  Also, the game was just a little too dark for my liking. There wasn't anywhere in the game where 
 I said "man it'd be cool to go there in real life". It's a very melancholy game, and all of the 
 locations reflect that. Not a completly bad thing, just a matter of personaly taste. Some actually 
 praise the game on this matter. My last complaint is kind of a silly one, but I really didn't like 
 that Kakoriko Village was a western style ghost town. Some people like it, I don't.
  
  Either way, you simply just must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthdaver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  The Zelda series is well known for it's great gameplay value and story. It's always the same save 
 the kingdom and the princess and defeat the evil powers that rule the lands of hyrule.
  
  The legend of Zelda Twilight princess is a masterpiece of a game. Some say it's too dark for a 
 Zelda game, but i think this game was needed for the series. 
  Twilight princess has a few differences from the other Zelda games. You will soon learn that your 
 not just playing Link, well your playing Link, but Link in a different form. In the normal land 
 of Hyrule your playing as the blond fairy boy with the green costume and the all time favorite 
 sword. In the twilight land covered in darkness your playing as Wolf Link, a beast. Wolf Link has 
 the ability to smell your way towards your destination, and has some nice abilities to kill the 
 evil monsters threatening Hyrule. I was abit disepointed about this because i enjoy playing as 
 Link as i always had, and the Wolf seemed abit out of place, but Wolf Link grew on me, and i am 
 now a wolf link lover.
  
  The first thing you notice about Hyrule is that it's totaly changed from the ocarina of time Hyrule. 
 The world is a lot bigger, and the art and enviroment is changed to the better. The horse riding 
 is spectacular, once you get it i suggest that you ride around exploring the beatiful land of Hyrule 
 on the horse back. A new addition that were'nt avalible before is to fight at the horse back, that's 
 one thing i missed from the ocarina of time, and it's great. 
  
  The legend of Zelda Twilight princess is a game every wii/gamecube owner should have. The story 
 is awesome, you will encounter twists you diden't see coming, the gameplay is long and it will 
 last for atleast 40 hours just through the main story, and even longer if your gonna collect everything 
 Hyrule has to offer. The bosses are awesome, but maybe they are a bit easy just maybe, and the 
 temples are challenging and exiting, sometimes frustrating.
  
  If you've not played this game, you've missed out on something great. The legend of Zelda Twilight 
 princess is one of the best games i've ever played, and i've played a lot of games. 
  
  Dave 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Most Zelda fans will tell you that Legend of Zelda is very, very long, very very big, and very, 
 very fun. I agree with them on all counts. The whole series has had games at least 12 hours long, 
 which isn't too bad. The whole series has had utterly gigantic environments, and it's always impossibly 
 fun. I only have one complaint: Every Zelda game takes a long time to finally get into all the 
 awesomeness. But, once it does, the game is truly a blast. I mean, I played Twilight Princess, 
 wondering what all the hype was about, and, to be honest, it didn't amaze me. It took me 5 hours 
 to get into the real adventure (rescuing the kid who got lost) . It was ok, but had too much wandering 
 around. Turning into a wolf is a nice twist, but the Wii controls are a bit strange. I mean, it 
 works, but not in the way you'd hope for it to. As gamespot says, they feel a bit tacked on. Anyways, 
 for me, the adventure finalyl picked up when you get your first taste at horseback combat. It was 
 AWESOME!!!! Seriously, there has never been a time when I enjoyed horseback combat so much. And 
 the Iron boots... genius. A lot of the time you'll find yourself impressed by the fantastic puzzles. 
 they feel just so clean and smooth, that you have to enjoy them. The bosses themselves are puzzles, 
 and flinging your boomerang to get a bomb and then slam it into a bosses head... just GENIUS. I 
 will say one thing: Magnetic boots kick butt. They are fun to play through. Some of the bosses 
 are pure genius, and even those who have loved Devil May Cry or hack n' slash games won't be too 
 disappointed here, because after a while the puzzles grow on you, the fighting gets entertaining, 
 and the enemies start to take more pain (meaning that you can hit them more) . However, the best 
 touch was very probably the horseback riding. It was awesome just to ride around in a big storm 
 with lightning going, slashing enemies with that sword, doing spin attacks, dashing, and best of 
 all, jousting. The game has many minigames as well. For example, sumo wrestling (you heard right!) . 
 The wrestling, against all odds, is actually very fun. 
  An interesting touch to the game is that now, you have to get 5 pieces of heart to get one shiny 
 new heart container! Before, it was 4. This does make things considerably tougher, but it's all 
 for the good. 
  A big problem is that it takes forever to get the true meat of the game. It took me 14 hours to 
 get to Death Mountain. 14 hours! And I'm not even close to half-way through the game! 
  Another interesting thing is that the game isn't too challenging. I mean, there will be some tough 
 scenes, but nowhere near Resident Evil 4 difficulty. Besides, the tough parts are all puzzles or 
 timing, which ravid Devil May Cry 3 fans should have absolutely no problem with. If you can dodge 
 a giant scythe with a quick roll, dodging a giant mouth from a carnivorous plant using a quick 
 sidestep should be easy. And, if you're good at dodging El Gigante's bullrushes, This should be 
 easy. Seriously.
  Everyone should get this game. Anyone. It's sort of a mixture of an RPG, an action game, an adventure 
 game, an action-adventure game, and a puzzle game, with some interesting, lifelike characters thrown 
 in for the heck of it. It truly is the Wii game to get. Believe me, Final Fantasy fans out there, 
 you are going to like this game. Unless you're one of those "first-person shooters rock and everything 
 else sucks" type of people. Which I doubt you are. Trust me! You will like this game. You will 
 adore this game. You will like this game so much you will eagerly wait for the next few Zelda games, 
 or maybe even relive some old ones (Ocarina of Time, Majora's mask, Windwaker, and Link to the 
 Past are all highly reccommended) . Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiibro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is an all around great game. If you have a Wii this is a must have. Hyrule has 
 never looked so big and looked so great with 480p graphics Hyrule has been brought to life. With 
 many dungeons and an enormous map there are endless possibiities in the world of Hyrule. Boss fights 
 are not easy nor difficult, the puzzles make the game a holw lot more intresting and longer. You 
 deffinetly know your getting a great value when you buy this game, with 80 hours of gameplay and 
 the game is very replayable. Controls are nice and simple waving the controlers around wont get 
 your arms tired. This is a Zelda that every game lover can play with and for the Zelda fans we 
 are not getting short changed. Thumbs up to Nintendo they have really out done themselves this 
 time. The only thing I can ask is I hope the next one will be just as good if not better then then 
 Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best one in the entire series. It has a bunch of fun things to do while you are 
 on your quest to defeat Ganondorf. This game has a variety of different tools that are all mostly 
 fun to use during the game such as the bow and arrow, clawshot, double clawshot, bombs, sword, 
 shield, Zora armor, Invincibility armor, fishing rod, Hawk Eye, and more! Out of these, the bow 
 is my favorite because shooting the arrow is fun on the Wii. The ending was quite sad if you played 
 every part of the game. You get to ride a horse, which is quite entertaining. You move a lot faster 
 than your normal running speed when you are on your horse. Saving Zelda is one of the many fun 
 parts of the game because that is when you are fighting Ganondorf. When you stab Ganondorf in the 
 stomach at the end of the game, he makes this really long yell and then vanishes in a pile of dust. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenFire95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  OK, lets see now. Twilight Princess. Insamely awesome game. it was one of the first wii games, 
 yet it has some of the best Wii graphics. many games still dont look quite as amazing as this game, 
 Metroid Prime 3 and Mario Galaxy, some of the Wii's earlier games. god, i gotta stay on topic. 
 im talking about TP here... ok
  This game is great. as with all Zelda games, its very long, has unique items, and the Water Temple 
 is annoying as heck. lol im not lying here! this water temple may not be he worst ever (heck its 
 nothing compared to OoT's!!) but its still very confusing. but I like the Mid-boss Deku Toad and 
 boss Morpheel in this temple. they were a lot of fun to fight.
  I also enjoyed the final battle. getting into that sword fight with Ganondorf at the end was loads 
 of fun, but it was VERY hard and long. he has so much health, plus the part with pressing A over 
 and over got really hard. my thumb hurt so much after that fight... only problem i have with that 
 battle is two things: 1) it doesnt seem as dramatic as OoT's Ganon battle. flames all over, lightning 
 striking, dramatic boss music... its looks a lot better than the TP final boss. and 2) HOW does 
 Ganondorf jump so high?? howcome I cant do that? and dont tell me "oh link cant jump in any zelda 
 game you newb" im just joking, its just funny to think about.
  Another thing i like in this game is the music. lots of it sounds really cool, like the boss music 
 and the "remix" of the Lost Woods from OoT sounds really good. and so does the Zora remix and the 
 Goron remix. Hyrule Field also has a catchy tune to it, especially the trumpets in the backround 
 when riding Epona (btw, sword swinging while on hoseback was a genius idea!)
  I also like Midna- best partner Link has ever gotten in any zelda game. shes not annoying like 
 Navi, thank God. her laugh may eventually get to you but its NOTHING compared to "hey! listen! 
 watch out! look!" plus the fact she calls you every 2 minutes to tell you something YOU ALREADY 
 KNOW. Midna never does anything like Navi, im sure glad the creators noticed how hated that little 
 fairy was and to not make Links new helper so annoying! plus, Midna also ATTACKS while on Links 
 wolf back! talk about helpful- not like Navi -_-
  and speaking of wolf back, the wolf controlls r really cool. i love becoming a wolf, but only after 
 you beat the third temple. collecting those fairy tears was sure a pain in the but. also i like 
 digging to find things like Poes in the ground oh and collecting the 60 poe souls? COMPLETE waste 
 of time. all you get is 1000 Ruppees for it- but you get nothing if your wallet is already full. 
 collecting 20 was good though cuz you got Fairys tears and a bottle out of it
  so this is the end of my revie. lets recap: Twilight princess was a fun game that I still play 
 today, even though everyone told me its old. but i dont care, playing as Link through his adventures 
 to save Hyrule from the evil Ganondorf is so much fun and never gets old. lets hope Nintendo pulls 
 together and makes a good game for the Wii- they really need it! Zelda is a great series, so making 
 another Wii Zelda wouldnt be a bad idea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an epic and lengthy game to say the least. So is it a 
 must own? Of course it is! I'll start with the graphics. Twilight Princess looks like a Gamecube 
 game, because it was initially going to be a Gamecube exclusive. One major complaint concerning 
 the graphics is the large amount of blurry textures, which become very noticeable in cutscenes. 
 While there are blurry textures and low resolution characters, just about everything else in the 
 game looks very polished. The new, more mature, art style is also a nice touch, adding more atmosphere 
 and depth to the game. It's graphics are just okay. However, just goes to show that gameplay is 
 always better than graphics.
  
  Onto the sound quality. Nintendo decided it would be best to stick with MIDI music as opposed to 
 a fully orchestrated soundtrack. While the music is just as well composed as it's always been, 
 the sound quality isn't really that great. That goes double for the Wiimote speaker. The sound 
 effects coming from the speaker (sword slashes, thuds, and the chime that plays every time you 
 solve a puzzle) are rather tinny. In true Legend of Zelda style, not one character speaks even 
 a single word. The storytelling is done with sharp writing and very expressive characters, not 
 that it's a problem.
  
  For the story, well, of course it's really about three characters, as expected. However, the story 
 is more detailed than previous Legend of Zelda games. Here, it has a more mature tone, for example, 
 a couple of references to execution. The story, in short, goes as such: Link's friend has been 
 kidnapped by orc-like creatures. So, naturally, Link sets out to save her. He later meets up with 
 Midna (best sidekick EVAR!) who explains why Hyrule has been covered in a strange darkness. Your 
 main enemy is identified as Zant, who is holding Princess Zelda hostage. I won't go any further 
 into the story due to spoilers. So in short, great story, but predictable ending.
  
  The gameplay is the game's strongest point. One of the biggest additions to combat, (besides the 
 motion sensing controls) is the fact that Link can change into a wolf. You don't have that ability 
 right from the start, but you'll get it after the first couple of dungeons. Speaking of dungeons, 
 they're still as puzzling and complex as ever (but not Zelda 64's Water Temple complex) . Your main 
 goal in each is essentially unlock all the doors, get the super helpful weapon, and defeat the 
 main boss using the super helpful weapon. Nothing brand new, but it works. I'm sure you're curious 
 about the Wiimote controls. I gotta say, they work. It may take a little while to warm up to them, 
 but once you do, You'll find it beats using a regular controller. The aiming with the bow and arrow 
 is great. Much more precise than in previous Zelda games. For combat, you'll find that the enemies 
 don't have much health. Usually two jump attacks and they're dead (the same goes for Wolf Link) .
 
  
  In conclusion, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the largest and most enjoyable 
 games in history. Some people have said it's even better than Ocarina of Time, and that's saying 
 a lot. Though it doesn't completely reinvent the franchise, it's a must have for any Wii owner 
 and will keep you busy with a quest that lasts more than 40 hours. Why I waited so long to buy 
 it is beyond me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for Wii review by red0584.
  
  PROS
  -Very long
  -Great story
  -good graphics
  -pretty good music
  -great blend of action and adventure
 
  -a ton of optional quests
  -beautiful landscape
  -very memorable
  
  CONS
  -Wii Remote/nunchuck swinging can get annoying
  -Wii Remote swinging is not always responsive
 
  -Nunchuck swinging is barely responsive
  -No voice acting
  
  STORYLINE
  
  The storyline of Twilight Princess is both long and great. It begins as Link (currently a young 
 adult on a farm) is asked to go to Hyrule. Eventually, parts of the land are covered in twilight. 
 Along the way, you meet a twilight creature whom you befriend: Minda. She's sort of like your new 
 Navi. You turn into a wolf, and that's when everything gets interesting, if not already. The length 
 of Twilight Princess is very long, and will keep you busy for a while. Me, it took a good 35-40 
 hours to complete the game. And that's not doing any sidequests. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Overall, the graphics are very good for the Wii. Probably better than Super Mario Galaxy. The landscape 
 is beautiful, from Lake Hylia to deserts, to villages to lands filled with ice.
  
  MUSIC
  
  Twilight Princess has very good music, especially the music in the opening title. Some tracks 
 made their debut in Twilight Princess, like Midna's Lament and Illia's theme, but some, like Kakariko 
 Village (which I may add is a probably one of my favorites) , have been taken from past Zelda games 
 and been remastered. Some tracks can be heard on Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Let's get right down to it, the controls can get annoying. VERY annoying. Stuff like using 
 an item isn't that bad, but first you have to find the item, set it to , or v. Then you have to 
 press that button to set it to B. THEN you can use it. But most annoying is the motion control. 
 This was a launch title for the Wii, so motion control had some bugs. But it still is aggrovating. 
 The motion control get annoying. What if you broke your arm that you use the Wii remote with? I 
 sometimes just think: Forget motion controls, I just want to play the game! The Wii remote isn't 
 always responsive, which is okay, but the one time you really need it, it doesn't work. And the 
 Nunchuck, geez, it rarely works. You have to swing and swing and swing and when it finally works, 
 you don't need it anymore. That's probably why the GameCube version of this got a .1 score higher 
 than this Wii version.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good game. You could probably reccomend this to anyone who likes a good 
 action/adventure game. But, you should try the GameCube version first.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess review by red0584.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_ranger95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was a game that was announced a very very long time ago, but many of us waited 
 for, for quite some time. It felt like torcher as we received bit by bit of information on it, 
 with the anticipation growing more and more.
  
  We hyped it up because Nintendo would lead us to belove this would in fact, be the greatest Zelda 
 ever to date.
  
  Well when Nov. 19th, 2006 came... Twilight Princess would be forever debated much like the odds 
 of a coin toss.
  
  Veterans didn't think it was anything special. First timers loved it. WindWaker lovers hated the 
 realistic graphics, while others enjoyed it. Some thought the controls felt tacked on, while some 
 loved it. 
  
  It was a very big task on Nintendo's part to deliver a great game that would live up to Ocarina 
 of Time (a huge task infact) !
  
  alright to the point ----
  
  Of course one of the best points TP gets across is the view (graphics) . I don't think anyone can 
 say that Nintendo didn't deliver on that aspect. From the chracter/enemy models to the architecture, 
 it's all fantastic looking. TP is an example of what the Gamecube could do. Unfortunately, as beautiful 
 and as big is TP's Hyrule is.... there isn't a whole lot going on. I understand Twilight has covered 
 the land, but what about afterwards? Besides bugs, and poes... don't be surprised if you find yourself
 
  
  Controls were solid for the most part so to say. Slash right- for a right slash. Slash left- left 
 slash, etc. 
  The biggest problem with them imo was you really didn't have to do anything special to defeat enemies. 
 Just slash wildly and you would eventually take them down. Little strategy was needed, so really.... what 
 was the point of even adding the Wii controls to TP? This leads into my next point... The pointer.
 
  
  This bar far, was the best quality of the controls. Bow, Clawshots, Wand, and Ball n Chain were 
 all handled by the IR pointer, which worked flawlessly. A simple point and click was all that was 
 needed to take out enemies on horseback, or to use any other long-range weapon/item. Pretty nice, 
 and shows how the pointer can replace analog's while playing motion controlled games.
  
  Your side kick Midna, is a very welcomed edition compared to old sidekicks of the past (Hey, LISTEN!) . 
 She actually has emotions/expressions that are shown. She also has an erie kind of personality 
 that in a sense, makes you curious to find out what's going on with her. 
  
  The Gorons, Zora's, and other misc. characters all have the Nintendo charm and add to the game's 
 overall presentation as well. 
  
  The sad thing about it is... other than the cutscenese, and a few brief text bubbles (when walking 
 up to a character, and talking to them) , there isn't a whole lot of interaction besides the story 
 itself. You can't do quests for people (or very minimum) , no min-games come from interaction unless 
 they are forced, and there is only a few small side-quests (if you can consider collecting bugs, 
 or poes) that really have a purpose or any use.
  
  Other than the above mentioned negatives, the game is sold like I mentioned. It's not a bad game 
 by any means, and I probably knitt-picked it apart (which could have been alot worse) . I just have 
 high standards when it comes to Zelda, and so do alot of other fans out there. 
  
  It's a good game on it's own if you can look past the points I've made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solors
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was one of the launch titles for the Nintendo Wii and it 
 stands on top for the best that the Wii has to offer!! With new innovative gameplay and ways to 
 kill all the foes in your path, this game can get highly addictive and if you play it 15 hours 
 straight you still won't finish the game!! This game is the longest Zelda ever, it can take you 
 up to 70 hours if you want to get everything in the game which can and will get hard. It's still 
 the same method with the get the item in the dungeon and use it to take the boss still but this 
 game involves more around puzzles then combat.
  
  As with most Zelda game your a boy named Link that comes from a small village in the outskirts 
 of the Golden Land of Hyrule and are destined to save it from a great evil which in this game is 
 the Twilight and the king of the twilight in this game. Early in the game you get pulled into the 
 twilight and are transformed into a legendary wolf with blue eyes and are imprisoned in a castle. 
 You then meet a twilight girl named Minda who you will be with for the game and you are asked to 
 break out of the castle and meet someone. She tells you the story of the twilight and your asked 
 to find all the four light spirits and free them from the twilight. Midna also asks you to find 
 Fused Shadow, which are basically the medallions from Ocarina of Time.
  
  The game starts off with you in your village ( Like most Zelda games) and you do simple tasks that 
 can take some thinking to perform. Once you get through that you with the combat part of the game 
 but your only fighting weak enemies which are great to fight in the beginning! You quickly get 
 to use your projectiles to which will make it easier for later on in the game.
  
  The characters in this game are great and can be funny but confusing at the same time! Take the 
 mail man for example! He makes really weird noises and if you walk buy him when your a wolf then 
 he knows its you! You meet a skeleton warrior in the later part of the game ( also the start ) 
 who will teach you "Hidden Moves" If you played Zelda: Wind Waker, they should be similar.
  
  The controls are superb when it comes to fighting off the multiple different enemies you will 
 have to face in Twilight Princess. The sword combat has been simply put into a swing of the Wii-Mote 
 or a sake with Nunchuck. The same goes for horse combat as well. Shooting arrows and other projectiles 
 are a breeze! You just simply point and click with the mote! But its not that simple! No its takes 
 practice because most of the time you might have to be moving when your trying to hit something! 
 It doesn't matter if your horse or your feet aiming will be a challenge at first but becomes easy 
 and fun!!
  
  Sadly when your swinging the sword and you hear the sound coming from the speaker in the Wii-Mote 
 it sounds horrible. ( just the sword) It sounds incredibly weird and you will not like at all! 
 It doesn't even sound like swinging anything. It's just off the head weird sound. But it doesn't 
 really effect it all that much if your in combat and are focused in.
  
  Most of the music in this game is reused OoT music but it still sounds great and really fits into 
 a lot of places that could have no better music! But a nice bit of it is new and great and you 
 will be happy to know the music when you solve a puzzle is in this game you will feel happy and 
 warm! The music itself is a reason yo buy this game, some of the best game music i've ever heard.
 
  
  The amount of new enemies in this game is great and all the bosses are perfect and fun to beat! 
 Sadly the bosses are way to easy to beat but can get hard in puzzle form. They only take a few 
 hits but the last boss and take time. Some old enemies have also made it into the game such as 
 Stalfos Knights and Chu-Chus!!
  
  Overall, Zelda is an amazing game. The music alone is enough to make you buy this game, its perfect. 
 The only real problem is that its way to easy, but thats still no reason not to pick this title 
 up if you're a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hozboo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This was probably one of my favorite video games ever made. it was so well put toghether and so 
 well done that even though i have beaten it i cannot stop playing it. just play it. trust me. its 
 crazy. you have to try. now. leave your house. got to the store. buy it. come home. play it. now. 
 go. right now. SEE WHAT I MEAN ITS GOOD HUH? keep playing. dont stop. AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!
  
  heh heh silly its just epona.
  
  
  dont stop playing.
  
  
  please. dont stop.
  
 
  its the best huh.
  
  
  the beggining is long though.
  
  
  
  
  oh well.
  
  
  whatever.
  
  
  
  still the best.
  
  just keep palying the game. OMG!
  
  
 
  
  
  keep playing.
  
  keep playing.
  
  
  thats all ill let you enjoy it now.
  
  no wiat. 
  
  so uh the game is really good .
  
  
  the princess is my favorite
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  shes pretty for a game character.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  okay im done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atheer87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's Zelda needs no introduction, one of the greatest games and there is no doubt about that, 
 but twilight princess really is something else. I wish i could say it in another way but this is 
 the most enjoyable game i have every played and i know its the most enjoyable game i will every 
 play. mmm "enjoy" doesn't really describe TP, hang on it's incredibly beautiful and sophisticated. 
 The sword moves, weapons and BOSS FIGHTS are bloody Genius. The game is smooth, responsive and 
 has no bugs or glitches that i noticed at all. I spent 95 hours playing this game but i also did 
 some bosses a few times because i just loved them. Everyone that has a Wii should get this game 
 otherwise they are Insane and your Wii is honestly going to waste. "I mean that". If you dont have 
 a Wii however you should really get one just to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freaksavior
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  gamespot I disagree. this game is amazing. the story is fantastic with the whole hyrule being overvcome 
 by "twilight". You play as a wolf every now and then which is obviously a bit different and alot 
 like okami, but its cool being a wolf. the story is long and exciting and never dispointing. the 
 visuals are really good and sound is good. the only few things i don't like is the bosses are waaaaaay 
 too easy. it will take you 1 minute to figure out their strategy and you almost never die from 
 them. the hardest one to figure out is probably the spider in my opinion. also sometimes when you 
 swing your wiimote or shake your nunchuck it won't respond. but other than that everything is awesome. 
 the puzzles are pretty easy but are fun. the bosses are really cool but like i said too easy. the 
 story is the best i've played. i definately recommend this to zelda fans. this is one of my favorite 
 games and you should defiinately buy it. 
  
  hope this review helped :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Wow, there is so much to say about this game that it is difficult to know where to start.
  
  Let's start with the Story. A great story is really what keeps a person playing. This game 
 has a lot of side story to it which adds to the experience. You play as Link (again) and what starts 
 off as a normal day, turns out to be a day when Twilight starts taking over the kingdom. You need 
 to stop this before it's to late.
  
  Like any Japanese cartoon, the dialogue is sometimes a little difficult to grasp and sometimes 
 I spend a few minutes having to re-read the text to make sense of it all. 
  
  The Stages are large and the puzzles are sometimes a little impossible to figure out right at first 
 look. It can take you a good hour to get through one stage along.
  
  Weapons... well, there is definitely no shortage of this. You have all kinds of little gadgets that 
 help you get through stages. And just when you think you can't get any more gadgets... guess what. 
 You get more. 
  
  It's not just a Bow and Arrow and sword, but also a staff that controls statues, a spinner that 
 crawls up walls and over sand, claws that help you swing from one place to another, and the list 
 goes on.
  
  You can see that the Graphics is still based on the N64 engine. I think I'm just so use to the 
 HD graphics that the SD is hurting my eyes a little. But taking the old engine into account, the 
 game is really pretty to look at.
  
  All levels are COMPLETELY different. Each needs new skills to navigate, and new gadgets. No 2 places 
 are ever the same. This adds a lot of excitement to the game. 
  
  I did find that the end bosses were a little easy to defeat, but still well designed and thought 
 out.
  
  This game kept me in front of my Wii for 41 hours in total, which means that this game is really 
 it's money worth. A total must have for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rovelius
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing TP's first trailer, live at E3 2006... 
  I remember everyone's shouts of joys...
  I remember my own shout of joy when I saw this trailer...
 
  
  I remember how disappointed I was when I played this game.
  
  You see, I have played through single Zelda games to date. I never, ever complained about ANY Zelda. 
 But I can't believe how disappointed I was at TP.
  
  I had this game in hands exactly 6minutes after its release. I was the first one in line at our 
 local Walmart (I waited 22 hours in front of our local Walmart to buy my Wii with my first job's 
 hard-earned money) and I still remember rushing in like a madmen, grabbing my copy of TP before 
 anyone else.
  
  Then, I came back to my house, as a new and proud Wii owner. I popped in Twilight Princess (I messed 
 a bit with Miis and judged it boring) , was charmed by the menus... and as soon as I saw the very 
 first cutscene, I hated it.
  
  Why do I hate it? Here are a few reasons.
  
  First of all, the graphics. Yes, as it may sound ridiculous, I hated the graphics in this game. 
 Sure, they were great and realistic... but perhaps a bit too much. I hated the color's palette 
 : dark green, brown, dark blue... it was as if they were scared of having light colors, apart from 
 the skyboxes.
  
  Then, there is the Twilight World. Booooooooooring. Sure, there's bloom all over the place and 
 all, but the design is awful. Black squares all over the place, depressive clouds hovering and 
 sad characters... I actually saw people saying that TP's Twilight World was cooler than Metroid 
 Prime 2 Echoes' dark world. They must be joking ! Echoes' dark world is a true, radical change 
 to maps, not a simple and boring color redesign. There was also new enemies, story, a whole new 
 race... unlike TP's boring storyline.
  
  Twilight Princess' storyline also felt ''shy''. We saw Zelda only a few times (more than in OoT, 
 but at least, Zelda's appearances in OoT were marked with gain of knowledge and the light arrows. 
 Zelda in TP is next to useless.) . There was also Midna... I liked Midna more than Zelda, at least 
 she had a personality. Zant started off awesome and ended up being a freak, so here's another character 
 that Nintendo happily ruined.
  
  Even with sucky characters, it could've been avoided, in my opinion, with voice acting. I know 
 that we never saw this before in any Zelda game, but seeing how they went through all of this trouble 
 for lip syncing the characters and having incredible animation, it makes the character feel even 
 more DEAD. It was disturbing seeing these characters acting so real, yet being unable to talk. 
 It felt fake, much like TP's color palette.
  
  Talking about sound, the soundtrack could've been better. Not only are most of the songs ugly but 
 they're not even orchestrated, they're MIDI. I know that Koji Kondo didn't have the time to orchestrate 
 it, I've read the ''Iwata Asks'' stuff after TP's release. But I don't care about the reason : 
 it's there and I don't like it, period.
  
  TP is also WAAAYYY too easy. I either have too much experience in Zelda games or they simply slacked 
 off. The only and sole puzzle that bugged me for a few minutes was that part when you must rotate 
 the rock formation in the desert temple so that you can hookshot your way to the second floor, 
 whatever the temple's name was. I completed TP in a mere 16hours on my first (and only) playthrough, 
 without guides, and I died only once. 16 HOURS ! DIED ONLY ONCE ! This isn't Zelda...
  
  The only thing I liked in TP was running around with Epona and battling goblins in Hyrule Field, 
 that's all. That's the only reason I'm giving this game a 3/10 instead of a 1/10. It's the ONLY 
 time where you see cool colors (thanks to the sky) , where there's a good soundtrack (Hyrule Field's 
 theme is the only orchestrated song in the whole game) and where its gameplay shines, simply because 
 it hadn't been done before.
  
  I don't understand why Miyamoto said that he and Iwata had accomplished a ''120% Zelda''. To me 
 it's more like ''-120%'' Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawl578
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Link's back in an all new action-packed Wii game! This masterpiece has everything OoT had. Great 
 gameplay, amazing graphics, epic story, etc. It all starts with a young man named Link, who is 
 now enjoying a wonderful farm life when evil dark creatures appear and knock him out, only to wake 
 to a kidnapping of his two best of friends. The end of the game is an original classic with Link 
 and Zelda facing Ganondorf in a awesome battle that you automatically know resembles the ending 
 of OoT. The game has one numerous awards in magazines, usally receiving a 10/10 in them. I was 
 completely stuck to my sit playing this game, not wanting to stop until I beat the game. Just like 
 OoT. Overall, TP is sure to keep you glued to your Wiimote for a couple of weeks. This is a very 
 awesome game and a wonderful addition to the Zelda series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MariJoe007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Link has a completelt new look with twilight princess. He is at his best in this game thats for 
 sure. This game literally has a light and a dark side of Link. Link himself is the light side with 
 his sword and shield. Wolf Link is a whole other thing. He has the senses of a wolf, being able 
 to take down anyone by there scents. He also moves very fast as a wolf. Human Link also wields 
 the Master Sword which enables him to be able to change back and forth. Zant is the evil person 
 in this game because he tries to ressurrect Ganondorf from the Twilight and that's were Link comes 
 in. Midna, the true twilight princess, goes along with Link to help him on his adventures. This 
 game also lives up to its full potencial. Never ever doubt of buying this game. This game is a 
 must buy to all those Zelda fans out there. This is MariJoe007 signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightychir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Twilight princess is a must have for a wii owner. the reasons why is that it has a great story 
 to it and hard puzzles at first, and when u solve them u end up thinking ''why i didnt notice this 
 before!!!!'' the legend of zelda has pretty good garphics for a wii game that run smoothly throughout 
 the whole game. twilight princess includes motion controls for ur sword and aiming weapons. when 
 aiming, it works pretty well but when u use ur sword it just feels like u r just swinging the wii 
 remote around like and idiot. throughout the game, u will learn new skills that help u in ur journey 
 like the final blow, or the helm splitter when u go over ur opponent and slash his head. the shield 
 attack is sometimes unresponsive and might end instead of doing the spin attack rather than the 
 shield attack. in some parts of the game u will turn into a wolf and midna ( a character that helps 
 u in the game) rides on your back. being a wolf has it good things like digging, warping to other 
 places or tracing a scent. when u finish the game, there r a lot of mini games and side quests 
 like fishing and looking for some ghost souls for some guy called jovani. twilght princess is a 
 must have for anyone looking for a hard, really long and entertaining adventure, i recommend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Despite only having played the original Legend of Zelda (on the Nintendo -- sheesh... I feel old) , 
 I decided to rent this game at the video store. Immediately I was caught up in the story and didn't 
 want to stop playing.
  
  You play as Link, a humble goat herder/hero who gets called into action when the children of his 
 home village are kidnapped. Your job is to rescue the children and find out about the strange things 
 that are happening in the area. As you play you quickly learn that the kidnapping of the children 
 is the tip of the iceberg and that the entire kingdom is in peril (I'll save the rest for you to 
 find out) .
  
  The graphics are amazing, it's very easy to want to spend time taking in your surroundings (and 
 often it's vital) . They add to the depth of the game and make it very beautiful.
  
  The Wii controls add a nice touch. Your attack commands are based on how you move the controller. 
 You can swing it from side-to-side for a slashing attack or thrust it forward for a stabbing attack. 
 A very nice addition that makes the game that much better.
  
  Overall this game is amazing, the story pulls you in and you are hooked from the very beginning. 
 The learning curve is short and the controls are fun and easy to remember. The encounters range 
 from easy to difficult but are not impossible making the game challenging. The side games/events 
 add some fun and goofiness into the game while not taking away from the story itself.
  
  IF you haven't bought this game you're missing out! Finding a used copy is easy and it's well worth 
 it. Twilight Princess is a great addition to any gamer's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neilnand
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I have just finished the The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess game and it was an absolute epic. 
 I havent put another game into the console yet, because Im trying to delude myself 
 that this adventure hasnt ended.
  
  This was my first major single player adventure game for the Wii console. I have played some other 
 Wii games at friends places, and all I wanted to do is go back to Twilight Princess. 
  
  Some areas are pretty tricky - like learning how to fish. The rest of it, you can work out. 
 The way the adventure is set up, allows you to grow with the progress in the game. When you complete 
 missions and work out the puzzles, you get a warm fuzzy rewarding feeling inside.
  
  I think it is a must play for anyone with a Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM330
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  With Wii's release came Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. This game was perfect in ever way. The 
 controls for the Wii were superb. Every motion worked fluently and eaisly. Rarely did the game 
 ever have any gliches. Throughout the game you might feel a little childish, but it offers a great 
 story and a lot of fun. Waring, it is highly addictive. You will find yourself playing all day 
 and even all night. One thing about Twilight Princess is the game itself. The puzzles and quests 
 are sometimes hard and confusing, but overall they are fun and worth attempting. If your a Zelda 
 fan, then this game is perfect for you. It has all the great Zelda qualities and even offers a 
 showdown with Ganendorf at the end. This game is worth every penny and the replay value is great. 
 One of the best Wii has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  In the beginning, you play as Link, the town goody two-shoes that the adults adore and the kids 
 admire. Then as is to be expected. Something goes horribly wrong. A fat guy riding a tremendously 
 oversized blue pig comes in and lets the arrows fly. He takes away everyone that is in the clearing 
 except for Link. At first, this confused me. Then I decided: if Link had been captured then there 
 wouldn't have been a story. What are you going to do right.
  
  This is where your quest really begins. Sometime in the period of 24 hrs. the entire forest you 
 were in only a day before, has been covered in a shroud of darkness called twilight.
  
  I won't get into the story too much because on a basic level it's like Lost. (a tv show) everything 
 that you've learned thruoghout the gamecomes together in the end.
  
  The one thing I'm disapointed about. Is the lack of Ganondorf in the game. He seems like the master 
 control that you had no clue was there until you kill the bad guy and it finnaly appears.
  
  Twilight princess, in the end, is a great addition to the Legend of Zelda series. With a talking 
 baby, a whining twilight prine, talking chickens, and an overly friendly yeti. Twilight Princess 
 is a fantasticly put together game that I could rave on about for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lochsloyca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  This is my first Zelda game to date. A good friend has been a long time Zelda fan and I wanted 
 to know what all the hub bub was about so I broke down and bought it. I've been pleasantly surprised 
 at how well this game is written and designed. The puzzles, story and game play are well thought 
 out (but the puzzles can be frustrating at times) , the art is cleverly done and looks great (although 
 the graphics do seem to be inconsistent at times) , the emotion on the simple (but clean) styled 
 character's faces are surprisingly real. The story is well written, the game quite fluid and never 
 leaves me wondering what the heck I should be doing. Repetition is overshadowed by the overall 
 quality of a game well made. A rare gem and a bright ray of sunshine in an otherwise overcast world 
 of gaming. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mkman221994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess has the potential to be one of the best Zelda games out there. The innovative 
 controls make the gaming experience quite enjoyable even after playing for a while. The graphics 
 throughout the game are amazing. They are one of Nintendo's greatest graphics in the history of 
 Nintendo. The story line is great even though it follows the same basics as every other Zelda game. 
 Whether that means getting the earth, fire, and water elements to advance into the further storyline. 
 The story starts out with Link as a farmer for a little village. His friend becomes kidnapped and 
 Link feels he is to go save him. While out 'n about he becomes the legendary hero. Over all Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess is a great game for Wii and if you don't own it I advise to go buy it!
  
  *Mkman221994:-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best in the series, it's great graphics and incredible boss battles 
 were some of the game's parts i enjoyed. The story is very good and being able to turn into a wolf 
 is one of the best things on here. Still have the complex dungeons and still gotta go to get key 
 after key to complete it. You are now able to use your sword when riding your horse which should've 
 been able to do that in Ocarina of Time. Still have the epic Master Sword cutscene. Things that i 
 did not like were that now it takes 5 pieces of hearts to form a heart container. The game is pretty 
 easy actually compared to the other zelda games. Other than that i love this game it was one of 
 the best games Nintendo has ever made. I hope that Nintendo will keep doing a spectacular job making 
 Zelda games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  The game is not bad and I know many people love it but to me it just seemed two repetitive and 
 a little taste of De Javu. Once again you play as link who is thrown into saving Hyrule for the 
 king of The Gerudos Ganondorf. This is almost an alternate to Ocarina of Time (so which game was 
 true Twilight or Windwaker Hmmm...) The game is fun and has a rather good storyline even though 
 some does sound quite familiar from other Zelda games. Midna is cool but annoying at the same time. 
 The we remote is actually very well utilized in the game and it is one of the longest Zelda games 
 ever. The game did have an fun and irritated swordfight with Ganondorf at the end but after the 
 game is over you are ready for it to be over. It really has no replay value to it. It is not bad 
 game and I only say it is overrated because there were so many other games out that deserved more 
 attention, to me it was just a disappointment as a Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Question: Why is everyone so hard on this game?
  
  Well anyway... This Zelda game basicly takes what made their past games great and just increased 
 it with new content, and the new wolf form.
  
  The story has been increased, feels deeper in this game, and very well presented, unlike any other 
 Zelda game. But the mainstream story is still the same, triforce story. Which is fine because the 
 new characters have their own thing going on, so it's pretty interesting and entertaining.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much, it's just in new content, and it still holds up really well. 
 Although the combat is easier than in any of the other games, put your worst enemy are the puzzles 
 in the dungeons. Some people are saying it's too easy, some too hard. Well let me resolve this 
 one. People who find it too easy, have no doubt played the older Zelda games, because the puzzles 
 aren't too different, some of them are original though, those who found it hard.. Problably don't 
 remember the older games or are still new to these type of games. Simple as that. I was able to 
 breeze through some of the puzzles, some I was stumped, and I've played many zelda games, over 
 and over again, so it's not too easy. They're also extremely well done, I expected no less.
  
  The music, for the most part isn't orchestrated. Do I care? No, it still sounds great, if you 
 ask me most of the tracks don't sound as memorable as some of the older games, but they still fit 
 perfectly, and some of them do stand out among the series.
  
  The graphics look great for the most part, I love the character animations and figures. And the 
 glow effects in the twilight realm are amazing. But... sometimes they look dated. Like Death Mountain, 
 looking at it from Kakariko village, it looks like something from first generation GC. Or dare 
 I say, N64. Baffled me..
  
  Hyrule field is at it's prime, it's huge, has different sections, and look better than ever. So 
 many secrets, you can wander around it for days, definatly my personal favorite area in this game.
 
  
  One bad thing that brings this game down, they try to make you feel nostalgic sometimes, but it 
 just doesn't work. So it'll just feel like some dated, empty part of the game or dungeon. I didn't 
 like that. If you ask me this game hardly feel like Ocarina. But that's just me. It could be the 
 Wii controls that make it feel like a different adventure.
  
  How can I almost forget.. The game is quite longer than the other Zelda games... Which is good 
 cause you'll want more of the cool and rich looking envirements and the great adventure feel to 
 keep going on. Only problem is... The ending is too short after such a massive adventure.
  
  Now.. let's talk about the controls.. It does feel a bit forced... Like aiming and such. Not 
 much forced but somewhat feels strange using it so much, more than any other game. You swing the 
 sword with the remote, which is fine, but sometimes aiming so much just feels like a pain with 
 the remote. I know you can take it off but you can react quicker with the remote.
  
  In the end this is still an amazing game with it's on tweaks and originality to it. You just need 
 to find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyguy125
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  THis games good the only thing i didnt like is the zora temple it made me mad. other than that 
 the game was great. the bosses on the other hand were boring. get them three times and then they 
 try a new tactic. YEAH now let me guese im going to get the three more times. Wow there dead. now 
 im going to go do that again for the next 1000 boses in the game. I think they desinged the game 
 to make you angry and to go onto IGN and look up walkthroughs for it. Also this game reminds me 
 of all the other zelda games to. i dont think yhey relly changed a thing. they changed the graphics 
 a little but they still suck. Anyway to my real point about this generic never changing game for 
 all interity is i still dont hate it. the game gave me somthing to do. i kept playing it even when 
 i felt like throwing my controller out the window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I know people are gonna harp on me forever for this review, but I'm gonna take the risk. People 
 have different opinions of games so please respect mine. TP (twilight princess) is hard. I was 
 always using an FAQ because the dungeons were tough. I have to admit though, that killing a giant 
 spider just by wiggling your hand is pretty cool. The bosses are stressful (to me remember) granted 
 that I've only fought and killed 2. There's a lot of material so you won't have to worry about 
 buying a game that will last you a day. The graphics are awesome. I've always liked handheld zelda 
 games but I don't know why I don't like big system zelda games. Anyway, I love taking out my bow 
 and shooting an unsuspecting, innocent little monster (I've always liked the equipment like the 
 bow and arrow) . I would be cautious of buying this game (even though you can't really buy it anymore) 
 even though every single review you will read will say different. Goodbye, this is Flightofdragon 
 signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess shoulders the weight of more expectations than any game 
 should, in all fairness, be expected to bear. Not only does it have its series' considerable legacy 
 to live up to, it also has to win back gamers who were disenchanted with 2003's controversial Wind 
 Waker. And not only is it the last major GameCube game, it's also the Wii's flagship launch title. 
 And that means it doesn't just need to justify a one-year delay -- it also has to prove that the 
 Wii is up to snuff as a console, and that the system's unique remote controller actually works 
 for "real" games. 
  
  That's a lot to live up to, and surprisingly -- amazingly -- Twilight Princess succeeds admirably, 
 and in every respect. On top of that, it's an exceptional game in its own right: gracefully improving 
 on the best elements of its predecessors, carefully trimming their shortcomings, and throwing in 
 plenty of new ideas to keep things interesting. 
  
  It's a beautiful game, too. There's more to beauty than raw polygons, and Zelda succeeds where 
 it counts: The land of Hyrule is gorgeously crafted from Zora's Domain to the Ordona Woods. The 
 world has a rustic, classical feel that stands as a counterpoint to the menacing artificiality 
 of the Twilight Realm, the world of darkness that threatens to consume the kingdom. It's amazing 
 to think this is technically just a GameCube title; the open areas of the game boast impressive 
 horizons and no pop-in to speak of -- if a monster is standing at the other end of Hyrule Field, 
 you can see its eyes glittering evilly in the darkness a quarter of a mile away. 
  
  And thanks to precision and ease of use of the control interface, you can plant an arrow right 
 between those eyes from that distance, too. The game's move to the Wii was a worrying change for 
 many who feared it threatened to compromise a solidly crafted adventure for the sake of proving 
 that the Wii can too play host to this kind of game. But those worries were ultimately needless: 
 Twilight Princess is great on Wii. The remote-swinging sword attacks create a streamlined interface 
 that allows for the most impressive swordplay the series has yet seen. While the Wii's button layout 
 is a bit unwieldy, the core mechanics are as solid as ever. 
  
  And though you don't have to move the controller vigorously to cause Link to attack, it's impossible 
 not to get caught up in the heat of a particularly intense boss fight. At some point, you will 
 find yourself leaning forward in your seat, flailing away with the Wii Remote before twisting your 
 right hand to finish off your foe with a quick spin attack. 
  
  The interface's natural feel is especially impressive considering the vast array of abilities at 
 Link's command -- in addition to his usual repertoire of skills, he wields an arsenal of about 
 two dozen tools, can learn seven advanced sword skills, and sometimes even transforms into a wolf. 
 Every item you earn and ability you learn comes into play constantly throughout the adventure, 
 from the bucolic prelude all the way through the gripping final boss gauntlet. 
  
  In addition to special abilities like scent-tracking and superior jumping, Link's wolf form brings 
 with it much of what makes Twilight Princess unique, not least of which is an impish companion 
 named Midna. Her home, the Twilight Realm, is strongly reminiscent of the Dark World in A Link 
 to the Past -- in fact, Twilight Princess recollects the series' Super NES chapter every bit as 
 much as it does Ocarina. And nowhere is that connection stronger than in Twilight Princess's meticulously 
 crafted Hyrule: It's enormous, yet it never feels as empty as Wind Waker's oceans. Every square 
 foot of this world matters. 
  
  As in A Link to the Past, the game's first few dungeons are simply a prelude to the real adventure. 
 Once they're complete, the whole game world opens up, and the urgency of the main quest becomes 
 almost secondary to the sheer joy of exploration. Twilight Princess rewards thorough investigation 
 with money, with rare collectibles, with health bonuses or better weapons. And even then, the game's 
 secrets aren't laid bare all at once -- as you complete each dungeon, you walk away with a new 
 skill that further expands your treasure-hunting capabilities. Mysterious grooves in cliff faces 
 that seem so puzzling early in the game are pathways to success once you have the right tool. That 
 insurmountable ravine that even Midna can't guide you across is a cinch once you know the trick 
 for filling gaps. 
  
  Discoveries can range from mundane -- a Heart Piece in the trees -- to truly sublime, like entire 
 minidungeons that can only be found by bombing the proper bit of scenery. Despite the immensity 
 of Hyrule, secrets are everywhere, and you're practically guaranteed to stumble across something 
 different every time you take a new route through Hyrule Field -- or even approach the same route 
 from a different perspective. Things you sped by on horseback might catch your eye while on foot, 
 and Link's keen wolf-form eyes can spot glimmering goodies from great distances. 
  
  The important thing, though, is that traveling about Hyrule in all its hugeness is never tedious; 
 clearly, Wind Waker's detractors were listened to. Link's trusty steed Epona is available throughout 
 almost the entire game, and Midna can warp you instantly to any region where you've defeated a 
 batch of twilight beasts. Despite being the longest Zelda game to date -- there's roughly as much 
 content here as in Ocarina and Wind Waker combined -- it never feels padded. A couple of the longer 
 dungeons can drag slightly, especially when you're thwarted by a particularly obtuse puzzle, but 
 any frustration is quickly forgotten when you come face-to-face with the dungeon's epic boss and 
 advance to the next plot twist. 
  
  Twilight Princess is uncharacteristically story-driven, and by a very good story at that. While 
 Link remains a mostly blank slate, the supporting cast more than makes up for his laconic nature 
 -- Midna in particular. Alternately acerbic and thoughtful, she's an intricate character who propels 
 the quest for her own enigmatic reasons. Yet even the lesser cast members are fleshed out; the 
 citizens of Link's hometown have their own stories as well, and it's impossible not to take an 
 interest as their fates become interwoven with the main plot thread. 
  
  If Twilight Princess has a single shortcoming, it's that it feels a bit predictable at times. It 
 is a Zelda game, after all, and it's very much the successor to Ocarina of Time, so you'll frequently 
 experience a sense of dj vu. Forest dungeon? Check. Underwater areas with slow-ass stomping around 
 on the seabed? Yeah, done that before. Boomerang? Arrows? Master Sword? Gotcha, seen 'em. Bosses 
 that must be defeated using the tool found in their respective dungeons? No surprise there. 
  
  But even as it borders on formulaic, the game never feels lazy, or as though it's simply resting 
 on its laurels. The familiar moments are there to reinforce the series' motifs and to play off 
 its legacy in new and interesting ways. In fact, the further you venture into the quest, the fresher 
 it feels. It's in the latter half of the game that you encounter the bulk of Twilight Princess's 
 new skills, innovative weapons, unexpected scenarios and creative environments. And even the first 
 half is kept lively by the constant need to readjust to Link's changing circumstances as he ping-pongs 
 between the regular and twilight worlds. 
  
  Twilight Princess is something you rarely see: a 60-hour adventure in which every moment is memorable. 
 But then, maybe that's no surprise -- it represents the full resources and effort of the world's 
 most powerful first-party developer, and thanks to all those delays, it's even enjoyed an extra 
 year of polish and refinement. The question to ask therefore isn't "Is it any good?" but rather 
 "Just how good is it?" 
  
  The answer? Truly fantastic. It's not a reinvention of the genre like Ocarina was -- but it's much 
 better, because it takes all its predecessors' raw ideas, perfects them, and creates an experience 
 that's at once new and familiar. It's rare to find a launch game that truly justifies the purchase 
 of a new console, but this is precisely that. If Wii Sports is a game for everyone, Twilight Princess 
 is for everyone who loves games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianfox1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The main part I like about this game is the fact that it's challenging. It's not game where you 
 just walk into a room and you automatically know what to do. This game requires you to do a little 
 thinking. Besides that this has a truckload of mini-games, sidequests, and puzzles that you can 
 do. There also a place called the Cave of Ordeals where you have to go through 50 levels of defeating 
 enemies. 
  But there is one problem I have with this game your sidekick, Midna, is so annoying whenever you 
 try to explore a new area before you beat the dungeon she annoys you until you go back and do the 
 dungeon. Like just when I was about explore an area before I went to the dungeon she just has to 
 annoy you. But the worst problem is worse than Midna there are two places in the game where if 
 you save the game afterwards you will start at a place where you won't be able to beat the game. 
 Like if you save right a bridge is destroyed you'll start out on the other side of the bridge while 
 it's still destroyed. 
  Overall you should just go out and buy this game at the nearest store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlugi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The sun rises over the great land of Hyrule, yet the darkness still covers great portions of the 
 hallowed grounds...
  
  The fact that Gamespot did not give this game a 9 or above upsets me. Twilight Princess is yet 
 again a unique addition to the Zelda series.
  A new feature that is seen to the fans, Link is an adult... at the start! This farm boy version 
 of Link comes with a set of new items too, but I won't spoil the surprises.
  I could tell you that this game is so good because of the amazing improvement in graphics. Yes, 
 this is true. Graphics like this have never been seen in a Zelda game... but honestly... who cares? 
 That is not what makes this game so outstanding.
  
  ... after his village is attacked and his love is stolen Link begins his journey and must enter 
 the darkness surrounding Hyrule. But Link is not the same, his dark side is brought about in the 
 form of a wolf. So Link must clear the darkness and take down the newest villain in the Zelda Universe 
 Zant! And just when you think they game is over... well let's just say it won't be...
  
  Twilight Princess shows a darkness that Zelda hasn't seen since Majora's Mask. With a gripping 
 story, enhanced graphics, exciting sidequests and minigames and not to mention the new enhanced 
 Wii controls (I didn't think fishing could be as fun as it was in Ocarina of Time!) .
  
  As of now the best game on Wii and well worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkKid44
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who isnt a Zelda fan can't call themselves a Nintendo fan. The games have always been the 
 best games on the systems and always show the full potential of that system. You can search and 
 search for a game thats as fun, visuably remarkable and in-depth as Zelda: Twilight Princess, but 
 you'll never get one.
  
  On the launch day of the Wii (oh, how I remember it...) people were in line at 3 in the morning 
 to get a hand on the revolutionary system and this marvellous wonder of a game. So now if you don't 
 have it, you have to realise your missing out on so much you wouldn't even know it.
  
  Twilight princess takes you to Hyrule a beautiful wonderous kingdom. You are a rancher named Link 
 who's life get's a little out-of-hand when his friends are kidnapped and he sets off to save them. 
 Later in the game you will recive a new goal: to defeat the Ursurper King Zant and save the Twilight 
 Princess (I won't tell you more- I dont ruin things) .
  
  Through your adventure you'll travel throught Hyrule going to new towns, visiting new places, metting 
 new people, unfolding the story, battling enemies, entering dungeons, defeating bosses and so much 
 more!
  
  You'll discover amny usefull items (that make fun use of the Wii Remote) like the new BALL AND 
 CHAIN, BOW AND ARROWS, BOOMERANG and many more.
  
  You'll crawl dungeons and discover their secrets, solve puzzles, fight enemies (with items and 
 your Wii Remote swinging sword) and battle bosses. Also in each dungeon you will discover a new 
 item to help on your quest.
  
  Also in the game you can turn into a wolf (by talking with your mysterious impish friend, Midna) ! 
 This is something completely new to the series which can at times get a little (just a LITTLE) 
 boring. But nothing to worry about.
  
  But the best part of TP is how it brings out the best in Wii. Beautiful graphics and very nice 
 animations that are some of (if not the best) seen on Wii.
  
  Zelda: Twilight Princess has it all. An epic story, gorgeous graphics, great gameplay, interesting 
 characters and just about everything a perfect adventure game needs. And who better to deliver 
 it than Zelda!
  
  When it came out at launch of the Wii 2 years ago, it was the one of the best games to live. During 
 these 2 years did it stay up to the hype? I am honoured and proud to say: absolutely.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been one of the most popular series of games for over 20 years, and Twilight 
 Princess the second newest LOZ game is no different. An epic game, no, not just a game but an adventure. 
 An epic adventure that, well is incredibly hard! Every time I would pick up my Wiimote, my day 
 would be filled with frustration, but I couldn't let the game beat me. The temples were treturous, 
 and i was releived when I would get to the boss. For it was the only easy part of the game. Zant 
 and Ganondorf were both fun bosses to fight, but it was somewhat dissapointing, because they were 
 easy. The point of bosses are to be hard and you have to dry your hands of sweat afterwards. SPOILER 
 ALERT 
  After you beat Ganon, was pretty cool. Midna gets turned back into her formal self, and Hyrule 
 is once again safe. Should this game have a sequal? No, not at all. The way the game ends, when 
 Midna deysroys the mirror to Twilight. A sequal really wouldn't fit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobcheeseball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning music, 40+ hours, Great control and gameplay, amazing level design.
  
  The Bad: Fishing is annoying, easy boss fights, blurred textures 
  
  
  It seemed like I waited 
 FOREVER for this game, from the announcement to the delays, and what once was designed to be a 
 Gamecube only title, also came out with the Wii at launch. Now many hard core Zelda fans will be 
 asking how well does this game hold up and is it a worthy sequel? The answer is definitely YES.
 
  
  
  As many of you probably know, Link has his look from the N64 days with Zelda: Ocarina of Time, 
 which is not only still considered to be the best Zelda game, also to be the best game ever. many 
 fans considered Twilight Princess to be the true sequel to this game.
  
  
  Now with the introduction out of the way lets get to the review. It's everything you would come 
 to expect from a Zelda game : Beautiful music, challenging puzzles, and a mute elf. Once again 
 Nintendo shows off amazing level design and side quests. With 9 large temples and more heart pieces 
 than ever before.
  
  
  The control is brilliant, the game utilizes the Wiimote with amazing precision, and very easy to 
 pull of moves. Hyrule is absolutely enormous and the beautiful graphics really show the Wii's potential. The 
 storyline is gripping, and without giving any spoilers I'm going to give you a small hint: Let's 
 just say the game is cleverly named ;)
  
  
  But there are some flaws with this game, for one thing the blurred edges were ugly, cutscenes with 
 kids are cheesy, and the fishing parts were just plain ANNOYING. The boss battles were fun but WAY 
 to easy which kind of ruined the experience.
  
  
  Overall the game takes advantage of the Wii controls and dazzles you with probably the best action-adventure 
 game for the Wii so far. Despite it's small flaws a must get title for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hochowmo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  O. K., what I like about this game is that it is actually really long, which is a plus for me and 
 it has a bunch of stuff you can do, from solving puzzles, to killing bad guys. There are a lot of 
 items you can use to really damage the enemy and get you farther into the game and some are just 
 simply b. a. The dungeons can be a little difficult, especially when you start getting farther into 
 the game. For example, the last dungeon took me like 4 hours to complete, but the first dungeon 
 only took half an hour, but if your into this kind of thing like me, its a blast.
  
  The only real problem i have with this game is that its just a little hard to use the wii mote 
 and nun chuck and it gets a little annoying. Also, the story line is slow at first, but it picks 
 up after you have gone through most of the beginning lessons and tutorials
  
  Overall, its a great game that you should pick up for the wii, I give it a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMD91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is the first zelda game i have ever played.
  My first impression on it was like an ordinary game but as i played through it i actually like 
 it and changed my opinion. This game is a VERY AMAZING GAME!!!
  What i liked in this game is its graphics, it has great graphics of the environment but in the other 
 hand its graphics when drawing people wasnt that good and i expected better than that.
  People may actually hate long games because they get bored at the end, but in my opinion long games 
 are the best (especially this game) .
  Well you start in a small village, and you live in a tree house as you go through the game will 
 train on how to use the slingshot and sword, but not a real one because its wooden.
  As you continue you will know the your the chosen hero to save this world and you will be pulled 
 into another world which will turn into a wolf. As you go to the other world will have a companion 
 from twilight called midna which will help you get through some parts.
  As yo go through the game you will take weapons and could use them, an example is the clawshot (i 
 think this weapon is the mostly used in the game) after the sword of course.
  Why is this game long?
  This game long because of its story, the first thing you do is to save 
 the guardians of the sea. As you save them you will go through dungeons that always have mini bosses 
 and bosses which have two forms, (so that takes along time) as you win the bosses you wil get something 
 called the fused shadows. If you collect all of them Zant (the evil one) will actually take them 
 and run away into the twilight world. So you need to follow him but to follow him you need to collect 
 the mirror shard which they are in 4 places.
  After collecting the shard s you will go through the twilight world and fight Zant.
  The thing 
 i actually loved in this game is the final boss, this boss actually has 4 forms.
  One when he is controlling zelda.
  Two when he changes into a wild pig.
  Three when he rides 
 a horse and you fight at horse riding.
  And last but not least four and it is when you fight him in his original form which may take time 
 to beat him.
  Even if you actually defeated the final boss you still have things to do. Those are for players 
 that actually like collecting stuff that they didnt collect at the beginning.
  Examples are like heart containers, golden bugs and finishing off some mini-games.
  In conclusion 
 this game is worth the play and the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaluff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This was the first 3D game I've played since Majora's Mask, I was definitely not disappointed. 
 
  
  I've been hooked on this since I got it. I'm always really surprised to find how long I've been 
 playing the game when I save it and the time comes up. This is one hell of a long game, and I love 
 it. I didn't even buy it and I'd say I got my money's worth out of it.
  
  In the gameplay, the controls were easy enough to use. Bonus, they teach you how to use your sword 
 while still looking cool. The Z button for targeting and defending was almost subconcious after 
 a while. Z = my favourite.
  
  It was generally easy enough. There were definitely a few VERY frustrating parts, but nothing genuinely 
 hard. I think the hardest part of the game for me was actually learning the Back Slice skill- refer 
 to the frustrating part I mentioned. However, I think some parts may have been a little too easy. 
 The boss battles for one- I never had a game over during one, and they seemed a bit short sometimes.
 
  
  I would happily replay this anytime, and would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngelFuryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  After initially playing through the intro, I found myself hooked from the start I guess. After 
 all, I've been an avid fan of the Legend of Zelda series and was once again awed by the creators. 
 They truly did something new with the series. The controls were a little hard to get used to, seeing 
 as I had just recently purchased my Wii, but afterward it seemed fluid. The plot in and of itself 
 was new (as expected) , with some lovable characters making an appearance here and there. Midna 
 was mysterious and reminded me of Tingle in and irritating sort of way. Everything came together 
 in the end and left no questions about what you'd just done. The mini games were intriguing and 
 frustrating all at the same time, while the various secrets and extra items took a while to earn. 
 However, that only added to the value in my opinion, seeing I enjoy a little substance without 
 over the top time killing. All in all I liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red192837465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game and probably the best game Nintendo has ever made except for OOT. It has 
 a great story, good characters and lots of side quests that will have u playing for a long time 
 after you beat it.
  
  The graphics on this games are great and possibly the best Nintendo has ever done. The sound is 
 the one fault with this game because there is no voice acting. Nintendo should consider adding 
 voices but have to be careful not to wreck the characters in the next one. The music is great though.
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. U have loads of items to use and all of them are fun. Tis was the first 
 game Ireally got into on my Wii and still one of the only ones I can still have fun playing even 
 if I have beaten the final boss like six times. This will bring u back for lots more and is a must 
 buy if u have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rouge_Hunter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Zelda franchise ever since I was a kid. It was one of the first video games 
 I ever fell in love with; and I'm still in love.
  
  Twilight Princess manages to retain the classic feel of Zelda while bringing revolutionary new 
 gameplay to the table.
  
  It has everything a proper Zelda game should: awesome bad guys, impressive bosses, intense puzzles, 
 and a touching story line.
  
  I would say the only cons would be that it's pretty easy. I didn't die once the entire run, which 
 isn't always a bad thing. However, tougher badies wouldn't be too much to ask for, especially the 
 bosses which end up being pretty easy (Ganondorf) . Also, the story's ending left me somewhat disappointed, 
 but it did wrap up nicely. I think I was mainly upset that it was over more than anything.
  
  Overall, this is a must have game for Zelda fans and a great game for new fans to jump in on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This came i amazing beyond words i was immerserd into this game. this is a perfect game for the 
 wii mote and for the wii. Lemme begin by that this game is an amazing game wit pretty good graphics 
 for da wii. it is a great action and stratagy game that brings out the smartness in ur brain if 
 thats even a well written sentence. wll any way this game is a well made game that will keep u 
 playing for a while even after u beat it. this game has alot more feathers like using a bomb arrow 
 witch is cool. u also get i belive 7 cool skills that un need 2 find. just like nay other zelda 
 game there is plenty of fun side quest 2 do. Like fininding all of the golden bugs. this game is 
 amazing. u can also switch ur armour, sheild and sword any time in the game. the map is pretty 
 big in dis game. i give every thing a 20 outa 10 in this game its just brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  You start of as a farm-hand when you work for a goat farmer. In the village you have to find different 
 objects until you get your slingshot and wooden sword. You get training for both of these with 
 these little children. There is the innovative use of the Wii remote when you move it for sword 
 attacks. The ability to change to the wolf after a while of your own accord helps you in bosses, 
 fining things and killing Poes. The dungeons you enter are all about elements Earth, Fire, Water, 
 Wind etc. During boss battles (towards the end of the game) the bosses become harder with different 
 areas to attacks before finishing them off. There are special moves to learn along the way which 
 help you kill the bosses with slight more ease. There are lots of collectables heart pieces, Poe 
 souls and bugs, which make this game longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawlx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I remember when I was 6... I played ocarina of time in a friend house. I thought it was amazing 
 and I liked the combat and the bosses. Then when I was 7 I played majoras mask. 4 years after that 
 I saw wind waker and I was not so impressed. Lots of zelda games were released on the next years 
 and then... I hear about zelda twilight princess! At first I did not buy it but then I realized 
 that the game was mazing and I went to buy it. Now I now why people was suprised with ocarina of 
 time. Zelda twilight princess is like the new ocarina of time. Its amazing:
  Presentation 10: AMAZING!
  Graphics 8.9: It could be better but it looks amazing anyways.
  Gameplay 
 10: Classic gameplay that will be fun for everyone.
  Sound 10: Execellent music for each temple and bosses
  Lasting appeal 9: Good news: It is a very 
 long quest with tons of secrets and sidequest. Bad news: Once you beat it you will wait like 6 
 months to want to play it again. 
  Overall:10
  NOTE: This game maybe its too easy. Maybe so more difficulty could not hurt.
  Buy this game now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  mario and link have nothing in common but they have one thing in common a princess is always captured 
 and thats what twilight princess has. the story goes twilight has covered all over hyrule and you 
 have get rid of it in the form of a wolf which is an issue because one your stuck in it and 2 its 
 kind of boring. anyway you can still play as link as a human which is where the fun is because you 
 where kill moves like a stab which is kindof mature. speaking of mature the game is much more mature, kids 
 are captured, the kill move is you sab an enemy and so forth. the gameplay is ok except when your 
 the wolf you have like 3 moves and its boring. but when your playing as link its fun. its long really 
 like its not like 20 hours its like 40 hours and lots of side quests its like 50 hours. the graphics 
 are good but if you look at textures really close there blurry but its fine. the sound is cool with 
 great melodys and it sounds coll in the end. the legend of zelda twilight princess is not that 
 diffrent from the others but its still fun. so rent it see if you like if you do then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess brings us a great use of the wii remote, when you swing the remote, it 
 swings almost exactly the same time you did. Total awesomeness but that wasn't the part that appealed 
 me most. You got to ride on a dog or be as Link yourself. The most amazing part of the game was 
 that you could use lots of tools in the game like the chain to grab you onto the wall. Now thats 
 amazing! Who can possibly miss out on something like that?! This game deserves a high score because 
 there are many things you could do with Link. Arrows, swords, and other weapons that you desire. 
 One thing I have to say about that graphics.. Fabolous, from the predessor series it improved greatly! 
 If your wondering if this game is long, it is and the story has a great meaning to it. There are 
 plenty of boss fights and suspense filled in this game that you wouldn't imagine in an ordinary 
 Zelda game. The bad thing about this game was that when you swung the wii remote Link only swung 
 his sword in one direction, so I felt sad, from all those times I've been waiting for to find out 
 if there was any efficient motion sensing swings. Gameplay is pretty addictive but it may get repetitive 
 since Link doesn't have many combos to offer with his sword, but that is not critical at all. Anyways 
 if you are a Zelda fan and have been waiting for a dream game this is the one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  For over 2 decades the Legend of Zelda series has been impressing Nintendo fans and casual gamers 
 everywhere with the amazing story of the legendary wielder of the Triforce of Courage, Link, and 
 how he saves Hyrule countless times from many threats. Games like Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker, 
 and countless other Zelda games have made their debuts on game systems like the N64 and Gamecube. 
 Now that the Wii has been introduced to the world, the Legend of Zelda series once presents itself 
 to the Wii known as The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  Basically, in the game's opening, we are all introduced to Link, who is now a farmer's helper in 
 a small village in the southern area of the Hyrule Kingdom (of course, if you're a longtime Zelda 
 fan, you'll know that he'll become the savior of Hyrule again.) He is well known by everyone in 
 the village and is popular among the kids. The show officialy begins when the kids run after a 
 monkey that's been causing trouble, only to get captured by strange creatures lurking in the forest. 
 After fighting through them with a mere wooden sword (and a slingshot, since its an optional weapon) 
 he rescues the kids and saves the day. On the next day, he is tasked to deliver a present to Hyrule 
 Castle. But just as he is about to leave, all hell breaks loose as the kids, while they were washing 
 Link's horse, are attacked by goblin-like creatures and Link himself is knocked out. Meanwhile, 
 admist all the chaos, Hyrule Castle is under siege and Princess Zelda herself is forced to surrender 
 to the leader of the invasion in the hopes of protecting her own people from death....
  
  This is where you step in. It is your job, once again, become the legendary hero in the green tunic 
 to save Hyrule from an eternity in darkness.
  
  This game is different from the other Legend of Zelda games. first of all, there is now a new different 
 control scheme, which utilizes the Wiimote and Nunchuk. The controls will make you feel you are 
 part of the game- swing your Wiimote to slash an enemy with your sword, or hold Z on the Nunchuk 
 to defend yourself. To shoot faraway objects with a long-range weapon, the Nunchuk will be your 
 aiming reticule while the Wiimote is the trigger. Although the controls won't really make you feel 
 you're part of the game, they're still realistic enough to make you feel that you're in the shoes 
 of Link.
  
  The storyline is basically what I've explained in the Prologue above. Hyrule is in danger, Zelda 
 is in trouble, help her out and save the land, blah blah blah... but a whole new threat has spawned. 
 Oh, you'll also be seeing an old face that you've fought in your previous Legend of Zelda adventures 
 later in the story.
  
  The weapons are plain awesome. The legendary Master Sword and Hylian Shield return, along with 
 other familiar weapons like the Hero's Bow, Slingshot and Bombs. There are now new additions, like 
 critter bombs (which actually home in on the nearst enemy, now how awesome is that?) as well as 
 a new weapon combo system. Combine a Hero's Bow and Bombs and what do you get? Explosive arrows 
 of death of course! Or put a Hawkeye (very close to a Sniper Rifle's scope) on the Bow and become 
 the ultimate assassin because you'll drop them from a mile away before they realize you're even 
 there. Although the next ability won't really be a weapon, you'll be able to play as a wolf form 
 of Link- you get awesome abilities like a super strong sense that can even detect ghosts, a vicious 
 bite, the ability to dig, and even the ability to form a force field of death.
  
  The music is perfect. Longtime Zelda fans will recognize the old and classic themes. I will not 
 need to explain this section, as the music speaks for itself.
  
  After my harrowing long explaination, get this game! Zelda fans will definitely love it, while 
 newcomers and people looking for an awesome Adventure game will be playing this for a very long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panpet
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite game ever! Your horse's name is Epona. You control Link (as all the Zelda 
 games) but then you will transformed to a wolf. You will control and the wolf and there will be 
 a "alien" that will help you. In the game you will see golden wolfs. Those golden wolfs will learn 
 you new moves. To attack with your sword you have to swing the control and to do that "circle move 
 with the sword" swing the other control. To use your shield press (Z) . In start you will have a 
 wood for your sword and the you will have the sword. This game is one of the best games of Wii. 
 To gain life you have to find five Lives and then you will have a one extra heart. You will have 
 green clothes, a sword, a shield and much more! Well good luck with this game and thanks for reading!!!
 
  
  By Panpet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, for many years millions of Zelda fans and Nintendo fans alike have said that Ocarina of Time 
 was the legendary and unsurpassable Zelda title. Well, gamers alike can now guess again, because 
 here comes arguably the best Zelda game ever to be released in the Zelda series canon, period. 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess contains everything we loved about Ocarina of Time and more, 
 and is presented in arguably the purest and deepest Zelda experience to ever be witnessed.
  
  The story of Twilight Princess is a deeper and more darker affair, but still a classic Zelda 
 narrative nontheless. The game begins with Link, the hero of the Triforce, becoming a worker on 
 Ordon Villiage and helping the citizens out with the troubles they have on the villiage. Suddenly, 
 monsters are attacking Ordon Villiage. All of Link's friends, including his closest friend: Ilia 
 and the villiage children get kidnapped by the monster, and Twilight King Zant this time is doing 
 all he can to turn Hyrule Field into the Twilight Zone, so Link's universe will be a world filled 
 with shrouding darkness. It's up to Link to save his friends in the villiage, and save his home 
 from pure danger. The story in Twilight Princess is busier, deeper, and much more engaging than 
 any Zelda game before it. When Link ommits his more darker sides such as Wolf Link, the game immediately 
 focuses on Link on a much more deeper level than we have ever seen our hero before.
  
  The gameplay in Twilight Princess is truly a heavenly thing to witness. You use the Nunchuck to 
 move our hero of the Triforce: Link around, and use the Wii Remote to slash Link's sword, and do 
 other activities such as aiming to hit a target with Link's famed crossbow. These controls in Twilight 
 Princess are hugely balanced, and the motion sensing capabilties of Twilight Princess is not a 
 clunky affair at all, it is smooth and staggering.
  
  Twilight Princess has a limitless amount of fan service for anyone who adored Ocarina of Time. 
 The classic music cue of the series such as the opening theme, and the hugely nastolgic medleys 
 of Link's House are presnted, and are delievered with the same grace and same cinematic presentation 
 that the series has been truly rewnoned for. The enviornments are from classic Zelda titles such 
 as Ocarina of Time. The fan classics such as Hyrule Field, have been resurrected here in true grace, 
 and Twilight Princess is both a hugely warm homecoming to fans of the orginial classic titles.
 
  
  The storytelling here in Twilight Princess is well and truly flawless, and does a fantastic job 
 of providing us another cinematic and more deeper Zelda tale. The storytelling in Twilight Princess 
 is epic, big and bracing, and contains the energy of earlier Zelda games that fans will well and 
 truly adore.
  
  Overall, get ready to play the best experience on your Wii yet. Twilight Princess is a game that 
 everyone will treat as an instant classic, and a game that will glue any fan of the series for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMonkey57
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  At first, the game starts out as very easy and straightforward, but when you enter the twilight 
 zone, you'll encounter multiple mazes and new enemies so you have to be careful. I strongly recommend 
 getting the game guide because all of the mazes and secret entrances can get pretty tricky and 
 confusing. Another strong point of this game is there are many new characters, so hard core Zelda 
 fans don't have to worry about this game being a "been there, done that" type of experience. For 
 example, in this game, for the first time ever, Link can turn into a wolf in the twilight zone. 
 This is just one of the new characteristics of this game. Unfortunately, this is a one player game, 
 so you may neglect your friends to complete it, but this is definitely a good game to ave lying 
 around on a rainy day or when you have no plans. I give this game a 10 out of 10 and recommend 
 every gamecube/wii owner to go out immediately and get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda: twilight princess is an incredible game, its fun as heck from start to finish, 
 the land of hyrule is gigantic, and there's never a dull moment. I really liked midna, i think 
 she was one of the best characters in the history of zelda. The game does take some things from 
 past zelda games, but it still feels like a great new experience that will have you addicted for 
 weeks until you make it to the final boss and beat the game. While the game is a little bit too 
 easy (the puzzles are still pretty hard) and there could have been a few new items and levels instead 
 of bringing back old ones, twilight princess is an amazing game that you NEED to have if you own 
 a wii. Personally i think the wii version is better because the new controls make it more fun. 
 If you dont have this game and like nintendo/zelda games, buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodsPetFido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been a series not forgotten and has survived several years as one of Nintendo's 
 top franchises. Twilight Princess is added to the collection of Zelda games made in past years, 
 but takes upon a new twist with the Wii. What's that you say, another Zelda game!? 
  
  Story
  The plot in this game is obvious if you've played previous Zelda games. A young man from 
 a small village sets out on an adventure, traveling to dungeon after dungeon picking up important 
 pieces special to the overall story. It is also safe to mention that there are two different worlds 
 existing in this game, a Light and Dark world. You will be alternating through both worlds as you 
 progress through the game. Although it is the same formula of dungeon crawling, our hero Link is 
 aiding a banished Twili creature named Minda.
  
  To elaborate, Twilight Princess takes on a new method of traveling with Minda doing her dirty work. 
 Other than that particular twist, this is the same Zelda game you've been playing since the dawn 
 of time. It's predictable in a sense, but there are surprising scenes that stick out and we'll 
 leave you satisfied with what's on the table.
  
  Gameplay
  The Zelda port to the Wii takes on a completely set of different controls compared to the original 
 Gamecube game. The Wiimote and the Nunchuck are both used, the swinging the Wiimote allows Link 
 to use his sword freely while the Nunchuck controls our hero's movement across the world. As said 
 before you will be traveling dungeons seeking important items valuable to the storyline, as well 
 as weapons and handy tools. Bosses in the dungeons are well put together, but are too too easy. 
 In between the dungeons you will have free time to complete side missions and explore unknown areas.
 
  
  First I will say that the Wii controls aren't perfect. You will be able to flick the Wiimote rather 
 than have that realistic sword swinging and slashing. Although this feature is disappointing there 
 is a brightside, that being the fact that the setup of the controls is quick and painless. Moving 
 to your inventory and selecting items is a breeze. It's safe to say that the dungeons are fantastic 
 and indepth, however a few are either boring or confusing to the point of losing juice in your 
 fun meter. That being said it would have been nice to see something new to the series. You will 
 be able to predict when and where the next dungeon will lie.
  
  Graphics/Art
  The Twilight Princess has taken a liking of a new art style this round, it's definitely a 180 from 
 the last Zelda title using cell shading. This game is obviously more dark and vibrant in this respect. 
 The environments have a unique atmosphere and they add to the overall experience of the Zelda world. 
 It is enjoyable to stare at your surroundings over a cup of tea.
  
  Closing Statement
  The Wii version of a Gamecube port stands on level ground with minor bumps and bruises. The game 
 is easy and it will take you at least 20-30 hours on your first playthrough, that doesn't include 
 finishing off those wonderful side missions. In short Twilight Princess for the Wii is worth your 
 hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowsOwn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Zelda fans rejoice Nintendo has made another great adventure for the franchise.
  
  For those of you who haven't played a Zelda game here is what you need to know. Twilight Princess 
 is a game where you run around the world of Hyrule entering dungeons, slaying monsters, solving 
 puzzles, while trying to rescue the Princess and save the world. Thats the basic makeup of the 
 game.
  
  The game's difficulty is hard enough to keep you engaged and enjoy beating the crap out of the 
 various monsters. Bosses are quite impressive, but once you figure out the pattern to their weaknesses 
 they are easy to beat. 
  
  Controls for the game are great, in no time you'll have gotten them down pat. Swinging the Wii 
 Remote causes Link to start hacking with his sword, while shaking the nunchuck makes him do a spin 
 attack. Using the bow is by far the best. A cursor comes up that you point with the remote and 
 then proceed to let arrows fly.
  
  The game's length is enough that it will keep you occupied for about a month unless you happen 
 to be a hardcore fan in which case you will complete it in a matter of days.
  
  The fun factor of this game is amazing, from trying out new sword techniques to exploring the impressive 
 landscape. One of the great features is fighting enemies from horseback!
  
  The sound and the graphics in the game flow nicely. The music is the typical epics of the Zelda 
 franchise and often you'll enjoy just hearing the sound. The graphics are not the best the Wii 
 can offer, but are good enough to just make the game look slick.
  
  I think this game is a must for any Wii owner and Nintendo fan. It will keep you entertained for 
 hours on end, and make you want to play over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddy101
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Zelda. zelda, zelda, zelda. Twilight Princess was an awaited game and so it should be! It did not 
 ruin it's reputation But In my opinion. Ocarina of Time is the better choice.
  
  The good: The game kept to it's story well and the master sword was used once again! great graphics 
 and for once a release that was on time! Temple's were do-able but at some points a real fustrator. 
 Easy controls and Very fun. The story was simple and the fact that Gannondorf had some power was 
 once again a real good add to the story. Allthough the triforce was not really used. it was more 
 a fairy and a mirror. House-hhole items really...
  
  The bad: The master sword was placed in a garden with no real story. In ocarina of time the master 
 sword had a background and was in a lovely..... temple! otherwise not much bad with it. A very good 
 starting release for Wii and Link was still at his best! My personal rating: 9.2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hylian_Sage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, I had very mixed feelings 
 about it. Being a huge fan of the series, I had high expectations, and my first few hours playing 
 the game were certainly enjoyable. As I progressed further into the game, however, I couldn't help 
 but feel that I had played this game before.
  
  The same basic Zelda formula applies here, and it works just as well as it always has. You enter 
 a new dungeon. You get the Compass, Dungeon Map, and a new item, and go kill the boss. The dungeons 
 themselves are certainly cool enough, even if they're not always quite as challenging as they maybe 
 should be, and the puzzles are well-designed for the most part. The bosses at the end of each dungeon 
 were somewhat disappointing, however. They're intimidating when they first appear, but much like 
 the rest of the enemies in the game, they're all pretty easy to take out once you know their weak 
 point. It's a good thing they're fun to fight. 
  
  The one key gameplay difference is Link's ability to transform into a wolf. This first happens 
 very early on in the game (before the first dungeon) , and you're given plenty of time to get used 
 to playing in wolf form as you hunt down several insects of darkness in order to dispel the Twilight 
 that has taken over that area. While playing as a wolf in and of itself is fun, these sequences 
 get a bit repetitive after a while, and sometimes you might find yourself wanting to just play 
 Zelda the old-fashioned way  as a human being. Once you get to the point in the game where you 
 can switch between your two forms at will, however, you'll realize just how cool it is.
  
  As for the controls, you could say that the Wii controls are tacked-on and somewhat imprecise, 
 but ninety-eight percent of the time they work just like they're supposed to. Shaking the Wii remote 
 to swing your sword is fun, and Spin Attacks are made much easier by simply shaking the Nunchuk. 
 Fishing and using the bow are especially fun with the remote.
  
  Since this is a port of a Gamecube game (a very good-looking Gamecube game, mind you) , the graphics 
 obviously aren't as good as most other quality Wii titles, but the world of Twilight Princess is 
 great from an artistic standpoint. The fields of Hyrule are nice and scenic, and the whole world 
 just feels really authentic. The music is amazing, too - especially the fully orchestrated pieces. 
 
  
  So, all in all, it's a great game. Fans of the series will love it, and more casual gamers will 
 probably have some fun with it as well. But my main complaint is this: It doesn't do anything new. 
 Sure, there are some minor tweaks and upgrades, motion-sensitive controls, and yes, you can turn 
 into a wolf. But hasn't the whole transformation thing been done already with Majora's Mask? If 
 Nintendo wants to keep making these games, they need to be coming up with new ideas to keep the 
 series fun and interesting. And that's all I have to say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REgrl4life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  Ah Link. So many times you came to us with great games. Now, this has got to be your best. Link's 
 first Wii instalment brings you back to Hyrule while the evil Gannon hs captured Princess Zelda 
 and the Hyrule castle. As the legend fortells, a knight in a green suite will save the kingom, 
 and the entire land. You play as a yougne farm-boy named Link, whos quest starts by delivering 
 a sword to the royal family, to saving the land from Twilight. This is by far the best Zelda game 
 ever created. The art style is original, and its graphics are amazing for a Wii title. The controls 
 are innotive with slashing the wii remote as your sword, and holding the nunchuck up as your shield. 
 You still have Epona as your trusty horse, but they added one new character into the bunch. Her 
 name is Midna, and her past is as colorful as the spirits of Hyrule. I won't spoile anything, but 
 Midna is the main damsil in destress in the game. She is your shadow, and your rider in wolf form. 
 You push the down button on the control pad to ask for advice. Later in the game, you can transport 
 using Midna. You fight the twilight beings in the twilight and in the light. And the other enemy's 
 include bosses and butt slaping monkeys. Their are many items to buy and hearts to collect. The 
 game ends a little short, and thats 1 of its 2 flaws. One is the short ending, wqhich sort of ends 
 in a cliff hanger. The sercond flaw is sometimes, and controls can be laggy, causing you to lose 
 a couple lives because of it.
  
  Over all, this is one game that will not be forgotten. Thanks agan Link, for showing us that The 
 Legend of Zelda will live on forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zqr123
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Alright here's the scoop. The Legend of Zelda is a very good game especially for any fan of Legend 
 of Zelda. There are still the monsters roaming around the wilderness, the mind bendingly hard puzzles, 
 and great boss battles to boot. There is not a whole lot of new content here except for the fact 
 of swinging the nunchuck and wii remote to swing your sword and of course the new addition of being 
 able to turn into Link's more feral side. New players to the series will be amazed by all the content 
 as well as side quests and unlockable items. But with all these pros there are some cons. One for 
 example, is that in the first stages in the game, you are often restricted to being in wolf form 
 for extended periods of time, but this is made up for by the fact that later on in the game you 
 have the ability to turn into wolf form at any desired time. Over all I would definitley reccomend 
 this to any gamer who is up to a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gitarmaster97
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  to short! i totaly love it with its twists and turns in the story line but... 
  well that's just it. i totaly fell in love with it in like 30 min but...
  i don't know its just 
 not complete somehow
  
  
  
  
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lots of fun thanks for reading lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LMH68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I haven't played this game a great deal myself, but my daughter has completed it 
 and gone back to it again and again. She loves it, and I love watching her play.
  
  The artwork is amazing, it looks so beautiful - a wonderful contrast to the delightful cell-shaded 
 Windwaker.
  
  Maybe it's her age now, but she found the tasks relatively straightforward, but was still interested 
 enough to complete it in a couple of weeks.
  
  For me, the story was definitely second place to the visuals, but I know that's not what everyone 
 wants in a game.
  
  On the plus side, using the nunchuck was a great addition to the game play!
  
  The whole mythology 
 of the game moved forward in this addition, and I particularly liked Midna's world.
  
  I have been told that Zelda games are very popular with girls, I'm not sure if this is based on 
 actual studies, or hearsay, but in my experience of watching my daughter and her friends play, 
 this game is certainly one of their favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkkristian
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Once again without any rewards (as one of my friend says) , Link must save Zelda (again) , but this 
 time he brings out the animal in him.
  Zelda Twilight Princess introduces a new story into the Zelda Series, with better graphics. With 
 2 bad guys, instead of just Ganondorf. It introduces a "new" Link. When engulfed in Twilight, Link 
 Changes Form into a Wolf! Have all the qualities of a wolf you must proceed to save Hyrule of Twilight.
 
  With brand new items and new equipment, Link must face even more/harder challenges than he did 
 in him past adventures (Ocarina of Time, Oracle of Ages/Seasons, etc.) , with new bosses, new characters, 
 and another annoying person that follows you =) .
  Zelda Twilight Princess was originally made for Gamecube, but everyone knows it's better for Wii. 
 Maybe the Wild Side isn't so bad... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I personnally prefer this game much more to Ocarina of Time as, for some reason, I didn't like 
 that game much and I know most of you will disagree with me, but onto Twilight Princess.
  
  Now now, this game is as equally as good as super mario galaxy! which i loved. This game has excellent 
 gameplay, nice graphics and some of the best Zelda equipment used to the max of their uses!
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  graphics: In an artisic view, These graphics are some of the 
 best on the wii! 9/10
  
  gameplay: This is where all the goodness comes in, I love playing as wolf link, but that's just 
 the start. With some epic battles, innovotive wii controls 9 fun filled dungeeons, many useful 
 items and much more, this is some of the best gameplay i have ever played! 10/10
  
  music: This game has some great songs, like well, all of them! 9/10
  
  sound: Same as music, 
 great sound, everywhere in the game. 9/10
  
  overall: This game is good all around, and is highly reccommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapieguyofdoom
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Just about every aspect of this game looks and feels amazing. Whether you're riding across vast 
 sun-bathed fields or fighting your way through the dankest depths below, it feels as though no 
 detail is spared. The environments aren't the only thing that got a major graphic overhaul. All 
 the characters, even the man in green himself, look better than ever. It almost makes you feel 
 bad for taking down the masses of enemies that seem to be lurking around every corner. 
  
  As good as they may look, I doubt you'll stand idle while getting beat down by a massive fire golem 
 or charged at by a mounted boar. Lucky for you, finding something to fight with isn't much of a 
 problem. Link has his trademark sword and shield, but he also obtains a variety of tools both new 
 and old to the series. Some, such as the Hero's Bow, are used many times throughout your journey, 
 each more uniquely than the last. Others, such as the Dominion Rod, are used only a few times and 
 in the exact same manor. These few underused items have much promise, but ultimately end up wasted. 
 
  
  What good would tools be without smooth controls to back them up? Lucky for us, the Wii's motion 
 controls don't disappoint. In fact, it works almost flawlessly. To shoot an arrow, simply point 
 at your target, and click away! To swing your trusty sword, swing the Wii remote in the same fashion! 
 These are only a couple of the many ways that Twilight Princess is simplified with the use of motion 
 control, and as you go through the game, you'll begin to appreciate all the help you can get. 
 
  
  Between dungeon explorations, puzzle solving, and side quests abound, you're never left without 
 something to do. As always, the game is filled with its fair share of side quests to do, some which 
 leave you with new items, some grant you bigger wallets, and others that are just plain fun. But 
 if you just want to go straight on with the main quest, by all means, do so. You start out as a 
 boy from a small village who is asked to deliver a sword to Hyrule Castle. Unfortunately, almost 
 as soon as you set out, you end up in a strange realm where you have somehow become a wolf. It's 
 here that you and a mysterious imp named Minda are thrown in the middle of an epic adventure that 
 tasks you with saving not only Hyrule, but this new realm as well. 
  
  I highly recommend The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess to anyone who has ever played a Legend 
 of Zelda game or just likes the Action/Adventure genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game, bought the wii just to play it haha.... havent touch that thing since. 
 It is def the best game on wii that I have played so far other than wii sports haha
  
  Was a great game , good graphics, great story and love the wii controls on it.
  
  Some annoying 
 parts like fishing.... took me like a day to catch a stupid fish.... and no reason to do it. 
 
  
  Only big problem with it is the wolf mode which seemed intersting and fun at 1st but kind of wasnt 
 fun as they force you to do it for too long and it gets annoying. 
  
  Tho I loved the story it wasnt as good as Ocarina of Time. 
  
  I liked the Older link but also 
 didnt really have a problem with young link from game cube game. Links new friend is alot more 
 intersting than the annoying fairy that bothered you during Ocarina..... tho I really wish that 
 Link would just talk haha
  
  The final battle was sick and after I beat it ... i felt like it was 350 bucks well spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironskull13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have have ever played a Zelda game this will be very farmilliar too you. This game strolls 
 away from the greatness that was Wind Waker and went straight back too Ocariana of time kind of 
 gameplay. Now dont get me wrong OoT was the best game ever but using it again dosent really put 
 a twist on the world much. But other than the world itself the game is flawless. The gameplay with 
 the sword swinging is fun along side the motion controled aiming puts a twist on things gameplay 
 wise. The story is more compelling than ever its not just Zelda getting stolen or any thing its 
 a whole other world inside of one world which is weird but whatever. But the game is just Phenominal 
 it goes away from the regular story but keeps the gameplay zelda fans like me have come too know 
 and love. While it is a bit boring at first haveing too read all the text it gets right into the 
 action around the first level. once you get into it you will love it. 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Twilight princess is the much awaited Zelda game, the buzz started 3 or 4 years before it was ready. 
 does it live up to the hype? Yes and no, the gameplay on the wii is interesting, but the novelty 
 of waving the remote to slash or jab your sword quickly wears off. The game has fun new items, 
 bomb arrows, the underwater bombs, double hookshots and gale boomerang make for some fun platforming 
 and puzzle elements. The story is slightly less generic than the usual, with midna adding a colorful 
 personality to the game. Good news, she isn't as annoying as Navi no HEY, LISTEN. Bad news. She 
 still is pretty annoying. I spent about 50 hours tracking down all but 2 heart pieces and earning 
 that armor thing (which sucks) . and i still was missing a bunch of the golden bugs, the game has 
 alot to do, but... do you really want to do it all? i guess its up to you. either way, you will 
 get your moneys worth for this game. the motion controls shouldn't be your primary reason anyway, 
 the game was an idea for gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucemak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the story outweighs the game play. Although gameplay is important, awesome controls 
 get boring after a few hours of gameplay. But an awesome story with twists and just full of awesomness 
 will keep the player playing until the final resolution unfolds. That is Twilight Princess. 
  
  The addition of the wii controls felt quick and pretty simple, but as far as the gameplay goes, 
 the wii-motes gave the game a more realistic feel. 
  
  The graphics weren't as good as they could've been, especially for the wii (because it's just a 
 GC game) . The color and scenery changes from Hyrule to Twilight Hyrule was awesome. 
  
  The story behind the game made the game for me. This game is definitely up there with Ocarina of 
 Time. Tied for first in the series in my opinion. You won't be disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is an incredible game, and deserves to be in your collection. This game is the 
 largest Zelda game ever made, has the best visuals ever seen in a Zelda game, has many (appropriately 
 challenging) dungeons, and has enough side quests to keep you satisfied for a long long time.
 
  
  Twilight is easily the largest Zelda game that Nintendo has ever made; my first play-through took 
 me 55 hours while my second play-through took me 35 hours. Also, the physical size of the world 
 in the game is enormous compared to previous installments in the series, with the overworld being 
 about 6 times as large as the one in Ocarina of Time. This is one huge, epic adventure, just waiting 
 for you to jump into and enjoy.
  
  Zelda features beautiful visuals from an artistic standpoint; the environments are littered with 
 pretty waterfalls, drifting dust, weather effects, and grass that moves in the wind. On the technical 
 side, it runs smoothly, has reasonably high polygon counts, and features both light blooming and 
 bump mapping. In short, the graphics are phenomenal for the GameCube's hardware, and good for the 
 Wii's hardware.
  
  Dungeons throughout this game have been improved so that they are noticeably more difficult than 
 the ones in its predecessor, Wind Waker, but not to the point that they're frustrating. There are 
 plenty of side quests and heart pieces to collect, and you are given a lot of freedom to go explore 
 and savour the game between dungeons.
  
  The Wii-specific controls do not significantly affect the game one way or the other. As someone 
 who has played through it on both the GameCube and Wii, I can say that the controls are well balanced 
 and work well on both configurations. With the Wii controls, some of the secret sword moves are 
 a little harder to trigger than they are with the GameCube controller, but on the other hand, it's 
 much easier to aim arrows with the Wii remote than the GameCube controller's thumbstick, so it 
 all kind of balances out.
  
  It's hard to say enough good things about Twilight Princess. Having played all the major Zelda 
 titles, I can honestly say that this game is tied with Ocarina of Time as the greatest Zelda ever. 
 If you own a Wii, go out and play it immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I as a person who has played the GC version of TP was very impressed when I first played it on 
 the Wii. Sure the plot story and everything were the same, but there just was something that made 
 me fall in love with this game once again. I was disappointed with the GC version of TP but after 
 trying the Wii version and BUYING it for the Wii really changed my view of the game.
  
  Story:
  The game has the same story as the GC version and I already did a review of the GC version 
 so you can always check it out. In short, Hyrule has fallen under a dark twilight by some evil 
 dude and it's up to a farmer boy to save the kingdom from being perished into twilight. No plot 
 changes or extra dungeons or nothing. IT IS THE SAME GAME AS THE GC version in terms of story, 
 so any hardcore zelda fan would be pretty disappointed with the story.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: Zelda fun to it's core, Wii controls are a great touch, Slick and fast responsive aiming, 
 more..
  
  Cons: Enemy AI is weak, You pull of random moves with your sword at times.
  
  Score: 10/10
  
  Even though it is a port of the original GC version of the game, Nintendo released 
 the Wii version earlier for a stronger launch line-up. The controls are the main deal at how much 
 juice the game really has. The only demanding gesture in the game is the aiming.. and thats not 
 even demanding. Enemy AI is much weaker than in the GC version but that's merely b'cuz of the control 
 scheme and makes it easier for casual people. The game offers different difficulty settings but 
 they all come down to the same thing. The game is still classic Zelda puzzling solving, adventuring 
 and sword dueling fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Nice wide screen touch, Nice lighting, Great artistic design.
  
  Cons: No visual upgrades 
 from the GC version whatsoever.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  Graphics are what people compare these days and that's where people start bashing the Wii. Plus 
 they are right. The Wii is capable of a lot and backing up the release date of the GC version just 
 for the Wii version was not probably a good idea for many fans. Even so they did, no graphical 
 upgrades can be noticed on the Wii version from the GC. There is a nice wide screen touch which 
 makes most visuals a little more crispy but the game still didn't hold up the end of the bargain 
 if you really wanted a 360 standard looking game.
  
  Sound: 
  
  Pros: Great melodies from the past Zelda's, Sweet little touches in the musical score, No voice 
 actors.
  
  Cons: No orchestral score, The Wii mote sounds are cheap.
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Zelda games have probably by far the one of the best musical scores in the gaming history. 
 Almost everyone knows the The Legend of Zelda theme bcuz it is simply magnificent. It is although 
 very very sad that being a Wii game with a higher memory base, the game has no orchestral score. 
 It still seems like it's time that Nintendo stepped up a bit. The Wii mote sounds are a nice little 
 touch but sometimes you wish there was a way you can simply make it come through your tv instead. 
 It sounds cheap, cheesy and not precise at all. No voice actors is still a smart idea in the Zelda 
 series.. nuff said. The musical score is still fabulous and leaves you humming later in the day 
 with it's great tunes. You just simply end up wishing the game had an orchestral score.
  
  Value:
  Every Zelda title is epic and when I played TP on the GC i felt disappointed bcuz I thought 
 the series lost it's shine. But that was merely bcuz I played it on the wrong system. A must buy 
 for any Wii owner!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzovel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I find the gameplay relatively easy by the motion of the sword and shield. Link's maturity has 
 made the story fit for his age although the enemies have to be a bit "matured" to challenge his 
 generation. I also liked Zelda, who is much of a strong, young woman and I wish for more of her 
 heroic roles in the future Zelda games (as well as her form as Sheik) . Link transformed into a "super-cool 
 guy who is wearing a green robe journeying aroung Hyrule to fix its mess" because of his sword 
 moves and a flair of simplicity and justice. Everything is very good but the only thing Nintendo 
 has to improve is the graphics for the future Zelda games. A better game will always be a better 
 game when there is improved graphics that live up to a current-generation console's image. The 
 graphics looks good but it needs some refinement and tune-up so that every Zelda adventure looks 
 realistic even if the Wii has limited graphics capabilites compared to its competitors. Twilight 
 Princess is a fantastic work of art and it definitely kicks the hell out of other popular franchises 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amonfort
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is truly one of the (if not the) best Zelda games in the series from a game play, story, and 
 design perspective. The story and characters you encounter are what you've grown to expect if you've 
 been following the series for the past couple of years. Link (or whatever you choose to name him) 
 has his mature look back which fits well in this game. 
  
  Of course it wouldn't be a Zelda game if you didn't have a world and princess to save and this 
 one is follows suit. The story keeps you engaged and wanting more. The transformation into wolf/beast 
 form is a welcome change of pace throughout. Boss battles are an amazing experience that typically 
 make perfect and creative use of the skills you've acquired to get to them. The art design is superb 
 and the characters and environments are so well done that you really don't miss the higher definition 
 graphics awarded to you by the current 'next-gen' systems (however you'll get much more out of 
 this game visually if you use component-cables) .
  
  The only thing preventing this game from a near perfect score are the controls. At first the use 
 of the Wii-Mote is novel and fun but after a few hours of hacking and slashing with your sword 
 you may find yourself begging to use a simple button press to perform the same action. As someone 
 fairly new to the Wii experience it also took some time to become proficient in my aiming for the 
 items/abilities that required it. That said I did feel in several cases that the use of the Wii-Mote 
 was preferred over a normal controller.
  
  All in all this is definitely a 'must have' not only for Zelda fans but for those seeking an entertaining 
 adventure that you just can't put away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  In the game you are a teenager named Link and he works on a ranch. Then his friends get stolen 
 and Link turns into a wolf and he caught and geos into the Hyrule castle and meets his partner 
 named Midna. Those work together and gets to a tower in the Hyrule castle and meets up with Zelda 
 and Zelda tells them what happened to the castle and the Hyrule Field. So Link in his Wolf form 
 he geos into his village and gets a wooden sheild and a sword. Then his adventure begins and he 
 versus against all the dark creatures. Once again you can go anywhere in the game but when you 
 get farther in the game more stuff opens up. There is alot of places to go to like the village, 
 Kokoro village, Death Mountain, a desert and the Hyrule Kingdom and the Hyrule Field. You can catch 
 bugs and you also have a mail person that gives you mail into the story. The last battle is against 
 Ganondorf and after you beat him the land is back to normal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous graphics by Gamecube standards, and they hold up well today; a spectacular control 
 scheme, as a human or a wolf; awesome new orchestrated work; if you do everything there is to do 
 in Hyrule you'll be playing sixty hours minimum; the world itself is massive; the (nine!) dungeons 
 are incredibly fun; unique characters; cool new weapons; an extremely dark storyline that mixes 
 up the Zelda formula.
  
  The Bad: The fields are massive and yet there aren't many people to talk to; Rupee execution is 
 annoying; there's still quite a bit of MIDI and Wii remote sound effects are so-so; there's not 
 much reason to collect the Poe Souls; remote-sword communication is far from 1:1, but it certainly 
 works; no voice acting, still.
  
  It's here.
  
  Ocarina of Time was the best Zelda as of its release, almost without question. Nintendo's greatest, 
 Shigeru Miyamoto, along with Eiji Aonuma and Koji Kondo, as ever, had produced a game that was, 
 simply put, flawless.
  
  The next Zelda was far too short, but a solid sequel to Ocarina of Time: Majora's Mask. Wind Waker 
 was a spectacular game (play it) , but with minor flaws in a collection quest and a sea too big 
 for its own good. Plus, the graphics split the fanbase in half.
  
  So in 2003 the Zelda everyone had been praying for since 1998 was put into development: The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  We've been attempting to get our hands on it since the first trailer, using in-game video footage, 
 that was presented at E3 2004. Tiny hints were tossed from then on, including the title, and the 
 fact that Link would be capable of turning into a wolf in this one, as opposed to, say, young Link 
 or Oni Link.
  
  When the game was delayed to be worked on even more after the 2005 release slot, Nintendo chose 
 to release two versions: one on Wii, and one on Gamecube. The Wii edition was released first, though 
 developed second, to give the Wii what is, in every facet of the term, a killer-app.
  
  So by the time of the 2006 release, hype was massive. Three out of every four Wii systems was bought 
 along with Twilight Princess.
  
  The result is one of the best Zelda games ever made, no question. It's gigantic, dark, and, most 
 importantly, fun.
  
  The biggest disappointment with it, truly, is that it's not perfect. Ocarina of Time remains the 
 last perfect Zelda, along with perhaps A Link to the Past. Hopefully Nintendo's greats will achieve 
 a game as immaculate as that someday in future.
  
  But that doesn't mean the game isn't a must play. Saying it's not flawless is a bit unfair to the 
 game, because effort was put in to just about every aspect of it. And no worries, Link may be sixteen 
 and turn into a wolf, but he still has that stupid hat.
  
  The game begins small, just like any other Zelda. This Link has been born and raised a ranch hand 
 in Ordon Village, a tiny little place way south of Hyrule proper. Hyrule is now a lot bigger, not 
 only because of this village (which isn't in any other Zelda) , but because there are multiple giant 
 fields, the place is split into six provinces now, and there are more levels than in most Zelda 
 games.
  
  So just like in Ocarina of Time, it goes from what's almost a fairy tale to the giant land outside. 
 This one has a more sudden change in pace though. Out of nowhere, two of Link's friends are captured 
 by a group of goblins, and when Link gives chase, he's transformed into a wolf for the first time.
 
  
  You'll then be switching off between human and wolf for a large part of the game. Your helper this 
 time around isn't a fairy, but Midna, one of the Twili race who have invaded Hyrule and have been 
 laying Twilight on the land. The people are now spirits, and the only ones who have kept their 
 forms are Zelda and Link, though Link doesn't remain human. However, you'll discover that not all 
 the Twili are bad. Like any race, there are good and bad people amongst them, despite the bad history 
 of what was once a group of Hylian magicians, and the new tyrannical Twilight King, Zant.
  
  The gameplay elements of being Link are the same as ever, and have been mapped to the Wii controller 
 impressively well. You move Link with a joystick, go into first person perspective, Z-target, have 
 an action button, and equip items to buttons. The B button generally is the only one you use weapons 
 from because the other buttons are the control pad directions, but some weapons (like Iron Boots) 
 can be used straight from the control pad, where you'll be switching items out on the fly. You 
 can talk with Midna whenever you choose, just like in Ocarina of Time or Majora's Mask. There are 
 two map buttons (which are out of the way) , and two pause menus.
  
  This is the best execution of the Zelda control scheme possible on the Wii. There's no question 
 that this is the best it could be. There aren't two joysticks (meaning you can't pan the camera 
 around Link, like in Wind Waker) , but this isn't a big loss because of the first person perspective.
 
  
  Wolf Link has its own controls. Your action button still does basically the same thing, but now, 
 being a wolf, you won't be utilizing items. Instead, the control pad and B button use the wolf's 
 powers. Midna can use a magic attack to attack tons of enemies at once with B, while the other 
 buttons let you use your senses (to track scents and such) , and dig into the ground.
  
  The wolf can also move much faster than normal Link and its attack style is different. But either 
 way, you'll be shaking the Wiimote.
  
  This is the innovation everyone got excited for. Link won't do the motions you do with the Wii 
 remote, unfortunately, but that's not such a big deal. Besides, it's a launch title. The game is 
 still very responsive to shaking the controller though. You needn't swing your remote like a maniac, 
 but then, if you really really want to, you can swing the remote like Link is doing on the screen.
 
  
  Link holds out his shield on his own, unless you're using a different weapon, so this allows you 
 to use the nunchuk to hit people in the face with the shield. That leads to one of the many secret 
 attacks Link can learn throughout Hyrule. You can also use the nunchuk to make a spin attack work, 
 which is a lot faster than charging it up in your sword.
  
  There's no magic meter, but it's not really missed because this Zelda has a ton of items. There 
 are the usual Bow and Arrow, Clawshot (a. k. a. Hookshot, upgraded) , and Bombs and such. You can 
 even make Bomb Arrows, to make up for the lack of Fire Arrows. But now there's the Spinner, the 
 Ball and Chain, the Dominion Rod, the Light Sword, and two new brands of bombs. These are all cool, 
 unique, and extremely fun to utilize. Some of them aren't used enough in the game, but they all 
 have some use outside of the dungeon they were made for.
  
  The control scheme, long story short, is amazing. Aiming your bow or Clawshot with the remote is 
 quick, easy, and much, much better than aiming with a joystick. If you go back and try and play 
 Ocarina of Time or even Wind Waker you'll find those controls pathetic at best compared to this. 
 No the remote motions aren't 1:1, but you are allowed to act like Link if it's such a big deal, 
 and the remote picks up quick shakes of the remote extremely well. Link won't even start attacking 
 nothing if you scratch your nose.
  
  You can now run and cut grass at the same time, stab enemies that are lying on the ground to finish 
 them off (an attack that needed to be added long ago) , jump over an enemy and chop their head, 
 USE YOUR SWORD ON HORSEBACK!!!!, roll around and chop their back, or pull your sword out for a 
 move that brings death no matter what. All these attacks are tiny additions, but they go a long 
 way to making this Zelda much more fun.
  
  The graphics are, obviously, from the Gamecube. Artistically speaking they're amazing and unique 
 in many areas. Graphically, it's no Gears of War. That said, I for one don't care if Link has a 
 bunch of pixels. It just has to look nice to me, and it certainly does. This stands up with Resident 
 Evil 4 as some of the best graphics work from the Gamecube. And just think: the Wii can do twice 
 this much? Can't wait for that, huh? And they say the Wii isn't powerful...
  
  Even though the graphics are built for an old system, some really, really nice effects are in there. 
 The sun rising is gorgeous, rain (and the clouds over you) are very real, and the water is absolutely 
 amazing.
  
  The world is massive. There's a lot to do and there are more than one field that put the dinky 
 Ocarina of Time Hyrule Field to shame. Unfortunately, it's noticeable that there aren't many people 
 to talk to. You can't talk to a lot of people in Castle Town, even though tons of them are milling 
 about, and otherwise there aren't a whole bunch of main characters. The character development for 
 Link, Midna, Zelda, Zant, Ilia and Colin are all awesome, but most other characters don't get a 
 lot of depth to them.
  
  On the other hand, there are forty-five heart pieces, nine massive dungeons, twenty-four Golden 
 Bugs, six provinces, four areas that aren't part of any province, an extremely difficult 'Cave 
 of Ordeals', quite a few sidequests to fix bridges, get Magic Armor, get water to a Goron, make 
 a new store come up, etc., around ten mini-games, and sixty Poe Souls out there for you.
  
  The biggest complaints I have about those are the Poe Souls. After you collect twenty, it's definitely 
 fun to collect the others hidden in Hyrule (that can't be found during the day) , but there's not 
 any good reason for it. You get Rupees out of it. And the wallets in this game, to me, are way 
 too small. If you get a treasure that can't fit in your wallet you'll put it back. That's not a 
 bad idea, but I get sick of seeing that screen because I get it too much. I even get the 1000 Rupee 
 wallet and it bugs me. After all, there was a 5000 Rupee wallet in Wind Waker.
  
  If you do get everything I mentioned though, you'll be playing for more than the fifty hours the 
 game designers guaranteed. You'd probably hit somewhere between sixty to a hundred tracking down 
 everything. I've played the game, knowing where everything is, and without getting the Poe Souls 
 it took thirty hours. That does include Heart Pieces and Golden Bugs, plus the Cave of Ordeals, 
 but again, I knew where everything was.
  
  The sound department is where the biggest complaints are laid on Twilight Princess. There are now 
 quite a few orchestrated tracks, and the new Hyrule Field Theme is orchestrated. Dare I say that 
 it might be better than the original theme? But, as reviewers love to point out, there is still 
 quite a bit of MIDI in there.
  
  I have to complain about that because it does matter, as orchestration is just better. And if it 
 didn't matter, then the game designers would have no reason to do it. Zelda did what Zelda always 
 does, but it has to step it up with the first real next gen game to appease morons like Jeff Gerstmann. 
 Still, full orchestration would be nice.
  
  The sound effects from the Wiimote didn't bother me as much as most, but some do sound a little 
 cheesy. I turn it on low, because that's where I think it's best, but you can turn it off if it 
 really bothers you, so that's no issue.
  
  Voice acting is an issue. There are grunts, yells and howls, but no one ever says a spoken word. 
 Link is and always should be a mute, but everyone else talks only through text in-game. Again, 
 this game isn't technically next-gen, but we do need voice acting at some point here. It's not 
 that big a deal to me, but again, I'd rather have it than not have it if it's good (and since it's 
 coming from Zelda, it would be) , so I have to complain.
  
  The dark storyline of the game is one of my favorite Zelda stories. You'll be saving the princess 
 and Ganon is there and everything, but there's a whole lot more to this Zelda than most. In that 
 area, this game would win no matter what year it was released.
  
  There are some minor pacing issues in there though. Switching between Link and the wolf is a tad 
 annoying early on, because the wolf has less abilities than Link, and is therefore less fun. There's 
 just too much wolf until you learn to switch between them. From then on though, the game is some 
 of the best Zelda-ing you'll ever get.
  
  But in terms of music, voice acting and graphics, this game would've done much better with reviewers 
 in 2005. It did excellently anyway (except here) , but it might've been wiser to release it earlier.
 
  
  So what is this game? It's a must play. It's beautiful. It has what still is one of the best control 
 schemes on Wii. It's very similar to Ocarina of Time, and takes bits and pieces from other old 
 Zeldas too (Link to the Past, Link's Awakening, original Zelda, Majora's Mask and Wind Waker all 
 come to mind) . It's spectacular. Graphically and musically, it's the best Zelda, hands down.
  
  It's a fond farewell to Zelda's past, and pieces of what Zelda will be in the future. And you 
 can see for yourself, it's gonna be even better.
  
  While Super Mario 64 was more revolutionary, this is, to me, the best launch title ever made. And 
 besides, it came with a more revolutionary system.
  
  All of those are good things. Great things. Some of the best choices they could possibly make.
 
  
  What it's not is perfect.
  
  Perhaps someday, if Miyamoto guides Aonuma maybe just a nudge in the right direction (like he did 
 with the director of Super Mario Galaxy) , we'll get a Zelda so spectacular that we can all agree 
 that it's the best one.
  
  Until then, I think fans are torn. Some are loyal to A Link to the Past, some still see Ocarina 
 of Time as the most recent flawless Zelda, some adored exploring Wind Waker's sea, and some just 
 loved the unique stories of Link's Awakening and Majora's Mask. Others are still loyal to the very 
 first Zelda, I kid you not. There are probably people out there that love shrinking and growing 
 in Minish Cap the most, or the sixteen level monster that is the Oracle games, combined.
  
  And this Zelda game is definitely good enough to stand up proudly amongst those. I would say if 
 it's not the best, it's at least second or third. I know tons of people who say that it is the 
 best Zelda, and they have indeed played Link to the Past and Ocarina of Time the whole way through.
 
  
  But is it the best? Arguably, yes. Is Ocarina of Time, A Link to the Past, Majora's Mask or Wind 
 Waker the best? Arguably, also yes.
  
  But we know that with the Wii's control scheme, we're likely to see the best Zelda, period, come 
 along in the next year or two. And until then, in 2006 we received one of the best Zeldas ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyblade_150
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a stunning game. The graphics are great, the sound is 
 good (although a little repetitve advantage or disadavantage- you decide) , and the gameplay is 
 simply outstanding and is extremely fun. You play as Link and using a unique mixture of moves and 
 skills you explore vast environments and conquer dangerous yet breath-taking monsters. The puzzles 
 range in diffuculty, keeping the game fresh and exciting. The controls are good as you use the Wii 
 Remote as a sword, fishing rod, bow and arrow, slingshot and much more. The game lasts you a long 
 time, around 50-60 hours but you can easily boost that up with some of the side-quests and environments 
 that are on offer.
  
  This game is an easy recommend for any Nintendo Wii owner, you must play this game. It would be 
 worth buying a Nintendo Wii alone just for this game, SO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manwhowins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Let me start with this -- The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is in no way the greatest game ever 
 created. I'm sorry Zelda fans, but this game is not one I would describe as the pinnacle of gameplay. 
 It may be, however, the pinnacle of Zelda gameplay. While the classic Zelda formula may receive 
 some tweaking as the franchise moves into the future (and it probably needs it) , it sure did go 
 out (if this IS the last game of its kind) with a bang. 
  
  This game does what Zelda has made its name on, dungeon exploration/puzzle solving, and it does 
 it well. The nine dungeons all vary wildly in design and appearance. When at their best the dungeons 
 make full use of the huge variety of items presented to you in the game, while pacing the cerebral 
 part with some hack and slash combat. Unfortunately, the dungeons all to often turn from logical 
 use of items to tedious and annoying activities (don't even get me started on pushing around the 
 ice blocks in Snowpeak Ruins. The only time I've had less fun in a videogame was attempting to 
 "control" AiAi in Banana Blitz) . While puzzle solving has always been integral to the Zelda franchise, 
 it seems to almost overstep its boundaries at times, temporarily turning an otherwise pleasent 
 game into a chore. Also, although the dungeons themselves are challenging, the bosses are too easy 
 for a game of this epic scope, especially when the bosses look so intimidating. 
  
  However, if you run through this meaty (40-50 hours minimum) adventure with minimal exploration, 
 and don't come back for more, you're missing a whole lot. I probably wouldn't have given this game 
 even a 9.0 had there not been so many other things to accomplish in the enormous entirety of Hyrule. 
 Poes, golden bugs, empty bottles, and (of course) heart pieces are scattered everywhere and the 
 challenge of getting them (aided by pitch-perfect horseback riding controls and a handy warp feature) 
 can be quite addicting. When you're bored of hunting items, why not relax with some lure fishing? 
 Or play the STAR game? Or even fly through inexplicably floating pieces of fruit? Even beyond that, 
 there are several secret mini-dungeons and caves to challenge, usually with a heart piece reward. 
 With so many things to accomplish, it's hard to find yourself with nothing to do in this game. 
 
  
  For the console that the game was first intended for, the graphics are spectacular. For the Wii, 
 not as much, but the immense land of Hyrule has still never looked better. On the sound side of 
 things, the music is essentially as good as it gets. Some voice acting would have been nice, though. 
 
  
  All in all, Twilight Princess is an outstanding game. It isn't a revolution in gaming, and its 
 formula is a little played, but it still makes for many, many hours of solid gameplay (I'm already 
 over 60) . I haven't even touched on wolf mode, (which is basically as functional as just another 
 item in your inventory) which was the main draw for this new game. While there will be times when 
 the tedium of Tear hunting or anything similar will want to make you put this one down -- don't, 
 or you'll miss out on the sandbox game side to this epic, not just the future dungeons. Unless 
 you really hate any form of puzzle solving, you owe it to yourself to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Raijin
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  - Basic Outline
  This was actually the game I was most excited to buy on my Wii, not just because I'm a old Zelda 
 fan since Link to the Past, I'm actually too a good RPG fan and sometimes I enjoy RPGs based on 
 Action instead of Turn Based Combat. Apart form the Gameplay, I'm actually a big fan of the whole 
 "celtic" feeling Zelda games give to the player. 
  
  Twilight Princess seems to be a whole new different game from the old Ocarina of Time and Wind 
 Waker, no doubt we're in Hyrule, but the whole feeling and storyline are so different, that you 
 will be surprised by some events of the game even though Zelda is such a old franchise. As you 
 begin, you are a villager of Ordon that will have to make a delivery to Hyrule, in my opinion, 
 the beginning is rather boring, but once you enter the Twilight Realm, the story starts to get 
 interesting, the fights start to get tougher and the whole epic feeling of Zelda is reborn again.
 
  
  - Gameplay
  
  The novelty here is the Wiimote, where you can swing your controller in order to swing your sword, 
 giving a feeling of being inside the game. The sword gameplay is actually very simple, you can 
 slash, thrust and jump slash by swinging your Wiimote your pushing the buttons, also, if you shake 
 the Nunchuk, Link will perfom the classic Whirlwind Slash. Not only the sword, you can use your 
 Wiimote to use your bow, slingshot, boomerang etc. I had no complaints about the Wiimote gameplay 
 even though a lot of old-school gamers frowned at the whole new Wii gameplay. So in my opinion, 
 an option about playing with the classic controller should be available to please all gamers.
 
  
  I could point only to the scene of the chase on Kakariko Village and the Knight style duel at Eldin 
 Bridge to completely destroy any Xbox 360/PS3 action game (released until now of course) , but I 
 will do more than that. Starting with the dungeons, which are fusions of action and puzzles. The 
 whole new dungeons and boss battles are, in my opinion, more amazing than any other Zelda game. 
 Their difficulty is just right, it might take you a while and you will have to think a bit, but 
 nothing is frustratingly hard and you will finish the game without having much problems, even if 
 you are completely new to Zelda.
  
  Another new things about the gameplay is the new Oocca, which can teleport you out of the dungeon 
 and return to the same room when you wish. Also, the whole new factor in this game is the Wolf 
 transformation, which is, in my opinion, completely amazing.
  In wolf form you must found "bugs" which contain the light of the spirits to regain your human 
 form, in which you will begin a dungeon. The gameplay is actually rather simple, but completely 
 innovative.
  
  - Graphics
  
  Many people diss the Wii because of its graphics and Twilight Princess had given those people a 
 huge slap in their face. Big is something that does not fit this game because everything is not 
 just big, but HUGE! Once you enter Hyrule Field with Epona there is a huge, green field that goes 
 on forever. Not only that, there is the huge Hyrule Castle, the huge Zora's Domain, the huge Death 
 Mountain, the huge Snowpeak, the huge Lake Hylia... All this makes Ordon Village look like an ant. 
 The scenery and the world, are perfectly done.
  
  Also the characters design looks awesome, the cutscenes in this game are beautiful and full of 
 pulsing emotions... This is undoubtly, a perfect job by Nintendo, by giving its new franchise a 
 whole new graphic domain, while not sacrificing Zelda's original spirit.
  
  And you can ride a horse, want something more awesome than that? ;)
  
  - Sound
  
  Since 
 as you enter Hyrule Field, a epic song starts to play to even make the whole scene even more PERFECT 
 and SUBLIME, and drain you even further into Hyrule itself. Koji Kondo again, didn't dissapoint 
 anyone and gave us a truly epic soundtrack.
  
  The sound effects are OK but they have flaws. I don't have nothing bad to say about the sword sounds 
 or the wolf growls. But I was dissapointed to see this game had no voice acting at all, apart from 
 Midna speaking the Hylian language, everyone just screamed Oh! or twistinly laughed, like Ganondorf, 
 while speaking. Sure, I understand there are many people who think that voice acting would completely 
 kill the whole Zelda spirit, but it would make the game even better in my opinion.
  
  - Plot or Atmosphere:
  
  I'm not a big fan of Dark vs Light storylines (and yes I hate Kingdom 
 Hearts) but Twilight Princess' storyline is more than that. It starts slow, but it soon starts 
 to grow on you until you're completely captured by it. Zelda franchise is well known for combining 
 Storyline and Action perfectly so that you don't feel yourself inside a graphic novel, but I actually 
 enjoyed the whole story.
  
  Through the story, you will unfold the mystery that Princess Midna is and discover the life of 
 a forsaken race known as the Twili and at the same time, you will save Hyrule once again from Ganon.
 
  
  Besides you can be Link, a mute hero that still captures a lot of personality by being brave, agile 
 and cunning and defeats a guy who is 10 times more powerful than him, what else can you ask?
  
  
  - Overall:
  Since the release of Ocarina Of Time any other Zelda game remained in its 
 shadow but Twilight Princess has enough potential to rivalize Ocarina and even beat it in some 
 areas. I recommend this game to anyone that has a Wii, anyone who enjoys adventures games and anyone 
 who still respects all the elements a good game has. A perfect combination of realistic battles, 
 puzzles, mysterious storyline and a epic world, Twilight Princess was a complete victory by Nintendo 
 in the Action Adventure games.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 8.5
  Plot: 9
  Overall: 9.2
  
  Alternatives: If you prefer more bloody games, you can try God of War. The 
 same epic feeling and combination of puzzles, action and storyline can be encountered in it. If 
 you like Zelda-style games, and you can't have a Wii, try Shadow of the Colossus, in my opinion 
 one of the best games ever made. Both God of War and Shadow of the Colossus are for the PS2.
  
  Of course you can also play the old Ocarina of Time for the N64. 
  
  In conclusion I only 
 have one last thing to say...
  
  Mah Boi, Twilight Princess is all true gamers strive for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swytnezz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why it got a somewhat bed review was because of Ocarina of Time. Some wanted ti 
 to be just like Ocarina or when it was just like it they thought it was to much like Ocarina.
 
  
  I personally loved it. Yes I thought it was like Ocarina since it followed the temple themes to 
 the T. Forest, Fire, Water.... ect. Many of of the veterans should feel right at home. The controls 
 probably changed just slightly due to the new Wiimote, but the GC version help out some in that 
 department.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty. And I love that in every game that Link is placed in he seems 
 to be updated everytime even if their isnt much to his outfit anyway.
  
  Gameplay: No problem. Main enemy Ganondorf is here to stay. Anyway been the problem will stay the 
 problem, no matter how many times you kill him. New weapons come in the mix. I think the GC owners 
 got the worst deal since the motion controls from the Wiimote adds a little depth. Some might hate 
 it. If you pretty good at aiming you'll adore this part. Being a killer wolf is cool. :D
  
  Music: Who doesnt love the theme songs from Zelda. Everybody knows the theme song for this game. 
 Update music. Extremely awesome.
  
  Replay value: Fairly good. If you can play Ocarina ten times like me. This one is no different.
 
  
  Summary: Give this a chance, all Zelda fans wil like it, newcomers will love it, has a dark feel 
 but not to dark. Wolf Link kicks ass. Fishing is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: Grab your sword, shield and trademark green tunic, Link! You, the player of this 
 game, are on another great adventure controlling one of Nintendo's most famous characters. As Link, 
 you must stop the evil Zant and his cronies from the Twilight Realm from taking over Hyrule. With 
 the help of the mischievious and mysterious Midna and Princess Zelda, you must save Hyrule and 
 defeat the forces of evil who try to conquer and destroy it! The fate of Hyrule and the entire 
 world rests on your shoulders. Oh and let's not forget one of the funnest parts... you can become 
 a wolf. F*** yes!
  
  GRAPHICS (10/10) : This is most likely the best looking Wii game out there as of yet! Sure, the 
 maximum graphics on the Wii aren't exactly up to par with the Xbox 360 and the PS3, but it still 
 looks really cool. The facial expressions of character are really good and so are the rest of the 
 character models. The animations are top-notch and are really smooth. Kudos to the impressive frame-rate 
 as well. The environments are very beautifully made, really colorful and really sharp. Simply amazing.
 
  
  SOUND (10/10) : Trust me... you'll love the music! Lot's of familiar tunes mixed in with a lot of 
 new ones and even some remixes from previous Zelda games. Dialogue is restricted to silence, as 
 always, but that's the real charm of Legend of Zelda. It doesn't need spoken dialogue... hell, you 
 can even use your imagination or your own voice if you want. It's fun! The sound effects are nicely 
 done, very sharp and really cool.
  
  CONTROLS AND PLAYABILITY (10/10) : I don't care if anyone says otherwise... the controls work for 
 this game. Using the Wii Remote to swing your sword, aim your bow, etc, and swinging the Nunchuck 
 attachment for a spin attack or shield bash. The controls are the same for wolf Link too, just 
 using different attacks like biting, claws... that sort of thing. It's perfect! Playability rates 
 high too. The frame-rate is smooth and there are no glitches or invisible walls to kill the experience. 
 Excellent!
  
  ENTERTAINMENT (9.5/10) : The bosses are a bit more challenging than in the Wind Waker and so are 
 the dungeons and various puzzles in the game, which provides for some fine entertainment. The games 
 items are fun to use too. What will really keep you enthralled is the game's story, which I have 
 to say, was very well put together. The cut-scenes are very nice and the facial expressions of 
 characters while the their text is on screen makes very dramatic and really good scenes without 
 the need for spoken dialogue. There are a few side-quests and mini-games (and the fishing, don't 
 forget about the fishing!) to keep you occupied and trying to beat this game 100% will keep on 
 this game for a long time. Plus, with the Wii's motion controls, you can even pretend you're actually 
 fighting the enemies. Excellent entertainment. The only downside is that some parts of the game 
 is a little too easy.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: (9.5/10)
  Like Ocarina of Time, this game's legacy will just never die. You'll beat this game and a few years 
 from now, you'll still be playing it for the 10th to 20th time. It may not last forever, but this 
 is a game that many will enjoy for quite some time.
  
  THE GOOD: Everything in the game is nearly perfect. The controls are very immersive and very fun 
 to use (especially in the fishing mini-game) . The story is one of the best Legend of Zelda has 
 to offer and it has the best graphics of any Zelda game (and of any Wii game for that matter) . 
 The dungeons are challenging and the enemies are challenging all by themselves. The bosses offer 
 quite the challenge and the puzzles are excellent as well. The entertainment will keep you playing 
 the game for hours on end. This is one of the best games I've ever played!
  
  THE BAD: The game is a bit easier than the other Zelda games, save for the Wind Waker.
  
  THE 
 BOTTOM-LINE: This is one of the best Wii games out there. Many have said this before, but I will 
 too... Miyamoto is a genius. The game is almost perfect in every way. The story, the controls, the 
 graphics and entertainment are all perfect. This is one of the best Zelda games there is. It doesn't 
 matter whether or not you're a real Nintendo fan. You must play this game.
  
  SUBSCORE*: 9.8 out of 10
  
  GAMESPOT SCORE: 10 out of 10
  
  *Not rounded to nearest half-point. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, but the further you progress in the story the harder it gets. 
  I really got sick of trying to find my way around those dungeons especially in the one called Lakebed 
 Temple. What made the game even more worst was when I had to play as wolf Link. To be honest with 
 you it sucked. I honestly preferred playing as Link. 
  
  In beggining of the game you play as Link (a farm boy) , and as the story goes on you'll end up 
 having to play through dungeons and find some kind of tears ( I forgot what they were called) . 
 
  
  The first dungeon was annoying and I got a little lost but I found my way around.
  
  The second dungeon was a little bit easier and more fun.
  
  The third dungeon (Lakebed 
 Temple) got on my nerves I found the clawshocks but it seemed almost imposible for me to find the 
 dungeon boss key.
  
  What I did like was the Boss fights and that finishing move that you could learn from the golden 
 wolf.
  
  All I have to say is that you should rent this game before you buy it. If you are a type of person 
 that play nothing but fighting games like me you would probably be lost in where to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Now that we have all said the Hyrulian prayer let me start off by saying that this not only has 
 to be the Zelda game on the next-generation that we've been waiting for ever since the leak of 
 that screen shot of Smash Bros. Melee Link and Ganondorf standing toe to toe about to mix swords 
 in combat, but this has to be the most diverse and unique Zelda game in terms of gameplay elements 
 and excellent use of the Wiimote to date.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's the classic Legend of Zelda formula we've all come to know and love but this time it comes 
 with a twist. That's right the newly implemented Wiimote uses various tactics and techniques that 
 have you turning your head and smiling in awe like the first time seeing a pair of wet sopping 
 pair of breasts on skinemax. This game uses the adventure tactics from such previous Zelda games 
 as Windwaker, and Orcarina of Time, but the diversity comes in when you can utilize the Wiimote 
 to swing the Master Sword, or pull it back when holding the bow and arrow to steady your aim and 
 launch it, or hell even go fishing with the Wiimote. This is certainly a chock full of nuts Zelda 
 game as you start out playing by the adult Link from the start and there is a nice plot twist. 
 While entering the twilight realm, Link transforms into a Wolf. How much cooler can this game get? 
 You are accompanied by Midna who helps you learn more of this twilight realm as well as using your 
 new Wolfen powers to get ahead of the new encountered enemies in that world.
  
  Graphics:
  I admit the Wii isn't up to the standards of the 360 or the PS3 in terms of HD style 
 graphics, but this game really looks well made and it looks as if Nintendo took all the time that 
 was needed on this game to make the textures, surfaces and lighting coincide with each other beautifully. 
 Link looks more like a rugged warrior this time and his Wolf alter ego looks just as badass. If 
 you were disappointed with the cel-shaded graphical mix used in the Windwaker, you'll be more than 
 thrilled this time around as Twilight Princess sports the graphics just a tad higher than the GC 
 can shell out.
  
  Sound:
  It's classic Zelda score will have you rejoicing as the new theme for Twilight Princess is a mix 
 of old school tunes with some nicely transferred tones that offset the mood of the story and adventure. 
 Link will always remain mute and there is mostly text dialogue as usual, but that's what Zelda 
 games were all about. There's a nice twist though. Even though the weapons and classical melodies 
 as you open a large chest and door still exist, you can now hear these sounds through your Wiimote 
 as well. That to me is diversity and innovation and making good use of a newly designed controller.
 
  
  Control:
  Now here's where Twilight Princess excels. The newly designed controls may have some shying away 
 to the Wii version of this game but fret not my friends it's ALL good. By holding the nunchuk in 
 your left hand and moving Link around to literally moving and jolting the Wiimote to swing your 
 sword or aim and shoot your bow to perform such newly generated attacks with the boomerang such 
 as a whirlwind by shaking and twirling the Wiimote in a 360 degree motion the controls are highly 
 responsive, diverse and immersive to the touch.
  
  Overall:
  This is a classic Zelda game at heart. With the new diverse and unique look and feel of the control 
 scheme to the nicely implemented plot twist and Link's newfound Wolf alter ego and seeing classical 
 characters and villains from years past this game is a must have in any gamer's Wii collection. 
 Being launched at the start of the Wii's life cycle really put Zelda at an advantage as it still 
 to this date offers a variety of well balanced action, innovation, memorable sounds, and more than 
 likable characters. It's an adventure worth living and playing for anyone interested in the franchise 
 or who just wants to get lost in a fantasy world. Hyrule and the Twilight Realm is the definite 
 place to look for that craving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  First of all, I can't believe it took me this long to review the game since I've had it for like 
 a year and a half. And second, I chose to review the Wii version because I think it has more gameplay 
 power than the Gamecube version, but that's just me, and the game's the same either way.
  
  So yeah, as usual you go out as Link and have to save the world. The graphics, considering the 
 platform, are amazing. Everything is colorful and fresh. The universe to explore is huge, with 
 a ton of puzzles and items to collect. It's super fun, almost overwhelming though unless you have 
 a serious need to get everything in this game. The boss battles are on a much bigger scale, you're 
 fighting huge dragons on towers and giant fish underwater, and honestly I think pwn most of the 
 boss battles from other Zelda games (I said MOST) . Each level is rich and in depth and you must 
 find and fight your way through them.
  
  In the Wii version, you use your remote to aim and slash at what's on the screen. This works almost 
 perfectly, only sometimes it seems as though the aiming (say for the bow) is rougher than it could 
 be. Though I do like this version better than the gamecube one because it delivers a different 
 gaming experience. 
  
  One thing though. They didn't really need to put all these extra missions like collecting bugs 
 for money in. Because at the most you probably won't need all that money because you'll either 
 have stopped playing the game or have gotten everything already. I wish they could have had you 
 get certain items for these missions but whatever.
  
  All in all: GREAT ZELDA EXPERIENCE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  i want to take you back to OOT do you remeber how fun it was! don't you want to feel like you're 
 playing it again? well TP brings you back to that! this is proboly the best zelda game scince OOT! 
 evry item is awsome!!! first off the diffucutly: well TP is like the exact same diffuculty as OOT 
 but a sligh harder, yes you will get lost and in those "ok, what the hell am i supposed to do?" 
 moments, so TP is still fun and has the same diffaculty as OOT but a little hader. secound the 
 game play: TP has the same gameplay as OOT, but with new stuff also, exaple, now i can swing my 
 sword wile i'm running, i can also swing my swored wile i'm on epona, also you can use the any 
 item that you can aim wile on epona, so that is exciting also. you can also transform into a wolf 
 and find clues and stuff and it is suprisingly fun!!! i enjoyed playing as a wolf in the game! 
 story: the story starts with link as a ranch farmer and he finds out that his friends have been 
 kidnapped by monsters, so he gose to rescue them on his way he finds out that hyrule has been taken 
 over by this suppstence called the twilight and he is pulled in by a monster, wile in the twilight 
 link turns into a wolf and is taken away by the monsters to a prison wile there he meets a strange 
 girl named midna and she says that if he wants to save his friends he must save hyrule frome the 
 twilight. graphex: the graphex in TP are well like a last gamecube game, they are also graphex 
 that the 360 and PS3 where starting with. over all this is the gratest zelda adventure since OOT 
 and if you have a wii this is a must buy!!!! trust me you will enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I liked Windwaker. I thought that the new spin on the Zelda series using a boat was clever and 
 that it felt like a Zelda game in play style if not in the look. By the time I reached the end 
 I felt that the direction of the visual style made sense for the story. 
  
  So it is no surprise that the visual style of Twilight Princess fits the story and world that this 
 version of Zelda tells. Everything you have come to expect in a Zelda game is here -- dungeons, monsters, 
 a world to explore, puzzles, gadgets, and a tale about saving a princess from an evil baddie. 
 
  
  So why does this not rate a perfect score? The story at the start feels a little redone -- we have 
 the kid who is nice and good and has to learn that he has to become the hero. It isn't until the 
 twist with him becoming a wolf and getting teamed up with an impish helper that the story actually 
 feels like it is going anywhere.
  
  My only other complaint is with the art and overall direction with the series. When Windwaker came 
 out everyone was upset that it looked like a cartoon. When the first preview images of Twilight 
 Princess came out it was dark and gritty, and fans went nuts. However even though this looks a 
 little more realistic it in fact is quite cartoon-ish in many aspects. It fits the story well enough 
 but like many Zelda players I would like this series brought into a more up-to-date approach much 
 like the Metroid series has been done. Is a darker world with realistic looking characters so hard 
 to bring to Zelda? 
  
  Maybe, just maybe, if the evolution form WW to TP is an indication maybe the next in the series 
 will final go where Zelda fans have been looking forward to since Link's start back on the NES. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is most likely my favourite game on the nintendo Wii.
  Me and my best friend both played Ocarina of Time when we were young, and both loved it completely, 
 same with Wind Waker.
  We first heard of this in a Gamecube Magazine, we were hyped as soon as the words Zelda were on 
 the front cover, and the trailer.... OH GOD THE TRAILER, as soon as Link took out his sword on 
 horseback we knew we were in for something.
  Years later, after many delays, we found out it would be a launch title for the Wii, and would 
 have motion sensing controls.
  Unfortunately I didn't get a Wii first thing, but as soon as I got one I picked this up.
  I only 
 had a few disapointments with this game.
  1. Horseback Combat wasn't as good as it looked in the first trailers.
  2. I preferred the original 
 concepts of this game.
  3. Something didn't feel right.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  This game has the tradiational Zelda combat, although aiming with the wii-mote could be harder 
 for some players.
  
  Story: 8/10
  This games story was as good as I expected it would be.
  They seemed to rely on the player knowing 
 the Lore of the Zelda world;
  Younger players might not know what the hell's going on.
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  This game doesn't have much need for replayability, you can always go back 
 to get stuff you missed, there are no difficulties, theres no real point to replaying the whole 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallicfan20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge Zelda fan since Ocarina of Time, and have played and loved Link to the Past 
 and even appreciate Zelda II and Majora's Mask. Each of those games had something that made them 
 unique, and original yet true to the series. They were also all fun to play individually and continue 
 to be so. Sadly, the same cannot be said for Twilight Princess. I truly expected big things from 
 Twilight Princess, as LTTP added tons of new items and staples of Zelda, Ocarina of Time was revolutionary 
 in every way imaginable, Zelda II put in new magic and other features which would last and was 
 2D, even Majora's Mask had really cool things, as I really kinda liked transforming to Zora Link 
 and Goron Link. Each game felt fresh. When I turned on Twilight Princess, I played for a bit, and 
 the game took forever to actually get to the game. Fishing with the wiimote is really annoying, 
 as is having to play music on.... a piece of grass? Then I have to run around as a wolf who doesn't 
 do anything except dig for fairies ater cut scenes that clearly do not scream 2006 using voice 
 acting, but the same text used years ago. Also, unlike the other games, this game TELLS YOU when 
 you're gonna be in an opposite world (wolf link) , whereas in LTTP, OoT, and MM, you CHOSE either 
 with the mirror or tile, time travel, or the masks in MM. 
  
  Sound wise, this game is forgettable too, and when it is not, it is just sampling from other Zelda 
 games. The tunes it doesn't sample really are boring and unmemorable. The sound at least coulda 
 used modern technology and been orchestrated, and the sound of chest openings sounds weak and unassertive, 
 unlike in LTTP, OoT and others. The dungeon are long but easy yet unimpressive. I played the first 
 dungeon and didn't die once against the boss, and finding the monkeys was easy. Finding the fairies 
 to get the dungeon access is boring and just a chore. Everything you get is done on a path, little 
 searching, as in OoT, you'd have to find the fairies fountain, here you automatically get the white 
 wolf skills. There are no new weapons in this game, just the same old same old. No new characters, 
 just the same from the past, which were great in the past, but nothing new in this game. 
  
  To the good, the graphics on this game are simply great, but of course could have been amazing 
 if Nintendo had actually tried. Of course this game isn't completely horrendous, but is hopefully 
 "good" at best along side predecessors which are either "revolutionary," "excellent," or "really 
 good." This game had potential for greatness, but instead feel like a long drawn out remake of 
 OoT, while losing the magic and sheer fun it contained, the originality, and the better story line 
 and overall funness. Sad thing, is that OoT isn't the only Zelda to beat this one out. If you are 
 a hard Zelda fan, and you've played them all, this game WILL disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 9.0 / 10 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------------
 
  Gameplay ---- ( 9 )
  Graphics ----- ( 9 )
  Sound --------- ( 7 )
  Value ---------- ( 9 )
  --------------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
    Tight control 
 in every gameplay element;
    Some great new items and abilities;
    Very good use of the wiimote, particularly when it comes to aiming;
    Awesome graphics, from 
 an artistic perspective, especially in the stunning twilight zones;
    Some very good soundtracks, but only from an artistic perspective;
    The best secondary character 
 to ever appear in a Zelda game, Midna, with a fantastic look and superb face animations, plus multiple 
 sounds that come from the game when she talks - sometimes almost seems like voice-work - that add 
 more life and personality to her already very good speech;
    The game is very long and not as easy as Wind Waker, with nearly 9 dungeons to beat, all of them 
 with an outstanding design and with many terrific puzzles to solve - some dungeons have the best 
 design and puzzles I've ever seen in any game since Ocarina of Time;
    The "Cave of Ordeals" provides many tough (but not frustrating) and action-packed enemy fights, 
 something that doesn't happens in none of the other dungeons in the game (but should have) ;
    Most of the bosses and mid-bosses are fun and interesting to beat;
    There is a lady that 
 gives you hints about where to find all the heart pieces, which makes it more fun to find them 
 all, adding a bit more lasting appeal to the game;
    Great story, with many old and new faces;
    Beautiful orchestrated soundtrack in the End Credits, 
 when you finish the game, that has given me hope for the next Zelda, hope that they put orchestrated 
 music in the game itself;
  
  THE BAD:
    Most gameplay mechanics lack innovation, especially when it comes to sword fighting - where even 
 the modest integration of the Wiimote didn't add much - making the game not more exciting to play 
 than Wind Waker, even though it's not as easy, has less linear dungeon designs and the puzzles 
 are more brain-teasing;
    Out of the visually amazing twilight zones, many textures in the game lack resolution, making 
 the game look a little dated (particularly during day time) , even for a Gamecube game;
    Audio-visual effects like rain, snow, wind, sand, leaves, etc, should have been done better, 
 in order to make the world feel more alive;
    There is no voice-work, which makes the characters less alive and with much less personality 
 then what they could have been, given the great quality of the written speech and the face animations;
 
    The sound tracks aren't orchestrated, as they deserved to be, and there aren't any really memorable 
 new songs, making it less exciting to explore the huge world outside the dungeons then it could've 
 been;
    There isn't any, new or old, playable instrument and the occasional sequences of sounds you have 
 to preform with the wolf, aren't nearly as enjoyable to hear as the ocarina or the wand were in 
 previous games;
    Most enemies are in the game just to bother you when you are trying to solve a puzzle, and only 
 when there are many enemies in the same room, will you have some trouble defeating them, but that 
 rarely happens;
    Once you finish the game by beating all the superb dungeons, there isn't a meaningful reason 
 to come back, because the side-quests aren't very interesting nor very rewarding;
    Most of the bosses and mid-bosses in the game are somewhat easy to beat; 
    The not very high 
 quality in some parts of the presentation combined with the lack of innovation in some parts of 
 the gameplay, hurts the replay value of the game, making me believe that most people won't try 
 to beat it more than once - even Zelda fans like me, who beat Wind Waker a second time;
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  A superb fantasy action-adventure game, where some of its the dungeons have the 
 best level design and puzzles of any game I've ever played since Ocarina of Time. Although not 
 as innovative as in Wind Waker, the gameplay is as refined as ever and the Wiimote gives it a breath 
 of fresh air. The biggest disappointment of the game is it's presentation, particularly the sound. 
 But if you can tolerate that and love well designed levels and puzzles (or is a Zelda fan) , than 
 you won't regret buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregdawg08
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I completed TP, I loved it so much I made it #1 on my Zelda games list. I admired its great 
 graphics, story, and sidequests. It made me smile the whole time I was playing it. Unfortunately, 
 this game is often frowned upon by Ocarina of Time fanboys, because they cannot stand the fact 
 their favorite game was passed by this game. It is also frowned upon for by fans for being too 
 copy cat-like. My advice. Ignore them and play this game to your hearts content. This game improved 
 on everything OoT was loved for, and is clearly the best. You will not regret buying this game, 
 and absolutely love its hours of main and optional gameplay. The fact you get to play as Link in 
 human form and wolf form makes it even better. With a deep story that wraps you up in the actual 
 game, great graphics, and hours upon hours of sidequests, it deserves a lot more credit than it 
 gets. It is an easy 10/10 game that it wonderful in every way. Especially for a true Zelda fan! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  "OH MY GOOOD!!! OH - MY - GOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!" 
  That was all you could hear when this unexpected blockbuster was announced for the gamecube, at 
 the end of it's relatively good era. Link and company are back, once again, for yet another incredible 
 and compeling adventure that makes anyone a hearty fan of this incredible series.
  Enough big word blabbering... Lets start the review:
  Uhh... So you start as Link... The story 
 endures around a mysterious story about the bond between twilight and light, with the evildoer, 
 selfproclamed Twilight king Zant, trying to enbrace all to the dark dephts of the Twilight World, 
 by inprisioning light spirits, scattering monsters... Making caos. With no doubt, Nintendo did 
 a really good job with the story of this game. A LoZ (can I just call it that?) game never had 
 such a complex and interesting story, and you will go to the end trying to discover several mysteries... 
 And as Gamespot said with wisdom, this game will end with three characters (I wonder who) . The 
 only problem I have with the story is that, at times, things are a bit too complex, and you eventualy 
 get lost on dialogs, asking yourself what in the world was happening. And another thing, You probobly 
 already heard this, but this game is more aimed to a more mature audience, being the first LoZ 
 game rated T. Its indeed much darker, and may give you the chills with tense moments, but nothing 
 too dark. You will still find the comic moments and everything else you could expect from a LoZ 
 game. You collect things throughout Hyrule, to unlock passages, get the master sword, collect more 
 things, and fight Ganondorf... Simple as that (ok maybe not that simple) . Oh, and gaining new weapons 
 and learing new sword abbilities are simply awesome. The graphics of the game are very good, and 
 takes good profit of Gamecube processor capabilities, with a large arrange of effects and lightings. 
 Sometimes (especialy enemies) may seem a bit dated, but nothing that will catch your attention. You 
 will travel from never ending deserts, to snow lands, to forests, to temples, castles, villages, 
 towns, and even the sky, gaizing at the sights and beatifull artwork. The game has a satisfing 
 30 hours of gameplay, without counting sidequests (wich sadly make a smaller count in this game) . 
 Th biggest problem I have with this game is it's pace. It starts very well, with lots of action 
 and new capabilities that will refresh the LoZ feel, and will leave you engaged with the game. 
 At the middle-end you will start getting bored and playing the game basicly just to say "I completed 
 it", just like I did. When I reached the Twilight Realm, I simply stopped playing because it just 
 didn't hype me anymore. A few months later I continued and was very satisfied, it was just a matter 
 of taking a rest, since this game is really wide. But the final boss makes you feel a lot better, 
 since, as any LoZ game, it is divided in parts, and is simply AWESOME, with those outstanding, 
 eye oppening cutscenes.
  
  Overall, this LoZ is a great entrant to the LoZ series and is a must buy for any fan. Very minor 
 flaws and bad pacing don't get neer of taking this game's shine and glory. My score is 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerberus79ca
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I think this this is a game that will keep you entertained. There is just about no dull moments 
 in this game. In the game you'll either be doing a mission, fighting, and trying to figure things 
 out. When you see, get, or learn something new you will most likely be anxious to use the new item 
 or special ability. Also you might fell good inside when you see items from previous Zelda games, 
 like you might fell happy, anxious to see how it'll work on the Wii and how it'll look like when 
 you use it and how you can use it in different ways. In the game things may startle you, but not 
 enough to make you have nightmares like Resident Evil games would. There are many things in this 
 game that you will like, especially if you are a fan of all the Zelda games. Well I guess this 
 is just about all I could tell you about the game without spoiling anything for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I don't write alot of reviews compared to the amount of games I play, but I felt I had to write 
 a short one for Twilight Princess. I bought this game very late. It's almost been out for two years, 
 but I just bought a wii recently. I wasn't going to buy a wii at all. This game alone was worth 
 it.
  
  99% of people reading my review know what Zelda is about, so there is no need for me to go into 
 detail as I would for a game such as Folklore.
  
  As you progress in this game, you can't help but have fond memories of Ocarina of Time, and Majora's 
 Mask. Twilight Princess is so similar, but it's so much grander. 
  
  I know I don't speak for everyone, but I feel like no area of the game besides the rather dated 
 texturing disappointed. I thought every dungeon was spectacular, both in art style, and level of 
 difficulty. The bosses were mostly easy, but they were all very enjoyable. My favorite thing about 
 Twilight Princess was the new weapons, and items. I thought they were very inventive, and made 
 for some excellent, well thought out puzzles. I thought that the wolf form kept things fresh as 
 well.
  
  If you are a Zelda fan, and for whatever reason, you have not bought this game, buy it. The texturing 
 is dated, and the combat is a little dated, but this game is still so good, that I cannot see it 
 being remembered as anything less than one of the best Zelda games ever made. After Ocarina of 
 time, Twilight Princess is my favorite.
  
  I couldn't give it anything less than a 9/10. I will remember Midna, and many other characters 
 for years to come. When a game has that much of an impact on you, it must be great. If you can't 
 appreciate a game with somewhat outdated graphics, you are missing out. I almost missed out for 
 that very reason. I'm usually all about graphics, but this games charm, and nostalgia is woth the 
 purchase alone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrankStank
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This darker Zelda installment grows more story-driven and cinematic, making it one of the best 
 Zelda's ever!
  
  The Good:
  -Wii controls work almost flawlessly and make it the funnest Zelda yet
  -A long, interesting 
 story that never gets boring
  -Balances nostalgia and new content well
  -Cinematic
  -More twists than the usual Zelda title
  -As always, some of the best music in games
  -Great 
 characters
  -Amazing dungeons that are too massive to believe
  -Head-scratching puzzles
  -Wolf link is very fun
  -The creatures are brilliantly designed
  -A sucker-punch moment
  
 -The Bow, Slingshot etc. control perfectly
  -A ton of extra stuff to do besides the main quest
  -A great script
  
  The Bad: 
  -You 
 can't help but want more emotion from Link
  -The graphics are definitely passable on Wii, but the textures are a bit embarrassing...
  -Sometimes 
 the Wii-mote is a bit un-responsive in tight situation 
  
  If you haven't yet played Zelda for Wii, then man, you're missing out big time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicpower451
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Well. I just rented the game and It's actually better than what I expected it to be! Here are some 
 reasons. The gameplay is perfect. It kinda feels like the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time game 
 I played long time ago when I had my Nintendo 64. The horse riding is the best part I like! But 
 it can be hard to control the horse. I don't care much about graphics since this is a Wii game. 
 But the level design is HUGE! Colourful, beautiful! I also like the day and night change. And once 
 it is day or night, the music changes too! When I played the game, I liked how the story goes! 
 Even the parts where link goes wolf. And midna's language is very strange. In some parts of the 
 story, you will be in parts that makes you feel like your in a war. Oh yeah! the music is very 
 well performed. The music fits almost every part of the game! When an enemy is near you but you 
 don't see it, always rely on the music change. Now what I don't like is the camera. It's perfect 
 but when I'm fighting enemies, it sometimes goes all crazy when I use the Z button to lock on to 
 my enemies. Overall, the game is amazing. And when you buy it, you might witness alot of the things 
 I've talked about here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This could have easily been the next Ocarina of Time. But is it? Nah. It's still one of the best 
 adventure games, if not the best, this generation. It closely resembles OoT, to the point where 
 some may consider it the "spiritual remake", because the gameplay, mature style, characters and 
 setting are the same. It has many refinements, and what Nintendo has created is a lengthy quest 
 full of action, puzzles, and many amazing moments. 
  
  The gameplay is OoT with the polish that WW added. There is nothing new, except the Wii controls, 
 but a regular controller would be more responsive. Also, in a way, you can save anywhere in Temples. 
 Assuming you have already played a Zelda game, and know the gist of it, I won't go into super detail 
 of the gameplay. It basically consists of arriving at an environment, talking to people (but it 
 is only a one-way conversation, so you have no say in anything other than doing what they ask of 
 you (which would be always) or not doing what they ask of you.) , doing what they tell in the form 
 of a side quest, and then journeying into the temple. The temples are the meat of the game, and 
 the true test of skill. You make your way through multiple floors of clever puzzles and enemies, 
 getting keys and opening more doors. Some puzzles affect the whole temple, turning the whole temple 
 into a giant puzzle (example: Water Temple) . And the bosses are huge, monstrous, and require more 
 than just hitting it with your sword.
  
  You get a large assortment of items and weapons such as boomerangs, bow & arrows, clawshot, bombs, 
 and other far more inventive items (like a giant spinner/top) to manipulate and traverse the environment, 
 as well as fight enemies in different shapes and sizes. As far as armor goes, you get two tunics, 
 and a third that you can buy that makes you invincible for a short time at the cost of rupees. 
 Overall, other than more items (which have little use outside of Temples) , and extra health, there 
 is no way to get stronger. Yes, you also get eight more sword moves, but you don't gain levels, 
 get experience, or pick up armor and weapons from enemies. In other words, if you are looking for 
 an RPG, look elsewhere. This is primarily an adventure game. You can also turn into a wolf, which 
 adds to the game, and makes it it's own to some extent. 
  
  Now I'll go over all positives. There are a lot. There are some people you'll meet, puzzles you'll 
 solve, environments you'll enter, and moments in the game that are second to none. They are so 
 amazing, that you'll drop you'll controller down, and say, "Wow... that's cool." You might not go 
 that far, but I almost did. Some sections between Temples are spectacular, one of which was very 
 emotional, and show how great this game is and how much Link can do with all his abilities. Some 
 of them even compare to OoT. The graphics are very well done. They could be better , given it is 
 built with GC tech, but they are impressive. As is the music, and when a favorite tune starts playing, 
 it makes the game feel better. 
  
  Now for the negatives. Yes, there are alot of things Link can do and how Nintendo made it so he 
 could do all those things is impressive, but some don't work as they should, and it brings down 
 the game. Also, the game is very, very long. With no real sense of progression (no leveling up 
 or gaining better armor, or customizing Link) you may get bored of the game. Granted that Zelda 
 games don't come out often, it makes sense they would make it long, and fit a gazillion Temples 
 into it, but it still drags the pacing. Given the game is so good, these negatives are very noticeable, 
 and keep it from being closer to as good at OoT. 
  
  Overall, this is one of the best Zelda games, and I'll rate it tied at #2 along with WW, with OoT 
 at #1. If you are looking for an adventure game, buy this. If you are looking for a fantasy game, 
 buy this. If you are looking for a fun distraction for a while, buy this. If you want an expertly 
 crafted game, full of a extraordinarily setting, with amazing moments, and awesome gameplay, buy 
 this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess? I say that this game is a MASTERPIECE!! 
 I can honestly say that I cannot find anything to gripe about this game. If you just straight out 
 just don't like anything about Zelda games or hate creepy creatures of the dark, don't get it. 
 Otherwise, make an attempt to buy this game! Do not procrastinate or hesitate to get this game. 
 I highly recommend this game to all Zelda fans, Nintendo veterans, and hardcore gamers. You will 
 be sad if you beat this game because it's hard to catch the memorable moments in this game for 
 a second time. The game has length and can entertain for hours. I give The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess simply a 10 because it's definitely worth playing! What are you waiting for? Save up some 
 dough and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzep1959
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game plays perfectly. End of story. The plot is epic. I have never had a better time playing 
 a video game. There are dungeons galore, each layed out with care and thought. There are many new 
 weapons and loads of extras. The music is good even though the majority is all MIDI. Swordplay 
 is great. You learn different techniques as you play. But playing as a wolf is very annoying. however, 
 it works REALLY well. The control scheme is great. Hyrule Field is MASSIVE. Temples are MASSIVE. 
 The game is MASSIVE. Heart Pieces come in fives, so there is more exploration involved if you need 
 more health. The new weapons are great. The boss fights are tough and intense. There is a lot of 
 running around, but its a good thing. I give this game a 10 because it is so much fun. I don't 
 think I have ever had more fun playing a Zelda game. Everything works smoothly, the graphics don't 
 have much texture, but everything great and perfect blankets over the minor bad stuff. 
  Now stop reading reading my review and buy the freaking game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying, so as to not annoy the fanboys and whatnot, that this is a very, 
 very good game. 
  Now that that's settled, i have to say, this game bored the friggin crap out of me. I couldn't 
 even commit to it enough to finish it. Its too dang long, really. If the thing had the nonstop 
 action of an fps, it may be worth spending $50 and up to like 40 or more hours on it. But the relentless 
 puzzle solving, while definitive of Zelda games, just becomes redundant. The thing that makes the 
 whole thing fall apart, though, is that the combat, however rare it is, is also boring. You shake 
 the wiimote, link swings his sword. Lather rinse repeat, through the whole 40 hours. Call me crazy, 
 but this game plain and simple couldnt hold my attention. 
  Like i said though, it is a great game. It may be hard to believe that i can say that after all 
 the stuff i just said about how its so unbeleivably boring. Well, i just think that i may have 
 the attention span of a chipmunk on caffeine pills, so i dont want to say something that would 
 ruin it for everyone. If that makes any sense at all. BASICALLY, if you sat through the King Kong 
 movie, enjoyed it, and didn't get bored you'll love this game. Because you obviously have a big 
 enough attention span to grasp the fullness of the game and can realize that, while some parts 
 may seem tiresome, even annoying, the prodution is overall a great achievement. 
  If you want a bottom line, here it is. 
  
  Overall, this game is a great achevement for nintendo, 
 as it uses the motion sensetive aspect of the wii remarkably well for being a launch game, and 
 the overall feel of the game is pretty much epic. Its a great adventure game, but some will feel 
 like they are going to fall asleep or die of boredom halfway through. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boratdacaveman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I never played any of Zelda games. I always imagined it is very kid game, but when I saw it was 
 rated Teen, it gave me the idea that Nintendo finally made Zelda enjoyable for teen. I was correct. 
 I am 13 years old and I loved Zelda: Twilight Princess. When I got this game I was impressed by 
 the graphics. Now I am going to describe the good and the bad in the rest of this review. 
  
  The good: GREAT/ easy to use controls. Bosses are very fun to fight against. Whole game isn't 
 just fight fight fight, it includes some fun stuff to do when u r sick of fighting against monsters. 
 
  
  The bad: Very compelling plot. Guide book is highly recommend. You cant save your place inside 
 the dungeon when you quit (only way to save place in dungeon is use ooccoo.) (which is pretty hard 
 to find in the dungeons)
  
  As you see good balances out bad big time. So it is HIGHLY recommend for anyone. It doesnt matter 
 if you are Zelda fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faden45
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  spectacular i have never spent more time on a game word to makers awsome omg keep coming need still 
 a little harder ive beaten every single one so far sooooo come on and word to other players finish 
 all the mini quests before tou face the last boss it can get you tons of stuff tha can be usefull 
 wii is the most awsome game consle ever with the graphics and everything thinking of wrighting 
 a walkthrough sooo if you need any help check it out if yuou dont know what a walkthrough is its 
 a F. A. Q. keep working on the games nintendo love your games more than  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Zelda game yet. If nintendo can produce another like this one, i will be 
 ready and waiting for a midnight sale. The graphics are crisp and sharp, giving the game a more 
 lifelike feel. The sound effects are nicely done, and the little clip that plays out of your wii 
 remote when you discover a hidden something is a very nice touch. The game plays differently than 
 most others, because for a big chink of the game you can get the advice and ideas of your little 
 Twilight helper, Midna. I wont go on any more about her because i dont want to drop any spoilers. 
 Anyway, now for my new and advanced review system!
  
  Sound:10/10
  Graphics:10/10
  Gameplay Mechanics:9.4/10
  Storyline:9.7/10
  
  All of that coming together for a 9.5/10 overall.
 
  Great game, really hope to see another soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark1dolphin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Let's make things crystal clear from the start- Zelda: Twilight Princess is an underrated game. 
 It had quite simply the most difficult standard possible to live up to, and it met all our expectations. 
 An engaging plot with believable characters, superbly innovative yet refined gameplay, 40+ hours 
 of storyline-what more could you possibly want?
  When you first pick up the Wiimote (dribbling with excitement) it seems like the archetypal 'classic' 
 Zelda game. And in some respects it is: the old combination of mini-quests interwoven with dungeons 
 and boss-battles is present; but why change a winning formula when it produces such awe-inspiring 
 results?
  But there's also a lot that's new in Twilight Princess: it uses the Wiimote to almost perfect effect- 
 and what's more you actually feel part of the action. There's certain sections that utilize the 
 mini-speaker on the Wiimote, which boosts the whole experience's cinematic value. Swordplay is 
 beautifully refined, easy to learn, highly effective and fun- the battling mechanics are more immersive 
 than ever. Another innovation in Twilight Princess is the ability to transform Link into a wolf-like 
 'Beast of the Twilight'. At first it's uncontrollable but as the plot develops you can utilize 
 this ability to your advantage; the regular sections of the game are outstandingly intermingled 
 with darker, unnerving sections set it locations immersed in Twilight. It gives the game an edge.
 
  The boss-fights are truly magnificent- being confronted by a vast, fuming dragon at the top of 
 a raining tower in the 7th of the 9 dungeons will be one of the highlights of your gaming life, 
 believe me.
  All this is strung together with a wonderfully engaging plot with includes charming, believable 
 characters and stunning locations. The Snowpeak Mansion is a personal favourite of mine- an eerie, 
 foreboding atmosphere with excellent puzzles and spooky music- it's a gaming moment I'll never 
 forget. 
  But the whole game is full of such moments, all darned 40 hours of it, and you'll be left hungry 
 for more. Admittedly this is about as far as Nintendo can go without innovating a little more for 
 the next title, but for now, who cares? It's this game I'm reviewing, not the future of the series.
 
  The only flaws to Zelda: Twilight princess are perhaps the nostalgic presentational elements, 
 which some may argue are too retrospective, and there's the occasional blocky texture- but these 
 rarely detract from the fun.
  Should I be reviewing this game bureaucratically (as I feel Gamespot have unjustly done) it wouldn't 
 manage a 9.5, because the good points weighed up against the bad points simply don't tell that 
 tale. But I feel that games that are this complex, that have had so much put into them deserve 
 a more complex review, and overall, I feel there is no great addition to Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 that would improve it constructively. It's a magnificent title that grows on you and leaves you 
 hungry for more. If this doesn't make you glad you own a Wii, nothing will. 
  
  Summary:
  
  Good Points- A beautifully told plot with believable characters; superbly tweaked gameplay 
 with excellent utilization of the Wiimote; great variety of gameplay; solid, proficient graphics 
 that are excellent artistically; with 40+ hours of gameplay, it's the longest in the series and 
 is far longer than most of its rivals.
  
  Bad points- Some nostalgic presentational elements with the occasional blocky texture.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  This Game Is A Memorable One, A Fantasy, Action & Adventure Game, This Game Is A Reminder Of How 
 Zelda Was Back In N64 Days, A Great Game, Amazing Storyline, Okay Combat System And A Great Challenge 
 For Any Gamer!
  
  Lets Start With The Graphics!, They Are Quite Great At Times, But Sometimes Then Can Be Dodgy Overall 
 They're Really Stunning And Make The Zelda World More Beautiful Then Ever Before ( 9.0 )
  
  Now The Audio, Ahh The Audio Is A Blast With The Sword Clunks And Sounds Coming Out Your Wii Remote 
 Speakers And Monsters Roaring Etc It Makes The Game Come To Life In The Room ( 10.0 )
  
  Now The Combat, Hmm The Combat Is Quite Good, A Little Bit Unreal In A Bad Way As The Sword Doesnt 
 Follow Your WiiMote And It Just Seems A little Easy At Times, The Fighting Just Isnt A Challenge 
 At Times The Puzzles And Challenges Are What Really Makes This Game As Hard As It 
  Is. It Has great New Attacks Like Hitting With Your Shield Flipping And Hacking Over The Enemy 
 Etc.
  
  It Is Packed With A Nice Storyline, Great Open World, Plenty Of Cool Extras Like Fishing, Archery, Swimming 
 & Horseback Riding The Game Is Set Out Like Quests But You Must Do Them In Order Sortive, This 
 Is A Very Very Long Game, With Many Challenges and temples Which May Be Hard For Some And Even 
 Harder For Others, This Game Seems To Be underappreciated By Some Only By People Who Have Not Given 
 It A Real Chance, TP Is A Great Game And Is Definitly A Game For Wiiowners And Gc Owners To Buy 
 A. s. a. p.
  
  I Can Recommend This As One Of The Best Zelda Games, Im Very Unsure Because OOT Seems To Be Everyone's 
 Favourite But Im Sortive Tied Between OOT And TP And Then Majora's Mask After As It Is Another 
 Zelda Great! 
  
  Anyone Willing To Try Out A New Game, Or Zelda Fans Not Played This Yet Then Im Telling You Get 
 This Immediately!
  
  Real Score 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersbrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been hooked on to Zelda since I first played Oracle of Seasons. I also played OoT and MM, 
 but i found this game more fun than either of those two. As far as the story goes, its basically 
 the same as OoT but Midna and the Twilight gives it a nice twist. Speaking of the twilight, I found 
 being in it the most annoying part of the game. The music could have been better and when is Nintendo 
 finally going to put some voice acting in the game? The whole "Link is supposed to be you" thing 
 seems kind of overrated to me and I wish they would let him talk, and if not him, at least everybody 
 else. But aside from all of that, i love slashing with the Master Sword with the wiimote and i 
 enjoyed the final battle with Ganondorf more than the OoT one. Twilight Princess is a crazy game 
 that I'm glad i got for my Wii and anyone with a Wii should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tight-Knots
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Oh gosh, where to start... it was okay, it you have one of the cheap original wii motes, you might 
 have trouble. Okay story-line, Link is sexier than ever, Zelda has a nice, new color pallet. It 
 was fun, but not the best. I enjoyed the "challenge," but the bosses are easy and I hate all the 
 spiders... but it was an awesome experience, and I will get the next in the series. I do recommend 
 this. But on a biased note, I was sort of repetitive, lots of back-tracking, and boring at times; 
 having to warp somewhere for a silly five second or so task... it was okay either way. Nice characters 
 (Midna) , too! A decent experince, if you enjoy action-adventure RPG-ish games, this is a must buy. 
 New time Wii owners, this would be a good start for you. To be honest, I would never have been 
 playing this game if it wasn't in my wii bundle and having a golden disc. A guide is recommended 
 for this game, due to its tons and tons of items to collect and its huge map. Everyone can enjoy 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  legend of zelda twilight princess was a very easy game to beat, and was the easiest zelda games 
 to get all 20 heats in. even ganondorfs 4 forms were not even hard. but this game completely took 
 me by surprise. the graphics are the best out of all the zelda games. and link looks alot better 
 without being mini and pixelated. i love this game but they still could of made it easier. but 
 overall the storyline is great and anyone can enjoy it, even though the music is stupid and annoying. 
 but its a great game.
  
  spoilers: midna is the twilight princess, zelda gets possesed by ganon, and theres new and old 
 foes.
  
  cheats:1) when you face ganons last form swing your fishing rod at him and he will stair at the 
 hook, that gives you a chance to strike him multiple times.
  2) when you have the hookshot go to a sunny place and look down with your hookshot ( your shadow 
 wont be there) (aqae) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHAUGHNZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  General comments: 
  In The new installment Of the Zelda series, you will get lost in Faron Woods, Get Dirty in the 
 Goron mines and get into heaps of battles to save Hyrule from the darkness creeping across the 
 land and the Twilight realm. Twilight princess has A great Storyline, Great Artistic Graphics and 
 that same old charm that makes you want to play Zelda over and Over and Over again.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 / 10
  The single player campaign is long and is heaps of fun. Along your adventures 
 you collect items, weapons, bugs, play mini games and travel between 2 worlds. There's a big range 
 of enemies, From Giant Spiders to Magical Orc type creatures and plenty of Landscape for you to 
 explore like Fiery Mines and Icy Caves. 
  
  Graphics: 9 / 10
  The Artistic Graphics are exceptional for a game on the Wii, The lighting is great and there's 
 a vibrant colour scheme. In My Opinion, The graphics in this Wii game should set the benchmark 
 of how the graphics should be in other Wii games.
  
  Controls: 8.5 / 10
  The use of controls in Twilight princess is great. When you want to attack, you swing the Wii remote 
 side to side. There's a lot of combos and different attacks that you can do using buttons and by 
 swinging your Wii remote or Nunchuck. 
  
  Sound: 7 / 10
  The sound on Twilight princess is alright. It would be a lot better if it wasn't as repetitive 
 and if they had more than 3 or 4 songs. The sound that comes out of the Wii remote isn't always 
 on time and can turn on and off at its own will.
  
  Overall rating: 9.5 / 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalscowboys22
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Zelda has stood the test of time and been my favorite game series. But this one is a big dissapoitment. 
 the entire idea of the wolf is stupid and even so its the worst part of the game when you play 
 as him. There is no magic or hookshot for that matter as well. and i only have the 3 swords a wood, 
 ordon, and master. why no other weapons like the gorons sword? Presentation of the game is not 
 so hot, some areas look good but theres just no vibrant colors. and the gorons mountain looks stupid. 
 Little to none difficulty level as well and bosses are a joke.
  
  even after that i do enjoy the controls for it and i am enjoying the game. I just wish there would 
 be more, where are the other weapons or previous items from the zelda games like different tunics. 
 there are a few new puzzles but pretty much if youve played zelda before you can beat this game 
 no problem. If you are new to zelda i would reccommend this game though because the story is there 
 just could have been better after playing other zeldas. And also there is nothing really to do 
 and no charcters to really interact with. i feel like theres no side-quests just searching for 
 pieces of hearts (which now you have to collect 5) and bugs. This game could have been much better 
 and im looking forwards to what they will do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqurer6493
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Good game overall, very good graphics, as well as the horse-back combat system... but still, I 
 can't help but think that the people who have been waiting for a true sequel to Ocarina of Time, 
 instead of just a Timeline completion like Wind-Waker (said game finishing the Past/Child Timeline) 
 probably felt rather let down, as did I. However, this is still a good Zelda game in its own right, 
 for one, the Wii's rather strange Wii-Mote and Nunchuck setup didn't ruin the controls, nor did 
 the motion-sensing feature. the storyline is a bit more invovled than last time, with less focus 
 on ganondorf, and more focus on a secondary villain, as well as your assistant-fairy-substitute 
 having previous association with said secondary villain, as opposed to having little-to-no history 
 provided with the main villain, as was done with ganondorf, assuming that his inherent popularity 
 and previous apperances would speak for themeslves. However, there are some things that could have 
 been changed aside from the main plot. For one, there could have been an extra dungeon, given the 
 fact that you needed the three spiritual stones and the 7 additional sages in OOT, but in twilight 
 princess you only needed three fused shadows and four mirror shards, plus zant's castle, which 
 brings the total to a less-than-wanted 8, as opposed to the 10 presented in Ocarina of Time. Not 
 to mention the lack of an included music system playing a major role as it did in wind waker as 
 well as the N64 Pair of games, whereas the only thing that you can do with music in Twilight Princess 
 is use it to activate stones which will give you the location of a place to learn a skill, or call 
 your horse. Now really, shouldn't the skills be better hidden than a musical stone in an obscure 
 location? and what's more, the notes are more limited as well. In short, they could've done a LOT 
 better had they stuck to the original formula of "Links Return to Hyrule" as opposed to creating 
 a followup to the future timeline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marioman42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh... the refreshment of having a good old series continue to rock! And having the same feel, 
 items and the perfect mixture of Action Adventure and Puzzle. And of course Link's reincarnation 
 is as beastly as before (But God i wish he could turn into Fierce Deity Link!!!) and his skills 
 are there but forgotten. This game doesn't bring many NEW NEW things to the series except a few 
 items, control scheme, characters, and of course a new story line. Wait, there is some awesome 
 new mini games to such as fishing snowboarding and canoing. Fans of the series will deeply appreciate 
 this game's boldness into the unknown, but non-vets of the series may get a little confused. But 
 who cares about the newbs? Of course you have the regular items like the Master Sword and bombs 
 and arrows and so on and so forth. But there are some new features to some of the items. For example, 
 there are more variety of bombs, and you can combine the bombs with the arrows to make bomb arrows. 
 There are now 2 hookshots. But the game rocks, bottom line. But still not as good as Ocarina of 
 Time! (BEST GAME EVER!!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  You could argue that Twilight Princess doesn't do much different from the precedent Zelda games, 
 but it does NOT mean that this game is boring whatsoever. It's the winning formula of Zelda games. 
 You get a young man from a small village who has to save the land of Hyrule from an evil curse 
 and, of course, the princess Zelda. To achieve this, he has to go through multiple obstacles (mainly 
 dungeons) using various weapons, suits and items. The new thing about this game is the wolf part 
 of it, which makes it quite interesting and innovative. I loved the fact that the game was very 
 long, as it took me a tad more than 50 hours to complete it with all the hearts (I think 45 pieces 
 to form 9 hearts) . I also loved the fact (maybe that's just me) that you could fight that much 
 on your horse.
  Overall, I think this game was superb, 9.5 out of 10. On the "dark side", it's bound to be the 
 last or one of the last Zelda games built on that same pattern. It felt a bit old school from time 
 to time and I think it's time for a change. Let's wait for E3 2008... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Unlike many other titles in Nintendo's illustrious Legend of Zelda series, Twilight Princess released 
 on multiple platforms. Some regarded this as a strange decision, but doubts were, for the most 
 part, put aside when the game made its debut on Nintendo's Wii console. Featuring improved controls 
 in combat and item use, and a slight graphical boost, the Wii version is the must-buy of the two 
 and one of the strongest titles on the Wii.
  
  The story, as has become the custom in the Zelda franchise, centers around a youth named Link from 
 a small village in (or around, as seems to be the case here) the nation of Hyrule. Link, charged 
 with the task of presenting a gift to the Royal Family of Hyrule, spends a day which one would 
 assume to be filled with anticipation and glee goofing off with small children, fishing, and herding 
 goats. Link's joyous day is soon cut short by the entrance of a mob of goblins who kidnap who appears 
 to be his only friend in his own age group, Ilia. Shortly after Link sets out, however, he encounters 
 trouble and finds himself literally pulled into a twisted dark realm. It's in this place that finds 
 himself transformed into a wolf and imprisoned by horrific creatures that dwell in the darkness. 
 Link's imprisonment is thankfully a short-lived one, as he finds himself sprung from jail by a 
 magical imp called Midna. She agrees to help Link out if he will become her servant and effectively 
 play errand boy for her, acquiring powerful magical objects from temples across Hyrule. As Link's 
 quest wears on, he learns of the evil wizard Zant, who is the cause of the dark realm, or Twilight, 
 spreading across Hyrule; Zant, it seem, also has some unknown connection with Midna. Link and Midna's 
 quest gradually expands and takes them to all reaches of Hyrule in order to defeat the evil wizard.
 
  
  Twilight Princess still has the core Zelda gameplay in mind, and that much is obvious when you 
 begin playing. Varied items, expansive dungeons filled with enemies and usually containing an important 
 item and ending in a dramatic boss fight. However, there are some differences of slight import 
 to make note of before playing; most of them are welcome changes, of course, but there are a couple 
 minor discrepancies. 
  
  Most noticeably, the B button no longer controls your sword; that's given way entirely to motion 
 controls. Admittedly, the Wiimote sword combat can be fun, in spite of its being fairly shallow. 
 One noteworthy side effect to make note of insofar as the Wiimote combat goes is that the Wii release 
 is a complete mirror image of the Gamecube version, so Link is now wielding his sword in his right 
 hand; this is to make the game less disorienting for the roughly 90% of gamers, who are right-handed. 
 It affects nothing, except in the way that it might take some getting used to if you'd already 
 played the Gamecube version first.
  
  Another change to the formula is the use of motion controls with the fishing rod and other items, 
 particularly those that require aiming, such as the slingshot and bow. These are now aimed with 
 the Wiimote, and aiming has actually improved greatly in that right. The use of a targeting reticule 
 employed in Wiimote aiming can be at first annoying, but it does help somewhat in aiming, and after 
 a while it's hardly a problem.
  
  Changes aside, the meat of the game remains largely similar to the rest of the franchise while 
 also taking several other elements into account. The dungeons and all puzzles within remaning challenging 
 and confusing, though almost never to a frustrating extent. You'll still end up visiting a lot 
 of familiar sorts of dungeons, like a forest dungeon, a fire dungeon in Death Mountain, and a water 
 dungeon beneath Lake Hylia. It's particularly impressive that Nintendo can come up with so many 
 new dungeon ideas and puzzles after so long, because each dungeon, even the ones in familiar settings, 
 manages to feel fresh and different in virtually every way. As you make your way through each successive 
 dungeon, you'll be above ground for a few segments of gameplay, gathering clues and unraveling 
 more of the plot as you search for the next dungeon. Early on, the bits before each dungeon are 
 lengthened by a segment in which you must restore light to a province of Hyrule by restoring power 
 to a spirit who's been fragmented by "twilight bugs." Eventually, once you get past the game's 
 opening stretches, you'll find yourself venturing into progressively more interesting areas, like 
 the desert and even into the sky.
  
  Most dungeons make liberal use of both the items you gain within them and the items you already 
 possess, though Twilight Princess still seems to suffer from that age-old Zelda clich of the "dungeon 
 item" in question only ever being of real use in the place in which you found it and against the 
 boss of the dungeon. This has been remedied to some degree by the use of many dungeon items like 
 the Spinner and Rod of Dominion in attaining several Heart Pieces and hidden Rupees, and the Spinner 
 is even used occasionally in later dungeons. Still, on the whole, cool as some of the items are, 
 they seem to just have that niche segment in which they're useful before being tossed into Link's 
 massive carry-on storage.
  
  On the subject of awesome items, Twilight Princess goes all out with a wide array of bizarre items 
 and attachments. You'll receive the typical items, such as a bow, a slingshot, bottles, and bombs. 
 But that wasn't enough, it seems, as Nintendo's thrown in new items like a massive ball and chain 
 that's slow to fire but effectively destroys anything it hits, a binocular add-on for the bow that 
 allows you to zoom in on targets, and a rod that allows you to control statues and use them to 
 solve puzzles, pass or destroy obstacles, and kill enemies. Granted, these are only a few of the 
 new items; there are two new types of bombs, and the familiar boomerang can now pull and throw 
 objects in its path as well as locking onto multiple targets, as well as Link eventually gaining 
 a second grappling hook item (late in the game as it is, this particular item is fun and very useful) .
 
  
  The similarities in fighting to previous Zelda releases will be immediately evident. You hold the 
 Z Trigger to lock on, and from there you can circle, jump in various directions, and use the A 
 Button to perform certain attacks and finishing blows. As mentioned before, however, the combat 
 in Twilight Princess has been changed in many ways, both actually and superficially. First of all, 
 the B Button now dictates item usage rather than sword combat. This may be a little awkward to 
 settle into at first, but the use of gestures to control sword swings works much more effectively 
 in the long run, despite not being a very refined method (a simple twitch means a swing in whatever 
 direction Link feels like at the time, regardless of what you might have done) . A little more annoying 
 still, the motion controls can occasionally be unresponsive or finicky. You might find yourself 
 trying to execute a shield shove by thrusting the Nunchuk forward and end up doing a Spin Attack 
 instead. In spite of the minor setbacks with the sword combat, Twilight Princess's combat is a 
 fun and refreshing take on the old formula, and one can only wonder how much more strongly this 
 will be implemented in the next installment.
  
  Fun though the combat may be, most enemies are fairly easily dispatched through the use of manic 
 Wiimote swinging, and it doesn't often feel rewarding when you clear a room full of weak and bothersome 
 enemies. In lieu of this, there are a lot of enemies you'll run into who are not so easy to kill, 
 and can be quite a pain to dispatch when there are several other monsters present. Sometimes you'll 
 have to roll around behind an enemy to get a shot at their back before damaging them, sometimes 
 you'll have to stun enemies and finish them off with bombs, and others will require you to remove 
 their armor before you can harm them at all. The bosses, while generally pretty easy, throw a lot 
 of new things into the mix. Perhaps one of the best things about them is that most fights are on 
 a much grander scale now, throwing you into huge chambers against colossal monsters that fill the 
 screen. Each boss fight has its own unique twist, usually involving you using the item you gain 
 in the dungeon in some way to stun or damage the monster.
  
  Of course, Twilight Princess also has an ample supply of sidequests and minigames, most of which 
 are fairly rewarding. There are familiar collection quests like the Golden Bugs and Poes, and fishing 
 has made its return as well. You can also play the high-flying circus game which earns you larger 
 quivers, and there are also several hidden bomb bags that raise your storage capacity. The Gerudo 
 Desert also sports a 50-floor survival mode dungeon called the Cave of Ordeals, which adds unique 
 effects to springs scattered across Hyrule, giving them healing properties, filling them with fairy 
 spirits, and so on. The volume of sidequests actually seems to have diminished a bit from Majora's 
 Mask and Wind Waker, despite still being a healthy number, but the fun factor of many of them makes 
 up for it.
  
  Twilight Princess makes up for its uneven graphics by having an absolutely superb art direction, 
 which is good, considering some of the visuals are relatively modest (you can pick up a few rough 
 edges here and there, and some muddy textures throughout some of the areas) . The effects on Twilight 
 Princess's water are nicely done, for the most part, and the real-time shadows are also fairly 
 efficient, only rarely projecting in strange or unexpected ways. All of the environments look great, 
 especially some of the later provinces and dungeons, and the oft-visited Twilight Realm has a hauntingly 
 beautiful quality to it.
  
  The actual gates to the Realm are huge burnt orange walls, covered with odd symbols that look as 
 though they've been drawn on in charcoal. Portals that open up in the sky have a computerized sort 
 of sci-fi quality to them as they flicker into being during events, and a similar effect is used 
 when you teleport from place to place. Your body dematerializes into a cluster of small black squares 
 and reintegrates itself when you teleport to your destination. The effect is very cool, but it 
 pales in comparison to the eerie splendor of the Twilight Realm itself. The whole world of Hyrule 
 looks as if it's being shown through a bright orange filter, and all other colors become over-saturated, 
 while a heat-distortion effect twists the landscape and strange ribbons of light criss-cross the 
 air. Twilight Beasts are also some nasty-looking creatures. Some look like hulking quadrupedal 
 aliens with shield-like faces, while others look like huge vultures with a trumpet-like maw where 
 their heads would be.
  
  The various people and animals in the game are nicely animated. Facial expressions are especially 
 nice, and the characters emote very well in their situations. Occasionally, an expression will 
 look rather stiff, but for the most part all of the characters are very expressive of emotions, 
 and a lot of the cutscenes let you genuinely sympathize with them when they feel sadness or anger. 
 Even Link's wolf form seems to very well convey emotion, which is something of a feat in itself.
 
  
  The sound of Twilight Princess has been described by some as dated, and to an extent this is true. 
 Some sound effects from previous games have been re-used, and some of them do sound a bit dated, 
 but on the whole the effects are pretty good, and a lot of the monster noises sound unique and 
 disturbingly real as well. One thing of particular note is that a Zelda title once again lacks 
 any real voice acting. One can let go the fact that Link doesn't have any spoken lines, because 
 that's the stylistic approach Nintendo's taken with him for over a decade, but the lack of voices 
 for every other character in the game is an obvious discrepancy, and one that takes away from the 
 experience in a time when voice acting is considered to be the norm for games in general.
  
  The soundtrack is an impressive one, and influences from older Zelda titles in some of the 
 tunes is evident. Twilight Princess has a strong mix of old songs and new scores by Koji Kondo, 
 all fitting their assigned areas and moments perfectly, Midna's Lament and Hyrule Field being prime 
 examples of the two. The boss themes are masterfully done, and there's even a unique score that 
 plays whenever you land a string of hits on the boss and knock them down. In spite of the fact 
 that Twilight Princess has yet another great soundtrack, the fact that it's not a full digital 
 recording and is once again synthesized music takes a great deal away from the impact. Zelda's 
 soundtracks have always been made for orchestra, and the fact that it hasn't already made the transition 
 into full digital recording is disappointing.
  
  All things considered, the discrepancies and blemishes of Twilight Princess hardly hurt the overall 
 presentation. It's easily one of the best titles on the Wii as well as one of the best in the Zelda 
 series. It's hard not to love the interesting characters and premise, the challenging puzzles, 
 and the enhanced visuals, and even though this game isn't exactly what many would call as amazing 
 as previous installments, it's still a marvel in its own right. Fans of the series will find a 
 lot to love here, as Twilight Princess strays enough from the formula while also keeping to its 
 roots in a way that lends itself perfectly to the series as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Zelda, Twilight Princess was the game to watch, it was the game that was set to be the first major 
 wii game, and so people tuned in to what was happening to get a taste on what was to come.
  As a Zelda veteran, you play the games and when you find a slightly worse one or a better one you 
 make quite a big deal about it, despite GS's review, this is one of the series games that should 
 be raved about, it looks good, and utilises the Wii's controls very well, while still making every 
 use of the buttons on the Wii.
  
  Its graphics are very well presented, and they feel a lot better if you just played Wind waker, 
 a cartoony look, then going to what is a very dark, detailed and precise look, and world.
  
  The sound is very well done. classical Zelda formula. The music while sounding familiar, is 
 new, along with variations from previous games, 
  
  Its an overall very enjoyable game that shouldnt be missed by anyone with a Wii and especially 
 if you like GOOD games, 
  it once again shows that even in years to come Zelda will be one of the ultimate franchises although 
 there are some fanboys out there that think Zelda sucks because it isnt about shooting people, 
 breaking into peoples cars or firing a needler at the flood. 
  Good game Nintendo, good game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Twillight Princess is probably the most entertaining Zelda game yet, it features Link from his 
 childhood as he takes a trip to Hyrule where in the castle is the princess, Zelda. In the game 
 you get to ride Epona, Link's horse and ride along Ordon Village with Epona or just on foot collecting 
 rupees and buying things or just talking to the townspeople. 
  
  The graphics may not be impressive, but for a 2006 game on the Wii, they are pretty good. At least 
 they are bareable and sometimes they are very spectacular. Link this time can also swim and pick 
 up leafs and whistle through them to call Epona or call a bird. With Epona, you can use weapons 
 also, start shooting slingshots at targets while riding to improve your aim or use your sword to 
 kill your enemies. Link can carry upto 3 items in his inventory. He has a chidhood allowance wallet 
 filled with 300 rupees. If you buy honey or take honey from the hive of the bees by scooping it 
 into an empy cup, you can drink it to revive your health. Use the sword by moving the Wii remote 
 and Nunchuk in different patterns. 
  
  Enemies respond quickly and are fun to fight, the mutant plants are very vicious. The game features 
 a whole story of the legend of Zelda. Levels and places are beautifully designed and are fun to 
 explore. Zelda may not be so easy to figure out, but it still keeps you entertained for as long 
 as it runs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is on both the Wii and the Game Cube (GC) . It takes the player through about 
 40 hours of game play for most, but if you want to do the side quests, it can take up to 60 hours. 
 This game is packed with content, the single player is amazing, the graphics are very good on some 
 areas, but some parts look like a GC launch title. Supporting 16:9 wide screen on HDTV's this is 
 one of the most impressive Wii games out there. In the game you can shoot arrows, ride a horse, 
 turn into a wolf, battle these massive bosses, and more. It all supports the Wii mote and Nunchuck, 
 but not any other controllers like the GC and classic. The sound in the game is also very nice, 
 the soundtracks are loud and sharp and makes you feel like you are in the game. Twilight Princes 
 does not have a Mutiplayer component, but it is one of the better titles for the Wii that launched. 
 All in all this is a great game, and every Wii owner should have this for their system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  ..::The Good::..
   Great Puzzle designs
   Offers a huge open landscape for exploration.
   Visually impressive, especially for a Wii title.
   Will last you a good 30 + hours.
  
  ..::The 
 Bad::..
   No orchestrated soundtrack, midi tracks used in place for the main case.
   Difficulty level feels a little too easy compared to previous Zelda titles.
   Can feel a little 
 dated at times.
   Hasn't changed much from previous titles in the series.
  
  The first Zelda launch title ever. Being a launch title, some believed that it could be rushed 
 and ruined, yet Twilight Princess is honestly more of a port. 
  
  Before I start, I must point out that the only difference between the Gamecube and Wii versions 
 is, aside from the obvious control difference, the Wii version is basically a mirrored version 
 of the G'cube. Personally I prefer the Wii version after playing both myself.
  
  100 years after Majora's Mask, Twilight Princess tells the story of Link, a young farm boy working 
 in Ordon Ranch. Link is called by his village mayor to deliver a sword to Hyrule Castle, but, as 
 you may have guessed, things don't turn out as planned.
  
  Link's friend (and possible love interested) Llia, her brother Colin and some other kids of the 
 village get captured and as Link pursues the captors, a finds himself infront of a giant black 
 monolith that sucks Link into the realm of Twilight, changing his body into the form of a wolf. 
 
  
  As you may have guessed, the story this time round is far more darker than in previous Zelda titles, 
 including intriguing plot twists and a great cast of characters, each with their own personalities. 
 
  
  Once in the Twlight Realm, Link will meet up with Midna, a strange being residing in the Twilight 
 itself. Midna teams up with Link leading to the ability of transforming from Link to Wolf Link 
 whenever you wish, as long as a crowd of NPC's are not present though. This of course leads to 
 deep and interesting puzzle designs. 
  
  The motion controls of Twlight Princess work rather well with only a hic up every once in awhile. 
 Swing the Wii Remote makes Link swing his sword either left or right. When locked on to any enemy, 
 via the Z button, you can perform a jumping strike by pressing 'A', or thrust your Wiimote forward 
 for a stab attack. Shaking the Nunchuck initiates Link's classic spin-attack. The controls do make 
 the whole expierence more immersive and do the job, but could have had a new level of depth added 
 for more realism.
  
  Like in previous titles, Link has a whole rang of trusty items at his disposal. This time though, 
 they are far easier to access and use thanks to the Wii's motion and pointed controls. 
  
  Plowing your way through the main game will take a good 30 hours, but collecting all the golden 
 bugs, poe souls and other side-quests up for grab will surely boost your playtime by a good 10 
 or so hours. You really will get your moneys worth. 
  
  One thing I must complain about though is the choice of using MIDI's instead of having a complete 
 orchestrated soundtrack. A minor flaw that can be looked over. 
  
  The difficulty of Twilight Princess has definitly been ramped down, compared to other titles in 
 the series. Appealing to a more casual side of things.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess delivers as the next installment of the Zelda series, offering unique 
 controls, a great art-style, an immersive story and an enjoyable experience. A must have for any 
 Wii owner out there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game is truly great. I only have one complaint and it would be that I am pretty dissapointed 
 with the Zelda games repeating themselves all the time. 
  
  """"SPOILER BEWARE TELLS YOU ABOUT LAST BOSS"""""""
  
  The first example of how they do it 
 is everygame is about saving a princess named Zelda and fighting a last boss named ganondorf.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  NO MORE 
 
  
  Cmon how long are they gonna be repeating themselves like that. So far there have been only like 
 2 Zelda games with a different boss oracles of seasons and the other one one game boy. 
  
  Overall apart from that the game is amazing. Another thing I found hard is when in ghost form the 
 black and grey background gets pretty annoying and fighting the black minions of zant is pretty 
 annoying as everytime you meat them you just have to kill them the same entire way over and over 
 again. And again, you will have some problems with going thought some passages in the game like 
 I did, but overall it is a great game with lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is an amazing Zelda game. You start off as a young boy who lives in his small, 
 happy village. Here you will learn how to ride your horse, sword combat, fishing, and many other 
 things. This part of the game is quite slow, but once you get passed it, it's worth it.
  
  The village children are kidnapped and you must go look for them. But before you can do anything 
 you are sucked into the world of Twilight. There you become a wolf instead of a mere spirit, marking 
 you as the chosen one. You will meet your partner, Midna, a resident of the World of Twilight who, 
 at the beginning of the game, only cares about her world and ridding it of its evil ruler, Zant. 
 You'll eventually come to like Midna, and grow very attached to her. With her you set off to free 
 the world of twilight and figure out what is wrong in the overworld.
  
  This game is LONG. And after that, you have tons of sidequests to do and items to obtain. You definately 
 get your money's worth here.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, they put the Wii's hardware to work to create beautiful, vast lands 
 to explore. Oh, and there's no backdrop.
  
  There are 8 main dungeons in this game, each asking you to use a specific item to get yourself 
 around. The bosses at the end of each dungeon are huge and the battles are epic. You fight everything 
 from a Crazy Monkey to a Giant Dragon.
  
  The story is engaging and makes you want to play more to see what's going to happen next.
  
 
  The music is as amazing as ever. From soothing tunes to epic, you'll want to go and listen to 
 the music over and over again.
  
  A big part of this game is the ability to turn into a wolf. This plays a big part in the games 
 combat. The wolf is fun, but in my opinion overall annoying. He has 3 basic attacks and that's 
 it.
  
  Overall this game is amazing, and you'll want to come back to it when you're done. I reccomend 
 this game to any Nintendo, RPG, or Zelda fan. 
  
  BUY IT NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Great game! I have always been a fan of Zelda and I always will. This game was a wonderful addition 
 to it's collection. 
  
  Now let's get down to the heart of the matter...
  The graphics were not up to par. Would a little more color have killed someone? I understand it 
 fit the landscape, but still. It really had a low budget look to it. 
  I beat the game and about fell over with disappointment. After the credits I truly expected so 
 much more. Where were my adoring fans? I should have been able to wander around the land being 
 revered for my heroic victories. I should have been invited to the castle for a celebration like 
 no other. I morphed into a wolf for these people! That had to be a little uncomfortable to say 
 the least! But alas, nothing. No white doves were released or even a little balloon or a single 
 fire cracker lit. 
  Let us ponder how much I'm going to care when Gannon returns... and he will. Oh, yes, he will return.
 
  
  I know that it's a bit narcissistic of me to want the credit I so richly deserve after what I have 
 done for these commoners. But, I do! 
  So these are a couple things I would have improved on. Maybe a few extra bonus finds after the 
 game for good measure. I want it all people, I want it all. At $50 a pop, I expect it all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-low1095
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the ideal Zelda game for a beginner player that wants 
 to learn more about the huge Zelda universe. This is considered by few to be the greatest game 
 in the series, but with the lack of depth in the story line with few side quests, this game is 
 not as good as it could be with the year that it was delayed. Many Zelda fans where annoyed with 
 such a delay, but then thought that this would be for the best, because they thought that Nintendo 
 was expanding the Twilight Princess world. This delay was only issued to give Nintendo time to 
 put the game onto the Nintendo WII. 
  
  The world that this game is centered on is considerably larger then previous games. But this large 
 world was also a pain to move through before you are given the ability to warp zone to zone.
  
  Over all, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a good game, but if you compare it to The 
 Ocarina of Time, or even Majora's Mask, it does not stand up in depth. I give this game an 8.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shants
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I only knew of Link and Zelda through the TV cartoon series of Mario because I never had a console 
 when I was a kid. But when I got my Wii, this is the only game so far that had me hooked on it 
 for hours. (I had 10 other games) I cannot wait to go home everyday to play this game... even my 
 wife notices that I have been spending too much time on the Wii. She's been telling me that I have 
 spent lesser time with her since I played this game. Now I try to balance my time. hehe :)
  
  I have always loved RPG and so far, am liking the story. The quest are challenging but not 
 to difficult... they are just right for the game. For me, the graphics is good although I wish there 
 were more speeches in the game rather than the "oohs" and "aahs".
  
  This is a chance for me to catch up with my childhood since Mario and Zelda are only stories to 
 me from my peers when I was a kid. If you like RPG, then you should give this game a try. (even 
 if you don't know zelda) .
  
  Great game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game brought so much nostalgia to me as a seasoned Legend of Zelda fan. I was surprised that 
 there were many new ideas for boss battles compared to the usual past 'remakes' but those were 
 excellent non the less. Even though the new weapons were fantastic, i still miss the magic wand 
 or fire wand. I LOVED THE DARKER TONE to this game, I mean never in zelda history as any one other 
 than Link or his relatives be harmed. Children and women are not safe to violence either. This 
 Hyrule is epic and impressively massive, with dungeons that go one forever, and i like the fact 
 that the water temple was just as challenging now as it was back in Ocarina of Time. Puzzles are 
 great. The best part is that there is plenty of side missions. Collecting hearts, bugs, poes, even 
 just riding Epona thru the vast fields of Hyrule is just enough time to waste and marvel at this 
 great game. I recommend this to anyone who is a Zelda fan, a Wii owner, or even someone who likes 
 an adventure game. Buy it NOW if you wish to be entertained no matter what the age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Great graphics, makes the game alot more enjoyable
  -The storyline is good
  -Controls are easy, so no mistakes will be made by mere control problems
  -No boring parts; Keeps 
 on going at a steady pace (except for bosses)
  -Music is fitting to the game.
  
  The Bad:
  -Uh... Er... I'm not sure now that I think about it
  
  Overall: Twilight Princess 
 is a game for the wii that if you do not have it already, you need to get it, because it is arguably 
 the best Zelda game (Besides the Ocarina of time) . The game rarely disappoints, and all of the 
 music is fitting in the situations. Great items used in the game, and it will seem like the game 
 goes on and on, because there is so much adventure to the game. Now I will skip to the point: The 
 Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a superb game for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zackfair123
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  When I started palying zelda, i played the oracle of ages, it was incredible. A few months after, 
 I got an N64. The first game I got was Ocarina of time, I almost killed myself, the first 3-D Zelda. 
 I of course played the ones in between. When I heard of the wii i still had A G-cube, and I was 
 just going to keep my old G-cube, but then I heard it, Motion sensing controls. I had to get It 
 . Then I got Twilight princess. After beat it, I kept thinking abuot it . so much depth and grace. 
 The graphics are artisticly beautiful, the gameplay is top notch, and the inclusion of a way darker 
 story is great. even two years later, PLAY THIS GAME. Some people don't like Zelda, this game will 
 turn you! If you hate on this review I will put a hit on you, Im dead serious, you think about that! 
 This is Zackfair123 out, bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendudes_2
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I think The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing improvement from Ocarina of Time. 
 I enjoy the nostalgia of Twilight Princess, although some gamers may disagree. That is one of the 
 many reasons I give this game a 10/10. You start as a goat rancher in the peaceful village Ordon. 
 You become an adventurer when you try to save the villages' children. You are pulled into the Twilight 
 Realm, where you become a wolf. And that is not near the excitement you will squeeze out of this 
 game. Now, I must lay out all of the mechanics of the game. 
  
  STORY: 9/10
  I have listed the beginning of the story in my beginning paragraph. The story is the life of a 
 wolf and the life of an adventurer intertwined to make a bittersweet gaming experience. Charming 
 characters of the Legend of Zelda universe are still included in this great game. The only part 
 I find that is noticeably annoying is how the Twilight Realm can be very dragging, but that is 
 only a minor problem.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  I think that this game beats any adventure/RPG game including Final Fantasy, Tomb Raider, Kingdom 
 Hearts etc. (yeah, especially Kingdom Hearts) . Nothing is better than the feeling of clearing a 
 dungeon and beating it's boss, and you are always rewarded with something new in the story mode. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  I disagree with the people who say that the Twilight Princess did not use the Wii's graphics to 
 it's full extent! COME ON! Twilight Princess's graphics are some of the best for the Wii, and I 
 don't hear people complaining about MySims' graphics, and that was released in the Wii's 2nd year 
 of being in stock! I MEAN REALLY! MYSIMS!!! Anyway, I love the beautiful environmental design, 
 and the characters are extremely detailed.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  The music of Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a little borrowed from the Ocarina of Time, 
 but I don't care at all, I never got far into that game, and I therefore didn't hear much of the 
 games music and sounds. But, I think Twilight Princess's music is outstanding. The music really 
 fits your environment, and with so many environments, the result is tons of great background music. 
 For instance, Artibers Grounds is a redead skeleton infested temple that used to be a jail, (it's 
 not as bad as it sounds) and you hear an erie drumming noise mixed with some type of Egyptian music 
 that makes the game suspenseful. Although at times it scares me to the bone. (bum bum, chish) Hah 
 hah, you get it? It's a temple full of skeleton's and I said it scares me to the... never mind.
 
  
  MULTI-PLAYER --
  Being an RPG and an adventure game, there truly is no multi-player. Therefore, I cannot rate this 
 category.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprindle
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I got when we got our Wii. I love this type of game and decided 
 after reading the reviews that it would be a good purchase. I was right, this is a wonderful game 
 with a lot of depth and a ton of side things to do while the game progresses. My wife, who is not 
 a gamer, tried to play it, but got frustrated at the start. She decided to watch while I played 
 to enjoy the beautiful graphics and the story line. From what I read the game can be played through 
 in about 50 hours, but I ended up at about 70 hours after doing a lot of the side items. A lot 
 of the side items in the game can only be accessed as the game progresses and you pick up items. 
 One thing when you playing, keep your ears tuned into the game. There is a certain element when 
 playing that you'll only pickup on if you are listening. You'll know it when you hear it and once 
 you do you'll be glad. I know this is vague, but I don't want to spoil it for other players.
  
  If you are the type that loves to play games that have a wonderful story line this is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majintim
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  the best Zelda game ever in fact i think it the best game period. the music is awesome . the wii 
 control work great .combat . is a pure joy. the addition of on horse combat great. one the best 
 looking launch title. gaming at finest. there always some thing to do. weather the main story or 
 side quests. which never feel like bother. the story is beyond great. the characters have there 
 own personality. well it would have nice for voice acting except link its not needed . link has 
 wide range emotion without saying a word . dungeon just like other Zelda are a pure joy. using 
 the item in new and interesting ways. boss fight are a blast. maybe a tad on the ease side once 
 you find to beat them. but just like the voice over it just nit picking. there also exploring the 
 land hidden items and cave this game is must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you have already played and beat the game already as well, but if for some strang reason 
 you have yet to play it, then GO PLAY IT!!!!! Whats wrong with you!!!! The game is amazing!!!! 
 Don't believe jeff's review, zelda is almost at the top of his game, and it is a must play experience. 
 The games music is incredible as always. Puzzles and conrtols are perfect. It is the longest zelda 
 game to date. And it is nearly perfect from top to bottom. The only place that the game fails is 
 that the visuals aren't up to par on what is expected when playing a zelda game. This is the first 
 time that I have seen nintendo slip-up on a zelda game, because they litterly just ported the gamecube 
 visuals to the wii, which is disappointing. If the visuals would have blown me away, then I would 
 have given it a 10. But sadly the game fails on that one front. But it is still a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  You read the review, huh? 8.8 is not very good. They tell you it is not as good as OoT. They are 
 the man, and we need to stick it to the man. Do not fall under there all seeing eye. They are not 
 Big Brother. Feel the light....
  
  Let me start out by saying that Zelda: Twillight Princess for Wii is my favorite game of all time. 
 Why, you wonder? Well, to make it as clear as possible, I will rate the game in 5 categorys. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay is Twilight Princess is superb. There is so much to do, so many epic boss battles, 
 and free roam content. It is a sandbox non-linear/linear game. It defines the change from linear 
 gameplay to non-linear game play. It isn't the best free roam by any means, but it's a start. Fishing, 
 canoeing, chicken flying, civilian scaring, and balloon popping are only a few of the side quests 
 and mini games incorporated into the game. Fishing is my favorite though, and the funny thing is, 
 the fishing mini-game in Twilight Princess is actually better than ALL the full fledged fishing 
 games avaliable for Wii. Yea, it's true!
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The controls to Twilight Princess make the game even more imersive than any previous Zelda game. 
 Want to slice n' dice some enemies? Swing the wiimote. Want to bury an arrow deep within an enemy? 
 Am with the wiimote, and let it fly! Want to take a break and fish? Cast the wiimote back and forth 
 to cast your fishing line, wiggle your nunchuck to vibrate the lure, and more! The controls are 
 literally flawless! I have yet to this day have one problem with the controls! 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Let me start out by saying, graphics do not make a good game. And while Twilight 
 Princess looks better than any last generation game (PS2/Xbox/Gcube) , it doesn't rival the PS3 
 or 360 in visuals. Admit it, the Wii isn't as powerful. Nonetheless, Twilight Princess looks amazing. 
 Real time, meaning it changes between day and night, and you can sit back and watch the sunrise 
 and set in wonderful 480p Widescreen. The textures are low res, I must admit, but who cares, right? 
 The game is still beatiful and I would go as far as to say the water in the game rivals some 360 
 game water. Sparks are also very bright and vibrant, meaning you WILL be imersed in an expeirence 
 like no other. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  
  The game has an amazingly long lasting appeal. If you are a casual gamer (like me) , I still havn't 
 beat the game, and have an overall play time of 90:00 hours. Amazing, huh? I am still playing it, 
 haven't beaten it, and it has been 90 hours!?!? Holy Crap, you say. Zelda, I say.
  
  In the end, buy it. Buy it now. And if you can't get the game for whatever reason, look to Okami, 
 another great Zelda like game with a twist.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Link is back, and this time he's up against an unknown force. Filled with endless adventure, a 
 demon princess, new villians overflowing with unstoppable power, a huge over world, and the ability 
 to transform into a cursed shadow wolf, this in one of the darkest stories in the Zelda universe. 
 
  
  Filled with great motion sensing controls, the best graphics on the Wii to date, one epic storyline 
 and one of the most killer soundtracks in the series, this game is an instant classic.
  
  People familiar to the series will be in awe at how mature the series has become. Playing as a 
 wolf makes an interesting experiance in the series, and the game closes with one of the most epic 
 boss battles in Nintendo history.
  
  If you own a Wii and don't have this game, then you're missing out on one of the greatest games 
 this generation has seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess follows in the footsteps of OOT but it also builds on it. The gameplay 
 is very similar when controlling Link, you have a sword and a shield and you can assign items and 
 use them just like in OOT. There is one big difference in gameplay however and that is Link can 
 now turn into a wolf. In his wolf form, Link can attack like normal but he can not use any items. 
 Wolf Link can also use his "senses" to see things that normally can not be seen which is helpful 
 when figuring out puzzles and advancing in the game. Just like with every other Zelda there is 
 a ton of puzzles, some of them are very tricky like the puzzle you have to solve to get the master 
 sword. Overall the gameplay is awesome and reminds you a lot of OOT but there is enough differences 
 to keep the game fresh. 
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good in my opinion. In the game the characters faces revel 
 a lot of emotion and the enemies look great. Although I thought the graphics were good, I believe 
 they could have been made a little better on the Wii. The sound is what you can expect from a Zelda 
 game and it helps create the atmosphere very well. Some of the music has been updated from other 
 Zelda games so you might hear something that you recognize. The graphics and the sound helped to 
 create that epic Zelda atmosphere which added to the awesome gameplay.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed this game. It was fun, long, and epic feeling, which is exactly what a 
 Zelda game should be. I would recommend this game to any Wii owner, especially if they enjoyed 
 OOT or Wind Waker. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkSabortooth
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  *Warning the following reviews contains spoilers* 
  
  
  This game as everyone knows is Wii's first hit. With a T rating and no cartoony Link everyone will 
 know that the Zelda series is back. The plot this time is the plot that is in every Zelda game. 
 Someone gets kiddnapped and Link has to rescue whoever it is either family or friend. The thing 
 that makes this game special is the fact that Link turns into a wolf and there is a different villian 
 (well until the end of the game) . Controlling Human ( or elf I honestly don't know what he is) 
 Link is the same as usual except you use the Wiimote to attack. The wolf on the other hand you 
 pretty much have to use the lock on method to be succesful ( good thing this game is rated T because 
 an 8 year old wouldn't remember to target enemies) . The makers of this game also seemed to decide 
 to fix all the problems in this game that were apparent in Wind Waker. For one instead of learning 
 your special fighting moves in the beggining of the game (which makes those moves forgettable) 
 they have you learn piece by piece throughout the game. But to warn you learning new fighting moves 
 is optional but if you don't learn those moves then you wouldn't be able to defeat Zant, Ganondorf, 
 or any of the knights. Another thing that adds spice to this game is battling on horseback. Very 
 fun and exciting the only problem with it is that there isn't enough of it. The only other problem 
 with this game is the bosses. Some of the bosses are worth a challenge, some of them are easy as 
 soon as you figure out the weakness, but the rest are so easy that you just have to think is that 
 it?. So what I'm saying is that the bosses were just too easy and not that fun. So that why I labled 
 the difficulty under easy. Other then that this game is definately worth the wait and your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a fantastic start to the new Nentendo Wii Console. This 
 game is such a wond up version of classic style of gameplay and some new moves with the Wii controls 
 and the whole game. Well, first of all the game starts out a little gloom which dissapointed me, 
 it just didn't feel like normal Zelda gameplay, for a short time I didn't even know I was playing 
 a Zelda game, but before I knew it I was back in the action. The gameplay is so smooth and flows 
 together like clockwork with the fast acting storyline and other new enemies. The game is a truely 
 fun game for any age, and is definetly for a hard core Zelda gammer. They will be amazed with this 
 game and so was I. Anyways, basically you start out by ya some one gets captured and yeah you have 
 to save them, which is usually but that's not it. There is so much to do on the main storyline 
 it will freak you out, plus the whole thing is very exciting. Anyways, Zelda is my all time favorite 
 game series and always will be and this game just made me ten times happier, even though it had 
 some flaws, but very slim flaws. This game is an absolute must have for the Nentendo Wii System, 
 thanks for reading. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgh93_29
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played a legend of Zelda game before you will feel right at home with this one. 
 The only complaint I have isn't really a complaint, but the way the game plays out is generally 
 the same as all of the others but thats what a Zelda game is about right? Anywho, you begin as 
 the nobody Link, like usual. Only this time you seem to be what I'm guessing is an older teen Link 
 through the whole game. After a while of grinding away in your hometown doing favors, cathcin fish, 
 saving animals, ect, you head out on your big adventure. The villains are hatealbe as usual, the 
 new wolf Link adds depth to the puzzle solving, and still retains the old charm. The controls are 
 very tight and really do keep that classic Legend of Zelda feel. The graphics arent as top notch 
 as other zelda games have been on their respective consoles, but the AI is very responsive, the 
 dungeons are long enough to keep you interested but not to long to get frusterating (unless you 
 suck at puzzles) and it is just an all around great LOZ series title. I reccomend the game, and 
 buying a strategy guide if you arent the most advanced puzzle solving dungeon-master out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janlukky
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  gameplay : i only recently finished this game, to me of all the zelda games i played this to me 
 is far the best since nintendo's ocarina of time though i personally haven't finished it, this 
 game makes good use of the wii's controler much like with a swing of your controler you can slice 
 enemies like a real sword battle, nintendo made a good choice about makeing this be one of its 
 many opening titles now i wish that they have remakes of the older games for wii
  
  graphics: graphics looks very close to the final fantasy games on the playstation so what more 
 can you ask for
  
  sound: hmmm..... great sound
  
  overall: since this is the only zelda i completed on my own i cannot comment on the difficulty 
 compared to the others there are occasionally hard puzzles in the game and is worth the price to 
 me 5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet_7
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a great game to play it is fun, a good long game which 
 could go on nearly forever depending on how long you play your wii daily and how quickly you solve 
 the problems. It is the best zelda game yet and im sure there will be a better one on wii and gamecube 
 some time soon.. If your a fan of zelda you should get it. Some areas of the game are brand new 
 to the game and some areas are updated from Zelda Orcarina Of Time like death mountain, lake hylia 
 and kakarikiko villiage and so forth. The story line of the game is zant (the evil boss of the 
 game) is turning the real world in to twilight and your job is to defeat zant as usual.. You have 
 to go through many temples like the water temple, the goron mines, Forest temple, the temple in 
 the sky and more.. 
  
  How you enjoyed the review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmariolink
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I really think it is what Miyamoto wanted to create when he made Ocarina 
 of Time, widely known as one of the best games ever. There is fighting on horseback, and huge graphical 
 improvements. But aside from the obvious stuff, he really managed to create an amazingly interactive, 
 personable Hyrule. The world pops out at you with a slew of side missions that give all the various 
 groups of people in Hyrule a personality, and all this really makes the world real.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Everything you've come to expect, with a few extra tools to add even more depth. 
 The dungeons are unique and terrifically designed.
  
  The combat is good, however at times it feels a bit hack n slashish. Not all the time. Usually, 
 especially later in the game, the variety of enemies and the tools it takes to bring them down 
 is impressive. But every now and then, it just seems like an enemy comes out, you whip out your 
 sword, hack a few times, then move on to amazing puzzles.
  
  The bosses are zelda bosses. Enough said.
  
  Story
  
  Incredible. I don't want to give 
 anything away, but it is great/
  
  Graphics
  Not the best out there. but for the Wii, they are great. There is no technological hindrances, 
 and the game looks and runs great.
  
  Replay
  Try beating it without any extra heart containers!
  
  
  
  This game is a must have. It 
 is the most expansive, best looking zelda game yet. If you like the zelda series, heck, if you've 
 ever even heard of Zelda, get this game. Now!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin4128
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The story is one of the strongest stories that has been told in in LOZ games and in all of video 
 games history. This game has it all Puzzles for braniacs, Acton for hardecore gamers, and fun controals 
 for everyone. the controals are very smooth, but dont use them to its full potental. I really liked 
 doing certain parts of the game in wolf form and then going back as regular Link. This LOZ game 
 certainly had its differences in storyline and items from the traditional LOZ games and yet still 
 kept some of the classic things that appear in themlike light arrows, bombs, boomerang, lantern, 
 etc. There was so many good things about the game to really list here without it being like 20 
 pages long! Every level of the game looked great. LOZ: Twilight Princess is a must have for the 
 Wii, it was defnatly worth it for nintendo to wait for the Wii to come out befor relasing the game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was great right from the get go. I felt that it didn't take long to get the hang of the 
 controls. The story was on of the strongest stories that have been told in video games ever. I 
 really liked doing certain parts of the game in wolf form and going back as regular Link. There 
 was so many good things about the game to really list here without it being like 15 pages long. 
 Each level of the game looked great and really showed off the power of the wii, even though i think 
 there is still more that the wii can do. A wonderful game that I would enjoy playing through many 
 more times. Twilight Princess is definatly a must have game for the Wii. The controls were so smooth. 
 It was definately worth it for Nintendo to wait for the Wii release to launch this game. It is 
 a perfect fit for the Wii. Make more games like this Nintendo because it will definatley be worth 
 your while. Please give me a sequel to Twilight Princess because that story can go on and on and 
 on for at least a few games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleTauren
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Zelda. Ocarina of time is agreed by most reviewers to be the greatest game of all time. I for one 
 don't even think it deserves a 10/10. Anyways, Twilight Princess is what many think to be the first 
 real Zelda game since Ocarina of Time, what with Zelda's main hardcore audience, many of them don't 
 like cute cell-shaded link and Majora's mask wasn't an 'official' Zelda.
  
  So, how does it stack up? Compared to Ocarina of Time it is a VAST improvement. Compared to the 
 wrest of the gaming universe it has probably the best moments in video game history but ALL of 
 that is brought down by the dungeons.
  
  Zelda's plot does the job. Characters develop enough Twilight is evil.... all that crazy crap that 
 you'd find in your typical 40 hour Zelda game. The thing is though, that the game is really just 
 an over-glorified go and fetch quest. The majority of your time is spent in dungeons and pretty 
 much no plot advancements are made at ALL in these dungeons pretty much leaving it to gameplay 
 alone.
  
  Zelda looks very nice. Technically it looks fine but the art is fantastic in the game. All the 
 monster designs are great. Zelda's one of the pioneers of great video game music using memorable 
 tunes and some ok new ones. It doesn't have any orchestral sounds, but you won't really notice 
 or care. All of Zelda's dialog is in text which isn't too bothersome as you won't be reading for 
 too long and its always nice to be able to name Link. I for one like to name him Cloud......
  
  Anyways, Green Elf boy using the Wii-mote and Nunchuck to control which works very well. Although 
 it feels more like you're using an over-glorified button it works fine and in some points it feels 
 pretty good.
  
  Now then, the reason WHY the game didn't get a higher score and why, I actually haven't cared to 
 finish the game. The dungeons. Now, some puzzles are fun but its really just going through the 
 motions for about the first 3 hours or so. Then you get to a Mini-boss, fight him, get a new weapon 
 and solve more puzzles. Some of the new weapons like the Spinner are very fun but most of them 
 fail to shake things up. Then after another hour or so you find a master key and about 20 minutes 
 later you're fighting the boss. These are the best parts of the game and can be EXTREMELY fun. 
 Then, the game does either one of two things: gives you a nice chunk of plot to propel you forward, 
 gives you a nice chunk of plot or another mini-boss to fight outside of the dungeon OR neither. 
 If its neither then, that's when the game goes bad and for all of the above things that can happen 
 once you get to the next dungeon, you'll be done. The game then is so uncompelling that you might 
 not pick it up for another while. Dungeons cut you off from anything and in a bad way.
  
  Mini games are abundant. Some of them are fun and they all use the Wii-mote in a nice way. The 
 game also features you turning into a wolf. The first 3 times its to kill some twilight  
 and then after you do something then you can freely switch from Wolf to Man.
  
  Zelda is a fun game, but only good one dungeon at a time. The dungeons (until about the mini boss 
 and then the final boss) are so painful that this game's score is lowered so much. The game is 
 great is good to pick up if you have a wii but it sticks so much to the Wind Waker and Ocarina 
 of Time gameplay that if you didn't like them, you definitely won't like this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZEPH1ZEN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Well lets start off.. i will give it this - it's a good game. But the fact that its only "good" 
 just shows that it hasn't lived up to the hype. Yes it has good gameplay, some of the best graphics 
 on the wii etc... i could go on. But the fact is, for me anyway, it didnt live up the hype. 
  Maybe it was the fault of the hardcore fans themselves, but as a generally neutral player in the 
 gameplay world i could play it with a unbias view - eg i wouldnt pop it in my wii, see the title 
 screen and think "This is the best game ever made" - and i could see that I've played better. Certainly, 
 in its day, it's predecessor Ocarina of Time is much better than this. Personally, I think its 
 because the world has moved on - more people want FPS' (look at the ps3/360) than action adventure.
 
  The good - Best graphics on Wii, good old Zelda gameplay, some great sounds, used the wii controls 
 well, new features like turning into a wolf!
  The Bad - Same old Zelda gameplay, not bringing much new to the table. Just doesn't live up the 
 hype - its missing something. And theres only so many times the names Link and Zelda can be put 
 into characters with similar but completely different stories.
  
  My Experience - It was my first wii game after wii sports and i figured it was a good buy since, 
 its a Zelda game, and it had loads of hype and was pretty hard to ignore. As my first Single Player 
 game on wii, i found it pretty good - i progressed averagely over 3 hours. And then, the typical 
 Zelda sets in. i got stuck somewhere, I become frustrated, making it even harder to think, and 
 i leave the game for 3 days and comeback and spot a hidden little thing that was actually crucial 
 to the whole game. And of course, its not like your little helper guide will actually HELP you.
 
  I did progress all the way to the end, but at around 60% completion, the story was wearing thin, 
 the dungeons/attacks were samey, with 1 new feature added to try to add variety. If the point was 
 to keep the player going by feeding them the story, then it failed. 
  
  A good game, but thats all it is... Far from the best.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmantony
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Good game loved the game proud of myself for not giving in to the temptation of looking into the 
 guide book. I love the orginaly of the items in zelda games and this one was no exception the double 
 claws was a little disapointing wanted something that let me fly but the game was superb with the 
 items like the zora suit loved swimming. Now for the bad parts, the one that i hated te most was 
 the fishing feature it was a good feature just if ur gonna make it put atleast 50+ diffrent fish 
 not 7 i think it was 7. The other thing that i didnt like was the huge wallet (the last one u get) 
 the most expensive thing in the game doesnt cost too much and the last wallet u get is such a huge 
 amount (forgot how much) and i hate the idea on how u have to get the golden bugs to get a new wallet 
 cause it took me so long to get them all. The fishing thing wasnt the worst it was the suit that 
 takes up all ur rupies, like wats the point of it it costs so much money and for me is absolutly 
 useless. Well this game as good just some things pissed me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Not much to say really, apart from...
  
  LINK! YOU'VE DONE IT AGAIN!!!
  
  This game is great it feels so good to see Links first wii outing, And it feels even better to 
 see how great it is! This game has it all, Puzzles for braniacs, Action for hardcorerers, fun controls 
 for everyone, a great intro for people new to LOZ and a sword for the crazy monkey that lives under 
 your sofa. This game will have you hooked in, what I would call, one of the best LOZ games to date. 
 (OoT still coming up first) Graphics, Gameplay and Ganondorf! You have to get this game!
  
  However there are a few... minuses...
  
  Link being grumpy
  The sometimes repetitive story
 
  an unusually small wallet
  the confusing story
  saving Zelda again
  
  Apart from that this game is alright and a fun thing to do so go out there and buy it or else I 
 will have to call Fluffy on you! I mean it! For a siberean catepillar he's big!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda, over the years, has become one of the most amazing game series of our time. In 
 this new installment, you take control of Link again on a quest to save the world from the twilight. 
 The game fully utilizes the wii's capabilities making it an amazing game. It is really fun to shoot 
 dragons down with your bow and hack goblins with your sword. Also, they allow you to fish, and 
 it is really enjoyable to catch them. The game, like the previous, is extremely long and has some 
 pretty tricky dungeon challenges as well.
  However, you will find that they are far from impossible and you can get through the game with 
 ease. I would highly recommend this game to any zelda fan and newcomers to the series as well. 
 If you have never played a Zelda game i would recommend that you play Ocarina Of Time before, that 
 is the jewel of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__Square
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Well, this game I think, first of all, has a wonderful story and I have no idea why people say 
 it's hard to follow. But, whatever. I think the story is the coolest of any Legend of Zelda game.
 
  
  The difficulty of the bosses and just average goblins and whatnot I think is very disappointing 
 but I was stuck in a lot of dungeons, which evens it out. But it's still overly kinda easy.
  
  And there are no flaws using the Wii remote and nunckuck which is very good. I don't really 
 have anything to say besides that it works great.
  
  And the graphics in Twilight Princess are also great but not extremely great...
  
  I spent 
 over about 40 hours in the full game, but it may take you less time. But it tends to be a very 
 long game. But it's not boring.
  
  And Midna is also a super cool character. It adds alot to the game.
  
  I would really reccomend 
 getting this game, despite it's underwhelming difficulty of boss fights. That really sucks, though. 
 But it's not the only part of the game. Remember that.
  
  P. S. I always have the sound off in the Wii remote since I don't like it, anyway. But I would also 
 reccomend turning the Wii remote sound off, because it really doesn't add to the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pizzaro13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot better for the Wii than it was for the GC. The Wii version is an exact mirror 
 image of the GC version because in the Wii version link is right handed. When i started playing 
 the Wii version i was confused but i got used to it. The storyline is great and it is longer than 
 most adventure games. I highly recommend this game to buy. If you have a Wii this is my #1 pick. 
 The controls are expertly designed and i love the motion of swing the remote to swing the sword. 
 Overall i think this is the best designed game for the Wii ever to hit this platform. If you like 
 old school games this Zelda game is a classic for all ages to enjoy. If you already have the GC 
 version then you can still play this and i think that it is worth the money. There are some new 
 items and temples in this game all which bring something new to the table. The sky temple for example 
 is great and the dragon as a boss uses the hook shot effectively. There are also many side quests 
 which all tie into the main quest line eventually. Personally this game deserves an 11 but the 
 rating only went to 10. If you are considering buying this game you should also consider Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  This was my first game on the Wii when i waited outside of a best buy from about 5 to 7 in a blizzard 
 i finally got the Nintendo Wii and with it this game. I loved it i have been a big fan of Zelda 
 games ever sense Ocarina of time on the NIntendo 64. My favorite in the series is the first game 
 on the original NES. But this game brought a lot to the series such as a new combat mode for the 
 wii Controller and with new graphics it makes the game very enjoyable but you have to get used 
 to the controller sense the last big game for zelda was on the nintendo 64 EXCEPT for the one that 
 was put on the game cube. But over all if you like the Zelda series then you will love this game 
 but if not well i think it would be fun to start with this game. So i highly recommend it except 
 it's an odd story and sometimes hard to follow but over all its a pretty solid game. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  This zelda game is a great game, but i have to agree with the editors of Gamespot. This game is 
 missing some improvements that you would expect to be there. The story is great and the controls 
 work fine, but the free roam that was in the first game is really missing in this one. To make 
 matters worse... there really isnt a lot character interaction as the first. The ability to go 
 and discover things is lost. Graphics are outstanding, and again not enough can be said about the 
 story,... but the lack of voice over gets annoying, plus you never stop feeling like this game 
 took what it wanted from the orcarina of time and disguised it, while throwing the rest away. 
 
  
  I would recommend you download the orcarina of time again for 5 bucks and play it again. Twilight 
 Princess is a must "play" (not a replay game, so after you get the expirience take it back) but 
 not better than galaxy. 
  
  With that said however, the game is one of the best on the wii platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all, don't get me wrong; this is a great game. For those of you who have always loved 
 the Zelda games, this is a worthy addition to your collection. For those of you who have not played 
 them, and you like combination fighting and puzzle games, I would highly recommend this game.
 
  
  Now then; I'll get the things I did not like about this game out of the way first. Mainly, I didn't 
 enjoy the fact that the highly specialized tools made most of the puzzles in the game blatantly 
 obvious; and if the markings didn't give it away, Midna, the imp from the twilight realm that rides 
 on your back as a wolf, does. Although it's great to have a wide variety of cool gadgets, they 
 perhaps should be made less subtle in their usage, and many of them had only one purpose.
  
  That aside, the game provides a great change from the typical Zelda game, which is usually 
 a cookie-cutter of the previous with some new/changed tools and some minor storyline changes and 
 new dungeons. However, this Zelda certainly had its differences in storyline and items from the 
 traditional Zelda games and yet still kept some of the classic things that appear in them all (light 
 arrows, bombs, boomerang, lantern, etc...) . The dungeons are also pleasing to the eye, though somewhat 
 familiar in the fact that there's a forest temple, water temple, fire temple, and temple of time.
 
  
  Combat is somewhat interesting in the game as well. As you progress, you learn new special attacks 
 you may perform while in human form. The combat itself is somewhat fun with some of the same acrobatic 
 moves and attacks from Oricana of Time, with the new addition of various attacks done with the 
 WiiMote and Nunchuck controllers. These make combat far more enjoyable, and with the graphics and 
 decent sound affects, creates an immersive experience.
  
  The wolf form you play as during the game is somewhat interesting, but it still lacks in the fact 
 that it becomes terribly weak in combat later in the game compared to your human form. Some of 
 the abilities you have as a wolf make it an interesting addition to the game, and you are still 
 required to switch between the two in order to advance in the game. It might become weak in combat, 
 but never in the area of problem solving.
  
  A variety of side quests and mini-games are also available for those who like to waste time, and 
 they certainly aren't lacking in volume or play value. These add both fun and value to the game, 
 as you'll be spending some of your time in the main story playing these games as well.
  
  My only final complaint was that some of the puzzles were more annoying than hard or interesting. 
 I won't list them here, but you'll probably know them when you see them.
  
  That said, overall a very solid game; though, it has low replay value since it's not much fun once 
 you have all the puzzles figured out. Adventure fans and puzzle-solvers, this is an investment 
 worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmmjd764
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This one has got to be the best Legend of Zelda game next to Wind-Waker in my opinion. Although 
 Wind-Wakers graphics are more of a cartoonish style, Twilights graphics have much more of a feeling 
 of realism. The controls are very easy to use and are rather incredible as you use your wiimote 
 as a sword among other items. The flawless graphics really push the Wii to its limits. There are 
 many new characters to the story that are a delight to encounter, along with many familiar faces 
 and places from previous Loz chapters. Also there are new unique items that make the game all the 
 better. The difficulty of this game is not too easy but not at all hard to pick up on, trust me. 
 The length of the game is not the longest but nowhere near the shortest. I could definitely play 
 this over and over. Perfect game for your Zelda collection; a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Sharpen your sword. Fletch and nock your arrows. Mount your steed and move out, the long awaited 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is here. Nintendo's silent, Epic Hero Link is back and better 
 than ever. Some say that is perhaps better than the Ocarina of Time, widely considered the best 
 Zelda game ever. Is it? Let's find out
  
  Let's talk about Story, since this is an Adventure game and adventure games are built around stories. 
 Similar to all Zelda games before it, You start out as a young farm boy in a remote forest town 
 (Skywalker, anybody?) named Link (you can change the name, but Link is the default and general 
 given name for the character) . All is well and good until a band of goblins starts reeking havoc 
 and capture you and you fiends, mainly your love, Ilia, and the kids of the town. You learn that 
 the world has been taken over a strange Twilight and once dragged into it, you become a wolf. Yes, 
 a fuzzy little wolf. But soon a strange creature called Midna comes and decides to help you out 
 and get the world back to the way it was. Without giving away to much more, the story is of epic 
 proportions and rivals that of fellow video games like Final Fantasy VII and the Tales of Symphonia, 
 and even movies like The Lord of Rings and (dare I say it?!) Star Wars. There are some good plot 
 twists and you WILL get choked up at the end of all of this. My one and only beef is I would've 
 liked more voice acting rather than just yells and gasps. Could move past text-only, please?!
 
  
  Now controls. I am a firm believer that game play alone makes the game, and I was dreadfully afraid 
 that Nintendo would be idiots and jack-nail the game to fit the Wii. Not so! You don't slash so 
 much as you waggle. That's it. That's all. Waggling for sword slashes is a simple and easy to do 
 maneuver to do while using the nunchuck for movement and lock-ons. Aiming for the Bow and arrows 
 is nothing more than point and click, but some times precise aiming is a chore with out the scope 
 (known as the Hawkeye) , and good aiming in the heat of battle with the scope is difficult and cumbersome. 
 In battle I much more like to lock on and fire than aim, especially when on horseback. But the 
 controls are simple and easy, and that's the way they should be, because once you get the hang 
 of them, it is actually quite fun and addictive.
  
  Now in such an epic game, epic sound is needed. Sound effects are realistic sounding and fit with 
 the Zelda franchise. Maestro Koji Kondo has done it again with music akin to that of Lord of the 
 Rings or the Chronicles of Naria. It is regal a majestic at times, and dark and unsettling at others. 
 The music more than overdoes it with the mood and I love it! It gives it a mature tone to it that 
 I think was long over due when the too kid-ish Wind Waker came out. I personally have no beefs 
 with though my friends have said that he has abandoned the classic Zelda music and ruined some 
 of the songs. But I'm not one to dwell on the past too much so I can put it past me
  
  Now my least favorite section to review: Graphics. But this one made me smile. The light side is 
 bight and colorful. The twilight is dark and oversaturated. Link is heroic and amazing looking. 
 Ganondorf and Zant are evil and crazy looking a hell. All is as it should be. Some people continue 
 to whine about the game looking like "GameCube 1.5" and that the look last-gen. I will admit that 
 if the Wii was the Xbox360 or the PS3, I would be wanting to eat my TV because the graphics look 
 so amazing and tasty, but the Wii's hardware, I think, is pushed to overdrive in this and, for 
 a Wii game, this is the best looking Wii game out there.
  
  Lastly, is replay value. Much like Guitar Hero III, you're pretty much done, once you have beaten 
 the game, that's it. You're done. There is some extra stuff for those completists out there, like 
 getting all the hidden bugs and all the hearts, but there's not a lot. That's all I really have 
 to say about that. It's a one-player adventure, not a party game, so it scores very low here but 
 I'm not going to weigh it as much.
  
  
  So is this game good? Yes. Amazing? Oh God Almighty, yes! Better than the Ocarina of Time? Well, 
 no it's a great game, don't get me wrong! But, it is not the Ocarina of Time, though it may as 
 well be breathing down its neck with how close it is.
  ---------------
  Story: [9.7/10]
  Controls/Gameplay: [8.5/10]
  Graphics: [9.0/10]
  Sound: [9.2/10]
  Replay Value: [5/10]
 
  OVERALL: 9.4
  
  --Trogdor390
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://wiiniis-united. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Until a month ago, i used to say that Legend of Zelda A Link To The Past for the SNES, was the 
 best title i had ever played, after Super Mario Bros 3. Now, all i can say is that The Twilight 
 Princess is the best title I have ever played, after Super Mario Galaxy.
  Most people complain about this game's graphics, saying that they look the same as they would look 
 in Gamecube. Maybe they don't have the best resolution i've seen in Wii, but still, the lighting 
 effects look beautiful, and the artists have put a lot of imagination in the sceneries. The graphics 
 of this Zelda are so atmospherical, that i never actually thought that the game could use a higher 
 resolution as i was playing. As i always say, it's not only the hardware, but it's also how you 
 use it.
  The world where the game takes place is huge, and you will travel through deserts, mountains, grasslands, 
 cities, underwater and even in the sky. You will enter castles, dungeons, other dimensions, and 
 every scenery will look different, having it's own art. You will watch the sun rising, making it's 
 circle in the sky, and then hiding behind the mountains for the night (and crippier creatures) 
 to come. The movement is slowdowns-free, even during intense battles with many foes.
  The audio of the game is classic Zelda, with nice orchestral themes, but with no dialogs. I would 
 like to hear Link talking for a change...
  Gameplay was always Zeldas' bigger weapon, and it's the same if not better in Twilight Princess. 
 You use the Nunchuk to move and defend, and you swing the Wiimote to make Link strike with his 
 sword. There are of course many moves that Link can do, like a round attack by swinging the nunchuk, 
 or a shield attack by throwing a punch with the Nunchuk.
  Also, there is a reason why Link's friends call him Inspector Gadget: You'll get a boomerang, a 
 candle, boots which allow you to walk on the ceiling and walls, flippers, a hammer, bombs, a bow 
 (hold B, aim with the Wiimote, release B, and boom) etc etc etc. Later in the game you'll also 
 have a chance to get new swords, shields and armor. Don't expect that you'll have a wide selection 
 of armor to use for different slots like in World of Warcraft though, you'll get a full body armour, 
 and 3 more later in the game.
  Link also has the ways to travel across the vast environment this time. His horse provides you 
 with a comfortable and safe ride across Hyrule. You can also swing your Wiimote to attack the hopeless 
 enemies, or just run over them, Grand Theft Auto style.
  Anyone of you ever had an astral projection experience? Well, Link actually does, and the reason 
 isn't his Yoga lessons, but a strange female creature he encounters, named Midna. During that state, 
 he leaves the physical world, and enters another dimension. You actually stay in the same area, 
 but instead of the objects and mountains as everyone knows them, you'll see shadows everywhere 
 - even the enemies will be shadows. Also, during that out-of-this-world experience, Link is being 
 transformed into a wolf, giving him greater speed, and new moves. To make things even stranger, 
 Midna is sitting on his back, giving him information, allowing him to execute a charged attack 
 that wipes many enemies at once, and helping him lift obstacles. Link can't use any items during 
 his wolf form though.
  If you get bored of killing enemies, you can play some of the minigames within the game, such as 
 fishing. Take your fishing rod, put some bait, and find a lake. You hold the B button, swing your 
 wiimote as you would swing a real rod, and release the B button. When the fish bites, you just 
 hold the wiimote vertically, and dinner is ready. There is also a funnier way to fish, but you'll 
 have to find this yourselves.
  An important part about the Zelda games, has always been the riddles. And there are many riddles 
 to solve in this one. Some of them are easy, and some will put your brain to the test. The fact 
 is, that everything in this game, from riddles to dungeons, and from items to boss fights, shows 
 that the guys that created Zelda, have big imagination.
  Boss fights are epic, and require a certain strategy. Finding the right strategy, is harder than 
 killing the boss itself. Sometimes you'll be amazed on the variation of those fights. You'll find 
 yourself chasing with your horse, a big guy riding a boar across grasslands, and you'll even fight 
 the same guy on top of a bridge, in the same way as you've seen in many medieval films (play the 
 game to see what i'm talking about) . 
  The thing is, you'll never get bored playing this game, and this is a good thing, because more 
 than 50 playing hours await you, a number which can get double if you try to find every secret 
 within the game.
  It's not 100% RPG, it's not 100% adventure, it's Zelda! A classical title, a must-have for every 
 Wii owner out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wh00-H00
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was the greatest game available for Wii until fall 2007 and is critically acclaimed 
 by many people. Although having a flip flopped GC version the Wii version is preferred by many 
 and is the recommended choice by me. The motion controls are put to great use: sword swinging, 
 arrow shooting, and wrestling are just a few motion controlled moments in TP. Twilight Princess 
 is long, longer than many other Zelda games. Getting every heart and wallet upgrade and gold bug 
 could rack on the hours to your save file like you wouldn't believe and that's not including the 
 main quest itself... This is by far the darkest Zelda ever, thus marked with a T rating, a first 
 for the Zelda series. The story is as followed: Link finds himself out to save Hyrule after a strange 
 Twilight runs through the over world and he is transformed into a wolf signifying that he is the 
 hero that will slay the twilight, some thing like that. Accompanied by a likable companion (Midna, 
 a mysterious person with a great story to her name) and there's no babbling fairy in sight. Every 
 thing in Twilight Princess strives to be great, and it just about is. The land of Hyrule is widely 
 expansive and traveling is fun, but in the first half of the game you have to go into the Twilght 
 realm a lot, thus having to be a wolf, a wolf with a really bad set of abilitys, it kinda makes 
 you not want to be wolf Link in the second half when its optional, my other complaint is that it's 
 east too easy, other than that Twilight Princess is awesome and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jz9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Interesting how OOT seems to be, everyone loves it and pretend like nothing can beat it... well 
 the answer to the calling for a better zelda has been here for a while and its twilight princess! 
 not only was it a great launch game but it really helped transition people from gamecube to the 
 wii style game play in a totally new fantastical way. 
  
  the story line is legit, totally legit. It redefines exceptional writing with a very stable and 
 emotionative cast and cinematic environments that give you a submersed feeling. The map is unheard 
 of, with all new places to go, warps, different quest requirements, and hidden caves it is totally 
 shedding new light on this landmark series.
  
  i will not put in any spoilers but i got very attached to midna along the way of playing the game... 
 and lets just say i was bawling at the end of the game, showing how incredible the story is.
  
  when your done with the game there is plenty more to do! there are too many glitches in this 
 game, but in a good way. ask masterlinkX or mrp0tter they'll tell ya. you'll be glitchin for months 
 and still enjoying this breathtaking game!
  
  overall a masterpiece in it own right, better than ocarina but not as groundbreaking sad to say.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Prob. the 2nd most recognizable video game character in history, behind Mario. Link comes back 
 in the first Legend of Zelda game for the Wii, this game also kicks off the wii using surprisingly 
 good motion controls. This is the first game since M. Mask on N64 to take a realistic view. After 
 Mixed reactions from Zelda fans from Wind Waker.. They come back in what i think is the best Zelda 
 game since Ocarina of Time. Link is back! this is a legend that will be remembered for a long time.
 
  
  Well in familiar way.. The silent hero is a young Farm worker.. who suddenly has to become the 
 hero and save Hyrule from evil. This time its a light and dark world similar to, A Link to the 
 past on the SNES. This time Zelda is under the dark lords control and hyrule is pretty much getting 
 defeated from the inside. Of course Gannon is behind this, but we don't find that out until later 
 in the game. The story is been great for years.. its similar to the previous stories in the series.. 
 but the slight changes make it enjoyable yet again. 
  
  This game introduces us to a whole different world of hyrule. The dark world features Kingdom Hearts 
 type villains. But in this world you are not Link... But you are a Wolf... Wtf?! link is a wolf?? 
 as weird as it sounds its kinda fun. although its worse then reg. Link in the light World.. Wolf 
 Link can do some cool things, like picking up trails by scents, also he can dig and use Minda. 
 Yeah here is the new "helper" in the game. She guides you when you are lost.. in the dark world 
 she rides on your back and you can use her to climb unreachable places. Its an intersting twist 
 in the series.. and i am mixed about it. I like playing as link more.. but giving it a twist is 
 unique in its own way, and i respect that.
  
  Controls, Controls, Controls!! that is what most of us thought about when the wii was announced 
 how would games like Legend of Zelda and Mario work on motion controls. Even though when reviewers 
 said they liked it, i personally had a hard time believing it until i controlled it myself. And 
 i found out that is works really well.. and slight flick of the wrist does swinging.. and it puts 
 in monition controls without forcing anything. there is no cornball wii controls.. the stuff that 
 is in there is for the best. Like Fishing is a ton better then would be on a classic controller. 
 Although i was skeptic, the wii controls are very nice.. i give it a thumbs up on this part.
  
  There is a ton of cool new things and themes in the games that will be remembered. Like King 
 Bulbin? (sp) who you battle on the Bridge of Eldin is one of the coolest fight scenes in a Zelda 
 game. Also meeting up with other tribes you remember from other games like Gurdo? (Sp) and other 
 familiar villages. Also new temples are in effect! I like most of them.. and some are annoying 
 like all Zelda games.
  
  Link is back with some new kinds of equipment. For example. the Wind Bow, which has a gust of wind 
 behind it... its very useful in blowing windmills, and is an average fighting weapon if used right. 
 Also the Ball and chain.. which is monstrous! its super strong, yet heavy. Those are just some 
 of the new kinds of weapons.. and of course you have all your recurring weapons back with a new 
 look.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is the look. The art is amazing.. and to the background, to the 
 characters, to the items. They all look great. yet i have a few complaints.. Graphics are great 
 for Gamecube.. and this is pretty much a G-Cube game.. but i would expect a little enhancement. 
 Also yet again.. one thing i have always wanted is voice acting.. but we get little sound bites 
 and lots of Text. It would have made the presentation better.
  
  the game is not difficult as far as combat goes.. but the puzzles and knowing what to do can be 
 challenge. This is one of those.. gotta look on Gamefaqs.. or buy a Guide to help you. There will 
 be times where you will be lost or don't know where to go next. 
  
  Overall this game is not quite as good as ocarina, but its the best game since.. with the great 
 art story, and new wii controls.. this puts the Wii in the right direction. its one of the best 
 Launch games to ever come out. And if you have a wii you be a fool to not own it. This Mario Galaxy, 
 and Smash bros Brawl are the only MUST HAVE games.. there are other good ones but these are ones 
 you must have.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Classic Zelda gameplay is back in a new form.. it worked before.. and its working now.. 
 its similar but not exact what makes the series still fresh
  Graphics: Great Art is hindered by average graphics.. The Art balances it off and for a Gamecube 
 game its brilliant.. but that was last gen..
  Sound: The Series has always been known for great music.. and this game deliverers on that as well.. 
 Great Soundtrack 
  Value: So much to do.. it will take a while to beat EVERYTHING
  Overall: Again Must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordknigh7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  I do not know where to start. From the amazing graphics, dramatic storyline, new control scheme, 
 and the innovative new idea of Link being able to turn into a wolf, this game kicks rear end. It 
 is well worth the money. "The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess" delivers in action and playability 
 all the while fitting perfectly (somewhere) into the series. While my only complaint is the lack 
 of better music and re-playability, those would be overlooked in a lesser game. The numerous things 
 you can do, and the many ways to do them, make this a masterpeice. It could even be compared to 
 Ocarina of Time! That being even possible is an indicator. You NEED to buy it if you are a Legend 
 of Zelda fan, or anyone else. Seriously, this game rocks. I assure you that you won't regret your 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Anyone who owns either a Gamecube or a Wii should pick this game up as soon 
 as possible.
  
  The story is serious enough to make it interesting, but quirky enough to make it seem like it isn't 
 a film. The characters range from mysterious, to stern and straightforward, and to downright strange.
 
  
  The boss battles in this game are nothing shy of epic. From the first battle all the way to the 
 final boss, you feel like you're playing a movie.
  
  The Wii controls are smooth and fluent. They also make the game more accessible to new players 
 to the franchise.
  
  Another selling point is the longevity of the game; I spent around 40 hours playing, and never 
 did a lot of the side quests. If you were to beat this game and do the side quests, I'm sure it 
 would be nothing short of around 60 hours (that's what I've heard, at least) .
  
  If you have only one game for your Wii, I hope it's The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STRANGER_11
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  You might all be wondering if Twilight Princess is better then Ocarina of time for N64, well here 
 you'll get your answer. Ocarina of Time had everthing that any gamer could ask for, an epic story, 
 great characters, and some of the best graphics of its time. But Twilight Princess resets the bar 
 for Zelda games with it's gorgeous graphics, and an epic story that meets par with Ocarina of Time. 
 The game play is great, filled with Temples that challenge you and make you think. Now their not 
 as hard as Ocarina of Time but they are still really Fun!!! The new weapon selection is great! 
 with a lantern that you can use in dark places, or use to light things. You also get a ball and 
 chain which lets you smash ice in the Temple of Ice. One of my favorite old items brought back 
 is the Claw Shoot, ( which use to be the Hook Shot ) . The cool new feature is that you can use 
 Two of Them at ONCE!!!!!! plus you can control them to move up and down when hanging from ceilings! 
 With all of the new items in the game there are some that came back, like the Sling Shot which 
 has been in a lot of Zelda games. The Bombs are also back, but with some new features! Well there 
 is so much stuff in this game to explore and see, that All Zelda fans have to play this game. It 
 is one one my Favorite games of all time that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmungo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The best Zelda game yet. It was worth the wait. The storyline is just as good as Ocarina of Time's 
 storyline. It's worth getting the title Game of the Year. Becoming a wolf in the game was just perfect 
 for Zelda. The controls were just like the old Zelda games like Ocarina and Wind Waker. It added 
 new controls for the Gamecube and Wii. The storyline was just amazing. It really kept you at the 
 edge of your seat. The game shows a brand new Zelda world with many of the same creatures and villans. The 
 cutscenes were just stunning. The graphics are the best yet. This game is just perfect. This game 
 is gonna be played for decades. The only bad part of the game was the controls of the horse. It is 
 a little hard at the beginning to learn the controls for the horse but it gets easier as you continue 
 playing. Truly a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game. The legend of Zelda series as we know is plenty awesome, and this ones 
 just as cool and maybe even better than the others.
  The graphics are really visual. You can the developers of twilight princess really worked hard 
 on this game. You might find a some bad images like the ice in the game isn't the greatest. Its 
 too flat and white with not much detail but besides that it all looks so good!! The stories pretty 
 much the same but you have a helper who guides you through the game, Midna. She's like a little 
 demoned almost but a nice one. The sound for me is actually one of the best parts of the game. 
 If you have loud speakers with good sorround sound and a nice SONY TV, you'll feel like your right 
 by Links side. All in all it's one of the longest games out their but you don't even notice the 
 length because its so fun. For the avg. player it should take at least more than 40 hrs to beat 
 the game and even thats hard to get. You'd have to really skip a lot of stuff. But some sources 
 say if you get every single item and go and do every single side mission and all that other stuff, 
 the game takes over 1,000 hrs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermind_viii
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game on earth, for starters. People think that OoT was better but if you 
 find someone who says that, slap him and tell him to start playing newer games. OoT was fun but 
 its getting old and we've all beaten it a million times so lets let a new LoZ take its place. I 
 say it should be Twilight Princess. This game pulled me in with everthing. The music, the graphics (my 
 expectation of graphics arn't high) , the gameplay, the plot everything was executed perfectly. 
 The only problem was there wasn't enough Twilight world but that was just a little side feeling. 
 Also my Wii controller cut out sometimes but that was't the games fault. I've beaten it fully twice 
 and each time I've beaten it fully it took me about 26 hours. This pains me to say but it was a 
 little too easy. Every time you attacked it felt like a tutorial but oh well. This is a must buy 
 for people who have a Wii or Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefan666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is easy to follow and the control's on the wii are very easy to grasp. The story is very 
 good but ther are alot of side quests i found myself getting frustrated at the things like the 
 star game.
  
  The Story: It was about a kid named (you get to choose the name) you go to deliver a package and 
 get attacked on a bridge. Some wierd things happen and you turn into a wolf some little b1tch midna 
 starts riding you and telling you the controls. You then go to varius dungeons where you get various 
 tools which help you defeat the boss of that dungeon typical zelda game but you yhen have to use 
 all the tools to defeat zant as he teleports, that was a good highlight to this game. In the end 
 you defeat ganandorf and midna goes back to the realm of twilight. A very short version of the 
 game.
  
  The controls: The controls are easy and there is a lot of movement. You feel like your actually 
 fighting the bosses.
  
  Overall the game is very good definately worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric_Bullet
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  For me this game was a huge disappointment. I expected great things from the legend of Zelda as 
 I am a huge fan and have played all of there games. The whole thing with the wolf is so boring 
 and time consuming I couldn't take any more of it. The areas are mazes even with the strategy guide 
 its hard to know where to go. The game is over-rated, confusing and very boring at times. Link 
 was playing tunes with grass, come on this is so cheesy, where is the good old fashioned ocarina? 
 Anyway the graphics were good and playing link was fun at first but it gets a bit tedious after 
 a while. I ended up taking this game back to the shop - the first Zelda game I ever took back. 
 To me, they focused to much on graphics and length of game. Quantity over quality when it should 
 have been quality over quantity! If your a big fan of Zelda like me and want to buy this game, 
 don't get your hopes up because you will be let down in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  legend of zelda is a 1player game with a fantastic story and character line. this game is sure 
 to take u a while and the extra mini games can keep u goin after u have finished. the controls 
 are perfect for the game swinging the wii remote to swing ur sword. the main charatcer is a boy 
 called link from a small farming town in a far away forest in hyrule. ur job is to restore hyrule 
 from the twighlite that the dark lord ganondorf has spread over the land. its ur job as the chosen 
 hero to defeat ganondorf and restore the light. in the light u will play as link and in the twighlite 
 u will play as the blue eyed wolf that the chosen one tranforms into. through ur journey in hyrule 
 u fight through dungeons with mind blowing puzzles. each dungeon has a new weapon to add to ur 
 collection of bows, boomarangs and bombs and an awesome boss battle at the end. the game is great 
 1 player game and surly will keep u ocupied for 50 hours the first time through. it is probably 
 the best game i have ever played and is a must have for any wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim_Bob_the_2nd
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Well to start I suppose we start from the start. For 40 its about the same price as most games 
 at the moment and in my opinion it is worth every penny. The sounds are good just as it is meant 
 to be, the whoosh that comes out when you move the sword to the music you can get when moving in 
 different terrains. The graphic is what I like to say downright brilliant. Cartoon but lifelike 
 it has some excellent graphics going on there. 
  Now the bad stuff. I personally was a tad disappointed about the way the dialogue isn't spoken 
 but written and the start can be slow and rather boring and sometimes you really forget you have 
 a horse, when you need it its not there and when you don't you happen to be riding on it and most 
 of the time you don't really need him.
  Ok now the actual review. You pop the disc in and your offto a pretty boring start. A long start 
 of movies and informative text you don't need and these annoying kids that have to be the most 
 annoying thing in the game. They play a major part but at the start you can get small amounts of 
 pleasure by hitting them with your slingshot and see there heads whip back. Then these quite annoying 
 little bugs start flying around which can be in some very annoying places. Then you get to the 
 fun parts. 
  There is some really cool skeleton dude that teaches you new moves and there can be some quite 
 funny dialogue in there as well (the bomb shop owners the best) . The Temples will keep you there 
 for hours and the weapons and items you find there you'll find yourself using them on enemies when 
 you don't really need to. There is a Mid-Boss you have to defeat to get a weapon and some of them 
 are pretty cool, some of funny, some are scary and some are just downright hard. From monkeys that 
 pull mooneys at you to fighting a 20ft rock based monster while you balance on a small round circular 
 platform floating around on lava while he wears armour there is always some form of threat and 
 pain.
  The Bosses can actually make you gasp. There not thing to be killed! There things to be shot then 
 stuffed and put in a museum. They are actual works of art. They might not be hard or they might 
 not kill you but they will give it a really good go.
  The Horse to me was not really that much help most of the time. It's a fast means of transport 
 but when you can simply learn to not bother wasting ten minutes looking for some special grass 
 and just run it the horse becomes irrelevant.
  Then there's the Wolf. You can actually be a wolf. His attack moves are complicated and don't do 
 much damage but he's fast, cool and you always get an immense amount of pleasure when you creep 
 up behind someone's and jump at them and spend twelve minutes biting there heads off. 
  There's also towns. The first town is boring really, the second is empty but gives some really 
 cool items, the third one is the best with people rushing around and mini-games and shops and stalls 
 and items it really is fun to be in, the fourth one is fish based but is fun looking in every nook 
 and cranny (there's a lot of them) . The fifth one has one old lady, twelve bad guys and 20 cats 
 living there so not the best place to be and the sixth one is home to these funny, weird chicken 
 guys called Ooccoo's!
  I urge you to buy this game! If not you really do miss out. The game has so much to offer even 
 when you finished it there are still mini adventures to do! So many different thing in one game 
 and its all so fun! Whether your catching a fish to feed to a cat to make it go back home to swinging 
 round on flying plant pods to kill a flying, armoured, fire-breathing dragon to killing 5 or so 
 shield faced weirdo's while you're a wolf to get a prison you will not get bored. I love TP and 
 you will to I swear!
  
  Yours truthfully and Jimmily, Jimmy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for Wii is a great accomplishment to be made as this game 
 has it all. This game features cool wepons, a great story, neat characters, a thrilling challenge, 
 great boss battles, cool enemies... This game has pretty much everything required for an epic adventure.
 
  
  The graphics are great, they are some of the Wii's greatest. The soundtrack is perfect. It has 
 so many classics that this game is becoming an instant classic itself. The gameplay is wicked. 
 You will be playing this game for such a long time because you want to unlock everything.
  
  This game is epic. You must own it if you have a Wii. If you loved any Zelda 64 or SNES game, 
 then you will instantly love this one. This game is highly reccomended as you will be playing this 
 great title for hours! Happy Gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess is a great game with around 40 hours of gameplay if you finish all side quests 
 with great graphics and a great storyline. There's some originality, considering the new "ability" 
 of link and the appearance of villains other than Ganon. However, there is one really, really, 
 really bad side, one that seems to be affecting most games nowadays : the bosses all die too fast. 
 3 hits and they're gone, makes me think of the mario 64 bosses. But, if you overlook that point, 
 it's an extremely lengthy action rpg that is worth more than just renting.
  
  Music : 8/10
  
  There's some new music for Hyrule Field, which is a good thing, but they used 
 a lot of old sounds for many of other things. But I guess that's what makes Classic, eh?
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  
  Big problem for the Wii : what you have to do to attack. You have to swing 
 your wiimote around, sometimes making whirlwind attacks you do not wish to do or vice versa. Excluding 
 that, the rest of the gameplay is quite nice.
  
  Graphics : 8.5/10
  
  Really nice graphics for the Wii, even though I believe they could have boosted it a tad considering 
 the GC had the same. (Correct me if I'm wrong)
  
  Length : 10/10
  
  This is what makes this game worthy. A good old 40 hours of gameplay, just like in the old days. 
 Side quests such as looking for golden scarabs and pieces of hearth can become quite addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the coolest games ive played. Across my whole gaming career 
 ive come across good graphics and good gameplay and funny storylines but Twilight Princess is up 
 there with Halo 3, Crysis, Cod 4 and Destroy all humans. The graphics aren't the best. Nintendo 
 could of done alot better with them but the gameplay easily makes up for this. The controls are 
 EASY to master and make the game simple and quick though it still takes at least 30+ hours to finish 
 the game, and theres not many side missions, I've played 13 hours and only beaten the first 2 temple/boss 
 thingos but thats me, i was stuck for AGES on one part. I highly recommend this game to Wii gamers. 
 I've rated it a 10 because my mate kezzawozza108 taught me that you shouldn't care about visual 
 glitchs and off sounds, Its hard to perfect these things, if you care about them your not gonna 
 enjoy the game. so this game is a 10 because its over all just awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda is very well known by pretty much everyone in the world. Just like Mario. This 
 game dates back from 1987, and as we all see, it had been improving over time, in terms of graphics, 
 sounds, effects, and the story itself. The developers really made a really good job making this 
 game. the main character, Link, has changed too. As we all know he was a mere boy back in the Ocarina 
 of Time. Here he is an adolescent, or older. The game play overall is truly amazing, the puzzles 
 and the places you visit. They really make you think which is good. It has been a long time since 
 some of us played Ocarina of Time and here in this one, you can somewhat relive the old memories 
 of that game. Though there are different events and characters, you can still get the feeling of 
 old school in some parts of the game. Like Death Mountain, Gerudo valley, Zora's domain and others. 
 Overall, this game in my opinion deserves a 9.5, why this and not a 10? Well, although this game 
 delivers everything, literally, I know the developers can improve more and I can see a really really 
 awesome Legend of Zelda somewhere in the future. They really pulled this one off and I'm sure they 
 can pull the next one, if theres any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuul1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Of course for a game such as this, the hype surrounding it was extremely high. We, as fans, were 
 finally getting what we wanted. A true sequel to the Ocarina of Time, which is considered by many 
 to be the greatest game of all time. But I think it is that hype and nostalgia from the earlier 
 game is what hurts this game.
  Twlight Princess tries to copy Ocarina of Time in many ways. Still following the same formula since 
 a Link to the Past. Although there are some new features in the game. In this adventure you are 
 allowed to transform into a wolf and fight enemies in a different form. But aside from that, the 
 game mainly revolves around going to different temples, killing a boss and collecting a piece. 
 And as this is the 5th Zelda to follow that formula, perhaps it is getting kind of stale. 
  The game attempts to go towards a more mature route and tries to create a more realistic Hyrule. 
 But while creating this new Hyrule, we are left with a large world that feels extremely empty and 
 virtually lifeless. It doesn't have that "fun" feel to it or the immersive feeling of being a new 
 world while interacting with the characters within Hyrule. 
  On the plus note, the dungeons are very well designed as is the fighting within the game. At times 
 the swinging of the wiimote can get boring or feels useless, but the fighting holds true to the 
 past Zelda games. It also contains some very epic boss battles as the game tries to take a more 
 violent route of Zelda. Which I think is this games strongest point. The fighting system has been 
 refined and is very engaging and fun fighting enemies on foot and horseback. Which can turn some 
 very boring sections of the game into a fun experience.
  FInally, there's the music. Personally I think that the music in this Zelda is one of the weakest 
 of the series. The music's only saving grace is the older tunes from Link to the Past and Ocarina 
 of Time. There really isn't any new memorable music within the game. The dungeon music is very 
 non-inspiring and at times you can barely hear the music at all. Whereas in the past the dungeon 
 music helped create the true feel of the dungeon. Now, there are some tunes within the game that 
 you might be humming, but to me it doesn't really compare to the past games epic music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azurenotes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess has that familiar feel of adventure, suspense, and action. Like the previous 
 Zelda games, its storyline is unique and full of twists. It's one of those games that are intensely 
 enjoyable.
  
  Again, you must save the land of Hyrule from Ganon. You start off as a farm boy, but soon you are 
 thrown into the twilight realm when your friends get kidnapped. This is where your adventure truly 
 begins, the start is mostly the part where in you ease into the game itself.
  
  The ability of transforming into a wolf definitely catches the eyes of most players. This idea 
 sparks interest towards the game itself for most people. Twilight Princess has a really vast world 
 to explore, and I really mean vast. Every rock or patch of grass hides caves, which is a really 
 good surprise whenever you go exploring. Dungeons are full of puzzles and enemies, this keeps you 
 entertained until its end. 
  
  Controls are fairly easy to learn; basic sword wielding techniques aren't much of a hassle. I guarantee 
 that you'll get used to it. Playing as a wolf is also enjoyable; you run twice as fast as human 
 Link, and you have the ability to sense spirits and hidden objects. Graphics are somewhat like 
 Ocarina of Time, but updated. Nintendo managed to create a more realistic environment. The game 
 has acceptable music, sounds fit in pretty well too.
  
  Overall, it's a game Wii owners should not miss. It's a great addition to the Zelda series. I highly 
 recommend this game to anyone who loves solving puzzles, going on adventures, or anyone who just 
 appreciates Zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely one of the very best Zelda games i've played. I would say it was THE best, 
 but one of the best. I was really impressed with all the gameplay elements. I really loved going 
 from Link, to Link/Wolf. It was really a very innovative addition to what could have been a pretty 
 ordinary game. The difference between the light and dark worlds were very cool. It didn't take 
 long to really fall in love with this game for me. It had one of the best endings too. I loved 
 the 'big reveal' at the end! I have to say that there was this one level in the game, I can't remember 
 which one, but I remember turning up the music really high in it because it was so awesome. However, 
 overall, the music left a little bit to be desired. Gameplay was good for the Wii. Just plain fun! 
 If you're a Zelda fan, you will just have to play this one! Great game!~ Thanks for reading... 
 :) Scarlet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thattotally
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Zelda fans will be happy to get an enjoyable gamecube port, that includes motion sensoring and 
 slightly better graphics, as well as better control. But Zelda fans may be the only ones that can 
 truly enjoy this game.
  
  As a person who has played the main console games, Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker, as well as the 
 gba and ds ones, it's hard not to do a little comparison. But even without the comparison, this 
 game does fall short on standards a bit. 
  
  Yes, the graphics have been updated somewhat, and have even given the game a T rating for "realism" 
 (dont ask me I dont see it) . But the graphics arent anything too spectacular. In any case, the 
 game starts off similar to other Zelda games, in which you go out and do a few challenges before 
 donning the "Link" title and clothes. Then it's of to the generic dungeons and puzzles that fans 
 of that genre love. The music is heavily reminiscent of older Zelda titles, and it gets to the 
 point to frustration on a lack of better remixed tunes, if new ones cant be provided
  
  The game mechanics are interesting, especially since it's a Wii launch game, so swinging the remote 
 around has been fun, however tiresome others may think it is. But the story does fall short, as 
 it has no where near the interest that can captivate viewers. One of the hindrances is the fac 
 that there's absolutely no spoken dialogue, except for Midna's rather arousing Japanes voice. You 
 really cant feel much for silent characters in this day and age, and while it's a given that Link 
 should never talk, at least making Zelda or THE "bad guy" have a voice or such. 
  
  Well, one has to get the game himself to be able to judge. Fans of the series can rejoice, for 
 they have finall gotten their "Ocarina with updated graphics". It's too bad it didnt get an update 
 in sound qualities, and other drawbacks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Best Feature: Same tried and true Zelda gameplay, fun adventure and one badass Ganon... Midna is 
 cool
  
  Worst Feature: Same tried and true Zelda gameplay, the wolf thing is sorta meh...
  
  Did you 
 really expect this one to score low? I just hoped that you expected it to score higher, cause I 
 really hoped that it would. But seriously this is a Zelda game, and its damn good. The same gameplay 
 that you've known so well since the N64 is here, and it is fun as usual. The same horse riding, 
 arrow shooting, dungeon crawling gameplay that you know and love is here and in great form. But 
 I suppose therein lies the only real problem this game has is that is so similar to the two previous 
 games. While this is hardly a bad thing, I just feel like I've been here before. To break that 
 up in The Wind Waker, the cartoony style and the sailing were there. This game has the horse like 
 The Ocarina of Time and the more mature graphical style. It really feels like I'm playing a remake 
 to a degree.
  
  It does try to establish itself with a little different something though, in wolf Link and the 
 dark dimension. But I never really wanted to be the wolf, I thought of it more as a tool to complete 
 the next objective rather then a cool gameplay enhancement. I would avoid walking around like that 
 if I could. Another thing is the expansion of the horseback sections into, riding battles and jousts. 
 Which is actually pretty cool, I enjoyed charging at the monster on the bridge, and fighting all 
 the guys on horseback. But that doesn't change the fact that it was already here in previous installments. 
 That's not to say the game itself is boring mind you, the gameplay is here and is just as fun as 
 it ever was. The dungeons are all really well designed, (I really liked the Yeto mansion) and some 
 new items and weapons are pretty neat. (The ball and chain!)
  
  Storywise I think this one does especially well, while the wolf is just okay, the fact that rather 
 then just setting off to save Hyrule, he starts off trying to save his hometown. This gives you 
 as Link a more personal, vested interest in it all, as you have to save your townsfolk. The role 
 of Zelda is there, but downplayed in a pretty brilliant way, very early on. Her role as your assistant 
 of sorts is handed off (figuratively and literally) to the little shadow girl Midna who rides atop 
 your wolf self. (Her true lineage will be revealed later on in the game) I found Midna's character 
 quite entertaining, smacking you on the head early on and pretty much just using you for her own 
 ends until her and Link slowly bond and become friends.
  
  The Wii controls, play pretty well, after you get the timing down. At first your sword strikes 
 will feel a bit off till you learn what your doing and when to do it. And you have to aim your 
 projectiles more, which adds a sense of urgency if your using them against attacking enemies, as 
 the game no longer aims them for you. And some of the new advanced attacks are pretty cool, like 
 the finishing blow after you knock a foe to the floor, you can proceed to jump and impale them 
 on the way down. Very nice. But for all these combat enhancements, the game is simply to easy. 
 Its not from all the new moves, its just that nothing takes off that much health at all. Even bosses 
 take off at most a heart a hit. And near the end of the game, when you have maybe 15 hearts and 
 4 potions, that makes dying an impossibility. In fact I only died one time the entire game, near 
 the beginning when I still only had 4 hearts and I jumped into a pit one too many times.
  
  This is a fantastic game, plain and simple and totally worth it to anyone with a Wii or if you 
 still sitting on your Gamecube. (For shame, find a Wii!) But it does have a slight feeling of retread 
 as you play through. But this didn't affect me to much as I still enjoyed it immensely. A very 
 worthy purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I admit it; I liked Ocarina of Time better, but Ocarina of Time is basically an untouchable standard 
 of the Zelda franchise. Let me get the little niggly things out of the way, first. For someone 
 who has spent hundreds of hours on Ocarina and Wind Waker, the sudden absence of a real musical 
 instrument is annoying. No longer can you tootle Epona's song to make her come running, or mess 
 with the flow of time just because you felt like getting a little sun. Instead you have to go rolling 
 all around Hyrule Field -- which, by the way, makes Ocarina's version look like a back yard -- to find 
 Horse Grass and blow through it. Once you get the Master Sword, though, you have about 90% as much 
 freedom with warping around. To warp, you must be in wolf form, but to transform there must be 
 absolutely no NPCs in the area or Midna will have a fit about the uproar you'll cause and keep 
 you from transforming. You can also only warp to where you've made a warp point, and without any 
 spoilers, I have to say they're annoying to make and you have no choice in their placement. And 
 of course, before you find the Master Sword, god forbid you should need to make a trip between, 
 say, Kakariko Village and Lake Hylia; there are broken bridges and indestructible impasses everywhere, 
 so even looking at your map constantly won't provide you with a sure route.
  
  With that out of the way, this is an intensely enjoyable game. Some people have complained that 
 it takes three hours to get to the first dungeon -- to them, I say pfaw. Piffle. Etcetera. I, for 
 one, have always enjoyed post-Ganon capering around Hyrule, and the game lets you have a brief 
 taste of that, as well as acquainting you with characters you'll be expected to care about, before 
 plunging you into abject torture (for Link, not for the player) . I wasn't fond of the bughunt thing, 
 true ("So, you're a god, and you got your essence sucked away by a bunch of giant cockroaches? 
 Really? ... Really?") , but being a wolf is a great and different experience from normal human Link 
 gameplay. Besides, if you can't handle a measly 3 hours in a franchise known for long sloggy stories, 
 then you're better off trying Resident Evil, or GTA.
  
  The plotline is nicely twisted, a bit darker than traditional Zelda fare, perhaps -- there is, not 
 terribly far into the game (after the second dungeon) what I would consider the creepiest cutscene 
 in a Zelda game I've ever seen. I don't think I've ever seen Link be so vocal, either (screaming 
 long and loud, et. al) . The whole thing is conceptually very strong. Your tasks are also greatly 
 varied, all the way to including sumo bouts! Watching Link sumo-stamp in his Ordon threads and 
 face off against men and Gorons thrice his size is hilarious, let me tell you.
  
  Audio-wise, I have to say I adore the music, to the point I went and got the soundtrack (the real 
 127-track one, not that sissy 24-track one) . Hyrule Field has gotten very orchestral, and there's 
 now a gorgeous song for Hyrule Field at night, which I find lovable enough to not mind riding back 
 and forth across the expansive Field for hours at night. The Twilight theme is also pretty enough 
 to keep you distracted from the fact, early on in the game, that you are CHASING ROACHES krhgkjshg 
 Some people complain that after 20 years and counting, the series has yet to include any real voice 
 acting besides Midna's gibberish and the occasional sharply-drawn breath or battle cry. Why are 
 you complaining? It's such a small detail after years without words, not to mention rather a hallmark 
 of the series (especially Link's total wordlessness and implied answers, which is rampant in other 
 RPGs anyway) .
  
  I've never played the Wii version, so I can't comment on graphics, really, but to me they seem 
 shiny and smooth enough. The only time I thought the graphics were failing, it actually turned 
 out to be an enemy campfire. Har. In cutscenes, the graphics smooth out even more, and there are 
 no such things as vertices on Link's baby face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarthMan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game brings back all the greatness of Zelda games but has a twist. This twist is that you 
 turn into a wolf. You also have a friend at your side but she isn't as anoying as Navi. There are 
 two main objectives in this game. First there is the same thing as in every Zelda game. You must 
 deafet Gannondorf then save Zelda. The twist is that you must also deafeat Zant and give Minda 
 the trohn back in the twillight Zone. Like in the other Zelda games you have to go through several 
 dugens and get various items. The down side is that it is only fun the first time trough. Another 
 is that it is repeative. The bright side is if you get stuck there are plenty of mini games to 
 do. There is also another cool feature. You can go fishing. Overall this game is definatly a great 
 addition to the series. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinsacry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The depth of the Twilight Princess is much more mass than any other game i have played. The game 
 itself takes as long as 40 hours, if you are good and if you complete the game without the extra 
 stuff. The game got a bit boring, however, during the ending of the game. But it did indeed make 
 you go through the game until the very end. I loved the temples that they created within the game, 
 and the characters. Link as never looked better. His style looks extremely well. The surroundings 
 are amazing. Hyrule has looked the greatest ever, the depth of hyrule has a much larger land mass, 
 which makes it very fun. The best part is that you have epona (horse) with you throughout the entire 
 game, and you cant teleport! i highly recommend this game to any wii owner. I'm sure all of you 
 will buy this game with the spree day of Wii. Good luck and have a lot of fun with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  In the history of launch titles, there has never been a single one that comes remotely close to 
 the quality and excellence of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Considering this franchise 
 is home to several regulars on "Best Games of All Time" lists, there is a monumental standard to 
 live up to. After the mixed reactions from Majora's Mask and the much-maligned sailing from Wind 
 Waker, Zelda fans have been anxiously awaiting a true spiritual successor to Ocarina of Time. If 
 you belong in this group, rest easy. Twilight Princess is that title.
  
  First and foremost, this is easily the darkest Zelda title yet. It has always been a series that 
 is heralded for its gameplay, but now it features a story that will keep you guessing until the 
 next surreal, creepy cutscene. I won't spoil anything in this review, but there are some events 
 in the narrative that blow away anything seen before in the Zelda universe.
  
  I will admit, however, that it can be extremely confusing at times. For the first several hours, 
 you'll find yourself in "what the hell is going on?" mode more often than not. One second you're 
 herding goats in a small village named Ordon, and in the next, you're a wolf that has a devious 
 imp-like creature on its back. Nothing major is revealed for quite a while, and you'll still be 
 confused after multiple dungeons.
  
  All of the game is based upon two realms: the world of light and the world of shadow. The light 
 world is the Hyrule we've all come to expect. It's filled with merchants, courtyards, fields, and 
 some familiar locales (Death Mountain, Lake Hylia, Kakariko Village) . When you visit these areas 
 in the Twilight Realm, all of the life and joy is nowhere to be found. Normal citizens turn into 
 terrified spirits, dangerous twilight creatures drop from the sky, and Link can not (initially) 
 exist in his human form.
  
  The early dungeons are opened by collecting tears of light from invisible insects to fill a vessel. 
 It's as weird as it sounds, and I didn't particularly enjoy these segments. Once you collect all 
 the required tears, the twilight lifts from the land and you can return to your human form.
  
  A lot of people are concerned with how Link controls as the wolf. Many speculated that it would 
 be similar to Okami, but it feels more like a faster-paced version of Link. In addition to its 
 ability to jump to high places, it can also dig and sense hidden spirits. It's fun at first, but 
 I started looking forward to getting the tears just so I could become human Link again. It's far 
 more entertaining to play the game with his items and various attacks. After the first few dungeons, 
 you'll gain the ability to switch between human and wolf forms at will. With just a press of the 
 d-pad, you can choose the form better suited for the specific situation.
  
  The Zelda inventory return, including the bow, slingshot, boomerang, and hookshot. Some of these 
 have been upgraded from previous installments, such as the wind-producing Gale Boomerang and the 
 Double Clawshot. Several great new items are also introduced throughout your quest. My favorite 
 dungeon was probably Arbiter's Grounds, as it acts as a virtual playground for the Spinner item. 
 By jumping onto this top-like item and heading towards a groove in the wall, it's possible to fly 
 around the edges of rooms at lightning speed. Another great item is the Dominion Rod, which lets 
 Link control statues.
  
  Polish and development mastery are extremely evident in Twilight Princess. Even minor annoyances 
 from previous installments have been avoided. How many times have you had a full wallet in Ocarina 
 of Time, only to open a treasure chest and receive a rare rupee worth 100? You probably worked 
 hard to get to it, and you can't even reap the rewards. Twilight Princess avoids this problem by 
 simply saying "It won't fit in your wallet now, so let's put it back." That way, you can always 
 return for it rather than have it disappear forever.
  
  On one occasion, I was shocked because I thought I had encountered a glitch in a Zelda game. This 
 series is absolutely known for its polish, and I couldn't believe it would have any glitches. I 
 was walking through quicksand, and then got out onto stable land. Despite being on solid ground, 
 Link was still walking very slow and awkward, like he was still in the sand. For a moment, I wondered 
 if I'd have to restart the game. After a moment, however, I switched to wolf form and turned on 
 my senses. It wasn't a glitch at all  my character was covered by invisible rats.
  
  No other game in the series features such a wide variety of enemies. Every dungeon seems to be 
 absolutely crawling with original and interesting creature designs. The Arbiter's Ground temple 
 throws literally hundreds of tiny bugs at you, as well as armies of miniature skeleton soldiers. 
 You've never been thankful for the spin attack as much as you will be when dozens of spider babies 
 surround you.
  
  Spectacular boss fights are a given in this franchise, but TP absolutely went above and beyond 
 my expectations. Without a doubt, these are the most epic and intense end-dungeon baddies you've 
 ever seen. Certain ones (the underwater creature, the amazing battle with a giant dragon) make 
 me think that the development team played a bit of Shadow of the Colossus in their spare time. 
 The climactic battle sequences are some of the most visually striking and fascinating experiences 
 I've encountered in a videogame.
  
  Obviously, the visuals are a source of much debate with this game (and the Wii in general) . Yes, 
 it is obvious that the game was first developed for the Gamecube. You'll find no high-definition 
 forearm veins, hair strands, or clothing textures here. What you will find, however, is some of 
 the most beautiful art design you'll ever see. Whether you're in a horseback battle in a thunderstorm 
 or watching giant birds circle Hyrule Castle, you'll see a level of true art in a way most games 
 could never dream of reaching.
  
  Since there is no primary musical instrument to play in TP, there isn't quite as many immediately-hummable 
 jingles like the Song of Storms. Despite this, the soundtrack constantly acts as a perfect complement 
 to the onscreen action. The main "danger" music in the Twilight Realm is unlike anything you've 
 ever heard in the series, and really does add to the surreal atmosphere. While I never once heard 
 the classic Overworld theme, many classics from Link to the Past and Ocarina of Time make their 
 returns.
  
  n addition to the fantastic soundtrack, you'll hear plenty of audio coming out of the Wiimote's 
 built-in speaker. From the palm of your hand, you'll hear the sounds of your sword unsheathing, 
 your fishing line reeling in, your Clawshot extending, and even the classic Zelda chime. Just prepare 
 to get a little creeped out when you hear Midna's otherworldly giggle emit from your controller.
 
  
  Is it truly a contender for "greatest game of all-time"? It's certainly a possibility, but I want 
 to take a few months for the experience to settle before throwing out such a loaded statement. 
 Keep in mind, I played this game for over ten hours a day for the better part of a week. Most gamers 
 will probably play through this game leisurely, putting in 2-3 hours a day, savoring the game for 
 weeks, even months. I didn't speed-run through it at all (I did almost every sidequest I encountered) , 
 but it was constant gameplay with constant note-taking, and I'm worried that I got "used to" the 
 greatness, if that makes any sense. I think that I'll have an even greater appreciation of this 
 title once I go back to reviewing run-of-the-mill, churned-out generic crap like Just Cause.
  
  We've waited (sometimes impatiently) for this day since we saw Link ride across Hyrule Field 
 in that surprise trailer at E3 2004. After some mixed reactions for the last two main Zelda adventures, 
 gamers can now cherish what is truly the spiritual successor to Ocarina of Time. Hyrule is once 
 again a world of hugely enjoyable gameplay around every turn, and Twilight Princess features the 
 best story in the heralded series' history. Every once in a while, a game comes out that reminds 
 you of why you spend hours with controller in hand, or why you invest hundreds of your hard-earned 
 dollars in the latest game console. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is without a doubt one 
 of the greatest achievements in the history of the industry, and it would be a crime to go without 
 this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This the game that lauched with Wii and one of the most anticipated games for the Wii in 2006. 
 You are this young villager who lives in a tree house in a village called Ordon. You help all of 
 the other villagers but soon is set on a journy yo deliever a present to the royal family. But 
 something goes wrong and the world is bathed in twilight when you turn into a wolf with the help 
 of a impish creature which you soon find out that she is the queen of twilight. You have to stop 
 this villian named Zant who was controlled by Ganandorf. The story is always the same but how it 
 gets there is just amazing! There is not even one second of voice acting but wouldnt hurt if you 
 just read some text. There a bunch of treasures, secrets, and bosses to keep you busy. If you count 
 all of the side quests then you are gonig to get an amazing 70-80 hours of game time. You lock 
 on to an opponent by pressing Z and swing your sword by just swinging your Wii remote. You also 
 learn hidden skills to help through out your journy. This is a game where the graphics are concerned 
 though. Luckily good art shows that a games graphical appearance looks graet and it just goes to 
 show you that good art can go a long way! I really recommend buying the game on the Wii. This goes 
 out to Zelda Fans and this game could not be better! i gave this game a 9.5/10 and if you dont 
 have this game then you really, really need help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Start:
  
  Ok, this was my very first game when I bought Nintendo and I wasnt sure if this game would suit 
 me but I bought it and it was a shoot in a 10!!
  
  About the game:
  
  Its a good game I mean its very good. Obviously I woudnt recommend it to beginners because its pretty 
 hard.
  
  Start:
  
  You start in a village with no weapon or sword or anything except for nicely made clothes. The cool 
 part is that you have a horse. Your first mission is to ride your horse and put the goats (I think 
 goats) in the house or whatever. Then the man over there will teach you how to jump with the horse 
 over obstacles. Then I think you will be tought how to fish. And later on you will be tought aswell 
 how to use a slingshot (you need to buy it first. And thats the cool part of the game.
  
  Good stuff about the game:
  
  The graphics in the game are really good. The adventure is pretty 
 impressive as you meet many enemies, missions and other. The steering is ok just a bit slow when 
 you are controlling Link (thats the name of the main character, I dont know how the horse is called) .
 
  
  
  Bad stuff about the game:
  
  This game has only a small amount of foults, and here they are:
  When you are steering the horse 
 its pretty fast but when you are turning its crazy!! Link is moving very slowly. Takes a lot of time 
 before you finish the game. There is no other mode than the Adventure.
  
  Thanks for reading!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  One of Link's biggest adventures yet, he meets new allies, gets new powers, and travels through 
 Twilight! Being a wolf is probably the biggest and most famous noticement in this game. Teamed 
 up with Midna, wolf Link can get through any obstacle in his path. He also has new swordplay and 
 equpment for fighting anything. Some classical enemies, some new enemies and (ofcourse) huge boss 
 battles! I was very unsure of playing this game when my parents bought it for me. I thought it 
 looked terrible. Now, I want to kick myself for thinking that! Everyone gets a new look- Link, 
 Zelda, Gorons, Zoras, and Ganondorf himself. Orcarina of Time was basically the birth of this game. 
 Ganon was a lizard thing in that game, but he returns as a giant pig- beast. This is the first 
 real Wii game I played and liked- not counting Wii Sports- and I was so happy (but had troubles, 
 of course) when I beat it. Get this: the partwhere you have to take the canon to Fyer, I saved 
 and turned off the game. The next day, I turn on the game- and the Canon's not there!!!! I try 
 to leave the room, but the guy with the glasses keeps on stopping me. I try to teleport with Midna, 
 but she says that the guy is watching us. So what did I have to do? START A NEW GAME!!!! Boy, I 
 was not happy, but I still had fun, even though I had to do everything all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo2Brawl
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  When i firsy got my wii this was the first game that I bought and before my I got my wii in the 
 summer of 2007 I said that is going to be my first game (next to wii sports) and I got it. This 
 game has every thing that you could imagine for a adventure game. It gives the graphics ,the controls, 
 the collectible items that will help you get through the games most dificult dungeons and areas 
 in the massive open world. This is one of the best games on wii and in the Zelda francise. There 
 is much more to the game than just saving the kingdom, ther are also side dungeons. One if the 
 side dungeons is The cave of Ordeals. This is the hardest (to me) side dungeons. It is a 50 floor 
 dungeon that pushes you to limit , but, as I said you dont have to do this dungeon. Also there 
 are items like gold bugs that you can get it is fun and you can to place that you might not be 
 in a game just to find these bugs. So I give this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogoni
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  It would be a crime to humanity if I had given a score less than 10 to this game. It's Simply Red, I 
 mean Simply Perfect!
  The Wii Mote and the Nunchuk are your weapons, it feels real good while attacking an enemy, you know, it 
 is different than pressing a pre-defined control or button, tou do the action with your own hands, YOU 
 control it.
  
  The only little problem that I saw was in Goron Mines, when jumping to one platform to another, you 
 have to be right in front of the next target, or else you'll fall in lava, and sometimes it's irritating, it 
 happens normally in situations that you have to be quick to reach your destination.
  
  I hadn't finished the game yet, but all the experiences that I had until, were very, very good. I hadn't 
 played all games of Zelda series yet, but for the older ones I played 'em all, I want to play Ocarina 
 of Time and Majora's Mask, but for the time that I played, I saw what a good game is made of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudmd23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of my favorite video game franchises of all time. So one should expect 
 that I would be singing praises up and down for the latest entry to arrive on the Nintendo Wii 
 system, right? Well... yeah, pretty much.
  
  While every Zelda game to date has been a hit in my book, I haven't been truly blown away ever 
 since Ocarina of Time first hit the Nintendo 64. I had high expectations for Wind Waker when it 
 first arrived on Gamecube, and although it was an enjoyable game, it just didn't meet the high 
 standards that were set by its previous entries. However, that all changed on November 19, 2006 
 when both the Nintendo Wii and the new Legend of Zelda released simultaneously. Like a kid on Christmas 
 morning I hooked everything up the moment I got home and was launched into a role-playing haven 
 to the likes of which I've never seen.
  
  You start the game off slow in a small village that Link calls his home. Here you are introduced 
 to the game, its characters, and everyone's favorite mode of Hyrule transportation: Epona. After 
 spending a bit of time in the village, the game kicks into high gear and you are changed into a 
 wolf with new abilities that completely turns the world of Zelda upside-down. From here on out, 
 you realize that you are destined to save the world, animal form or not, and must do so by navigating 
 a line-up of cleverly designed dungeons.
  
  I had not played an X-box 360 or Playstation 3 prior to trying out this game, so to me, the graphics 
 were outstanding. This is the first time in the history of the series that I felt like the game 
 was alive, with well designed character models and astounding lighting effects. It should also 
 be worth noting that this game has a much darker, more realistic feel to it, which is a sharp contrast 
 to Wind Waker's cel-shading effects which came before it.
  
  The soundtrack for this game is superb as well. All the tracks were wonderfully orchestrated and 
 have that classic Zelda flavor that has been a staple for the series since the beginning. The only 
 disappointment here is the lack of voice work that has been done for the game aside from the short 
 voiceovers that play when talking to a character, but this is nothing new and does not retract 
 from the enjoyment of the game.
  
  Playing this game with the Wii remote is a major draw for this title. With the exception of playing 
 with a plastic sword as a child, this is the first time I got to imitate Link's sword fighting 
 skills without feeling like an idiot. Although you may look silly to your friends and family that 
 happen to pass by as you are flailing your Wii remote in the air, you will be having far too much 
 fun to care. I think having the controls done in this manner also helps reduce the amount of buttons 
 required to control the game. All you need to do is wave the Wii remote to swing Link's swords, 
 and waving the nunchuk gives you access to spin attacks and shield blocks. In addition, the remote 
 makes sounds during combat that help reinforce the feeling that you are actual engaged in sword 
 combat.
  
  We are slowly entering the HD era of gaming, and with that in mind, it may seem like the Wii will 
 lag far behind. But if a majority of Wii titles can maintain the sort of quality that is pouring 
 out of this latest Zelda adventure, I think Nintendo's system can hang with the big dogs with the 
 best of them. If you have a Wii, or are thinking about buying one, you should pick up Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  I don't know how Nintendo is able to replay the same story in every Zelda game and yet still make 
 each Zelda game incredibly unique and fun to play.
  
  This game was designed for the young and young at heart. The combat is never difficult (I can recall 
 only dying to an enemy once the entire game) , but the puzzle solving, cool gadgets, incredible 
 level design are very entertaining. 
  
  You never feel overwhelmed by the size of the world created in this game. Despite having a large 
 world to explore, I always felt I could wrap my brain around it. The various locations in the game 
 are so unique and memorable, it is fairly easy to recall when you need to revisit them.
  
  There are the classic items you need-sword, shield, boomerang, grapple hook, etc. And there are 
 some cool new items in this game as well. 
  
  The graphics-while not high def, are still very pretty to look at. And the movements of each character, 
 especially you as a wolf, is amazingly believable. 
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys puzzle solving.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The long and anticipated wait for this game was well worth it. The return of the realistic link 
 has helped settle the controversy over Zeldas style. With a fresh adventure and a huge cast of 
 characters this game is one reason to own a wii (or gamecube) .
  First is the returning features. You swing your sword through plenty of dungeons until you save 
 the most tortured princess Zelda. A lot of weapons return like the bow and arrow and bombs. You 
 must solve mind bending puzzles and defeat revolutionary bosses. Now for the new features.
  Being a wolf was a risky move. Nintendo could have ruined the game but they didn't. We know have 
 the ability to sense, bite and use Midna's abilities. This added a pleasant twist to the game making 
 it my favorite new feature. I would tell you the great story but I don't want to spoil anything.
 
  Its a great game. Get it. There is no other way to say it. Thanks for reading! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepiledriver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play. There is tons to do and the difficulty is just right. The game 
 play is easy to get used to and about the hardest thing to do so far is the fishing. You will learn 
 the game play by the time you get your gear and are ready to leave the starting village. The game 
 starts off a little slow but then picks up the pace quickly from there. Everything is a mini puzzle 
 but unlike most other games the npc's in this game that you can talk to actually give you clues 
 that are relevant to what you are currently doing in the game. So far the game keeps you in the 
 general area so your not running around an entire world map to find out that all you to do was 
 pick a flower where you started. There is alot of things in the game that are familiar and the 
 game is easily recognizable as a Zelda sequel. I can see that there is gonna be fun til the finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Now let me tell you i have spent more time on this game than the RPG Mass effect this is truly 
 a long game. I am not yet finished but at the rate im going it will probably take me a total of 
 60 hours to finish the game. You first start off in the small village doing some small things you 
 later upgrade to getting a shield, sling shot, and your classic sword. Now you swing the controller 
 for Zelda to swing. You can lock on enemies by holdingZ" and click "A" for a jumping attack. 
 For the sling shot you click "B" and a red target pops up on the screen in which you move and shoot. 
 For the shield its a basic target the enemy and you will autimatically pull out the shield. You 
 will later upgrade though from a sling shot, to a boomer-rang to a bow and arrow. Once you get 
 your upgrade you will never go back to the old way. 
  You have a horse also which if your fans you would know which feels good while clicking "A" it 
 goes faster. You do get to swing on the horse but it doesn't feel right to me but thats just me. 
 
  The environments are all unique from snow to canyon to wild western theme to fields. Then they 
 have fishing which i didn't like in the beginning but later on in the game the controls are better. 
 You aim the remote downward and shake it to pull a fish and then pull and hold the remote back 
 and use the nun-chuck and rotate it. Oh yea, music wonderful and unique as usual from other games.
 
  
  FALL BACKS 
  First off the graphics look nice but when you get up close to a character they look close to bad. 
 Another huge fall back is when you save it say your in a cave and turn it off come back you have 
 to start out back from the beginning of the cave and the doors and everything are unlocked but 
 the enemies are still there then your trying to find where you left back. Last the games confusing 
 so i stuck by or am sticking by the Game Spot walk through the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugen_tha_dream
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  All my zelda games are fun. Till the water temple. Its always the water temple 3rd and always were 
 i stop. This game gets a P for piss in a fan. Why is it called zelda hen your link. WTF. And this 
 game and every other zelda game is abysamal just for tha fact they have the most old skool, kick 
 ass cat, sice doogie howser as the end boss. Ganon is sick wicked and nasty. buck nasty. He should 
 be killing link. If i bothered to get to the end i would let ganon slay me and eat my remains for 
 diner. He should have the game. But nintendo would say "The Legend Of Zelda, Ganon comes back to 
 be slain". No it would say "The Legend Of Ganondorf, Its me BlTCHIZ!" Cuz we all know ganon is 
 swizz beats. Just contribute to ganon and dont buy. Zant is a frikin joke. The thing is i like 
 link. he'; s cool and BA but oni link so much cooler. And i take back what i said. I stopped playing 
 Majora before i turned to link. Good thing it was freeon the zelda collection disk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  What an awesome game. At first, I didn't think I would like it... come on, goat herding!? But after 
 Link leaves his village in search of his kidnapped friends, things get going quickly. The game 
 sucks you in and begs to be played. 
  
  The puzzles start out easy and get harder as you get further into the game. Toward the end, you 
 have to use every tool in your inventory to figure out what to do next. At no time did I feel completely 
 frustrated. Sure there were several levels where I had to repeat the same jump without getting 
 killed, but that should be expected. But I never shut the thing off cussing about how hard it was. 
 
  
  Even the final battle with the ultimate boss was challenging, but not impossible. I think this 
 is the one thing that makes LoZ: TP a "great" game. It is challenging, but not impossible.
  
  It's strange that now that I've completed the game (after 57 hours of gameplay) , I'm feeling 
 homesick. As the final credits rolled by they showed rooms and environments that I still had fond 
 (and not so fond) memories of. I found myself thinking "Oh yea, I remember descending that staircase", 
 or "I remember having to navigate that gorge." Now I miss it.
  
  Sure, I could go back and get all those Poe Souls, or collect all the heart pieces, but what's 
 the point? Fortunately, the game can be finished without such OCD behavior :-)
  
  I really enjoyed this Zelda title and look forward to the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiirPS3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  The game is really fun and anyways being Link in Zelda is the most fun you can ever have, besides 
 Mario. 
  
  Well this game is one of the opening games of the Wii and its one of the best games for the Wii 
 out there today! It doesn't sound so interesting but it is cool, Link is now in wold form in the 
 game! You probably know the whole story, the princess's name is Zelda and the places name is Hyrule 
 and you Link must save the world. When you hit this infection called Twilight, then you transform 
 into a wolf. There so many other things which I'm too lazy to tell you about but this is the main 
 story of the game and it is a must-buy for any person who likes Link, a pointy eared, cap wearing, golden 
 hair weirdo. The game is very lengthy and fun so go and buy it.
  
  The place is so well-designed and interesting, everything else is just WOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YieldToast
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess proves that the Zelda franchise is still going strong, with a original storyline 
 which still keeps the classic enemy, Ganon. 
  
  The Game is great, i cant deny it, there is plenty to do another great fishing hole (this time 
 with a boat) another good Golden bug side quest and even more awe-inspiring dungeons. But in no 
 way does this game feel repetitive. The dungeons are vast and look great with a legion of impressive 
 looking enemies and even better looking bosses. Once again there is an array of weapons with which 
 you can never get bored of ( The Spinner for example) . There are also cleverly hidden mini-games 
 - RollGoal - all come with rewarding prizes when you complete them, which is harder than expected. 
 The storyline is brilliant, almost impossible to dislike or get bored of and will keep you playing 
 the game till that final ending scene has been viewed.
  
  There are few bad points to this game and here they are. Difficulty, the dungeons may be big and 
 full of fierce looking enemies but they are not challenging at all. The bosses are again quite 
 easy to kill so you will find yourself killing Ganon before you know it. There is also the fact 
 that once you discover a new item that item is used constantly until you get the next one, it is 
 then discarded, rarely used. The wii remote (if you choose to use the Wii version that is) was 
 somewhat of a letdown, a mere flick of the wrist necessary to swing the sword and a button press 
 for the shield.
  
  Other than that the Game is a must have for all Game cube and Wii owners and especially the Zelda 
 fans. Even those new to Zelda games would find this game enjoyable. Once you complete the main 
 storyline there are still plenty of side quests and mini-games to complete. Catching a Hylian loach 
 was no lean feat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsycoFoot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess has an excellent storyline. One that engulfs you into it and 
 grabs your up most attention, while simultaneously.... you are playing it. It keeps up with the 
 classic aspects of the original Legend of Zelda. Except for the fact that you turn into a wolf. 
 Which also ends up growing on you towards the end. Motion controls are a plus, with aiming capabilities 
 for some of your weapons. It takes skill to get through a good portion of the action sequences 
 with your wii mote and num chuck, and exercises your mind with a bunch of puzzles, and the placement 
 of weapons and items you pick up during the game. When you have mastered all of your weapons, you 
 cannot help but feel like a Jedi. The game play is so different, there is nothing else like it 
 anywhere. Aside from the fact that no one speaks in the game, it is still an excellent vintage, 
 an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for anybody except people who don't like Zelda games, or games like Super 
 Mario Galaxy which is basically anyone. This by far my second favorite video game next to Super 
 Mario Galaxy. The story is grasping, and has great gameplay including the sword movement with the 
 Wii remote. This game has great graphics. This games stories may have actually gotten a little 
 weird like when you suddenly end up in Hyrule Castle as Wolf Link. It is a very grasping story 
 with new characters and more gameplay than any other Zelda game I have ever played the only other 
 Legend of Zelda game that comes close is The Majora's Mask. As you develop the story of the game 
 it gets kinda weird even when you find who you are looking for in the first place you still have 
 to save Hyrule and it does not make sense that Link suddenly turns in his farm hand clothes to 
 his Link clothes. Overall though this game is the greatest game I played before Super Mario Galaxy, 
 but buy this after Super Mario Galaxy then buy this game The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LokTinChiu_1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of Zelda, than look no furthur, get this game right now. This game brings back things 
 from Ocarina of Time (One of the greatest games ever made) You'll see very familiar places and 
 weapons like the hookshot and the master sword. Compared to the Hyrule in Ocarina of Time, the 
 world of Hyrule in Twilight Princess is huge. There are so many things to do and see in Hyrule. 
 The game has a great plot, solid gameplay, nice sound effects and increadable graphics. The sound 
 of the weapons coming out of the Wii remote speaker really adds to the experience. The story line 
 is pretty linear, there are side quests, but it is really easy to find were you are going next. 
 The game is not that challenging if your famiiar to the Zelda series, but it can get harder interms 
 of the puzzles if your new. Overall, It's an amazing game and a must have for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectacular66
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  At first, I wasn't expecting anything too big from this game, but damn did this get me by surprise! 
 When I began playing, it was nice and slow and calm, and I liked that. Then it starts to build 
 up slowly to the point where all of this business involving the darkness comes into focus. 
  
  Twilight Princess starts you off as the fine wrangler Link who lives in the town of Ordon. 
 He's very good with animals. That's one thing you notice. He's also good with a sword once you 
 get the wooden one Link owns fully repaired. Those kids love to see you swing it around. Especially 
 Beth. Now, Link's been chosen to deliver some sort of gift to Hyrule Castle but Ilia takes Epona 
 away because you've "injured her by working her too hard." Colin explains the entire situation 
 to her about the chase, but... That's where the story begins. Now its a good 35-50 hours until 
 you reach the end. It's a long and very involving story and it really changed the way I look at 
 adventure games like that. Too bad I might never play another game like this. The same goes for 
 Ocarina of Time and Link to the Past. Those were the best games in the Zelda series for me.
  
  Well looking at the other aspects of the game, I noticed a difference when I switched from 
 Metroid Prime 3 to Twilight Princess. It had that GameCube look still, which means all Nintendo 
 did for the Wii version was mirror it and switch the controls but I can't blame them. The Wii isn't 
 meant to be a graphics powerhouse. They looked pretty good to me still.
  
  The controls were awesome. Aiming with the bow or the other ranged items was never so much fun, 
 especially the nice little shootout with arrows that happens somewhere during the game. Very nice. 
 Fishing is also VERY fun once you get to try out bobber fishing. 
  
  Another thing that totally caught my eye was the amount of detail Nintendo stuffed into this game. 
 If you press A right after killing certain enemies to sheathe your sword, Link will do that nice 
 taunt where he does a few spins with the blade before putting it away. It totally screams ownage. 
 It's that awesome. The swordplay in the game is also quicker paced! When taking on mutiple enemies 
 in the depths of the Cave of Ordeals, performing the hidden sword skills made it so easy and so 
 fun to be destroying the hordes of creatures that come at you. Makes you feel insanely powerful 
 but you're not invincible.
  
  Hyrule is also much more bigger and much more different than the Hyrule from over a century ago, 
 which makes it more fun to explore. It's THAT big. Yes. I was appalled.
  
  If you've got a Wii, get this game, and pretty damn quick too. If you loved Ocarina of Time this 
 game should really satisfy that craving for a good Zelda game. It feels that true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This zelda is practically a revamped ocerina of time. It has some shapeshifting, but that is nothing 
 new for our little green hero, having transformed into a goron and a zora previously. 
  
  One thing is this game has hundreds of moments when you'll cry out "oh ____" when somthing mind 
 boggeling happenes. Like when you hop on your little baybalde for the first time, or when you use 
 the gale boomerang, or in the canoeing mini game. This game will astound you so many times in little 
 ways, that it's worth playing just for that, Even the targeting retical on the screen is a fairy, 
 thats simply amazing. 
  
  The things that were great about zelda are still here, but there's still no explanation to where 
 Link manages to keep bombs, arrows, and a wrecking ball on his person. That said, the wolf form 
 is nothing too specail, neither is the horseback combat. Hyrule is bigger than ever, and it's one 
 hell of a pain to cross, and you'll never want to gallop thought it twice. 
  
  Definatly fun, but not the show everyone was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JellyJake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I am a whore for Zedla games (well other than Zedla 2, NES and Windwaker, GC) so 
 Im going to be a bit pro-Zedla which may not be fair on all readings and I am sorry that this will 
 be so Pro Zedla. That out of the way...
  
  Wow, one of the best Zedla games- seeing as the best Zedla game was on the N64. Its right after 
 Ocarina in my eyes (so just be for Links Awaking & Link to the Past) As you can see, I have a kinda 
 unknown Game Boy Zedla game at number 3 in my Zedla games. Which is funny as Zedla aint in the 
 game and its based around Link on a Island in the middle of no where.
  
  This Zedla is massive and doesnt have that kiddy Cel shading; in fact the whole game feels like 
 it has grown up. This game has some of the weirdest and most twisted FMVs I have seen in years. 
 The game grabs you into it from the start and yes Its not as easy as any of the Zedla games before 
 it. Its nice to feel this game has grown up seeing as I have played the game from the NES and upwards 
 (Im 24 btw) .
  
  Its a very soild game; it aint too hard or to easy (tho the puzzel before the master sword had 
 me swearing!) the games world is massive and its a great thing that you have a horse because it 
 cant see it being easy to a player on foot. In fact the map feels as big as Oblivion and seeing 
 as this is on the "most under powerd" system of this war is funny. There are more than enough side 
 quests and mini games, aka fishing as an example to keep you playing for a while after you have 
 beaten the game.
  
  Graphics are awesome for the system, the music and lack of voice over is a joke mind. The only 
 fault- base the game on a Gamecube game and not fill the disk with "real" music and voice over 
 is a crime. I believe the disc must be half full seeing as the same game (only mirrored) is on 
 the Gamecube. Over all the game is a great lunch title and if you love Zelda buy this game. However 
 its not a good starting point for someone new to the game. Get A Link To The Past on VC first and 
 then get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  
  The Good:
  .Beautiful graphics.
  .Absoloutely outstainding story.
  .Great contrast between playing as Link and turning into a wolf.
  .Very long story.
  .Controls 
 work very well.
  .Lots of different places to explore.
  .You get more than your moneys worth from the game.
  The Bad:
  .No multiplayer whatsoever. 
 
  Gameplay:9 (Backed up hugely by the wii controls)
  Story:10
  Graphics:9 (From an artistics perspective
  Sound:5 
  Value:10
  
  Zelda finally comes to 
 the wii with stunning graphics and brilliant unique controls which with Nintendos Wii controls 
 it makes the game worth replaying, if you've ever had or played it on GameCube. The game is very 
 let down by the busted sound coming from the controller of the wii mote, it would actually be better 
 without sound atall. This game is almost an RPG but it doesn't really have many RPG elements I 
 mean, you choose your own path and you can choose how you want to look, you don't have to do a 
 quest you can just free roam that is basically all of the RPG elements but you can hardly ever 
 use them. What my friends and I loved about this game is now literally your not playing as Link 
 you are Link, with the new wii controls where you can swing the wii mote downwards and realistically 
 Link will do the exact same on the screen pretty cool right?
  Overall this game rocks and is a bargain for just 35 pounds, you get way more than what your money's 
 worth, although its not like Zelda to have multiplayer thats the only reason im not giving it a 
 9.5 if the Sound from the wii remote didn't suck so much then it would be scraping the boundaries 
 of 10/10.
  Go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess features a stylized, naturalistic art style (similar to, but far more advanced 
 than that found in Ocarina of Time) , rather than the cel-shaded look that The Wind Waker exhibited 
 - although it still makes use of cel-shading effects, as it uses a very heavily modified version 
 of The Wind Waker's engine. [1] In a further departure from The Wind Waker, Link is once again a 
 young man, as opposed to a child, as in the latter part of Ocarina of Time and in The Adventure 
 of Link. The game also has a darker tone, similar to Majora's Mask. [8]
  
  
  A gameplay screen depicting Link crossing the Bridge of Eldin on Epona in the Wii version. Link 
 transforms into a wolf when entering the Twilight Realm, a void that has ensnared Hyrule. This 
 is not a wholly separate place like the Dark World in A Link to the Past, but a darkened Hyrule. [9]
 
  
  The Wii version uses the Wii Remote and Nunchuk's motion sensors and pointers in conjunction with 
 buttons to operate the game. The built-in speaker on the remote is used for sounds like the bowstring 
 of the Hero's Bow being drawn and released, Midna's laugh when using wolf Link to jump from platforms 
 with Midna, and the "Zelda chime" when discovering secrets, though this can be optionally turned 
 off by turning the Wii remote's volume down to zero, in which case sounds will come through the 
 television like other sounds instead. [10]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is very well done game. It is more fun game playing it on 
 the wii with its motion controllers. When sling the wii remote its makes link actually whack his 
 sword around. Anyways your mission in this game is to help save the kingdom like all the other 
 Zelda games but you also save the twilight kingdom as well. Transforming into a wolf is very cool 
 chasing you tail and digging holes that the life. The wolf senses I though they could of made that 
 better by making it look like night vision. One thing about the game is annoying is that the boss 
 ganondarf like every other Zelda game this is annoying. Anyways the side missions and mini games 
 are very well made they help you not get bored. The fishing part of the game is very realistic 
 and might beat real fishing. One thing in the game I hate is that expensive invincible suit that 
 costs allot and also drains your money in your pocket this outrageous. They should just make it 
 like more expensive instead of draining your cash. There's one part of the game that's really good, 
 it's a brawl that in a cave in the dessert. It has 50 levels of enemies you can fight to you drop. 
 Best thing is that every like 10 levels you talk with a half naked fairy that puts a bunch of healing 
 fairies in the lake springs in the game, this is very handy for fights. The twilight warp points 
 are used allot and are very useful, like example putting a bridge back together. The best part 
 of the game like every other Zelda game before it is you can pick up chicken and fly through the 
 sky, (also piss off the chicken and a swarm comes at you) . 
  
  Overall The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is very well done adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duffman_X86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I've had this since it was launched and i'ce completed it once (40 hrs completion) but i've wanted 
 to play it over and over again. This very rarely happens for me ( I've only ever played oblivion 
 again more than twice)
  
  The graphics is the best thing about the game, it looks much better than the original xbox and 
 this is only a launch game!
  
  People may think this is so similar to OoT but i haven't played it (yes, i haven't played thoroughly, 
 only just for a few mins ever) so this was new to me.
  
  The special skills were very useful to use and the use of the remote was good.
  
  The only 
 problem with the game was the ending boss battle, it was the easiest boss battle i've ever done 
 IMO . The sound 'sounded' clanky and unrealistic but u don't expect a launch game absolutely perfect.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a must buy for any wii owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawl_3-9-08_
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda Twilight princess was originally a GC title. It was modified for the nintendo 
 wii. Many people say this game is just like Ocarina of Time. Well it's not. Ocarina of time didn't 
 have a twilight zone or you couldn't transform into a wolf. Midna was also introduced in this game. 
 This game has much more weapons and enemies then the Ocarina of Time. I do think that nintendo 
 should have took another half a year to make this game for the wii. They could of improved graphics 
 and voice acting. Voice acting should have been used but the game doesn't need it. The final boss 
 in Ocarina of Time was Ganondorf. In Twilight princess you verse Ganondorf in three different was. 
 When he is Ganon, Ganondorf, and puppet Zelda. This game is much longer than Ocarina of Time. Twilight 
 princess will take you about 40-60 hours to beat the game with all items and weapons. If you just 
 beat the game it will take about 40 hours. In the wii version of the game you can point your controller 
 on the screen to show where your going to shoot your arrows, sling shot, (Etc.) ! I don't understand 
 how the GC version got a higher score than the wii one did. I really think this game deserves at 
 least a 9.5 or higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is one of the best Zelda titles ever made. But it doesn't live up to the name 
 of the Legend itself. What TP really lacks is innovation. The game is beautiful and a great adventure 
 experience, as well a great achievement, but all those that played Ocarina of Time must feel the 
 same way: a recycled experience. Event though it introduces new gameplay elements (introduced mainly 
 by the Wiimote) , the foundations of Twilight Princess are built upon Ocarina of Time. The basic 
 elements of the game are all in resemblance with those of Ocarina of Time, which has highly influenced 
 the later games, nevertheless, every single one of them had a new implementation that made the 
 experience fresh and exciting, such as the Three Day System in Mayora's Mask, or the Great Sea 
 in the Wind Waker as well as the Graphic Style. Unfortunately, Twilight Princess didn't did this 
 at all, and also presented some step backs in the series. TP took many of the last games and recycled 
 them: a huge world, transformation and the massive number of temples. Event though all if these 
 elements could make a great dream-like Zelda Game, they all lack in some aspects: the huge world 
 feels empty, mainly because they are just fields used to go to one point to another, deserted places 
 with some enemies. Even Hyrule Market feels empty in spite of the great multitude of people, because 
 you cannot interact with them, they just walk by. In every other Zelda game you can talk to every 
 single character and they have something to say, which makes a great immersive experience. Even 
 Ocarina of Time's little market feels more alive than the Twilight Princess's huge market. Most 
 of the characters lack in development and the huge world seems to feel a little bit empty, and 
 there were very few sidequests to complete (MM had a tremendous replay value, the time system allowed 
 to create incredible sidequests that never got boring and make Termina a lively world) . Transformation 
 is not new in the series. In Mayora's Mask you can also transform to three different characters. 
 The Wolf is ok, but the Twilight World can get a little bit boring, especially because you must 
 always do the same thing with the Wolf, find bugs and kill them. The storyline, the temples and 
 locales remind me too much of Ocarina of Time, sometimes making me feel that I'm playing Ocarina 
 of Time 1.5. Even you get the Zora Tunic again. The number of temples is greater than any other 
 Zelda Game, but the last temples are just to short to complete, in contrast with those of Ocarina 
 of Time, that took a great deal of time to complete. Also, the difficulty has been tunes down for 
 new players into the series, which makes the game feel sometimes way to easy for any Zelda veteran. 
 At the very end, TP feels like an enchanced Ocarina of Time with some elements from MM and WW. 
 Don't get me wrong, it is a great game and definitely worth a check, but it's not what Ocarina 
 of Time was on it's time (it defined a Genre) , or even what ALttP was too (even OoT has ALttP shades) , 
 the game feels old in this aspect, but the Wiimote gave some life to the series. I hope the next 
 Zelda game introduces something new, just like MM or the WW, because the formula is getting overused 
 by Nintendo and some changes need to be made, both in storyline and gameplay (we Zelda fans are 
 tired of killing Ganondorf at the very end) . The Wii has the capability to do it. The gameplay 
 can be preserved, but definitely needs to have new features. Overall, TP is a good game, and a 
 great experience to new players into the series, but a little bit of a let down to the veterans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedifro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  When Wind Waker was released for the cube back in '03, many devoted fans of the series doubted 
 the future of the series. Doubt no longer my friends, this is the zelda experience loyal fans have 
 been waiting for. So how does it compare to the rest of the series, especially the indisputable 
 N64 classic Ocarina of Time? While it does not reach the awesomeness of Ocarina, it comes real 
 close. 
  
  The story of Zelda titles tends to be the same most of the time, and in the whole perspective, 
 the story revolves around the same concept of others in the series. Even with this fact, the game 
 must be played simply from the depth Nintendo put into the story of this game. Instead of just 
 explaining the lore at the beginning, Twilight Princess leaves you guessing at every turn. Besides 
 the fan base of the series, what drew many to this game was the graphics of the title. A good reason 
 indeed, the graphics are gorgeous. Seeing the vast expanse of Hyrule field for the first time was 
 a beautiful sight to behold. A large overworld would not be complete without Link's trusty steed 
 Epona. The horseback riding is back and it is made even more amazing now that you can use your 
 sword to battle mounted enemies. 
  
  So the natural question most ask is "how is it different now it is on the Wii?" The controls are 
 great for what they are, but there are some issues worth pointing out. To move your sword, you 
 simply flick the Wiimote with your wrist and you will destroy any baddie that comes your way. While 
 it was a good control scheme, more could have been done. When I motion the controller upwards, 
 I would like to see Link swing his sword up and so forth. The best part of the Wii control is definitely 
 the bow and arrow. Nothing feels quite as good as aiming at and killing a goblin from across Hyrule 
 field with pixel perfect accuracy. I honestly can't imagine going back to the control stick. 
 
  
  Another issue I had with the game was the difficulty. While I understand Nintendo's goal to reach 
 out to more gamers, they sacrificed it by making the game far too easy. The most apparent example 
 of this was the boss battles. Don't get me wrong, the boss battles were epic and amazing, but most 
 were far too easy for veterans like myself. I also want more innovation in the bosses that I face. 
 I do not want the boss to only be defeated by the new weapon in my arsenal. Why not have a boss 
 that requires three or four different weapons? While I am on weapons, why did some weapons get 
 the shaft once you beat the boss? People who have played the game know what I am talking about. 
 
  
  The last big issue I had with the game was the originality of the game. The first half of the game 
 was similar to Ocarina of Time in a lot of ways. While this is not a bad thing initially, the weapons 
 you receive and the puzzles in the temple were far too familiar. It was not until halfway through 
 that the game took an amazing turn and began to offer new amazing weapons that redefined what playing 
 Zelda looks like. While all these issues seem to contradict my review score, understand that this 
 is from a diehard Zelda fan's perspective. I loved Twilight Princess and planned to play it again 
 very soon. The game is a good length. Most Zelda vets could complete it in about 40 hours, but 
 it could take longer if you go on the numerous side quests available. While there were some issues, 
 this is definitely one of my five favorite games of all time. Highly recommended!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a month after getting my Wii. At the time, it had the highest rating for 
 any Wii game. I thought it was going to be amazing. Like the "Zelda's" of the past. ... This game 
 is fun for a serious gamer that would love a long-lasting story-mode. For me, this game has you 
 do too much "RANDOM STUFF". The game has you go on, what seem to be, pointless tasks. These tasks 
 tend to be boring and long and in my opinion take away from the game. Don't get me wrong, this 
 game has many fun parts, but the bad outweighs the good. I am an action-junkie, I love the rush 
 of games with explosions and high intensity. I can't say I'd reccomend the game, but I defnatley 
 wouldn't try to persuade people not to get it. The game can be really fun at times, and at others 
 really boring. This game is ideal for people who like games where you have to collect things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnvb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  For any action/adventure gamer who has never played a "Zelda" game before, this is definitely the 
 one to play. However, if you have played a "Zelda" game before, be forewarned that the basic formula 
 of previous installments doesn't really change. Either way, this is still a truly awesome game!
 
  
  Pros: -The addition of Link transforming into a werwolf is well executed. This allows for cool 
 new moves to be integrated into the gameplay.
  -Great cartoon graphics.
  -Puts together the best elements of previous Zelda games into one massive game, while adding new 
 things to the mix.
  -A long, engaging and epic adventure that ensures you will get your moneys worth!
  -For the most 
 part, the bosses are excellent in a massively large kind of way.
  -The addition of WII-style controls gives the gameplay another dimension. Allowing for some pretty 
 fun interaction (like pointing the remote at the screen where you want to shoot your bow, ect...) .
 
  
  Cons: -Controls on the Wii remote can be a little bit sketchy at times. This issue mostly consists 
 of trying to do special moves like the shield attack (when you attempt this move Link tends to 
 do the spin attack instead) .
  -At times there is a definite feeling of "been-there-done-that". "Ocarnia of Time" immediately 
 comes to mind.
  -On one or two occasions the dungeon puzzles are very complicated, and can be somewhat frustrating 
 if you don't have the patience. But this is Zelda, so any true fanboy should appreciate a good 
 challenge, right?
  
  I personally consider these flaws to be very minor, and for me, they did not detract from the overall 
 fun of playing the game. All in all, this is the ultimate Zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for the wii. It has pretty good graphics and it will get you to buy the wii. 
 The controls and fell to it are outstanding. It is very difficult but if you work hard you will 
 be able to get thryough it eventully. If you find all the hidden secrets you can beat it in 25 
 hours. The game gives you the sensation of having fun. You will not want to stop playing. If this 
 game were not out for the wii I would not be a hardcore wii player. This is a must buy. You need 
 to give it a chance and it is alot better on wii than gamecube. That is why I gave this game a 
 9.5. ffd fd fd fs f f fes frgtht h hy 5 j ht w few few f wef ew ewf reg t yj uj yu v sdc esdf trg 
 tr grse fty ju ki kjf f r hju kiu kjytg vr grt hy ju jht rgr eh yj u6 erfg erh ju klo pl89 iu6 
 wter qfg wj u6 iky jye q tj u trg t ju k gfea fe ghty hw refrq egt rwj ykj uh we grw tgre h jy 
 uki uj ag rqegrewhymhyg rew gt 4hy jut j r tr ytrehtrhj yj y rjuy utrk uyi ti 9ol ulkity erqfwetgesdu7tj 
 yuju6 tyj6 t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Wow! Great game! LOZ came to the Wii early and i am very thankful. I think its a spectacular game 
 that uses the Wii remote enough where you know it has made an impact. The stages and levels are 
 very hard and take much time and thought to figure out but as a LOZ master i feel it was needed. 
 The game looks beautiful and the story is very good. I think the new look Link is pretty cool and 
 the new wolf addition is good. The game is long and satisfying to say the least. From the first 
 couple of missions to the final boss fights it brings a great opening game for the Wii. I thought 
 it played great on the Wii and is a very good game to check out for new and old comers to the game. 
 The only concern is the difficulty which i thought at some points were pretty annoying but its 
 still a great game and a definite buy for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxostev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Ah Zelda, you always know how to treat a gamer right. It's been over a year since the games released 
 with the Wii, and it's still one of the best.
  
  The Facts:
  The Story is pretty standard for a Zelda game. Links grows up in a small town, town becomes under 
 attack, Link sets to avenge town, ends up trying to find sacred objects, and more sacred objects 
 when the others don't cut it. This time though, you can transform into a wolf! You move your character 
 with the nunchuk and attacks are made by waving the Wiimote. Items are activated by the B button 
 and thankfully you don't need to waggle the Wiimote to use the items
  
  The Good
  Everything. The music and sound is fantastic and fits the atmosphere of the game well. Graphics 
 are awesome, even though they're Gamecube like, they're well polished, making one of the best looking 
 games on the Wii. Controls are well-mapped out and feel natural, are thing to happen to have with 
 a launch title. 
  
  The Bad:
  It basically follows the same pattern seen started in Link to the Past, find three major items, 
 find out they're not enough and search for another set of items. It's been out for over a year 
 and still retails at $50 dollars 
  
  Final Word:
  It's a great game, one of the best on the Wii. If you haven't picked this up yet, do it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  ere it is. The famous Twilight Princess. One of the, if not THE, most hyped games of this generation. 
 Or next generation depending on your point of view. Yes, this Zelda has been on a long journey, 
 but after a nearly 4 year development, across 2 systems, and a 1 year delay, but it is finally 
 here. This game is truly worthy of the series. Zelda.
  
  Twilight Princess was first unveiled at E3 '04 for the GCN, under the name "The Legend of Zelda 
 (Working Title) ", and shocked the showgoers. As the audience saw Link many cried with joy. Afterwards 
 a few screens were shown, but nothing much was said until GDC '05, when another trailer was shown. 
 A few months later at E3 '05 the most famous trailer was shown, and blew away the viewers with 
 Link's transformation into a wolf. The game's name was also revealed. Twilight Princess. Needless 
 to say the Twilight Princess board here on GameFAQS went into overdrive. Hell, I created my account 
 just to share my opinions on that board. But the community went into an uproar at news of a delay 
 into 2006. And thus started the infamous Zelda info drought. In the midst of the chaos, many rumors 
 spread about the game being switched to the, then known as, Revolution. Finally 1 whole year later 
 at E3 '06, we received some info. Mainly that Twilight Princess was now on both GCN and, the now 
 known as, Wii. And in November, 1 year after the original release date, the Zelda epic, Twilight 
 Princess was released.
  
  STORY 7.9/10
  
  This chapter in the Zelda legend takes place sometime between Ocarina of Time, and Wind Waker, 
 and stars a new Link. This young man lives an average life as a ranch hand, but when his village 
 becomes endangered, he gets sucked into a position where he must fill the legendary hero's shoes 
 to save the entire kingdom from a spreading mass of shadow, the Twilight Realm, which is engulfing 
 Hyrule slowly but steadily. While it seems basic, there are many surprise twists, and it has a 
 astonishingly compelling story, involving Link, Zelda, Zant, Midna, and eternal foe Ganondorf. 
 Twilight contains easily the best story yet in a Zelda game. A nice surprise indeed.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9.4/10
  
  It's Zelda with some new stuff. 'Nuf said. That should do it for just about 
 everybody out there, but if it doesn't, I will go into detail. If that is good enough for you, 
 please feel free to go on to the next section.
  
  Twilight Princess builds on the classic Zelda formula of crossing the overworld, getting to a dungeon, 
 which you navigate to find a new item, which you will use to fight the boss, most of which are 
 FRIGGIN COOL this time around. There aren't that many new items to the series, but there are some, 
 and even some improvements on existing ones (I'm looking at YOU hookshot) . The dungeons are quite 
 good, but some of the later ones (which I will not state for the purpose of not leaking spoilers) , 
 well, aren't. Bosses are great, the most fun ever in the series, and you'll do all kinds of cool 
 things to fight them. Unfortunately they are all easy. Even the last one. I'll give you an example 
 from early in the game. Grab onto the boss's back with an item, and hang on as it moves around 
 wildly trying to get you off, and you slash it with your sword repeatedly. It's damned cool.
  
  And of course there is the wolf. Rawr. Link can go feral and tear through enemies, and while 
 its cool, its not that effective. Link is better off with a sword. The wolf also really only has 
 2 moves other than the basic attack. A spin attack and some weird dash move, neither of which work 
 well.
  
  Human Link on the other hand has TONS of moves. From a spin attack (that IS effective) , to a instant 
 kill, you'll gain many moves. They are all taught to you by the ancient hero, and his golden wolf. 
 It's just too bad that I didn't tend to use most of them.
  
  As for side quests and other collectibles, there's lots. Golden Bugs (20 in all I believe) , Poe 
 Souls (60 in all) , and Heart Pieces (Now 5 to a heart) . There are other side quests that involve 
 playing minigames such as delivering water to a Goron, or having to shoot targets in Kakariko Village.
 
  
  As I said before, classic Zelda with a few new twists. 'Nuf said.
  
  GRAPHICS 7.3/10
  
  The least important part of any game as any true gamer will tell you. But 
 Twilight Princess is pretty good in this department. Which is astonishing considering its barely 
 using the Wii potential, as it's running on a GCN engine. The GCN and Wii versions look exactly 
 the same. Which is as it should be. GCN owners would feel shafted, and goodness knows they've been 
 shafted enough already. Still this is the best of the best of the GCN. Which doesn't actually give 
 us a very high score on a next gen console. Fortunately for Twilight Princess, it has an amazing 
 art direction. Its absolutely fantastic. Characters are great, each area is great, everything seems 
 drenched in wonderful design. I cannot describe this enough. You have to play it to understand.
 
  
  CONTROLS 8.6/10
  
  The big thing about moving Twilight Princess to the Wii was the addition of motion controls. And 
 they are well implemented in the game, though I do think they could have been better, had the game 
 been originally intended for the Wii. You swing the sword with the remote, which sounds tiring 
 but actually is not. This is pretty cool at first, but later on you will cease to notice it. Where 
 the Wii remote does improve gameplay is in the spin attack, which is so easy to pull off you almost 
 feel sorry for the poor moblins. Just shake the Nunchuk from side to side. The other great enhancement 
 is the pinpoint aiming for projectile weapons. Its so great to snipe enemies from a distance with 
 such accuracy. It just feels badass. Point. Shoot. Enemy dies. My only qualms with the control 
 setup are that sometimes you will shield bash instead of spin attack, or vice versa, and that fishing 
 is, one, hard, and two, tiring.
  
  Not bad implementation for a game that had the controls tacked on.
  
  AUDIO 6.1/10
  
  This 
 was very disappointing. Very. We did not get fully orchestrated music. At all. It was all MIDI's. 
 Nor very good ones. The overworld theme is horribly forgetful. Every day as the sun rises it begins 
 great, the same as OoT, and you like you're about to hear an epic heroic theme. Then it suddenly 
 cuts off and changes to some boring song that doesn't suit the intro at all. Seriously WTF Nintendo? 
 That's not to say all tracks are this bad. They're not. The title screen theme, I am especially 
 fond of. The Hyrule Castle theme is fantastically remixed as well. But the rest ranges from mediocre 
 to just plain bad.
  
  The sound is also less than par. The Wiimote speaker mangles things sometimes. What did they do 
 to my beloved Zelda "correct" chime? The first time I heard it I almost cried. I'm not kidding. 
 Otherwise its decent. Average.
  
  And now for the controversial one. Voice Acting. Now I was totally against VA completely before 
 this game. Zelda just didn't need it. I was wrong. Twilight Princess brings the Zelda franchise 
 to a more cinematic level, and the lack of VA is almost painful at times. Now let me make this 
 clear. Link should NEVER TALK. EVER. End of story. But the others should all have it. There is 
 no reason they shouldn't. It's not a nicety. Lack of VA actually detracts from this game. Not all 
 games need VA. But this one does.
  
  RENT OR BUY
  
  Total no-brainer. Buy it. Love it.
  
  PROS AND CONS
  
  + Gameplay is fantastic
  + Nice 
 Story
  + Controls decent
  + Artistically brilliant
  + Competent technical graphics
  + Its ZELDA
  
  - Music leaves LOTS to be desired
  - My poor chime... *cries*. R. I. P. any 
 sound that came from the speaker
  - Needs VA
  - Bosses are easy
  - Later dungeons are LAME
  
  FINAL COMMENTS
  
  Ultimately this game suffered from the inevitable 
 ugly side of the hype machine. People expected too much from the game. They wanted something to 
 be like OoT, but better. Which it is. Yet it comes out, and everybody says it's OoT 1.5. That's 
 what you asked for that's what you get. If it had been different it would have joined the ranks 
 of Zelda II, Majora's Mask, and Wind Waker as generally disliked Zelda's because they were too 
 different. This is the reality that Zelda fans are hypocrites.
  
  In my opinion this is not the best Zelda ever, because I LOVE me some Majora's Mask. However it 
 is a very solid second.
  
  Play the game and be enlightened.
  
  9.7/10. A great score, for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NES-SNES-DS-WII
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorit games because it has a really good story line to it and also the 
 graphics are good and gameplay is fun. There are alot of fun temples with many things to unlock, 
 stuff like suits, weapons and much more. The temples keep you real awake and theres much to do. 
 The twilight may be a bit confusing at first but then you get the hang of it and you can go back 
 and forth from wolf link to just link. Still i wish they had voice overs but inaway thats good 
 because they might make links voice sound mest up. This game will keep you with alot to do. If 
 your a zelda fan and you like that kinda gameplay i reccomend getting oblivion elder scrolls IV. One 
 thing i reccomend you get is links black suit because it takes away your rubies in stead of your 
 life. If you not a zelda fan I bet if you played this game you would love it I say this is a must 
 if you have a wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superchi1d
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Zelda
  
  I'm going to keep this short. Zelda is a great game the sound if really very good and it came as 
 shock to me that its midi. The graphics on Twilight Princess are excellent they are probably the 
 best use of the wii around. The controls are ok to use a sword you just swing it but in reality 
 you only flick it (a tad disappointing) . The bosses are a bit easy but the storyline is awesome. 
 For some people the next bit will be good for others bad. It's actually difficult! I had to actually 
 look on the Internet were to go next as I was stumped. For most of it you just need to keep an 
 open mind and maybe an open eye on gamespot.
  
  Other
  
  There are many wepoans items you can collect as you go along and you''ll just have to play along 
 till you finally get your Ball and Chain :) .
  Minigames
  
  There are quite a lot of minigames in zelda and i recommend them all espically fishing (you have 
 to be about 1/3 through the game before you can open this part up though) . Fishing is availbile 
 Just downstream of Zora Domain.
  
  The storyline is as follows.
  You are a child in a village called Ordon at the beginning of the game you have to help out around 
 the village before you train to becoming a true hero and warrior. Then you go around from temple 
 to temple getting bits of masks and mirrors and helping your little annoying friend called Midna. 
 Basically you help her defeat evil and get rid of the shadow world and turn it back to light. At 
 first you just think you are human but part way through you find out that you are part wolf to 
 (this is very fun) . When your a wolf Midna rides on your back (scary..) . When you have completed 
 about 2/3 of the game you can turn into a wolf at any time and back to a human. The advantage of 
 this being that you can warp around (Saving much time.)
  Even though you could use your horse (Edona) . Riding on Edona is great fun and you can fire your 
 bow while on her.
  
  For completing the game the play time is aprox. 40-50hours and for all minigames about 70hours.. 
 :)
  
  Superchi1d.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRmiilife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Zelda game i have ever played and i will be a instant classic. I love the 
 story mode and i think Midna was a great character to see in this game. This game has a lot of 
 puzzles and many Dungeons. My favourite part of the game would have to be the side missions in 
 this game ,they are all like minigames but actually give you rewards to beating them. This game 
 toke me 44 hours to beat so it is long , but i did get all the heart pieces. The bosses all have 
 different fighting styles which makes this game so unique. When your a wolf you may get frustrated 
 but i gets better when you know how to use him. I believe that this game is better than the gamecube 
 one because you actually have to move and the controls make this game that much better. Like when 
 using the clawshot you have to point at the screen and aim correctly. The story mode actually suprised 
 me i didnt think it would be so good. The cutscenes are amazing it feels like your in a movie and 
 the graphics for this game are amazing. The only part i dislike is that no one talks in this game 
 if they did i would give it a 10/10 but it didnt ,but dont let that stop you from buying this game. LONG 
 LIVE LINK!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halobeatdown77
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  this is a must have game for wii. even people who have never heard of the series should still check 
 this game out. This is one of the few games that truly uses the wii controls perfectly. You start 
 out as a boy named link in the village of Ordon. your "girlfriend" is taken by the evil lord of 
 the pigs (don't ask, just play the game) . You must rescue her, but there is much more to the story 
 than that. The graphics are good for the wii. The visual designs are great. No two dungeons look 
 alike. Gameplay is and combat are great, and the boss fights are the highlight of the game. The 
 puzzles are cleverly designed (if somewhat hard) and are satisfying to complete. The sound and 
 music are great. The game is very long, taking between 25 and 40 hours to complete. Although there 
 is a set storyline, the game has an RPG feel because there are many things to do, collect, and 
 buy. My only issue with the game is that the game has no voice acting whatsoever (all the characters 
 do is make annoying noises) , which kind of takes away from the cutscenes. This is a must have game 
 for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  this is the must have game of 2006 for the wii, any one that loved the zelda games or the lord 
 of the rings has got to play this game. lets start with to #1 thing that most people were wondering, 
 how does the motion controls work. the answer is just fine. they are used for aiming your bow slingshot 
 and boomerang. swordplay is initiated by simply wagging the wii mote and spin attacks are used by 
 shaking the nunchuck. all the controls feel very responsive and well done [wolf link is controlled 
 almost the exact same way] .the graphics to the game are also good for a launch title that doesnt 
 have a ton of hardware. the story also is well crafted and interesting. the land of hyrule is very 
 large and open to explore with little minigames that give you fun little bonus things. the game 
 also shines with the music which is very well done. the game is also very addictive because if you 
 take a leisurely pace it can take over 20 hours. if you have a wii you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_puke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  If you have a Wii, get it. Simple. I could go into detail about the amazing plot, Immersive dungeons, 
 some wacky characters (Agatha, princess of the bug kingdom, why?) and loads of side quests that 
 would make you just get to the phone and mail order it, but that wouldwould take too long, so heres 
 a condensed version:
  
  Young boy. Falls in love. She's kidnapped and your dragged into a world of hellish creatures. Stunning 
 music score. Excellent graphics. Weird people and imps. You turn into a wolf. You turn into hero 
 Link after restoring the light. And so on...
  
  Doesn't sound like much but once you've actually booted up the game, THEN it looks and sounds amazing.
 
  
  Crucial to zelda fans. Crucial to any person. Crucial to any person who's considering a wii for 
 christmas. End of.
  
  BITE SIZE- itty bitty chunks of your favorite games fried and ready to serve
  
  Calories burned- 
 Almost zero
  Most interest to- Anyone with a wii
  remote detectivity- high
  
  better than- Anything you can find 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is lengthy, the combat is great, the controls are truly great, the game play is super 
 rewarding and the boss fights are revolutionary. You start off unarmed in Ordon village, this is 
 a little boring, especially if you don't know what to do, but once you make it out of Ordon the 
 game becomes really exciting. The weapons and items are great, the boss fights even better. My 
 favorite boss fights are the final three, (the Dragon dude you have to clawshot up the towers and 
 on to his back, Zant and Ganondorf) . The graphics are pretty good too, the secret moves are a nice 
 addition to the game and lure fishing is a cool mini-game. If you are thinking of buying this game, 
 do not delay, go forth! You will not be disappointed. This game truly remarkable and a must-have 
 for Wii owners! 10/10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickster_11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  As you may know twilight pricess was designed to be more like ocarina of time. to me this is a 
 good idea since OoT ws one of the best games ever created. But dont worry, twiight pricess isnt 
 an oot clone. its similar but add some new gameplay features and improves in some areas. i'll just 
 list them for u
  gameplay: the wiimote enhances gameplay with simple swinging motions, cool items such as the ball-and-chain, 
 awsome combos and finishing moves.
  presentation: the game has a darker tone than the other zelda games, even without voice acting 
 the game feels very cinematic, great music that mixes old and new
  level design: seriously some of the best dongeons in all of zelda history, awsome puzzles, great 
 boss fights, good pacing
  graphics: technically and artistically superior than any other zelda game (windwaker might have 
 better art if u like cell shading)
  just because i gave the game a 10/10 doesnt mean its perfect, the game was easy, some items were 
 underused, some items were missing altogether (no light arrows qq) , and a severe lack of side quests. 
 
  All-in-all, this is probably the best zelda in the series and takes more steps foward that backward. 
 if you havent bought it yet, then i feel sorry for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerbear10
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  The game has brilliant graphics and story line the only flaw was that the bosses were way too easy. 
 Ganondorf was by far easier to beat than in any other zelda game today. i beat him on my first 
 try. the water temple was also extremely easy. They need a difficulty level adjustment. other than 
 that this game OWNS ALL. I love Zelda games. this is one of my favorites along with ocarina of 
 time. i still recommend this game to everyone since the story line is pure genius. also PH is pretty 
 decent as well. enjoy the game and good luck.
  
  ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
 ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA ZELDA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshock13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, being a highly expected title for the Wii during launch, there was a lot to live up to, and 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess lives up to all of it. Starting out in the little town of 
 Ordon, the game gets moving quickly, teaching the basics in the course of 15 to 20 minutes, all 
 while creating the base for the story at the same time. The characters in the beginning are amusing, 
 and for the little time you spend with them, have a surprising amount of depth to them, all with 
 their own little stories.
  Now, the game really gets going when the children get kidnapped, and you're thrown into the twilight 
 realm, and forced to play as the wolf that was in all the trailers before this game came out. Throughout 
 the game, the wolf is great to play as, and adds another element to the gameplay.
  The graphics of the game are top notch. The artistic style was beautiful to look at; many times, 
 after having defeated the final boss, I hopped on my horse and rode through all of Hyrule just 
 to see how great everything looked.
  The Wii controls worked great with this game. The sword mechanics with swinging the wii-mote, as 
 well as the shield moves with the nunchuk, were great, and provided an added level of emmersion 
 to the game.
  Though the boss battles for the most part were relatively easy, they are still a blast to go through.
 
  If you've played Ocarina of Time for the N64, then this game will definitely resonate with you. 
 Nintendo stuck with the winning formula, and I don't think anyone will have a problem with it, 
 though you do notice when there are some obvious takes from OoT; again, nothing wrong with that.
 
  This game was amazing, a must play, must buy. Whether or not it tops OoT is a personal preference; 
 OoT is simply the definitive version of what an adventure video game should be. Twilight Princess, 
 for me, topped Ocarina in many aspects. I'll leave it up to all the gamers to decide for themselves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog202
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the first wii games out and it has stunned me, 
 usually the first games to come out on a new console haven't shown the full detail on what that 
 console is able to do, but this game is outstanding, lituraly my jaw hit the floor when i saw this 
 game for the first time. The game makers have come up with the best story-line on a Zelda game 
 ever! Gameplay, the game play is beyond excellence! The game starts off slow, you get a few jobs 
 to do, this helps you to get used to the game! but when the quest starts it doesn't end, this game 
 is the longest game i have played, 60-70 hours of game play! thats alot :) Graphics, to be honest 
 there pretty good for a Wii game, sometimes things look a bit weird but once your playing this 
 game you wouldn't careless
  
  Sounds, i love the sounds, the theme for ordon village is cool, the sound effects are neat!
  
 
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game. the only problem is that theres no talking 
 in the game, if it wasn't for that then the game would be perfect. Do yourself a favour and pop 
 into your local games store and buy this game! honestly its worth every penny!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeithT267
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best zelda game there is. but it confuses you at the beggining. With all the side 
 quests to get the items you need is very creative go nintendo! wellthe graphics are great for the 
 gcse and are astonishing for the wii. swiingin your wii mote makes it a great game to play. the 
 aiming of the arrows is easer than the gamecubes way. The game is a bit harder than all of the 
 others made. Everybody looks different and the way nintendo linked the story was amazing. Then hyrule 
 field was different and the idea of changing into a wolf was great there are so many great things 
 about this game that it will take me months to write down The graphics gameplay and much more make 
 it an addicting game to play once you play it you will love it! nintendo put alot of work into 
 it and it came out to be a wonderful game i love it and im a zelda lover i have nothing bad to 
 say about it cause i love this awsome game it made peoples want to buy the gamecubeborn the wii 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Zelda games are brilliant and this isn't any different either here is what 
 my opnions of the game are.
  
  Story
  
  Link is sent to Hyrule to delievr a message to Princess Zelda but along the way Ilia gets mad at 
 him for injuring Epona and Link goes to see her and is told about what happened and all of a sudden 
 enimies attack and hit Ilia and Link goes to see her and gets hit by the bad guy and then he runs 
 and Link gives chase and gets send into the Twilight world where he can only be a wolf. A imp named 
 Midna helps him in his wolf form and they go see Zelda and gets told about how the land of Hyrule 
 is covered in Darkness. So your adventure begins.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well the first part of the game is getting use to the controls for like sword skills and using 
 the slingshot and how to ride Epona. The game you collect Rupees. The dungeons are nicely designed 
 which is good you get a certain item off a mid boss which helps you progress further into it and 
 beat the boss. There are heart pieces and if you collect five you recieve an extra heart piece. 
 While you are in wolf form you have to collect vessels of light to restore parts of the land to 
 light again so it is not covered in darkness and they are howling stones where if you howl and 
 play the certain tune a wolf will show up in a certain location in human form and learns you skills 
 there are about 7 different ones altogether. You sword is used by using the Wii mote and a spin 
 attack is by shaking the nunchuck. You can Z target things though which is good. There is a few 
 items old ones like  boots and some new ones like Dominion 
 Rod and Spinner. To use certain items you aim the Wii mote at the screen and point at where you 
 want to aim that partiuclar item there is like a red circle showing you a where your about to aim 
 it. Like Ocarina Of Time there are different kinds of amour for you to wear. Standard the one you 
 start with, Zora Amour lets you breathe underwater and magic amopur that is by doing some certain 
 task.
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds from the other Zelda games are there like the music that has been in a Zelda game since 
 the first. You hear noises from when you do moves with the Wii mote whic sounds nice.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are okay not fantastic but good enought the Twilight World doesn't 
 look as nice as it could have been. In terms of graphics but there was alot of detail put into 
 the normal light world which makes it a nice looking game.
  
  Lastability
  
  It should take you about 20 hours or so to do the main game but their are a few sidequest and games 
 that can be played. 
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  This game is a joy to play . It has a couple of flaws I think that doesn't make it perfect. One 
 of them is to similar to Ocarina Of Time which some fans won't mind but fans of the series might 
 and the other is the difficulty. It is a bit too easy and the bosses although they look huge they 
 are abit of a walkover. It still doesn't stop it been a top game though. It is one of the best games 
 on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  This Zelda game, released alongside the Wii console in 2006, is actually a greatly made adventure 
 that will probably go unmatched in probably this console generation as it dishes out the challenging 
 puzzles it is known for. Though people complain that (despite the complexity of said puzzles) they 
 are comparably easy from its predecessors, this measure was probably taken to help people ease 
 into the Wii, which was new at the time. And unlike Nintendo's other blockbuster franchise, Mario, 
 Zelda has a more mature story though when you dig deeper, you'll find that the goal is almost the 
 same as Mario's: rescue the princess and save the world. The twist here though, is the presence 
 of the "Twilight World" (which might as well should've been dubbed the "Twilight Zone") where you, 
 Link, turn into a wolf that is ridden by a girl named Midna who is a denizen of the aforementioned 
 world.
  
  Though nobody will probably care to know, Link was left-handed (because Shigeru Miyamoto, creator, 
 was left-handed as well) , but because people, even lefties, prefer to hold the Wiimote in the right 
 hand and clutch the Nunchuk in the left, they reversed everything, therefore making left, right 
 and right, left (but not up, down and down, up) . So if ever you are to consult a so-called FAQ, 
 make sure you find a dedicated Wii version, not a GameCube version.
  
  Moving on, graphics are kinda decent at best for Wii, because it is actually a GameCube port. There 
 are practically no framerate dips and graphical glitches though the presentation itself seems and 
 feels old (despite the fact that this is the first Zelda game I've ever played) .
  
  It's especially fun to ride Epona, our green protagonist's horse as it feels exhilirating and speedy. 
 The combat works well, but the thing is, you'll just whirl and whirl your hand in a bored manner 
 so you can defeat your enemies, making combat feel like a chore. There's more variety in being 
 Wolf Link though, as you can chain-attack three enemies in a fast amount of time, but after that, 
 well, there are the shield attacks, but controls just feel rushed, tacked on and without finesse. 
 Aiming is of course faster and more precise here as you use Link's trademark weapons such as sling 
 shot, bombs, arrows, bomb arrows, etc..
  
  But overall, if you can forgive the tacked-on combat system, you'll find that there is a lot of 
 fun in Twilight Princess. Puzzles are challenging, the story is decent and it is lengthy. You'll 
 even clock in 50 hours through the whole thing, even more so with unlockable searching. Honestly 
 though, there were some yawn-inducing moments... but that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying, this is a great game. It is mostly a puzzle game, but still has tons 
 of action and a great story line with many plot twists.
  I'll just start off by saying that this game took me 54 hours and 40 minutes to beat just the storyline, 
 not even getting 100% everything. This is not a bad thing however, not a bad thing at all. When 
 a game this great comes by, you sometimes wish it would last forever, but this sure does last a 
 long time and is worth every minute. If you really tried you could probably beat this in half the 
 time I did, but I like to take my time and explore around rather than only doing exactly what I'm 
 supposed to.
  Ok, now that i'm done talking about how great the game is, I'll talk about the other parts of it. 
 First of all, the graphics. They are definitely better than most games on the Wii, but not the 
 best. Overall though, they are good and clean.
  The sound is great. You will hear the sound effects of the sword, Link's various grunts and yells 
 (although you never actually hear him talk) and many other great sounds and noises that only make 
 this game that much better.
  The controls add a lot to this game, swing the Nunchuck and Remote to do sword attacks, but what 
 is definitely made better by the Wii is the bow and arrow. You simply point at the screen and shoot, 
 but it's surprisingly fun and is easier and quicker that using analog sticks.
  All in all, this game is pretty much a must have. Great puzzles, good action, and the fact that 
 it lasts a long time all add up to an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racine75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  No need to give an in-depth context description: any gamer's heard of the Zelda series before. 
 It's a fun epic adventure game allowing you to roam through a multi-faceted world with many varied 
 environments to explore, such as volcanic underground chambers and deep lakes.
  
  The gameplay is absolutely brilliant: the potential of the wiimote is used to its fulllest extent, 
 from swishing it as your blade to aiming and firing it as your bow. The graphics are not as good 
 as what you get on the other consoles of the same generation but hey, welcome to the Wii... The 
 music is up to its usual excellence. The puzzles, dungeons and bosses are really well thought through, 
 and even the little side-games are fun to play.
  
  Zelda: TP is most definitley the best game I've played up till today on the Wii. Even Super Mario 
 Galaxy (and boy do I love that one too) doesn't compare in my opinion; I don't quite understand 
 why the Gamespot team rated ZTP so low wrt its real value. If you haven't bought this Zelda opus 
 yet, my advice for you is to run to the store this minute ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLuigiFan101x
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is Nintendo Wii and GCN game. Let's start with the story. It starts out 
 with Link living in Ordon Village, working, hanging out with his friends. Then one day a bunch 
 of enemies take his friends away. He then goes after them but ends up in the Twilight Realm as 
 a wolf. Then an imp named Midna appears and helps Link on his adventure. Later, he finds out his 
 friends are okay, except one of them named Illia. But she's also safe, but has amnesia. Link also 
 has promised to help Midna too. By collecting a dark power called the Fused Shadows. Link meets 
 Zelda earlier in the game than you would expect. After the story gets more Zelda like and traditional.
 
  
  Well, the Triforce is in the game, but it doesn't play much of a role. Zelda doesn't play much 
 of a role either, except the beginning and end. 
  
  Anyway, let's get to the gameplay. In the GCN version, it's like all Zelda games.
  But in the 
 Wii version, you swing the Wii Remote to swing your sword, you can aim stuff by pointing the remote 
 at the screen, which is cool. And the skills you learn obviously use Wii functions. It is kind 
 of hard to get use to, but you'll get used to it. No magic bar, which sucks. But all in all, it's 
 great. The graphics are good, story gets interesting, and the whole design of Hyrule and its provinces 
 look amazing. The dungeons and puzzles get pretty hard, but what do you expect? It's a Zelda game! 
 Let's talk about Wolf Link now. He's no ordinary wolf. He's actually a human of course. And plus 
 he got ear rings... Okay. Wolf Link gameplay to me is just MADNESS! Well, the control is okay, 
 but you usually play him to destroy these bugs to get the power to turn back to human. Later, you 
 can turn back to human and turn into a wolf again, anytime you want. Unless someone is watching. 
 There are alot of glitches, one that can screw up your game. The "Stuck in Canon Room" glitch. 
 Search it up and see how annoying it is. 
  
  Last words: It's worthy to have the name "Zelda" in it, and even if it has some flaws, you'll get 
 the feeling that you will always get when you're playing a great Zelda game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has great gameplay, that really captures the legend of Zelda 
 style of gameplay.
  
  The Graphics in Twilight Princess are amazing; they make the fantasy land of Hyrule come to life 
 before your very eyes. The games Sound is also amazing; it combines the battle sounds of swords 
 clashing, etc... Through the Wii remote along with the gameplay sounds of creatures off in the 
 distance, etc... Through your television set, to give you that surround sound type feeling.
  
  The Plot in Twilight Princess is a great one, full of twists and turns, it makes the game that 
 much more addictive. Some of the games features include: The ability to transform into a powerful 
 wolf throughout the games storyline; this new feature allows Link to harness new abilities, like 
 the ability to use a wolf's senses to help him trackdown his enemies and see things the human eye 
 cannot. Another of the games features is: a new sidekick from the twilight realm (this is a change 
 from the usual fairy sidekick seen in every other legend of Zelda game) , this new sidekick holds 
 powers that allow Link to complete tasks throughout the game, it also offers helpful information 
 in his times of need.
  
  Although The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has a different storyline compared to the other 
 legend of Zelda games, it still holds that legend of Zelda feeling found in The Ocarina of Time, 
 etc...
  This game is amazing and i strongly reccommend it to anybody thats into fantasy or problem solving 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_richu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Lots of good gameplay, easy to learn controls, hard puzzles, AWESOME. Although this is not as good 
 as ocarina of time, I still like it. Any Zelda fan should! It also has realistic battle styles. 
 What could be better than that? But this game's puzzles are A LOT easier to solve than in all the 
 other games. It disapoints puzzle solving maniacs, like me. 10/10. For ocarina of time, 12/10. 
 EASILY. Not a lot of sidequists, just a really good story line. At the end, like most Zelda games, 
 you fight Ganon. First you fight him as a magical pig- thing. Than he turns human and rides on 
 his horse. Let Zelda and her crappy aim shoot him. You and Zelda are riding on epona/Whatever you 
 named Epona. If your resonable, you would buy this. If you played this game, you should know how 
 good it is! And it only gets better over time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing gameplay with great puzzle design and a huge world to explore - Various minigames 
 and sidequest - Beautiful graphics and music (from an artistic perspective) - Compelling story 
 and interesting characters
  
  The Bad: Doesn't do much different from previous Zelda titles
  
  
  
 
  
  Introduction:
  
  
  
  The Legend 
 of Zelda is one of the most influential gaming series of all time, maybe the best. It always delivers 
 great game after great game, of course there are exceptions (Zelda II, Four Swords adventures) 
 but with masterpieces such as A link to the past, Wind Waker or Ocarina of Time those games are 
 forgivable. 
  
  After a period of time between Four Swords adventures and the release of the Wii, Nintendo announced 
 Twilight Princess (which was supposed to be a Gamecube exclusive) , but they made a very smart move 
 and released it on the Wii as well, with an improved control scheme that is far more immersive 
 than the previous titles. 
  
  Twilight Princess gives Ocarina of Time a good run for it's title of best game ever. 
  
  
 
  
  
  Presentation: 10/10 
  
  
 
  
  There's not a real menu in the beginning of the game, instead the first thing you'll see is Link 
 and his horse Epona; immediately he'll scream "Hiyah!! And will start crossing the Bridge of Eldin 
 and into Hyrule field as a celestial music plays; after he's done wolf Link will appear and he'll 
 howl as the shadow of Twilight is seen in the background. This is probably the greatest intro in 
 any game ever created and it will make you drop a tear everytime you see it, simply gorgeous. After 
 that the game logo will appear and take you to the save menu, which will make use of the Wii remote's 
 pointer, this menu will also feature the cIassic tune that appears in almost every Zelda title. 
 
  
  The in-game menus look great in the same styIe of the game and also use the pointer and needless 
 to say this works superb. 
  
  Twilight Princess is also a much more cinematic experience as there are more cutscenes in the game 
 than any other of the Zelda series and the character are more expressive, though some close ups 
 look somewhat ugly (especially on the monsters) . You will also be able to name the main hero and 
 his horse. 
  
  
  
  Story 
 & Characters: 10/10 
  
  
  
  Twilight 
 Princess takes place 100 years after the events of Majora's mask in the young Link's Ocarina of 
 Time timeline. Link (or whatever you call him) is a 16 year old boy who lives in Ordon village 
 and this time he has a love interest (though it's debatable if he had them in previous titles) . 
 This girls is called Llia. Suddenly the village is attacked by monsters who kidnap Llia and some 
 kids. Link pursues the attackers until he finds himself in front of a huge black monolith ( a l 
 2001) that takes him into the realm of Twilight transforming him into a wolf and then he faints. 
 He's taken to a prison in Hyrule castle where he meets a young Twili named Midna who aids him and 
 they scape. 
  
  Soon he'll encounter Princess Zelda who explains him that a bad guy named Zant is trying to merge 
 Hyrule with the world of Twilight. Now is up to him to get the fused shadows (items that will help 
 him to defeat Zant) and save Hyrule once again. During the game you'll be going back and forth 
 into Twilight, but you will also visit various temples such as the Fire temple or the City in the 
 Sky. 
  
  The story is much darker this time and there are some really good plot twist and luckily no cliff 
 hanger ending, also there are many noticeable references to characters from previous games. As 
 for the characters:
  
  Link still is the young innocent boy he has always been, a great character and a great hero. Zelda 
 the princess of Hyrule is probably the smartest character, but she still doesn't go anywhere beyond 
 the damsel in distress she has always been. The newest addition is Midna, a Twili who's using Link 
 to save Twilight from Zant, she's a great character and a really hard one to explain without any 
 spoilers.
  
  For the villains you get the usual ones: The skull kid, Re-deads and all the other smaller creatures. 
 New bosses are around this time, and while they're not hard, they're massive and really fun to 
 kill. Zant is the brand new enemy here, but he's just a puppet to a bigger and more evil enemy. 
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  
 
  
  Just like previous 3D Zeldas, this is a 3rd person action adventure game. You'll be jumping, climbing 
 and riding your way through Hyrule, which is a massive world and includes almost everything you 
 could expect from a fantasy tale: A volcano, a desert, Ice mountain, a lake and so on. Of course 
 it'll be pretty much annoying walking the whole thing on foot, which would take around an hour 
 doing that (im just guessing here as i haven't tried) . Luckily you get Epona (your horse) to help 
 you do this and later in the game you gain the ability to warp from one place to the other. 
  
  As you progress you'll go into several temples in a cIassic Zelda fashion. Most of them will 
 look familiar as you'll get a Fire Temple, Water Temple, Desert Temple, Forest Temple. Though they 
 may sound the same their design is entirely different from the last games and there are new brain 
 teasing puzzles plus there are brand new ones like the city in the sky and twilight temple. Each 
 is wonderfully designed and finish with a boss battle.
  
  The level design is practically flawless, each area looks great. The overworld is massive and it's 
 really fun, very well created. Temple and puzzles are also tremendously well done, like i previously 
 said, the puzzles are brain teasing and will take a while to do. Enemies are not particularly tough, 
 but they do their job right. 
  
  Moving Link is done with the analog stick in the nunchuck, put the camera in his back using Z which 
 is also useful to lock on to enemies. The A button in the wiimote is not used for any specific 
 thing, instead for various things like opening doors, talking to people or interacting with objects. 
 Items are placed in any direction of the D pad, and once you press them they'll be available to 
 use with the B button. 
  
  The motion controls are great, basic sword attacks are done by shaking the wiimote and Link's cIassic 
 spin attack is done by shaking the nunchuck. There are new moves that can be learned during the 
 game such as the helm splitter or the mortal draw. Where the motion controls shine though is in 
 the aiming, using the Gale Boomerang, Bow or the Sligshot takes out a pointer which is used for 
 aiming of course, it's faster and more visceral. The whole motion controls are done wonderfully 
 and they make the experience much more immersive.
  
  Of course it wouldn't be a Zelda game without the items, most of them are back from Wind waker, 
 but they are enhanced this time: The boomerang is now able to pick up things, now you can pair 
 bombs and arrows and now there are bombs that are able to explode under water. There are also new 
 ones like the spinner and the sacred staff. 
  
  The whole game could easily take over 50 hours to finish and maybe more if you do all the minigames 
 and sidequest (and there are lots of them) and of course for all those Zelda gamers who like to 
 finish them 100 % there are a lot of things to look for besides the usual hearts or poes such as 
 the golden bugs. 
  
  There are many complains that this game is too much like Ocarina of Time, and though that is somewhat 
 correct it doesn't make it a bad game at all or a rehash. The new gameplay elements include the 
 sacred wolf. Once into Twilight Link is able to transform into this creature. During this mode 
 Link is faster but a little bit weaker, you're also able to use the animal sense to see things 
 that couldn't be able to be seen in normal mode such as spirits or ghost. Link is also able to 
 get tips from animals and digg for treasures. 
  
  Another new thing is the ability to fight while riding a horse and take control of new creatures 
 such as a Twilight Bird.
  
  
  
  Visuals: 
 10/10 
  
  
  
  Extremely 
 beautiful, that's all that needs to be said about this game's visuals. It's a gamecube game but 
 a very impressive one, in fact there just isn't any better looking gamecube game than this. 
  
  Twilight Princess Is an artistic masterpiece, the game looks absolutely gorgeous in this department, 
 the particle effects and the lighting are superb, they make things look incredibly beautiful, some 
 things like the lava and the Twilight realm look particularly great; water also looks realistic 
 and gorgeous and you will never get tired of watching it. Characters animate well and there are 
 few glitches.
  
  The high level of detail in the game is also astounding, for example in the night when you look 
 at the stars you will be looking to actual constellations, you will also see animals like squirrels 
 or butterflies running and flying around. Though later in the game it shows that it was made for 
 the gamecube as some blurry textures pop out here and there, forgivable but noticeable. 
  
  
  
  Sound: 
 9/10 
  
  
  
  Probably 
 the weakest thing about the game, and even that is wonderful, MIDI but wonderful. All the music 
 is done by Koji Kondo and it deserves a standing ovation. 
  
  Each area has two songs, one for the day and one for the night and they are all memorable and gorgeous, 
 especially the overworld theme, though in the night songs can get a little spooky, but it sets 
 the tone right. 
  
  The dungeon music is quiet and peaceful and very atmospheric. There's no voice acting in the game 
 though and that's somewhat disappointing, it could be forgivable if only Link was quiet but other 
 people deserve to talk. 
  
  Also some of the sound effects come from the Wii remote speaker, some of them sound great like 
 the sword of the bow but some were not done quite right like the clawshot.
  
  
  
  Performance: 
 10/10 
  
  
  
  AI is 
 better this time, enemies react faster but they're not as hard as they should be, that's fine though 
 because most of the game's difficulty comes from the puzzles. 
  
  There are little loading times and they're very fast and barely noticeable. And the game keeps 
 a steady frame rate even at 30 FPS.
  
  
  
  Replay 
 Value: 10/10 
  
  
  
  Over 
 50 hours of gameplay, lots of minigames and sidequest and everything you could expect from a great 
 Zelda title.
  
  
  
  Fun Factor: 
 10/10 
  
  
  
  The fun 
 factor is there, though a little boring during the beginning and training missions (and what game 
 isn't?) it picks up after a short while. Incredible game and something that deserves to be played. 
 
  
  
  
  Appeal: 10/10 
  
  
 
  
  It's rated T, but this game could be played by anyone who's into any kind of adventure games with 
 a little RPG touch. A must for any Wii or gamecube owner.
  
  
  
  Tilt: 
 10/10 
  
  
  
  I think 
 it's pretty needless to say at this point that this game is incredible. It's really hard to get 
 tired of playing it and the few flaws it has are forgivable.
  
  With a darker storyline, beautiful graphics and music, awesome gameplay and great controls this 
 game Is an unforgettable experience from beginning to end and the best game ever created. 
  
  
  
  Overall:
 
  
  
  
  
  10.0
  
  Perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller10dw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  If you like games that take 70 hours to beat. And Games that are pretty mediocre but fun and adventures 
 at the same time, this is it. Since it takes so long to beat, I sort of got sick of the game. But 
 it's really fun and gets you thinking. There are many things you just get sick of though, like 
 how they just go on and on. Zelda games really have no point to them after they made like 15 of 
 them. But it's pretty fun if you like Zelda games.
  
  Besides the point that it's not the best. There are a lot of good things about it. The Wii mote 
 is used very well. Like the sword moves and fishing are sweet. You can also (if you have one) use 
 your Wii Zapper on the game too, sometimes. But if you don't have one, I wouldn't recommend going 
 out and getting one for this game.
  
  Ya, overall, it's a great Zelda game for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CERB3RuSX
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is long. Usually i beat games in days but this one took a little time. don't get me wrong 
 the game was fun. I love the boomer rang and i liked the game play this is a game to get if you 
 need to waste a lot of time and want to have fun. Turning into the dog for the first time was gruesome 
 for me because i couldn't use my sword. but after a little while i got to change whenever i wanted 
 so that made the game really fun. This game was my first real game for the Wii so i had a lot of 
 fun but if your just getting done playing super smash bros. (anticipating that it is a better game 
 that this one) i wouldn't even look at this game. Even super Mario galaxy. If it is 1/8/08 and 
 you are reading this and are deciding if you want the game of not don't get it get something more 
 new this came out in 2006 its 2008 i am sure there is something better. This is why i give this 
 game in 2007 a 8 out of 10 but in 2008 i give it a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Story 8.5/10:
  Somewhat bizarre story. Takes a little time to get immersed, but enjoyable once you do.
  
  
 Gameplay 8.5/10
  Great gameplay. My only negatives are that the dungeons are very linear, puzzles were a little 
 too easy, and it really didn't feel like there were many side quests. 
  
  Controls 8.5/10
  Controls are generally good. The sword slashing was fun, but sometimes unresponsive. 
 The items selection/usage buttons were not as intuitive as previous Zelda games.
  
  Sound 8.5/10
  Sound was great, although I think it needed more of the traditional Zelda theme 
 music. The sword slash sound out of the remote was annoying, I had to turn the volume down.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The best graphics of any Zelda game to date. Although it was supposed to be 
 realistic in nature, it was a mix of cartoonish characters. I felt it was a good combination.
 
  
  Fun 10/10
  Just plain fun.
  
  *************
  Overall 9/10
  ************* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  well well this game was originaly for the wii, but just because the wii got delayed, they ditn 
 wanted to loose more time and released it for GCUBE, that was the thing that maded gamespot staff 
 to calificate it with a 8.8 (wii version) 
  the graphics are good and you can complete the game around 40 hours, you must shake your wii mode 
 to swing your sword and nunchuck to wield your shield, aim the bow with precision! ride epona trought 
 hirule field and beat easy and hard temples!
  
  link now returned to OoT form, but now he can even become a wolf!
  the hirule field is now REALLY 
 big, it takes more than 30 minute to travel all hirule field on foot!, the temples can be easy 
 or hard, but bosses will always be VERY EASY, game is kinda long and has a good history but it 
 might become bored for Zelda's veterans, lots of things changed in the game, we will now need to 
 find 5 pieces of heart to make a new container... which can be very annoying... there are old school 
 objects like the bow and new ones like... i better dont say it here because it will be a spoiler... 
 there are just 4 towns habitated by people in this game, and like in the others, gorons live in 
 a mountain and zoras in a lake, if someone remember the fishing in OoT then you will be happy to 
 hear that this game has two new differents forms of fishing: the bobber fishing, but this one is 
 different because we dont need to visit a fishing pond in order to fish, you see water trow your 
 rod and see if something comes!
  the second way is the best way, its called lure fishing, you will need to put your wii mode and 
 nunchuck like a rod, using the nunchuck to real and wii mode to pull, but this way can just be 
 performed in a fishing pond and its not free
  the history is new but is related with OoT, the characters now have a new look, link is now a 17 
 years old farmer boy ( i ASSUME he is 17)
  and zelda is now like a 19 years old princess with brown hair and a purple dress, yea that changed 
 a lot (for the newbies on Zelda games, Zelda is the princess, not the main character as many thing.... in 
 other games zelda was blonde and used a pink dress, so she changed a lot now)
  the villian, well, we have a new villain, but again Zelda's veteran MIGHT get dissapointed at the 
 end by a reason starting with "G" (hope im not making this too obvius)
  using the wii mode can be quite fun! this game is really good and i recommend it, but AGAIN it 
 mike dont look very cool for Zelda's veteran, if YOU are a zelda veteran then i reccomend you to 
 play zelda phantom hourglass for the DS (i also maked a review about that game, so check it if 
 you wish!)
  thats all i can say about the game! goodbye and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finedon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game for someone who likes action and a bit of a chalenge with all your enemys. 
 It can get a bit boring and a bit difficult but best thing to do is try try and try again. But 
 it is worth every penny but if you dont like challenges it is best that you dont buy this game 
 you also have to look really hard to see what you have to do next. you will be very suprsed on 
 how links adventure goes and what you have to do from fighting monsters to ghosts and saveing a 
 thew lifes on the way through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donadiojr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is the primary reason I bought a Wii, and I wasn't disappointed at all. The only thing 
 I didn't like was the fact that I had to stop playing to go to work, sleep, use the bathroom, etc.
 
  Controls are excellent. I've become so used to using the wii controllers while playing Twilight 
 Princess that it felt awkward to use other system's controllers afterwards; it's very comfortable. 
 
  Story is great. Not too long, not too short. And of course, as in all zelda's, plenty of side-quests 
 and fun-to-do's. 
  This is a must own for all fantasy game fans, especially Zelda fans. Link To The Past finally has 
 a rival for best Zelda game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pascalio95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played many games in my life and this was one of my favorite. If you don't have this game 
 already, I strongly encourage you to get it. It's really adventrous and epic. If you like RPG games, 
 you are definitely going to like Twilight Princess. When I first got my Wii, I was trying to decide 
 what game I should get first. I think I got the right game. My favorite part of the game was when 
 I fought Ganondorf (He is the last boss in TP for those of you that don't know this) . There were 
 four stages of his fight and i enjoyed all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Simply amazing dungeon design; really neat artistic graphics; fantastic story and characters; 
 lengthy and varied adventure; great new weapons and items; widescreen and progressive scan compatible; 
 Wii controls are interesting, at least.
  
  The Bad: Some texturing issues with graphics; underwhelming soundtrack; lack of voice acting is 
 a shame at this point; feels like a step backwards for the series in many ways; game was not built 
 for Wii and feels slapped together in that way.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has been in development for an awful long time. Nintendo 
 fans have been eagerly anticipating its release for years, and it seems the development time has 
 paid off. Due to genius dungeon design, good production values, and a fantastic epic storyline, 
 Twilight Princess is a winner overall.
  
  The one thing that can always be expected of Zelda games is that the dungeons will be great. Twilight 
 Princess has arguably the best dungeons in the whole series, and there's a whole lot of them - 
 those who were disappointed by The Minish Cap having too few dungeons will definitely find solace 
 here. There's great new items in each dungeon, too, that are infinitely interesting to use. Obviously, 
 much of the development time for TP was spent on the dungeons.
  
  The storyline is one of the most emotional and driven of the Zelda series. There's some slightly 
 darker elements to it (thus the T rating, which is still a stretch...) and a lot of unexpected 
 turns underneath the facade of the traditional Zelda storyline. It's too bad there's no voice acting 
 at this point, though, which could have helped flesh out the story even more (just like it helped 
 Final Fantasy X, etc.)
  
  The graphics are artistically very good, though not as striking and impressive as The Wind Waker. 
 There's noticeable texture issues, though, that are strange. Also, the soundtrack is fairly weak 
 for a Zelda game, and it seems Nintendo didn't follow through on its promise for a fully orchestrated 
 soundtrack. It's sad Zelda hasn't received the star treatment it could (and should) this way.
 
  
  The biggest drawback in Twilight Princess is that it is just too similar to Ocarina of Time. While 
 some may see this as a plus, the Zelda series has evolved dramatically since then, so TP almost 
 feels like a step backwards in some respects.
  
  The Wii version has some interesting features to it. For one, the entire world has been flipped 
 (just like in the Mario Kart mirror modes) to compensate for Link being right-handed. This is because 
 you swing the Wii remote to swing the sword, and most people are right-handed. This turns out to 
 be awkward and tiring, though. Other things handled differently are firing arrows, in which you 
 aim at the screen and take fire (very nice) and little sound clips that are played through the 
 speaker (not so nice) . There is also an annoying blue fairy on screen at all times to show you 
 where you're pointing the remote, and the only way to turn it off is to switch off the IR controls 
 completely. This game was obviously not built for Nintendo's new system, as it looks no different 
 from the GameCube version and the controls mostly feel tacked on and lazy, though they work well 
 enough as to not detract from the experience too much. It's too bad there's no option to play with 
 the GameCube controller and flip it back to the normal non-mirror view, which would have rendered 
 the GameCube version pointless for Wii owners.
  
  All in all, though, Twilight Princess is another masterpiece and a must-have for Wii or GameCube 
 owners. It would be nice to see Nintendo experiment more in the future and add the voice acting, 
 orchestrated soundtracks, and excellent graphics that the series deserves. More inventive new gameplay 
 innovations would help too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2-10-08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the first Zelda game to be released on the NIntendo Wii. It follows the adventures 
 of Link as he travels through the land with his companion Midna, whom he finds shortly after his 
 first visit in the twilight realm.
  
  If you've ever played Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, or even the Wind Waker, you what to expect 
 gameplay-wise. The puzzles and fights are still amazing, and with each continuing installment they 
 come closer to perfection. You have some cool new weapons like the gale boomerang and can even 
 transform into a wolf, which brings in some new gameplay elements, which, fortunately, are great. 
 The dungeons are the heart of the game, and are mostly the best in the series. The last few, however 
 are the games biggest problem. All of the dungeons after the Snow temple just feel really short 
 and unfulfilling. They're still good, but don't compare to the first dungeons which kind of sucks.
 
  
  As far as wiimote functionality goes, they do it well. In fact, just riding on horseback throughout 
 the Hyrule plains while aiming with the wii mote and shooting arrows is still awesome. You just 
 kind of flick the wii mote to swing your sword, which is fine by me. It doesn't get tiring, and 
 is a nice change to the previous button presses of lore.
  
  The graphics are simply AMAZING, and are the best on the wii along with Super Mario Galaxy. Some 
 people have complained about the game not having orchestrated music; honestly, I don't really care. 
 The Hyrule theme is hum-on-your-way-to-school/work good, and that's what really matters.
  
  The best game on Wii? I think so. just barely beating out Super Mario Galaxy, this game lives up 
 to the usual Zelda standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSantamorena
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Zelda games are the only reason I keep buying Nintendo systems when they first come out. I was 
 happy when Twilight Princess was finally released after a long delay last year. all the elements 
 of a great Zelda game are intact and the motion controls work well with the fighting. The only 
 criticsms I have are it was too short even after followoing all side quests and everything beat 
 it too fast. And of course the graphics could have been better up to Wii's capabilities and not 
 the gamecubes. But overall it was a great game. The final boss fight was one of the best fights 
 ever and the wolf transformation adds a whole new level to an already great franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ok. this game was one of the most anticipated games of all time. No one can believe that how badly 
 people wanted to get their hands on this game and no one knows how some people felt like when they 
 heard that the game was delayed !
  but why was this game so much anticipated ?! the trailers and interviews from the game developers 
 promised Zelda Fans The Biggest Hyrule ever and the most Mature Zelda game of all time. but was 
 this game true to its predecessors ?!
  the answer is both yes and no, mostly no however.
  The game was really huge ,it had a very lengthy main quest that took you up to 40 hours to complete 
 and it had the biggest hyrule ever. However ,the game did missed a lot of elements that were there 
 in the old zelda games.
  first of all ,although Hyrule is pretty big ,it feels somehow empty. there aren't any Interesting 
 side quests when compared to Majora's Mask for example. and the few side quests that the game has 
 to offer are a bunch of sidequests that usually involve collecting a certain amount of an Item 
 .
  the game does introuduce couple of new characters but it doesn't really focus on the main and favorite 
 characters that were usually the favorites of the Zelda Fans.
  Personally i think this game looks like a sequel or spiritual successor to Ocarina Of Time but 
 the difference here is that Ocarina of Time was a real Revolution at its time and Twilight Princess 
 isn't really somthing revolutionary. It just feels like it has more of the same .
  the graphics are great for a Gamecube game but some textures in the game do look ugly ,especially 
 when you roaming around in hyrule you see some ugly stone textures here and there. but generally 
 i would say that the graphics look good.
  People were very curious to know how this game works with the Wii mote. I personally think that 
 it worked great and it even made some things like aiming a lot easier ! 
  somethings however aren't really great ,like the sound that comes out of the wii mote which is 
 pretty cheap sounding.
  the melodies on the game are very nice. there are some nice old and new melodies in the game but 
 it is very sad that the sounds are all midi. that is somthing quite ancient by todays game standards.
 
  Overall i must say that you will enjoy this game if you just want to play a nice and lengthy Action 
 Adventure game, but if you are looking for new zelda game with all the classic elements and revolutionary 
 game play you might be a bit disappointed ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafan2121
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It is insane how many people still don't appreciate this game!
  
  PEOPLE! Zelda is the best gaming series in the world, and I really mean that from the bottom of 
 my heart. Twilight Princess has all the perfect gaming styles that people want to see in Zelda 
 games. The fact that it is all so realistic. The graphics of the game are just right. 
  
  In games like Halo III the graphics are a little too good, they are so good it doesn't look real, 
 it just looks cartoony again. Unlike in Halo though Zelda Twilight Princess, and even Zelda Ocarina 
 of Time have just the perfect amount to make it look... well... realistic to say the least. I've 
 played Zelda games from hours at a time, just like Twilight Princess and forget that I was actually 
 playing a game. The storyline of Twilight Princess is a little darker then the rest, but using 
 finishing blows on enemys, you HAVE to admit that that's cool! Turning into a wolf is amazing also, 
 they fit so much stuff in the game it feels almost magical! If you could get any game in the world... 
 get Twlight Princess, it's perfect on both the Wii and Gamecube! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game very much awed me even when I first picked up the controller. It has quite a few differences 
 from previous games in appearances and puzzles, which at times can make you really clench your 
 teeth in anger, but feel that much better to solve once you figure them out.
  
  The Wiimote is perfect for this game, but takes time to get used to if you're not a veteran at 
 the Wii quite yet. It makes aiming your tools and using your sword more dynamic but also has conflict 
 in timed situations.
  
  Swordplay is amazingly dynamic in this game, and as time goes on you learn techniques from a mysterious 
 hero spirit who takes the form of a wolf, gradually teaching you the ways to powerful swordsmanship.
 
  
  The plot is very interesting as well, starting Link as a common villager who learns of his destiny 
 shortly after his village is attacked, then he meets Midna, and the plot only gets thicker from 
 there.
  
  This game is amazing, I would advise any Wii buyers to pick up a copy of this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurli
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  To start out, the games graphics, although not fantastic are very appealling and quite a step up 
 from the Wind Waker, and a huge leap from Ocarina of Time. The story line begins with a young farmboy 
 named Link, and continues on his journey through Hyrule. Although from the start it sounds overdone, 
 and overly familiar, the storyline is anything but. The dialogue between the characters has evolved 
 much farther from the original Zelda games, and starts to feel more like a Hollywood movie that 
 you happen to be playing. All of the characters in the game have highly developed emotions, storylines, 
 and go through some form of development as the game goes on. As for gameplay, the game takes advantage 
 of the wiimote splendidly, something many games have failed miserably at. The puzzles are fantastic, 
 challenging, but not frustrating like MYST. The enemies AI is what you would expect from a Zelda 
 game, pretty good. The dungeons are very good with fun difficult bosses and intriguing temples. 
 The items used in the game are also fun, with old favorites like the clawshot and the bow, but 
 also new ones such as the ball and chain and spinner. The game takes about 40 hours to play if 
 you do not do the sidequests, and about 70 hours if you do complete them. All in all a solid game 
 fantastically designed and has plenty of replay value, 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafeelinggood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 71,5/75=9.5/10
  
  The gameplay is just great. Challenging puzzles, great boss fights, and some side quests makes 
 this game worth the buy just for the gameplay only!!!
  Unfortunately, it has some minor problems, such as that the boss fights are way too easy. They 
 are cool, but way too easy...
  
  Graphics: 46/50=9.2/10
  
  Beatiful. This game is made much darker than the other Zelda games. And the style here is, let's 
 say, real look. No cell shaded graphics anymore. It's all real again. It has it's minor problems 
 (again) , but for most of the time, the graphics are clean, the framerate is good, and you'll be 
 enjoying a world you've never seen before. Welcome to Hyrule!
  
  Sound: 7.5/10
  
  Dissapointing. There's no voice acting and no orchestrated music, which is the baddest point of 
 the game.
  
  Presentation: 20/20=10/10
  
  Wow. Great story, nice characters,...
  Just about great!
  
  Together: 144/155=9.3
  
  Overall it's a great game, a must-buy. So 
 run to your local shop and buy it. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the first Zelda game to hit the Wii, and is fairly good at that. It contains 
 the usual stellar puzzles, plot twists, and characters to keep you addicted. As with these pros, 
 the game does have some cons, some of which overshadowing the good aspects.
  Twilight Princess' story is basically the same as the other Zelda games. You are Link, a farm boy 
 who goes on a journey to save the land of Hyrule from evil, save princess Zelda, and slay Ganondorf. 
 The main difference of this game is you have to stop "twilight" or this black shadow magic from 
 completely encasing Hyrule under the rule of the king of twilight, utterly known as Ganondorf from 
 every but two Zelda games. You need to enter each twilight realm as a wolf with companion Midna 
 to stop the spread of the darkness, and save various towns. However, this games' story is strikingly 
 similar to Ocarina of Time's at times, giving you a feeling of Dejavu. It has many of the same 
 places, including Hyrule field, which is also mapped very much the same way.
  The look of Twilight Princess is a strong point. The game looks outstanding, from clean textures 
 to every detail just looking terrific. Some of the things in the game look a little dated however, 
 but this doesn't catch your eye as easily.
  The control in Twilight Princess is also fairly good, but the use of the Wii Remote really isn't 
 that necessary, seeing as buttons for fighting would have been a little easier, and the nunchuk 
 is not the most accurate analog. Together, they do better than the standard Gamecube controller.
 
  The puzzles and dungeons in Twilight Princess are very well made, and range from easy to fairly 
 difficult, yet are fairly easier than other Zelda games. The bosses aren't very hard at all, and 
 the last fight against Ganondorf could and should have been much harder. 
  Music in Twilight Princess is as good as ever. Catchy tunes, and well orchestrated songs will get 
 stuck in your head during the whole span of your playing. The sound effects, however. Are far from 
 perfect. Most of them come from the Wiimote, which has a very cheap speaker, giving them a nasty, 
 static sound. That is a big let down.
  Overall, Twilight Princess is a great game that any Wii owner should have, but could have been 
 a good deal better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  YEP; awesome game. Everybody knows that and YEP it was fun the Wiimote feature, but it kind of 
 gets annoying at some point. Yeah at the begining of the game you are swiming your wiimote as if 
 you feel like Link, but as you keep passing every level you start to only shake a little the wiimote 
 and it's done.
  
  I also didn't like that they had to chage Link's use arm from left to right. Yeah, I know it was 
 for the players to feel more confortable but c'mon how unconfortable can it gets? i don't think 
 that much... For me it knda hurt Link's image.
  I'm not saying the wiimote was all bad, but if someone would put the Wii and gamecube version on 
 a table and they would say to me pick one, I wiil go for the GC version, without hesitating.
  but besides all of this I really liked the game after all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  well do i have to say alot i mean its zelda. Anyway i'll just say the bad stuff right away so i 
 can rant about the great awsomeness of this game. Ok here goes, well graphics are a bit GCube looking 
 but not that bad. what saddened me the most about this game though was the controls weren't what 
 i hoped. they feel i dont know wierd sometimes and well sword fighting was super cool at first 
 but then i realized i can just wiggle controler so i then lost motive to swing it around like a 
 monkey screaming at its own dung.
  
  OK NOW TO THE GOOD STUFF well one great thing in my opinion is that heck hes older for the game 
 :D and not cartoony i hated that just drove me nuts in wind waker. story is good as usual and being 
 wolf is alot of fun.
  
  there is one thing with Gamespots review i dont agree with, well they mark this game down for characters 
 not having voice acting????? i mean c'mon i dont want link talking or anyone for that matter. thats 
 what makes zelda games great i can make up an excuse for my mom that i read 3 or so chapters in 
 a crappy book :D!! when of course i didnt i just read the text from zelda cutscences YAY!!!!! ( 
 i know call me wierd i actually wonder why i get excited over stupid stuff :P) anyway enough my 
 ranting. 
  
  This here game is a must get for Wii owners because well your not gonna find another sword kind 
 of game for wii right now, since all the rest suck. i recommend this game alot to get some use 
 out of your wii for a change...... (dont know about u guys but wii games i'm starting to hate exception 
 to this one and few others i mean the rest just suck... ok one party game is great but when u make 
 wii carnival and wii carnival 2 and wii circus all in the same month it drives me nuts) well sorry 
 if i wasted any of your time but get this game it's good ok enough of my ranting on about things 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowg3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, The story is not like the usual zeldas, Link is not just a guy who runs in 
 temples to get gems to save zelda this time, Link even have friends that await for him and have 
 to rescue and have get to your heart!, It has the best story in the Zelda series.
  About version ,I dare to say that it's the wii version, the best, The use of the wiiremote, makes 
 it fun, and the mini games (example: Fishing) can take you to spend a lot of time, They are very 
 enjoyable!.
  The music ,There are some remakes of the older games, and some new, but all are simple great, You'll 
 love them, have that for sure!.
  The only things I didn't like very much about this game is the graphics and the difficulty, 
 
  The graphics: they arent different to the GameCube version, They are the same!!
  The difficulty: It's easy, the bosses don't make you sweat, just one Sub-boss was able to kill 
 me, but if you want it to be harder just don't take the hearts , just to add it more to the game.
 
  
  If you are looking for a Wii game, and you don't have this one, don't think to much, you know what 
 to get:
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  For a long time no Zelda game after the original had been able to beat its patriarch. When The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess came it was overtaken. This game is a masterpiece. It beats 
 Ocarina of Time by a long mile. Wind Waker does not even compare even though Wind Waker does have 
 some upper hands on it in some aspects. This Zelda has the best storyline and has the best ending. 
 The controls are well done as well. This may be a game originally designed for the Gamecube, but 
 you can't tell that from playing it. The dungons are beyond grand. If you like Zelda then you will 
 fall in love with this game. If you have never played Zelda before then I highly recommend you 
 get this one to begin with. This Zelda game is the king of all Zelda games for now. This game is 
 a must have for your Wii. You can not be disappointed. 
  
  God speed.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutePukes
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a fun game, its got great graphics, great gameplay, fun bosses, classic puzzled 
 dungeons, and fun bosses, but it was rather dissapointing for a big Zelda fan like myself. Here's 
 some of the reasons.
  1) This is one of the smaller problems but Twilght Princess missed some of the classic Zelda elements. 
 Yes it has the same bosses, and awesome battle system, but missed some things. The game had one 
 Great Fairy and no Great Fairy fountains or normal fairy fountains. The game had no Magic abilities, 
 and no Mirror shield
  2) It was way too easy, the bosses and enemies seamt to easy
  3) It had a choppy story line. Not that the story was bad but the way they presented Ganondorf 
 was very crappy. They talk about him once and then you don't hear a word about him after that until 
 you fight him at the end.
  4) It doesn't have the replayability as older Zelda games
  There is still not yet a Zelda or game too beat Ocarina of Time
  Twilight Princess did have the 
 best graphics and is still a fun game worth buying. It doesn't have the funnest Zelda boss (From, 
 the Sand Temple) and the best` Zelda dungeon (The Ice Mansion) , and still is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game that I got, and played for the Wii.
  
  Gameplay: You spend most of the time on foot, but every now and then you spend some time on horseback, 
 or in the water. Like most other Zelda games, you can free roam around a good size map area, and 
 you go into certan dungons to beat he boss, untill you beat the game. The controls are mapped out 
 nicely, and every level seems somewhat unique, but sometimes you flle like all your doing is hacking 
 your way through stupid AI.
  
  Graphics: The graphics took a more realistic look compared to Wind Waker, and the graphics are 
 pretty sharp, for a Wii game. Enemys have ahabit of going through walls, but not most of the time.
 
  
  Replay Value: Not to high, you might try to take the time to look for heart peices, or the golden 
 bugs, but they are extremly hard to find, and most of the heart peices can't be taken bach, and 
 were only unlockable at a certain time.
  
  Conclusion: Thinking is involved, so if you think your smart you should get this, if you like Zelda 
 games, or if you like to slash your way through dungons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Aside from wii sports the legend of Zelda: twilight princess was the first game i played!! This 
 game keeps you playing for hours and hours with the in-depth and high-quality storyline. Control-wise 
 the the game has used the wii remote superbly with easy and understandable controls. Despite some 
 easy aspects of the games in the various temples the boss fights are some of the best that you 
 could see in a long time. The only downside to the game is when you've finished and run out of 
 stuff to do.
  If your interested in buying this game i would suggest you do, this will be one of the best game 
 you will ever play on the wi. The graphics are excellent despite the console being less powerful 
 and the time to complete is around 40 hours. The sound in the game is great; sword slashes being 
 projected through the wiii remote. Difficulty is just fine, there is always plenty of help throughout 
 the game however still keeping the tricky puzzles to get your mind going.
  Overall if you've got a wii this game is a must-own!! If you've not heard of Zelda you must buy 
 this game and if your a Zelda fan you'll have it already bought it . Graphics = 8
  sound = 10 (sword through remote)
  gameplay = 10 (absoluteley fantastic, long-lasting game play)
 
  lifespan = 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keetoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Now, keep in mind that this review is coming from a guy who would rank the Ocarina of Time as one 
 of the BEST games ever made. So, understandably I was initially very happy when I realized that 
 this game was probably the first Zelda game to be a proper sequel (in my humble opinion) to the 
 N64 classic.
  Its presentation value is a touch below great (which I guess means very good) . I love the music, 
 and typical to Zelda, each geographical area has its own signature tune to accompany it (lake Hylia 
 being the best with an almost hypnotic, beautiful melody) . Visually it looks great at times, but 
 other times some of the textures, especially in Hyrule field, are plain ugly to look at. I don't 
 even care that this game isn't as sharp or powerfully supported the way a PS3 would do it, because 
 as Super Mario Galaxy has wonderfully proven, artwork and bright colors kick ass. But Twilight 
 Princess definitely does not kick ass.
  Now, what makes a Zelda game so great is always the scope of the adventure, in that it is always 
 epic. And believe me when I say that Twilight Princess is most certainly epic. At first I thought 
 that I wanted this game to go on forever, but as I got further and further in, I just wanted it 
 to end. If you're like me and you've beaten Ocarina half a dozen times, and Link to the Past twice 
 as much, then maybe you also feel that this game should have tried to be more than that. It feels 
 generic at this point. 
  I guess that's my knock with this game. Yes, the game is done bang on, a perfect job, but it FEELS 
 monotonous somehow. There's a HUGE world to explore, and optional side quests make it worth exploring, 
 but I really didn't feel like it. Does that make sense?
  This is my chance to say what Zelda needs to do to revive the series. It's a VERY simple tweak 
 that would, to me, completely change the FEEL of this series. Make it harder, and include a jump 
 button, and treacherous dungeons and terrain that demand skillful jumping and good timing, like 
 a Mario game. That's it. Zelda relies on length and clever puzzles to provide the challenge, while 
 the fights are beyond simple, and even though you're in environments that look dangerous, without 
 being forced to really JUMP around in them, their bark is far worse than their bite.
  Imagine if the dungeons were re-designed to compensate for the fact that Link can do backflips, 
 double and triple jumps, running long jumps and the sort? Imagine if the fighting mechanics also 
 took this into consideration? See? The simple addition of a jump button could really kick some 
 serious ass. Imagine Mario 64 meets Zelda 64, but on the Wii? 
  I guess that's my biggest knock for Twilight Princess - beyond some challenging puzzles there's 
 no challenge at all, and since there's so much running around and fighting, well, the running around 
 and fighting should have been made to feel dangerous and threatening, because it is too easy and 
 quickly becomes monotonous.
  Please, if you read this and agree than we have to do something to let Nintendo know how to save 
 this series, because I swear to God, if the next Zelda game simply tries to perfect what was already 
 perfect, they're doomed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_War_Chief
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Why, Miyamoto? Why? The glory days of Ocarina of Time are over! It's time to move on. Seriously, 
 this game, is just, not good. There's only one group who would like it. Newbies to Zelda. Aside 
 from being ridiculously easy, the characters have no substance, and they saw fit to squeeze Ganondorf 
 in as a guest appearance!
  
  The towns seems lifeless and dead, and no-one seems to notice the going-ons at Hyrule Castle. The 
 whole Dark Realm thing has been done before in Metroid Prime 2 and A Link to the Past. The worlds 
 are way to large, with nothing in them. Hyrule Field is just empty. And that isn't acceptable, 
 as Zelda puts itself forward as a game which is filled with junk. It's not a realistic depiction 
 of the world.
  
  The Temples are too linear too. Snowpeak and Arbiter's Grounds were perhaps the only ones which 
 didn't 'linearise' you. Even Arbiter's Grounds copied the Poe idea from Ocarina of Time. There's 
 a point in the game where you have to chase a Skull Kid. You later come back to your destination, 
 and have to do the exact same thing AGAIN! 
  
  The story just seems to be the same thing repeated over again. Even Midna, your sidekick is a 2D 
 character in personality. And for the record, playing as the Wolf in hard to control, and he never 
 learns anything new. Adn he is part of the most boring parts of the game, the infamous Tears of 
 Light segments, which just get silly after the first one.
  
  There's more to say, but I'm actually getting tired, now, and I believe I've said enough. Maybe 
 I've been spoilt by the Legend that was Ocarina of Time, but this game is more like Ocarina of 
 Time 2.0. Plus, the game tried to be epic, and when it's not, it just makes me laugh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganon92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  When I think back to when I first started playing Twilight Princess, of which was February of this 
 year, I remember that I felt slightly disappointed by the way in which it wasn't really giving 
 me the nostalgic feelings that I had expected to be overwhelmed with. 
  Then after a while i realised that in order to enjoy this game, I would have to think of it as 
 the 'next-gen' Zelda game. This thought be helped along by remembering that I was playing the game 
 on my new Wii. 
  I would like to state something now, and that is that once Twilight Princess was first announced, 
 with that heart pounding trailer, I had felt a sense of euphoria of which i had never felt before. 
 As time went on, I got a DS, sold a DS, bought an Xbox, bought an Xbox 360, bought a DS Lite; the 
 thought of Twilight Princess had been stuffed into the back of mind along with my pre-pubescent 
 interests such as Yu-Gi-Oh and the single goal of obtaining every single Pokemon card there was. 
 
  When the time arose this February that I finally had the chance to purchase a Wii, i picked up 
 the new Zelda game with it. I felt as if I should be excited, but I wasn't. 
  In this respect, this game somewhat falls slightly because it fails to capture a sense of nostalgia. 
 
  In any case, more onto my experience with the game on the whole.
  The one thing in TP that really made me feel good playing the game was the way in which cut scenes 
 were just so far ahead of their predecessors (wind waker and backwards) in terms of creativeness 
 and bringing out emotions of the player. I think this shows how willing and capable Nintendo is 
 with making games that match those found on supposedly 'next-gen systems'. 
  The combat in the game is again, a significant leap from the Wind Waker. WW managed to bring a 
 bit more style to the combat in Zelda by adding the 'parry' attack, of which was an attack limited 
 to use on enemies such as the dark nuts, where by when the enemy is about to attack, the 'A' button 
 sign FLASHES and if you press it, Link would either roll around the enemy and slash them in the 
 back or would gain the super human ability to jump about 9 foot into the air and cut the evil doer 
 in the back of the 'nut' (head) .
  In TP, this system is somewhat scratched for a more interesting and involving use of the Wii-remote 
 and Nunchuck, the nunchuck sometimes simulating the shield that Link holds in his 'left hand', 
 which is in fact his right hand, but the Wii version is mirrored from the original GameCube version. 
 You learn new and exciting moves such as the 'shield bash' from a rather dead looking fellow of 
 assumes the form of a wolf when you meet him at first.
  Before I continue on, I would like to mention that Link has the ability to transform into as wolf 
 in this game. He gains this ability from being in the dark version of Hyrule. Link also befriends 
 a character called Midna, a small elf type creature who helps Link on his quest. Obviously, the 
 wolf and dark Hyrule elements make this game that just a bit deeper than you'd expect and makes 
 it a tad bit more fun in some cases.
  Anyway, this dead/wolf fellow will then perform a song of which you have to emulate, once this 
 is done well then you will then have to travel to somewhere in Hyrule where the dead fellow has 
 taken up residence and so learn from him new moves. I believe that you have to do this in order 
 to progress because there are many situations and boss fights where I couldn't have done them without 
 the use of one of these abilities. 
  Hyrule is very large in this game, probably bigger than it's been in any other Zelda before (wind 
 waker doesn't count entirely) . 
  The game isn't particularly hard and is infact for the most part, easy. Not to say this is a bad 
 thing because it's not. There is the occasional challenge so as to keep things exciting. 
  The game is relatively long, even when only focusing on the main quest it will take you 20 hours 
 or so. More than that if you go exploring and completing sub-quests. 
  I class this game as 'Revolutionary' because it is simply that for the Zelda franchise. In almost 
 every way it improves upon previous Zelda games ten-fold especially in the cinematics and combat, 
 aided with fantastic use of the Wii-remote, Nintendo has done an incredible job by today's standards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This installment of The Legend of Zelda is quite classic in the sense that it has everything a 
 classic game should have. Fun puzzles, great bosses, nice items, hidden items, things that make 
 you wonder (wtf) and of course a nice story with believable characters that really come to life 
 as you progress through this very deep and rich adventure as Link. Not only does it stay true to 
 the previous Zelda games, it also adds some new stuff that would be expected. 
  
  
  Altho i will admit this is no ground breaking, re-designed, completly new Zelda expirence, but 
 its a game that every wii owner must play at least once, even if you dont complete it.
  
  
  The whole wolf transformation thing is pretty cool, and the ability to warp is also a nice 
 addition since the game has a ridiculously huge map. 
  
  
  The Graphics in my opinion are pretty nice for not only a zelda game but for a launch game for 
 the Wii. Light reflects and lights up dark areas pretty well, as the sun comes up and goes down 
 you can distinctively tell what time of day it is (morning, after noon, dusk,) and the character 
 models are pretty nice with fluid animations that dont seem stiff or non realistic at all. 
  
  
  Tight controls through the entire game are a major plus, Zelda has always had awesome controls 
 and this game is no different. Controlling link is very smooth and has a nice natural feel to it. 
 
  
  
  Over all this game has great value, altho theres not much replay value once you beat it, but playing 
 through the game again wont seem like such a bad idea since itll take you at least 20 hours or 
 so to complete it (it took me around 80 hours my first time around, with no walkthroughs or anything) . 
 There are some cool items and upgrades to get and alot of things to roam around the land searching 
 for like heart pieces and golden bugs. Running around the land and just exploring is pretty fun 
 as well. Just to see what might be hanging out in that forest area you havent been to, or that 
 mountain that looks claimable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  You want to know what the first game I played on my wii was? Yup The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. I tend to write reviews for games that I feel are good but arent getting enough love 
 or attention, or for games that are truely spectacular. Can you guess why I wrote this review?
 
  
  When the wii was released everyone was looking for revolutionary games. It is really funny how 
 most of the best available wii games actually perfect their genre rather than redefine it. Super 
 Mario Galaxy, Metroid Prime 3 etc.
  Now this is in no way a bad trend, it is just fun to sit back and remember your first thought of 
 the wii. For "mii" ( i just had to ) my first thought was using the wiimote as a sword or lightsaber 
 or what have you. You think swinging Link's sword around in Twilight Princess makes you feel in 
 the game, or enhance the experience? 
  
  Twilight Princess had outragously high expectations from the beggining. For some it was another 
 Zelda game for them to dig deep in to. For others, it was a game that was either going to make 
 or break their hope in Zelda, due to Windwaker. I was somewhere in between, I felt that the graphical 
 style to windewaker was impressive, but I just didnt think it really fit in a Zelda game. But there 
 is no doubt that Windwaker had excellent gameplay, which is why i still enjoyed my time with it 
 (9.0) . Twilight Princess takes us back to the days of Ocarina of Time. Thank god. Twilight Princess 
 even features a DARKER storyline then Ocarina.
  
  The game begins in a rather typical Zelda fashion. Link is living in a small forest town of Ordon 
 and is about to venture to Hyrule Castle to deliver a gift when beasts attack and Twilight sweeps 
 over Hyrule. Link's reaction to being in the twilight is that he turns in to a wolf. I read many 
 reviews where people say that they were dying to get out of the twilight in the beggining of the 
 game when you must collect the tears of light. This is actually my favorite part of the game, as 
 you are in one of the most artistically stunning enviroments i have ever seen. It is hard to explain, 
 but the only word that comes to mind is soft, or creamy, with cell shaded particle effects flying 
 every which way. You see the twilight realm more times as you progress through the game, and the 
 effect stays cool the whole way through. I can not stress enough how back and forth the overall 
 graphics in Twilight Princess are. There are some scenes when your are truely dumbfounded by the 
 beauty on the screen. But when the camera zooms in close on textures things start to get really 
 blurry and distorted. I have played the gamecube version of Twilight Princess as well, and the 
 whole game just seems a little less sharp graphicaly, just a little muddy. The graphics remain 
 today as some of the nicest on the wii, perhaps only behind Super Mario Galaxy, And Metroid Prime 
 3.
  
  Like all Zelda games, gameplay is where it shines. A couple minor gripes, but it is mostly flawless. 
 The biggest problem is, I would rather use a button to control Link's sword swipes than the wiimote. 
 It is just more responsive, and tighter especially when it comes to taking over the nunchucks use. 
 Not that much of a difference, but if I had to choose i would most definatley go with the buttons 
 than the wiimote for sword slashing. But one place where i think the gamecube version actually 
 suffers, is when you have to aim Link's bow, or clawshot. A very very slow and dreary experience 
 on gamecube, is made a major plus on the wii thanks to the wii's IR capability. Otherwise, both 
 games play basically the same. 
  
  The puzzles may not be the hardest you have ever seen in Twlight Princess, but they are some of 
 the most interesting. Through out all of the temples and side quests Link is, like always, going 
 to have to solve a couple puzzles on the way. The difficulty of these puzzles is rather low for 
 a Zelda game, but satisfying none the less. They use the enviroment in clever and fun ways to keep 
 you watching your surroundings throughout the game to catch a hidden patch of grass, or a treasure 
 chest and so on. While I am on the topic of difficulty, I would like to bring up the boss battles. 
 These bosses are the biggest baddest and most scary looking wimps you have ever seen. It is rather 
 annoying to complete a boss battle without losing any hearts. I actually finished the game with 
 the SAME 2 faries i began the game with before fighting the first boss in the Forest temple.
  
  Hyrule field, Hyrule field. I mean damn. Just as the back of the box says, Twilight Princess 
 is unquestionably the biggest Zelda game to date. Not even close in comparison to the others. There 
 are just so many places to go and so much to see, it gets overwhleming. Situations can get really 
 cinematic just by riding Epona in the middle of hyrule field, as you can be attacked by enemies 
 on boars. The horseback combat is superb and really makes you more engrossed with the game. The 
 biggest thing that has stuck with me from Twilight Princess is the amazingm, massive, overwhelming 
 Hyrule Field.
  
  While on quests Link uses a fancy set of tools to help him on his journey. He collects little gadgets 
 throughout the game that help him solve puzzles and fight enemies and so on. Link's equptment includes 
 such classics as Bow and arrow, bombs, boomerang, slingshot, and the clawshot. New additions include 
 a mssive ball and chain that Link swings over his head and some manages to fit it in is clothes 
 without us noticing, the dominon rod which allows Link to control the actions of statues (lots 
 of fun) , and the spinner which Link rides upon to solve puzzles. All of the items feel great and 
 are the best set of equptment Link has ever had at is disposal.
  
  It obviously can't be a secret that I love Twlighit Princess as well as all Zelda games. To say 
 it is better than Ocarina of Time cannot be true due to the fact that ocarina was released about 
 7 years ago. I beleive the 2 games are uncomparable and should just satnd next to oneanother as 
 the best. Twilight Princess takes everthing that is great about a Zelda game, perfects it, and 
 adds a little wii functionality to it, which is for the most part good. To answer the question 
 i raised up at the top, no the fact that you are swinging your wiimote around like a sword does 
 not make the game more immersive. You really control the sword with your wrist more than your arm 
 because it doesnt take much for Link to swipe. Then again would you really want to swing your arm 
 like a real sword for hours at a time? I dont think i need to tell wii owners to buy this game 
 in this review, because who doesnt have it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Link_Warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  When I bought my Wii the only two games that I had were Wii Sports and Wii Play. I Quite enjoyed 
 these but I felt that something was missing and that I wanted more. In steps Twilight Princess. 
 I bought this game because I have loved the series and wanted to play the next edition. I found 
 this latest edition to the Zelda series quite engrossing, it was nice to be away from the cartoon 
 style of Wii sports and step into a world that was more realistic. The scenery was really good, 
 I liked that you could see things in the distance and that things appeared to actually have been 
 thought about. In my personal opinion I could do without the addition of a companion in the Zelda 
 game as I find that they make things to obvious, I would like to work things out for myself! I 
 did think that the lack of side quests let the game down a little bit as once the story is finished 
 there isn't much left to do. That aside I truly enjoyed this game and I am truly excited about 
 the next edition as the developers will of been able to base the controls around the game rather 
 than added the controls on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Adult link is finally back, and he couldn't be better or more awesome. Add the Wii remote and a 
 somewhat darker story, and you have one awesome game. You start out as a boy from Ordon village, 
 looked up to by all the kids, and pretty much the most responsible guy in town. Unlike OOT, you 
 already have your horse in the beginning, getting to name it and all. The beginning is somewhat 
 slowly paced, but it gets a little faster as one of the kids gets lost in the woods, and you just 
 so happen to have to follow him on your horse. After that, you have to go on a journey with your 
 horse, but Lila spots a wound on your horse, and takes it to the spring. You have to find a way 
 into the spring, and then a monster riding a pig crashes through a fence, both of you get knocked 
 out, and your horse runs away. You wake up in a cell and meet Midna, some freaky twilight thing. 
 How did these people think of this kind of thing?
  
  Combat is pretty much the same as the rest of the Zelda games. This counts for human link only. 
 You lock on, take out your sword, attack, and with a satisfying little explosion, their gone. I 
 repeat, for human link only. As a wolf, swinging the wii remote will get you to lunge and bite, 
 sort of like a sword attack as regular link. When you jump attack, it's pretty much the same thing, 
 until you cling on to the enemy and start rapidly biting the enemy (think grab attack in smash 
 bros melee) . When Midna is on your back, you can hold B and charge up for pretty much a one-hitter 
 for every enemy in the big, red, field around you. Like a lot of people, one of the highlights 
 of these Zelda games is horseback riding. Particularily fun is to run around hyrule field and run 
 over as many enemies as possible. My sister and me have a lot of fun doing this with me holding 
 the nunchuck and my sister holding the remote. One of the greatest parts of horseback riding for 
 me is horseback combat. There is nothing more satisfying than running up beside an enemy on horseback, 
 and beating the tar out of him with your sword. They even made a little jousting minigame out of 
 it. As the sequel to OOT not much went wrong with this game, and boy, that dark story was definately 
 my Zelda style. For those who thought wind waker was bad because of it's art style (you're wrong 
 anyway) this is a must have for adult link fans and adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair-of-Acre
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Zelda made a great appearance in 3D in OoT, but Twilight-Princess's dark storyline,
  mixed with the Wii's brilliant control scheme creates one of the greatest Zelda games in the series.
 
  It keeps well in with the series, but includes brillaint new things.
  The water temple is a drag like in all zelda games,
  but the boss battle is probably one of the 
 best in the game.
  Overall, even if you have never even heard of Zelda, you MUST buy this game as the length of collectiong 
 all the golden bugs, pieces of heart, poe souls and much more make this the No. 1 game on Nintendo's 
 Wii
  
  Graphics=9
  Sound=10 (lovely hearing the sword slashes through the Wii remote)
  Gameplay=10 (Wide array of items and brillaint controls alongside trusty Epona returning for her 
 third game!)
  Lifespan=8
  
  Difficult - Just Right
  Time Spent Playing to Date - 100 Hours or More!
  Classification - Instant Classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srg1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good. I loved the story I loved the gamplay I loved almost everything about it. 
 I've played Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker and i believe that this game is far superior but i must 
 say i did not finish Wind Waker so maybe i missed some thing. But i've played enough I think to 
 say that i believe that this game is superior. Gamestop did the game really no justice with their 
 review, their review gave it cons that weren't even there. (eveyone has their opinions though) 
 I kno you say now if i think the game was so good why is my score so close to gamespots. Well if 
 i was able to i'd give this game a 9.3 but thats not possible any more. My only complaint with 
 the game is the graphics. I am in no way shape or form a graphics whore but for the wii version 
 I think nintendo should of pushed the wii system to the best i could make Twilight Princess look 
 although it still looks good. They simply took the game cube version brought it to the wii and 
 added wii controls. Other than that i think the story is pretty good. The Gameplay is good especially 
 the bosses i loved the bosses Omg the last boss i loved it. Graphics and Sound. Really no complaints 
 their except for the issue above. Its definetly one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_game_geek
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  twilight princess is fun and all, but the puzzles are too simple and the bosses are too easy. ocerina 
 of time is alot better when it comes to difficulty but twilight princess has better maps and gameplay. 
 twilight princess is a great game for zelda beginners. it has lots of extra stuff you can get and 
 will keep you busy for a while. the ending is good and the storyline is great. the only thing that 
 is pretty bad is the way you shoot an arrow or any projectile. its so frustrating to put it the 
 right spot, but its still a good game overall a must have for the wii console 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karma0666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Alright I'm just going to come right out and say it, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was far 
 better the The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. But I do have to give Twilight Princess credit 
 for its good graphics, active way of playing, and the touch up of attacking and moving was genius. 
 But I still declare that Ocarina of Time is a classic and legend among the games of all time. For 
 its time it had graphics beyond its time. All-in-all though Twilight Princess was a good game, 
 I think my original time for beating was 32 hours. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghigno92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Why did Gamespot give only 8.8 at this game??
  This is madness {No, this is Sparta!! XDD} .
  
  This is a beautiful game... I was amazed... I was captured from the beauty of Hyrule and the 
 Twilight.
  The Nintendo did a great affair because it launched the game with the Wii and succeeded to amaze 
 everybody thanks to this new game of the long series of Zelda's game.
  
  I love the involving history, the wonderful landscape of Hyrule, the darkness of the Twilight, 
 the superb soundtrack (which follows faithfully the soundtrack of "Ocarina of Time") , the wonderfulness 
 of the dungeons and the bosses, and the characters: Link is cool as usual, Zelda is disagreeable, 
 Ganondorf is evil, and the new entry Midna is simply.... marvellous!!
  
  This is game is the true heir of the King of all game "Ocarina of Time"... I hope in future the 
 Nintendo will produce more masterpieces as this.
  
  W the Zelda Series.
  
  
  P. S. W Sparta, the 300 Spartans and Leonidas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Twilight Princess features a stylized, naturalistic art style (similar to, but far more advanced 
 than that found in Ocarina of Time) , rather than the cel-shaded look that The Wind Waker exhibited 
 - although it still makes use of cel-shading effects, as it uses a very heavily modified version 
 of The Wind Waker's engine. [1] In a further departure from The Wind Waker, Link is once again a 
 young man, as opposed to a child, as in the latter part of Ocarina of Time and in The Adventure 
 of Link. The game also has a darker tone, similar to Majora's Mask. [8]
  
  
  A gameplay screen depicting Link crossing the Bridge of Eldin on Epona in the Wii version. Link 
 transforms into a wolf when entering the Twilight Realm, a void that has ensnared Hyrule. This 
 is not a wholly separate place like the Dark World in A Link to the Past, but a darkened Hyrule. [9]
 
  
  The Wii version uses the Wii Remote and Nunchuk's motion sensors and pointers in conjunction with 
 buttons to operate the game. The built-in speaker on the remote is used for sounds like the bowstring 
 of the Hero's Bow being drawn and released, Midna's laugh when using wolf Link to jump from platforms 
 with Midna, and the "Zelda chime" when discovering secrets, though this can be optionally turned 
 off by turning the Wii remote's volume down to zero, in which case sounds will come through the 
 television like other sounds instead. [10]
  
  By comparison, the GameCube version uses a control scheme mostly identical to The Wind Waker, except 
 the player is able to equip only two items as the Z button is used to call Midna if the player 
 is in need of help. Free camera control, controlled using the C-Stick, is available in the GameCube 
 version only.
  
  In Twilight Princess, Link shares similar moves between human and wolf. For example, when an enemy 
 is on the ground, Link has the option to finish them off by plunging his sword into their chest; 
 in wolf form, he can do this to Poes to rip out their souls. Link can communicate with animals 
 in wolf form as if they were people. When transformed into a wolf, Link's sense of smell is greatly 
 improved, allowing him to follow trails left by certain characters in the game. However, Link cannot 
 use any of his items, open any doors with handles or climb ladders until he transforms back into 
 a human, and will also take double damage from enemies.
  
  
  A gameplay screen showing Link getting ready to swing his sword by using L-targeting in the GameCube 
 version. There is no extensive voice acting in the game. The characters laugh, scream, and make 
 other such noises, as they have in previous installments. In conversations, Link remains silent, 
 and his responses are implied by nods and facial expressions, much like other The Legend of Zelda 
 games. The singular exception to this is Midna, whose dialogue is spoken in an unintelligible fictional 
 language.
  
  Returning from Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, a horse can again be ridden in Twilight Princess. 
 The default name for the horse is Epona (the set name of the horse from the two aforementioned 
 games) and is used as the main form of transport while human until later in the game, when various 
 warp points can be used instead.
  
  The enemy's AI of Twilight Princess is more advanced than in The Wind Waker. [11] The enemies react 
 to a defeated enemy and to arrows or slingshot pellets passing by. The AI can also detect the player 
 from a much larger distance than in Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, and The Wind Waker.
  
  
  [edit] Abilities
  During the game Link gains a number of new sword techniques (called "Hidden 
 Skills") at various points. These techniques are learned by first finding "howling stones" in different 
 areas of Hyrule while in wolf form and howling a song (different for each stone) . A golden wolf 
 appears and tells Link to find him in certain places marked on the game map. Once at this marked 
 point and in human form outside the Twilight Realm, the wolf can again be seen and Link is warped 
 to a supernatural area which appears to be on top of clouds. Various Hylian landmarks can be seen 
 jutting up from under the clouds. Here, the wolf transforms into a skeletal ghost form clad in 
 ancient platemail- the "undead incarnation of a previous legendary hero". The spirit teaches Link 
 up to seven new techniques by allowing Link to try them out on him. The first technique taught 
 by the skeletal warrior must be learned, as the game cannot be completed without it; the other 
 six are optional. After learning the last skill, the dead hero says farewell and bids Link "Go 
 forth and do not falter, my child!"
  
  
  A gameplay screen displaying the sense ability of wolf form in the Wii version. In wolf form, Link 
 has a "sense" ability, which he can use to track down certain characters by following their scents 
 (or obtaining scents of other things to guide him, such as medicine or fish) with his enhanced 
 senses. As a wolf, he is also able to find and dig holes to find new passages and uncover buried 
 items such as hearts, Rupees, and treasure chests. This heightened sense ability is also the only 
 way Link is able to see wandering spirits and hunt for Poes - which he can neither see (except 
 for the Poe's lanterns) nor attack them without the ability. In addition, Link can talk to animals 
 in wolf form, aiding him in gathering useful information.
  
  Also, in a first for a 3D Zelda game, Link has no magic meter. The Magic Armor drains his Rupees 
 rather than magic, and magic arrows are not available. While the Light Arrows (fired by Zelda) 
 and flaming arrows (fired by Bulblin archers) make an appearance in the game, Link cannot use them; 
 however, Bombs may be combined with arrows to form Bomb Arrows, as in Link's Awakening.
  
  
  [edit] Plot
  See also: List of characters in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
  Set 
 over a century after the events of Ocarina of Time, [12] the game begins with Link living and working 
 as a ranch hand in Ordon Village. When monsters suddenly attack the village, and kidnap the village 
 children and his close friend Ilia, Link pursues the attackers, when a monster pulls him through 
 a strange black wall, where the Twilight transforms him into a large wolf. The monster drags him 
 off before he wakes, imprisoned, in Hyrule Castle. An imp-like creature named Midna appears and 
 releases him, and guides him to another of the castle's prisoners: Princess Zelda.
  
  
  Main characters Link and Midna in the Wii version. Zelda explains that the Twilight King Zant is 
 trying to merge the Twilight Realm and Hyrule into a land of darkness using an evil power. Zant 
 is a member of the Twili, a race of beings descended from magicians banished to the Twilight Realm 
 by the great Light Spirits of Hyrule. Midna is a Twili who is searching for a weapon called the 
 Fused Shadows to defeat Zant and save the Twilight Realm. Restoring the four Light Spirits of Hyrule, 
 Link and Midna reassemble the Fused Shadows that had been broken up and hidden in the Forest Temple 
 where monkeys are one of the inhabitants, Goron Mines where Goron elders meditate, and Lakebed 
 Temple with rising water levels. However, Zant appears, takes the Fused Shadows, embeds a black 
 crystal in Link's forehead, trapping him in his wolf form, and exposes Midna to the light of the 
 Light Spirit Lanayru, critically injuring her. Link rushes Midna to Princess Zelda, who reveals 
 that the only way Link can return to his normal form is to find the Master Sword. Zelda combines 
 her heart with Midna's to heal her, allowing her to exist outside of the Twilight. After Link reaches 
 the Master Sword, Zant's black crystal is forced out of him. Midna keeps the crystal, allowing 
 Link to assume his wolf form at will.
  
  Link and Midna travel through Gerudo Desert and conquer the Arbiter's Grounds dungeon to reach 
 the Mirror of Twilight-the only way to enter the Twilight Realm and stop Zant-only to discover 
 that Zant has broken it. The ancient sages who guard the mirror reveal that they banished Ganondorf 
 to the Twilight Realm using the Mirror, and that he may be the source of Zant's frightening, newfound 
 powers. They also state that Zant attempted to destroy the Mirror completely, but could not do 
 so, because only the true ruler of the Twili has the power to do so, and Zant's powers are false. 
 He could only break it into four fragments, and three are missing. After journeying through the 
 Snowpeak Ruins the home of two forgetful Yetis, the Temple of Time the home of moving statues, 
 and the City in the Sky where Occoo are there to help, they obtain the missing Mirror shards. After 
 Link and Midna restore the Mirror, the sages reveal that Midna is the true ruler of the Twili, 
 the Twilight Princess, and that Zant's curse turned her into an imp. When Link and Midna confront 
 Zant in the Twilight Realm, he explains that he encountered Ganondorf while in a rage about being 
 passed over as the king of the Twili. Ganondorf offered to make Zant's wishes come true, and made 
 Zant a vessel for his power. Midna regains the Fused Shadows, and uses it to kill Zant, though 
 he returns to life afterwards, immortal due to Ganondorf's power.
  
  
  Triforce and Goddesses statue in the Nintendo GameCube version. Link and Midna return to Hyrule 
 Castle, which is surrounded by a seemingly-impenetrable magical barrier, but Midna breaks through 
 it with the Fused Shadows. They then encounter Ganondorf, who possesses Zelda. Link is then forced 
 to fight Zelda. After Link defeats her, Midna purges Zelda of Ganondorf's spirit. He then transforms 
 into the form of a giant boar (his "Ganon" form) . After Link defeats Ganon, Zelda's spirit is released 
 from Midna's body, bringing Zelda back to life. Suddenly, Ganondorf reappears in the form of what 
 appears to be a floating, flaming apparition in the form of his head. Midna teleports Link and 
 Zelda to safety, and tries to destroy him with the Fused Shadows. However, after Link and Zelda 
 are safely transported to Hyrule Field, Hyrule Castle is decimated, and Ganondorf, having apparently 
 defeated Midna, appears on horseback holding the Fused Shadow Midna wore on her head, before crushing 
 it in his hand. Zelda prays to the Light Spirits, who grant her the Light Arrows, and she and Link 
 battle Ganondorf on horseback. Ganondorf falls from his horse in battle, yet challenges Link to 
 a sword-fight. After battling, Link drives the Master Sword into Ganondorf's glowing wound. Ganondorf 
 stands, impaled, believing the Triforce of Power will save him. However, the image of the Triforce 
 fades from his hand, leaving a dying Ganondorf. The scene changes to show Zant's neck snapping, 
 a sign that he is no longer receiving power from Ganondorf, and is thus no longer immortal. Ganondorf 
 seemingly dies while remaining upright.
  
  With Ganondorf defeated, the curse that Zant put on Midna, who survived her defeat at his hands, 
 is broken, and she regains her true form. Link, Zelda, and Midna travel to the Mirror of Twilight, 
 where Midna returns home. Before she leaves, Midna sends a tear into the Mirror, cracking it. After 
 Midna enters the portal, the Mirror shatters, severing the only known link between Hyrule and the 
 Twilight Realm forever.
  
  During the ending credits, the image of the Master Sword returned to the Pedestal of Time in the 
 Sacred Grove is shown. Afterwards, the village ranch owner runs to Link's house and calls him to 
 wake him up (Link was previously a mere ranchhand) , apparently oblivious to the events that had 
 transpired throughout the entire game. Ilia is shown looking down the path leading out of Ordon 
 in anxiety, and then the screen flashes to Link riding Epona through Faron Woods away from home 
 (despite the general misconception that Link is riding towards Ordon, close inspection of the ending 
 scene and the landmarks of Faron Woods show Link is in fact riding away) . The final image is of 
 the statue of the Triforce and the Goddesses above the throne room in Hyrule Castle, light shining 
 on one half, the other half in shadow.
  
  
  [edit] Music
  As is common for The Legend of Zelda games, music plays an important role in Twilight Princess. 
 The game's score was composed by Toru Minegishi, Asuka Ohta and Koji Kondo. Additionally, Mahito 
 Yokota was credited in the ending for teaser music composition. [13] Minegishi headed up music composition 
 and sound design in Twilight Princess, providing all the field and dungeon music under the supervision 
 of Kondo. [14]
  
  With the advent of optical storage media the implementation of fully orchestrated tracks instead 
 of sequenced music became possible. This lead to the inclusion of one prerecorded track that acts 
 as both the E3 2005 trailer theme and the music for the demo movie played after the game's title 
 screen. [15] That song was composed by Koji Kondo [16] and arranged for an orchestra by Michiru Oshima, 
 later to be conducted by Yasuzo Takemoto. Three drafts of the trailer music have been composed 
 by different musicians, one of them was released on the Official Soundtrack and is called "The 
 Legend of Zelda: Orchestra Piece #2". [17]
  
  The fact that Nintendo has decided not to use recorded music for all the other music in the game, 
 however, has been a point of criticism. Koji Kondo originally stated that he "would really like 
 to push for" the music being performed by an orchestra, as he considers live instruments much more 
 deep and expressive than the ones used in digital music. [18] However, after the game's release, 
 he stated that a full orchestra would have been unnecessary for that specific title. [19]
  
  For this installment in the series, the composers used the well-known musical technique of the 
 leitmotif, repeating melodies and chord progressions from one or more representative themes in 
 other pieces of the game's music. Excerpts of the Twilight Princess main theme can be heard in 
 several locations and situations, such as in the Fishing Hole, Hyrule Field, Gerudo Desert, Snowpeak, 
 the ending credits, and frequently during boss battles, when the enemy is disabled and vulnerable.
 
  
  Many of the series' classical melodies make their appearance throughout the game-examples of the 
 more prominently used remixed tunes are "Princess Zelda's Theme" and "Ganondorf's Theme". There 
 are also occasions on which previous themes are woven into new tracks. For example, during the 
 battles with Fyrus and Stallord, excerpts from "Dinosaur Boss Battle" from Ocarina of Time can 
 be recognized, and "Kakariko Village" appears heavily modified, now having a more Native American 
 feel to it. The "Hyrule Field Main Theme" also contains a small part of the original The Legend 
 of Zelda main theme.
  
  The game's soundtrack continues the series' tendency to approach a more "cinematic" style, rather 
 than following the classic video game music formula of repeating the same theme over and over again. 
 As in previous Zelda titles, much of the background music is interactive and may change depending 
 on specific circumstances. The "Hyrule Field Main Theme", for example, takes a much more rushed 
 draft upon engaging in a fight, as was the case for the same track in Ocarina of Time. The instrumentation 
 of that theme changes depending on how Link is traveling. Fewer instruments are used during running, 
 whereas more layers are added to the music when he's riding on Epona, the song then being dominated 
 by brass sections. A very basic tune plays when he remains still or is moving slowly. For the first 
 time in the Zelda series, there is music that appears specifically at night while wandering on 
 Hyrule Field. It is a quiet, slower-paced piece, that also includes excerpts of the game's main 
 theme.
  
  The battle theme has followed a similar formula since Ocarina of Time. As Link sneaks up to an 
 enemy, the track begins as a quiet and tense background theme, comparable to incidental music. 
 When he is sighted by enemies, additional instruments are added to the source track. Upon attacking 
 them, the music immediately changes to a faster-paced march version of the original theme, with 
 a vigorous percussion track. When all enemies in the respective area are exterminated, the battle 
 music will conclude, and return to the default song for that location.
  
  While Link does not carry a musical instrument of any type until well into the game, he can pick 
 up reeds of grass from certain patches and whistle on them to call an animal, be it a hawk or his 
 horse Epona, depending on the situation. As a wolf, Link can howl near the same patches, to cause 
 the same effect. There are also seven "howling stones" located around the world at which Link has 
 to reproduce a melody shown on screen when being in his wolf form. Then, a golden wolf reveals 
 himself before relocating to somewhere else in Hyrule. Most of the songs to be howled are from 
 previous games in the series.
  
  
  [edit] Development
  A number of rumors [specify] about the game were confirmed at E3 2005, plus the official title, 
 "The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess," was announced (the title was actually first revealed 
 in a pre-E3 scan from Game Informer) . [20] [21]
  
  The game falls chronologically over a century after Ocarina of Time, [22] though the reference to 
 being before The Wind Waker has been omitted in recent interviews with the developers. [23] Interviews 
 and a playable demo exposed many new details, such as Link beginning the game as a ranch-hand, 
 Link battling on horseback, changes in the horse controls from Ocarina of Time, thematic differences 
 between dungeons, and so on. [24]
  
  The game received Game Critics Awards at E3 2005 for Best Console Game and Best Action/Adventure 
 Game, [25] and the award of Best Playable Game at E3 2005 by G4 TV's X-Play. Twilight Princess received 
 the same awards, except for Best Console Game at E3 2006, as well.
  
  The game's release was delayed extensively; its original release date was somewhere in November 
 2005, until August 16, 2005, when Nintendo announced it would be released some time after March 
 31, 2006, because the development team needed more time to work on the game. [2] In February, Reggie 
 Fils-Aime (then-Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Nintendo of America) stated 
 in an interview on Spike TV that Twilight Princess would be released in the Fall of 2006, [26] well 
 past the expected spring or early summer release, but still in time for the holiday shopping season. 
 At Nintendo's pre-E3 2006 press conference, Fils-Aime announced that two versions would be released 
 simultaneously in the Americas: one for GCN, and one for Wii.
  
  On September 15, 2006, Nintendo officially announced the release dates of Twilight Princess. The 
 Wii, along with the Wii version of Twilight Princess, was released first on November 19, 2006 in 
 North America, with the GameCube version coming on December 12, 2006. Both the GameCube and the 
 Wii version launched simultaneously in Japan on December 2, 2006. Australia and Europe saw the 
 Wii version launched on December 7, 2006 and December 8, 2006, respectively, while the GameCube 
 version was launched on December 19, 2006 and December 15, 2006 respectively.
  
  According to statements from Nintendo, such as from translator and localization manager Bill Trinen, 
 it took the Twilight Princess game-testers an average of 70 hours to beat the game on the first 
 run-through. He stated that he was working on his second play-through of the game, and, even knowing 
 what to do, where to go, and skipping cut-scenes, he had logged about 27 hours, to make it about 
 two-thirds of the way through the temples themselves (not even accounting for any of the sidequests 
 or time-sinks like fishing) . [27] However, many who played and completed the game found this information 
 to be inaccurate compared to the time they took, and members of the Speed Demos Archive speedrunning 
 community have been able to complete the game in under six hours, without skipping any major gameplay 
 components. [28]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  'Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess' is a tough game to review. Sure this is a good game & it's 
 a Zelda game, so you know what to expect going in. But in my opinion, that's part of the problem. 
 In Zelda: TP, there isn't much here we haven't seen before. And what is new, really isn't all that 
 great. But if you can look past all of that, you will find a game that's VERY similar to Zelda: 
 OoT...... for better or worse.
  
  A few things bugged me about this game pretty much from the time I started playing it. First off, 
 the graphics are sub-par. We all know this was a Gamecube title that just happened to get a Wii 
 release. So I didn't go into expecting to be blown away by the visuals, especially considering 
 the Wii isn't known for it's visual prowess. What bothered me more, however, was the VERY bland 
 look of the game. If I have to see one more brown, grey, or plain looking area/dungeon I am going 
 to go into a coma. The game does have a nice visual style in some areas, but most of the time I 
 was hoping for something to jump off the screen and grab me...... and it never happened. And some 
 of the character models are embarassing, to be quite frank. Other than Link and a few others, the 
 characters all look terrible. The whole visuals thing usually isn't a big deal to me (heck I still 
 think 'A Link To The Past' looks great) , but this was a lazy port-job of a average looking Gamecube 
 title. And frankly, that is unacceptable.
  
  Then there is the main change from the other titles....... the fact that you play as a wolf for 
 part of the game. These sequences are really the worst part of the game. I am aware it goes along 
 with the overall storyline, but playing as the wolf was just flat-out boring and the character 
 that guides you is more annyoing than helpful.
  
  Another thing that feels like a lazy tack on (along with the previously mentioned visuals) are 
 the Wii controls. Going into the game, I was excited to use the Wii remote as a sword and swing 
 away as Link. In reality, all you have to do it wiggle the remote in any direction and you attack. 
 Sure you can do different attacks with a combination of button presses and wiggles, but it's not 
 that compeling. After awhile I was just wanting to go back to the old controls of Ocarina and Wind 
 Waker.
  
  In my opinion, Ocarina Of Time is not only the best Zelda game...... but one of the greatest games 
 ever created. And it was clear that Nintendo listened to their fans that clamored them to go back 
 to that visual style and gameplay feel. I feel they catered to those requests too much, as Twilight 
 Princess plays WAY too much like Ocarina. I know some people didn't care for Wind Waker's style, 
 but I thought it was fun and at least it brought something different to the series. Twilight Princess 
 does attempt to do that with the wolf sequences, but those fail to be any fun & most of the time 
 I was hoping the game would just let me go back to playing as Link.
  
  So what you are left with is a bland looking Ocarina Of Time. Now that also makes this a pretty 
 good game still, though. I mean if you are going to copy a game, why not copy one of the best games 
 ever? The revolutionary (for it's time) 'Z targeting' is here again, except you use the nunchuck 
 controller instead. It's still fun to ride around on Epona. And yes it's even still fun to go through 
 the dungeons that basically follow the same blueprint as the series has always had. What makes 
 these fun, even after all these years, is the fact the Nintendo always does a good job having a 
 nice mix of battles and puzzle solving. Even if you are running through the dungeon to find a weapon/item 
 that you have used about a million times in other Zelda games already, the dungeons themselves 
 are still a blast. And while the storyline isn't incredible, it is good enough to keep you interested 
 up until the end.
  
  Is it possible to be "disappointed" with a game that I give an 8.5 to? When I am talking about 
 a Zelda game, then yes I think it is. This series needs a REAL Wii title that fully utilizes the 
 Wii controls and gives the series a visual upgrade. And when a series has been around for so long, 
 it doesn't hurt to go in a different direction or bring something new to the table. I am aware 
 that turning Link into a wolf for part of the game is an attempt at this, but like Zelda II...... sometimes 
 just doing something different doesn't always translate into something good. Hopefully the next 
 title in the series will bring the series in that new direction, while still being fun and keeping 
 that classic Zelda feel. I know that may be asking for a lot and maybe I am just being too picky, 
 but I expect a lot from my Zelda games. And considering almost every other game in this series 
 has delivered on that, it's a shame that I had to be 'disappointed' with Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_911
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Link is in a new adventure in the twilight princess. link starts out in ordon village and finds 
 himself going into the faron woods. the faron woods are not allowed to go. then he goes to the 
 ordon springs and gets knocked out and his friends get stolen by the ganon helper people. then 
 he finds himself face to face with the twilight and he enters it. then is turned into a wolf
  
  he then is found as a prisoner in a jail and finds a new person named midna. then midna tells 
 him all about this and finds himself seeing princess zelda. she tells him the whole story. then 
 link finds out he is in the twilight and that's when the adventure starts.
  
  link goes to the three temples and goes out for the twilight stuff. then he goes to hyrule castle 
 again and starts another adventure and he has to find the mirror of twilight to go to the twilight.
 
  
  then link defends zant and the twilight goes to the twilight relam. then link goes to defeat ganon 
 and is successful at that.
  
  Overall: this is a really good game with great graphices and a storyline that is well put out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luteh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess' well thought out characters and storyline combine into a thoroughly enjoyable 
 game. It has a great control scheme that is not too difficult to master. This game also has enough 
 interesting plot twists too keep you immersed in the game, although the ending is something to 
 be expected. A wide array of puzzles and challenges keeps you thinking throughout.
  And yet I found myself expecting more from the graphics. While the graphics are the best in any 
 Zelda game to date, I think that they are still much too animated for the Wii's graphic systems. 
 Furthermore, I have found that this game has failed to match up to the standard set in Ocarina 
 of Time as have all the Zelda games in between.
  Still it is a very good game that I would recommend to any fan of the Zelda universe, as well as 
 any Adventure genre fan. It is certainly a game that will provide many hours of fun and enjoyment.
 
  A must buy for a Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_force
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  With so many Zelda games out, it's really hard to find a game that is just as epic as any Zelda 
 game... besides the ones on the Phillips.... those were horrible. Besides the point. This game has 
 such a wide area to run around on, so many secret areas to find, many sub-missions, there so much 
 to do, the game couldn't take you less then 40 hours. In this game, Link has never looked better. 
 This game even though it is on the Wii, the graphics look as if it were a high end game cube game, 
 so that's actually pretty good. The controls are as smooth as they could get, I mean, Link doesn't 
 go running into walls when you don't move, you know? This is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  First I must say that I am no "hard-core" gamer. Not much more than 1-1.5 hours a day, tops. But 
 I picked up Zelda Twilight Princess (Wii) and couldn't put it down. This game is awesome! Graphics 
 are superb, crystal clear. The world is huge- hours of fun just exploring, collecting items slashing 
 foes, fishing, and throwing pumpkins at chickens. This is not to mention the "missions" or a. k. a. 
 the story. The story line is phenomenal. Great fun. Brings back childhood days of playing out in 
 the woods.... Innovative controls only add to the experience. This is such an awesome game, I can't 
 say enough. If you got a Grant, go trade him in for this game. It is so much fun! Zelda rules! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I've alway's been a Zelda fan and will alway's will be. I played this game alittle bit over at a 
 friend's house and I really like it, not only from playing it, but from reading about it too. It 
 seems so intresting and beutifull in every piece of gameplay, artwork, weapon's, everything. When 
 I played it, it was a whole new and excited experience that I did'nt feel before except when I played 
 the Ooftime, and Majora's Mask. It was made with such life and trill that you just wanted more of 
 it. IT's another fantastic title to the Zelda Legend and I can't wait to get a copy of my own to 
 enjoy the continuous Legend. It ROCKS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Zelda has always been the best adventure game but with the Wii it's even better. The controls are 
 perfect and makes it fun to use the sword or shoot with your bow. This game has very nice boss 
 fights and you'll be wandering around the whole dungeon for a couple hours so yeah you can tell 
 this is a very long game. It has a great story but it gets annoying when you have to find a way 
 to turn back to human when your a wolf but towards the middle of the game you can change back when 
 ever you want. The entire level or world design is massive and very fun to explore. If you have 
 a Wii this should be in your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Zelda series, I was anxious to get started with the latest installment. And to 
 say the least, I have not been disappointed. I was worried the controls may be a little "hectic" 
 however the game eases you into the adventure, allowing you to familiarize yourself with the Wii 
 controls bit by bit.
  
  MY +++
  
  The story is interesting and keeps you going. Characters are "interesting", especially the mail 
 person (politically correct?) .
  
  I especially like how you can just finish the game head on, or you can explore the areas and discover 
 hidden treasures and enjoy side adventures.
  
  Great puzzles that offer a challenge, yet don't leave you frustrated.
  
  Wii controls carry 
 you into the adventure.
  
  MY - - - 
  
  Not enough hours in the day to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjr10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the first game in the Zelda franchise on the Wii. The 
 Legend Of Zelda series is very successful, especially after Ocarina Of Time. Ever since then, every 
 Zelda game has been expected to be mind-blowing amazing. So far, they have just been great. Can 
 this one live up to the 10.00 OOT received?
  
  In Twilight Princess, you play as a simple young man called Link. He lives in the town of Ordon, 
 in the land of Hyrule. He's soon asked to deliver a sword and shield to the princess in the bustling 
 city. But, of course, things run amok and his friends are kidnapped by creatures, so he rushes 
 into the nearby forest. But the forest is surrounded by a dark twilight zone. He is pulled into 
 it, and falls unconscious. He is transformed into a wolf, and soon meets an imp named Minda. Together 
 they go off to collect items, and end up on a quest to save the world. There's a sort of deepness 
 in this story, which is common in most Zelda games. Yet, there is also some form of darker side 
 to this story as well, with one scene in this game, in particular, which just shows a very different 
 tone to this game from the other games in the series. So, the story is definitely a strong point 
 in the game, as with all Legend of Zelda games.
  
  The game-play is like a classic Zelda game. If you've never played a Zelda game before (Besides 
 from being deeply ashamed) i'll tell you how it works. As Link, you have a sword and a shield. 
 There are evil enemies around, and so you hack and slash with your sword to defeat them. Link soon 
 makes it to a temple, where he solves various puzzles, some of which may be easy, while others 
 are devilishly hard, and finds an item. These items are used frequently in Zelda games. For example, 
 a lantern is used to light dark corridors and to burn spider webs, while a bow is used to shoot 
 arrows out at enemies. At the end of this Temple, there is a boss fight, where you must work out 
 his weak spot. There is no leveling up, It is an Action Adventure game. It may sound rather dull, 
 but it's actually quite fun, as the game splits up the game-play. 
  
  As i mentioned, you can turn into a wolf. You control as you normally do, but there are specific 
 wolf things, like "sense mode". In sense mode, wolf Link can follow scents. Say that you find an 
 item on the ground. Go into wolf mode, and sniff it. You can now track that smell, and find whatever 
 left that item behind by following a trail. That example is actually used in a temple and it works 
 very well. Wolf link can also reach some places the human Link couldn't. When you travel from place 
 to place, that entire part of Hyrule may be under the darkness of the Twilight realm, and so you 
 must collect tears of light to restore that land to its normal ways. But, when you enter a twilight 
 realm, you become Wolf link.
  
  The only problem with the game-play is it will feel very familiar to Zelda fans, and that the wolf 
 parts of the game may seem gimmicky and not fleshed out enough. Out of the main quest, there will 
 be people to talk to in the towns you explore and they may have things for you to do, such as collecting 
 bugs, delivering water and hunting down Poes. (Poes are ghosts only see-able when you enter sense 
 mode.) You may also want to explore the world for yourself, as it is quite big. If you go searching, 
 you may find caves with heart pieces (which if you collect 5, make you have 1 more heart for health) 
 or rupees, the games currency. The thing is with these quests is only the completest will feel 
 a need to collect every Poe, or find every heart piece. 
  
  The way you control Link is very standard. The Nunchuck is used in this game. You move link with 
 the control stick. Press "Z" to lock onto an enemy. "C" is used to make the camera first person, 
 but you can just look around in this mode, no moving allowed. You can point at the screen which 
 is used to aim Arrows, Boomerangs and other things. If you shake the remote, Link shall swing his 
 sword, and you will learn other abilities later on, like blocking with the Nunchuck. Speaking of 
 which, if you shake the Nunchuck, Link shall do his spin attack. You assign items to the "d-pad", 
 and press" B" to use them. "A: is the action button, allowing you to talk, pick up objects and 
 other things. It works very well, some may not like the waggle control, but it adds to the experience. 
 It's a pretty simple control scheme, not forcing you to use too many of the Wii-mote's features, 
 except shaking and pointing at where you want to shoot your boomerang, hookshot or bow and arrows.
 
  
  This is a port of a Gamecube game. So, it has "last generation" graphics. Which everyone makes 
 out to be a big deal. So what?! There stunning! Link look's amazing! The textures are well done 
 but the art direction makes this game shine out. The game is no longer a cel-shaded world like 
 in Wind Waker, the last big Zelda game, but a more realistic world. Characters are fairly detailed, 
 but the charaters that stand out are the twilight enemies. They are strange and dark. They suit 
 the world they came from. Another specific person i thought stood out was Zelda herself. She's 
 just pretty. She has this white, pure glow around her. The art design in this game is compelling. 
 Especially the twilight realm. There are dark squares floating through the air, as if there are 
 actual pieces of darkness all around the world. It's a nice touch.
  
  Sadly this is no voice acting. it would have been magnificent if there was. But Minda uses weird 
 noises, and Link does his usual grunts. Oh well, because the rest of the sound makes up for it. 
 All the music instantly fits in with the place and situation happening. While wandering around 
 the huge land of Hyrule field, an epic song plays. While in a twilight area, the music becomes 
 slightly eerie but still enjoyable. The music never seems to get annoying, but it's not the sort 
 of song you'll find yourself humming while on the L85, with all the people around you staring.
 
  
  This game tends to last a long time. You can expect 40 hours on the main story, but if you do the 
 various side quests, you may spend 60 to 80 odd hours on these tasks. It will be very easy to find 
 yourself immersed in the game. Twilight Princess feels like a sequel to Ocarina Of Time but it 
 doesn't match it however. It would make a terrific first Zelda game as it has everything the series 
 is loved for and some more. The older fans will love it too, as it is a Zelda game, through and 
 through. Recommended to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  *** THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: TWILIGHT PRINCESS ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Solid controls
  -Great music and graphics
  -Outstanding and long adventure story
  -Challenging puzzles and 
 dungeons
  -Plenty of cool side items and weapons
  -Plenty of secrets to find and heart pieces to collect
  -Lots of fun side quests
  
  THE BAD
 
  -Most bosses are easy to beat
  
  OVERVIEW
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an outstanding adventure game. I really enjoyed the story 
 from beginning to end. Twilight Princess stars everyone's favorite adventurer, Link. This time 
 Link starts off in a small rural town called Ordon Village. It is very peaceful here and nothing 
 to exciting happens. Link helps out around the village until one day Orcs come and capture some 
 of the kids of the village and when they encounter Link they easily knock him out. When Link comes 
 to he finds that the world is covered in Twilight and evil is free to roam in Hyrule. You soon 
 meet up with Midna who becomes your side kick through out most of the game and your guide in the 
 Twilight. Link then finds out that he is the chosen champion that needs to bring the Light back 
 to Hyrule and later save Princess Zelda. Link meets a whole bunch of different characters along 
 the way that really piece together a nice story. Not to mention that it is a longer story (about 
 60+ hours to do everything) . There still isn't any voice acting for Link but that doesn't take 
 away from the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  It was like the Nintendo Wii was made for this game because the controls really make you feel like 
 you are actually swinging the master sword! Also, other weapons like the bow and arrow are easy 
 to use because it is just point and fire. Other weapons that Link can use are the bomb, boomerang, 
 hook shot and plenty more. Another cool weapon option is the bomb arrow. For this just combine 
 the bomb with the bow, in your menu, and start shooting rockets at enemies. The controls play a 
 huge part in drawing you into this game. There are a bunch of different sword attacks that Link 
 can perform by swinging the remote and pressing a button or two. You are able to jump attack, jab, 
 slice, spin attack and a few others. Later in the game you will unlock special moves like the shield 
 bash and ending blow. This really keeps the fighting fresh. Along with the cool fighting you will 
 encounter lots of challenging puzzles to figure out. I mean it wouldn't be a Zelda game without 
 puzzles! Some of the puzzles are pretty tricky so bring your thinking cap for those. One thing 
 I was very disappointed in was the difficulty in the boss fights. Most of the bosses look intimidating 
 but fight like pansies. Twilight Princess gives you a huge world of Hyrule to explore and in that 
 world you have lots of secrets and heart pieces to find. There are also a bunch of cool mini games 
 and side quests to keep you busy for hours, like the fishing game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  While you are playing the game you will come across beautiful scenery. I have found myself stopping 
 in some places just to take in the view.
  
  SOUND
  There is some really good music for this game and the sound effects really enhance the game play. 
 One cool feature is that the remote also makes sounds like when you unsheathe your sword.
  
  CONCLUSION
  I really enjoyed this game and it has a lot of the good adventure fun just like 
 the other Zelda games. Also, there is plenty of replay value. So, hurry up and help Link rescue 
 Zelda and save Hyrule once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  For a game released in the midst of the beginning of next-gen gaming, this one really shows that 
 new technology, physics, and graphics isn't needed to make a truly amazing game. It's bit easier 
 than previous Legend of Zelda's, but you won't be playing this game for the challenge. The story 
 just can't be beat. You get sucked in. The world is immersive and has plenty of personality like 
 you'd expect. This time through you also have quite a few items at your disposal. Unfortunately, 
 some of them have limited use after thier respective dungeon. The dialogue is great, can't ask 
 for much better. But more importantly is the faces. The facial expressions are subtle but deep. 
 Slight expressions of the eyes and mouths of the characters really get the feelings and emotions 
 across well. Don't see much of that right now. It's gone back to the look of Ocarina and Majora 
 and that's not a bad thing. It looks good. Even with dated graphics and textures, everythihng just 
 looks great. Sidequests yield good rewards that are actually useful. Dungeons are hugeish and have 
 maintained the puzzle aspect. Some of them are so simple that they make you feel stupid for not 
 figuring them out sooner. Boss battles are relatively simple, but, beating them always seems to 
 change, so, you're kept on your toes. And the bosses are BIG. and thats just cool. Also a big fan 
 of the new swordfighting controls. Mainly the inclusion of learnable skills. They add just a little 
 bit more depth to the combat that wasn't there for a long time. But given what i've seen in other 
 games, it still could have done better. Wii controls are good, can't really complain about them 
 much. Occasional issues with responsiveness, and it would be nice to have seen more implementations 
 of the Wii's unique controler, but, this is also a port from teh Gamecube game, so i'm not holding 
 that against the game. AND its one of the few games that still takes 45-50 hours to beat. And I'm 
 sad now that I beat the game because its just one of those things you want to keep going. This 
 is a game worth playing, and I can't wait until the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewbacca
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Some people say that this game is too similar to all the other Zelda games - Travel through a dungeon, 
 getting keys, to fight the bad guy at the end. Well, the, I guess you'd call World War II a rip 
 off of the Great War.
  
  After being lampooned on a number of formats (Not the least of which the comedy central show Drawn 
 Together) Nintendo have re-invented link. He's still the same youth thrown headfirst into a world 
 of monsters and magic we all know and love, but now he's playing rough. With the Wii's motion sensor 
 capabilities, players have access to more fighting moves than ever before. Link can slice for the 
 jugular, flip behind an enemy and strike while their back is turned, and even finnish them off 
 with a sword through the heart. 
  
  That is not to say that links other weaponary is neglected. Link can customise his trusty bow, 
 fitting a hawkeye to snipe up close and personal, or packing on a bomb to create his own grenade 
 launcher. Finally, Wii players can shout with triumph "Boom, Headshot!"
  
  And the new weaponary certainly does have a great deal to add. Imagine link grinding a rail up 
 a giant stone pillar, jumping off to attack a levitating fossils skull. Or try imagining hurling 
 a giant steel ball at clusters of tiny enemies, and gleefully yelling 'Stee-Rike!". Or how about 
 swinging through a room of targets, thanks to your two, thats right two, Clawshots (a re-invention 
 of the hookshot that you can use to lower yourself from the target) .
  
  People complain about the visuals. Well I've played what people are calling some of the best next 
 gen game for visuals, and I gotta tell you, Bioshock looks no better off at all.
  
  Botom line, this game alone would be incentive enough to go out and get a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  I play this game almost everyday. it is amazing. graphics are great and smooth. Gameplay is also 
 smooth. This game gives a lot of action while at the same time you have to use your head. Using 
 the weapons, such as a bow, is super fun. The wii remote gives off cool sounds with your sword 
 and other weapons. you will also obtain different kinds of clothes, shields, swords, etc. Plus, 
 there are bonus minigames where you will unlock special things. It could be frustrating at points, 
 but just relax and think... games would suck if they're made too easy! So it's a great game and 
 a must have for Wii owners ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been going on since the NES (Nintendo Entertainment System) and has built 
 up quite the reputation. While the first breakthrough game was The Ocarina Of Time due to the 3D 
 graphics, this game is the next. With 3D graphics that could rival direct X 10 on the PC, and the 
 active game play that keeps you moving your arms and on your toes, this game far outranks any game 
 I've seen on the PS3. 
  
  Not only are the graphics just what the Wii called for, but they're so revolutionary that as soon 
 as you start the game your jaw just drops. The water detail is astounding, with smooth flow in 
 character movement, combined with stitch-detail work on the clothing, provides an almost real-life 
 experience. It really looks as though you're looking at real people, just in funny clothing. The 
 shadows are proportional, the fires whip and burn like they were real, and the object's all have 
 blended colour patterns that aren't disrupted by defined lines, but instead almost rubbed together. 
 These are the kind of things that make the Wii unique; the detail, the smooth movement, the real-life 
 actions, and overall, the revolutionary graphics that no other game will soon match. 
  
  While the music could have been a little more orchestrated, it was still better than nothing. Although 
 in future installments, a full orchestra would really bump up the value. Not to mention adding 
 in some more words that Link could actually say instead of just grunting all the time. Although 
 the sound wasn't all I expected it to be, there were still some really good jingles and voices, 
 although they were mostly oohs and ahs. I still believe that Link should be speaking more often 
 though, as his character is generally portrayed as a silent and humble young man who is always 
 thrown into battle. I mean he doesn't even have many huge reactions to the divine beings telling 
 him to save Hyrule. However, he does have more feelings this time around, as he is startled, shows 
 courage, and he even smiles.
  
  All in all, this game was well made. The game play is long and entertaining, with the traditional 
 puzzles all along the way. They weren't too hard, but not too easy either. This game incorporated 
 many valuable aspects that resulted in a great score from users, including me. Not only is game 
 play smooth and fulfilling, but the graphics are astounding and the role-playing between wolf form 
 and human form are kinda neat. Music was nice to hear, and added to the mood most of the time, 
 making moods tense, relaxing, or victorious. This game is, in my opinion, the best thing since 
 Ocarina Of Time, and thus I give it two big thumbs up. Way to go Nintendo! Very well done in your 
 design and programming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Awsome lengthy story that does not bore you. Large temples with fun bosses. If there is anything 
 that stands out it is the graphics on this game, they are a great improvement from previous games 
 in the series. Using the Wiimote has a sword, bow, and other tools is a great inovation for everyone. 
 Hyrule is enlarged greatly to be more like a real kingdom with many unique regions like snow, desert, 
 forests and much more. The puzzles in the game are tricky and make you think, "what should I do." 
 The only thing this next gen game needs is dialoge, voice acting instead of subtitles. Overall 
 it is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, genious, incredalbe, awsome. These words just scratch the surface of Legand of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess. I've played Zelda games beforebut this just sucked me into it. Link has been 
 given the ability to turn into a monster with amazing powers, and you also get to see some of his 
 classic weapons along with some new ones. But the best part of this game is the Boss battles. From 
 Giant fish to Monsterous Skeletons. It's because of this game i got a WII. And its led to some 
 amazing things. Like Metroid Prime, Guittar Hero, Mario Galaxy, and more. Thank you for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  LoZ Twilight Princess, a very great game and the game is so good, it has the word 'Legend' on it! 
 Twilight Princess is a great game, a zelda game that never have decent graphics for the wii, storyline 
 is awesome, know as the best launch game in the world (this is miles better than SM64) and a game 
 that fills the trilogy of the killer app. s on the Wii being this the first!
  A must have game for the wii, if you don't have this game, shame...
  There has been games like 
 Resident Evil 4, some of zelda games. Ocarina of time, a lot of games, this game is legendary!!!
 
  
  Well the storyline, ain't gonna tell u
  
  Twilight Princess graphics are awesome, it's like woooooowowowowo
  for a launch game, it has 
 awesome graphics, everything is light and shiny, and bright, legendary! Sounds is legendary, and 
 has a somehow memorial music and cool, legend and class especially hyrule field and kakariko village, 
 (it's a totally different view) !!! gameplay, pretty basic but you do fishing, arrow shooting, sound 
 effects, and for the first time using sword while on Epona! and a lot more that's why it's legend! 
 presentation is quite good, it has a sound that makes you not skip the opening, presentation is 
 decent and the game is class!!!!
  Well it depends on what type of gamer you are, the fastest time you can finnish the game is about 
 60 hours! if not... more! It' s also a bit weird that this game dosen't have magic on it, OoT has 
 it, MM has it, WW has it why this game dosent have it!
  Overall the game is awesome, but I have to admit, it's not the best zelda game but I'll put it 
 nomero dos or the same as ocarina of time, but not better than ocarina of time, and a lot of people 
 critisized this game for no voiceacting, WAKE UP!!!!! IT'S A ZELDA GAME!!!!!!!! it dosen't suppose 
 to have a voice acting plus it will sound weird anyway, it's better that Zelda games don't talk, 
 the game that should be bougt and it's still legendary especially for a launch game, lost of collectibles, 
 and effects, and gamespot should have give such a legendary game a 10!!!!!!
  
  Good/ +
  Class Graphics
  Legendary Sounds
  Legendary Gameplay
  Lots of effects
  Lots of new cool 
 weapons
  Awesome cut-scenes and storyline
  Lots of collectibles
  Can get a green chu jelly (it dosen't do anything)
  Last battle is better than OoT last battle!!!
 
  
  Bad/ -
  For some reason, there's no magic in the game..
  No musical instruments, except grasses and a horse shoe that calls Epona
  Playing the game feels 
 like you're in a time machine that maskes the time flow faster??
  No multiplayer (joking) it suppose to be a 1 player mode game anyways ahahahahahahaha
  
  
 
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiru_pwner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? 
  Ocarina Of Time 2.0 maybe? AWESOME GAME!
  
  TLOZ: TP Is the best game ever released. Its based on Ocarina of Time, the othe best game ever released. 
 Lol. 
  
  The storyline, you can either be a newb, and get the story, or be a pro, and get the story, full 
 hearts, all armours, minigames and secondary quests. The game is released on the best console, 
 Wii. Has an amazing gameplay, with AMAZING controllers, i know, i say AMAZING way too much but 
 its true.
  
  I have beaten this game 3 times. It is so addictive, that (i got my Wii Nov 19th 2006) by Nov 24 
 i had beaten this game 100%. 
  
  Any Nintendo, or Zelda fanboi should buy this game. Any Sony Fanboi, should buy this game, it should 
 be taught in schools its awseome!
  
  Hiru 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjwf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the best Zelda game of all times and it has good challenges 
 i love the bosses and the graphic of Zelda and also the ACTION, the action is sweet!
  
  
  Good
  The good about this game is that the bosses are kewl with good graphics and the best challenges 
 and of coarse the action, the action in this Zelda game is Untalkable  
  Bad
  The bad of this game is that the monkeys make awful noises when they follow you in the temples 
 and how the girl always steals your horse! But overall it has no bads! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  So its the launch title for the wii, great launch title at that. this game utilizes the wiimote 
 to its fullest from pointing the bow to swinging your sword. the detail in this game have come 
 a long way in comparison to the n64 days to deliver the more realistic adventure also there is 
 more reality in the game with the facial expressions from the characters to bring the game a more 
 lively experience. now this game will keep you busy for a good while and the puzzles are great, 
 they are very enigmatic maybe the best puzzles assembled by our friends at nintendo. its a not 
 all peches and creams though, not bad drawbacks but they have been noted, the boss battles are 
 tooo easy and the story progression is too linear even for a zelda game. overall this great game 
 delivers the pizza and it delivers it good, thus making another good zelda game for all of us to 
 enjoy to the fullest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Like the Zelda's before it, Twilight Princess will continue to entertain gamers for many years 
 to come. Having only played Ocarina, Majora's Mask and then Twilight Princess, I was quite impressed 
 to see the strong elements of Zelda continuing and being made stronger. 
  
  The GameSpot review makes negative mention of the presentation based on the text only communication 
 with characters and the underdone musical score (while being very good, it is still not a full 
 orchestral score) . While both of these points may be valid... the music to me was a highpoint, 
 it was everything I hoped Zelda would sound like, and the text communication gave me time to think 
 and make links between objects people and places in the game. The GameSpot review also comments 
 negatively on the sound on the Wii remote for actions like the sword swinging and clanging. Again, 
 I really enjoyed this feature. When my controller was running low and batteries and these sounds 
 vanished I realised how much I was enjoying them. They really added to the game from my perspective.
 
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this game. As the credits rolled I felt quite disappointed that it 
 was over for another couple of years and was already keen to play the next one. Not that I won't 
 be revisiting Twilight Princess in the very near future :D
  
  B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveXLR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  So if you've read my Super Mario Galaxy review you probably already know how i'm gonna do this 
 review. I focus on three things Story, Graphics, and Gameplay. So as Mario himself would say.... 
 Let's A Go!
  
  Story~
  The main plot of this Zelda game is the one that has been used over and over and all it's other 
 titles. Ganondorph attempst to take over Hyrule and gain the Triforce and basicly become invincible 
 but there is our hero, Link, who stops him and brings peace to Hyrule. Of course there is always 
 a little plot twist in each game, like in Majoras Mask you collect masks which alow you to transform 
 into different creaturs in the game, but that is a whole other game. In this game the land of Hyrule 
 is becoming engulfed in twilight causing anyone caut in it to become a goust! Except of cource 
 for our hero, Link. Link is transformed into a wolf and later meats the mysterious Mindia who is 
 basicly your helper throughout the game. Mindia gives Link hints for what to do at certain parts 
 and also helps move the story along. Mindia also ads a little mystery to the game until the end 
 where you dicover her true identity, but I'll let you figure that out on your own (if you don't 
 already know!) 
  So to sum up this part of the review I give this story a solid perfect 10 out of 10!
  
  Graphics~
 
  This game has great graphics, especialy for a Wii game! The detail for some of the enemies, locations, 
 and of cource Link, Ganondorph and Zelda's BIG new looks are amasing! There isn't a whole lot more 
 I can say about this topic except 9.0 of 10!
  
  Gameplay~
  The gameplay for this game is actualy quite good, but what Zelda game isn't! It does a good job 
 of using the Wii to it's advantage. It is mainly used in battles and other things like that! so, 
 I'm not gonna get in depth a whole lot on this topic so I'll skip to the rating! 9.5 of 10!
  
  So to sum up the whole game I give it a 9.5 of 10. See ya next time! Bye! 
  
  
  ~SteveXLR~
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
  Wii
  
  Legend of Zelda: Twilight princess is just showing off the Wii and its done a good job, This Zedla 
 game has the same in gameplay as the other games.
  The game has got a great storyline.
  
  The game has lots of weapons the are very useful to get things you missed.
  The bosses are hard 
 and fun to fight, Now there are mid-bosses where you will unlock the new item.
  
  The controlles are nice and fun to use, and because it on the Wii you have to use the Wii remote 
 to attack and aim.
  
  Overall this Legend of Zelda is one of the best. So if you got a Wii and you haven't got Legend 
 Of Zelda: Twilight Princess go down to the shop and buy it, Its must have Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chicken_Helper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The Twilight Princess was everything I expected and more. There are many dungeons. And each dungeon 
 has it's own theme and appearance. Through out the dungeons you find new cool gadgets you can use. 
 By the end of the game you've actually have a pretty large repertoire of tools at your disposal. 
 The boss fights as you would expect from a Zelda game are epic and entertaining. Every boss is 
 some sort of huge beast you have to battle. The storyline without spoiling anything is fantastic. 
 And the ability to transform into a wolf is very neat. The graphics are beautiful for the Wii, 
 and the music is awe inspiring. The world is expansive and in game features make it very easy to 
 travel through the world quickly. Throw in the minigames-quests and you have a heck of a game. 
 
  
  There are very few negatives to this game. One being that when sometimes when you pick up a rupee 
 other than the color green, the action will stop, and you will be forced into a animation. I found 
 that annoying. Other than that I occasionally got lost in the dungeons not knowing what to do or 
 where to go. Finally some of the tasks you have to do in between dungeons seem laborious and boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLordHimself
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  When Zelda games are released, people stand up and take notice. Just about every Zelda game is 
 nothing short of excellent, with some great design and engaging gameplay, it's no wonder the Zelda 
 series is so well loved.
  Twilight Princess is no exception to this rule; the game absolutely reeks of greatness, and contains 
 brilliant puzzles, great bosses and an amazing artistic design. This is possibly the greatest Zelda 
 game ever, although it's not quite perfect.
  First and foremost the game is of very little challenge. Just about every enemy is an ease to beat 
 and the game is extremely forgiving. You'll also never have to work hard to get hold of rupees 
 either, making it more annoying when you take your time to get to a secret chest only to find some 
 rupees that you can't even pick up since you've reached your maximum. I know this happened to me 
 A LOT. 
  As far as gameplay goes though, these are the only quibbles, and they are minor. On the whole, 
 this is one well designed piece of software that will also last you for a long while. If you have 
 a Wii... chances are you already have this. But if you don't, it would be well worth checking this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is worht the money, time and experience on the Wii. From the jaw dropping graphics to 
 the beautiful and inspiring music this game is awsome. The button selection can be frustrating 
 at first but once u master it it makes the game more enjoyable. The puzzles in this game do make 
 you think, so if u want a game with mindless puzzles dont by but if u want to challenge yurself 
 then please do. The story is beautfully plotted out and amazingly displayed if u get tired playing 
 the story u can always turn the minigames and side quests for enjoyment, if you have a wii this 
 is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  It's the thing we've ALL been waiting for. Twilight Princess was announced on the 'Cube back in.... I 
 can't remember the date, that's how long its been since this game was first announced. Well Twilight 
 Princess hit the Wii like a burning fever, like it had something to prove.
  
  Gameplay:
  It don't get much better than this kids. The Wiis controls are put to the ultimate test, and pass 
 with flying colors. Using the wiimote as the Master Sword couldn't get more fun than this. The 
 motion sensors are perfected by use of both nunchuck, and wiimote as you puppeteer Link to his 
 heroic destiny. If you were worried how the Legend of Zelda would play on a Wii, put those worries 
 to bed... matter o' fact, bury them. Every aspect of Links adventure is crafted so well that once 
 you get used to the Wiimote, it'll feel like second nature. The bow, slingshot, gale boomerang; 
 all are controlled by pointing that little white brick at the screen and letting the game do its 
 magic. The game feels more epic than ever. On paper this is just another Legend of Zelda... RPG 
 elements mixed with over the top action thrills, awesome as ever, except multiplied twofold thanks 
 to the unique way you play the game. Like I mentioned before, Link has all his trademark weapons 
 raring and ready. You swing the sword by swinging the wiimote back and forth like that lil' sucker 
 had a blade attatched to it. Aiming with the bow amounts to nothing more than aiming at the screen 
 lining up the shot and pressing A. Running around.... is still handled by the analog stick but still 
 feels solid. This installment, has Link fighting through an unknown shadow dimension. The twist 
 here is when he goes through the dark portal he transforms into a Wolf, complete with advanced 
 sight, smell, and the ability to dig. This time however he's not huffin' it alone. A denizen of 
 the shadow dimension, Midna teaches Wolf-Link all the ropes about the dark plane, and why it is 
 the way it is.
  
  Graphics:
  The Wii isn't a next gen powerhouse, in fact it has just slightly more power than the gamecube 
 does. That doesn't mean they still can't make quality visuals... no no no. Twilight Princess is 
 absolutely gorgeous, stepping up from Windwakers child like Link, to a more fleshed out 3D adult 
 link. That's the beauty of it, you play as Adult Link straight from the get go. Enviroments are 
 beautiful; colorful country sides of Hyrule will have you giggle with joy. Hell even the twisted 
 shadow world looks awesome. Character models are detailed and possess excellent animation. 
  
  Audio:
  It's the Legend of Zelda, what do you expect to hear? Yep the series' legendary theme 
 blasts draped in an orchestrated flair. Solving a puzzle will trigger that oh so satisfying tune 
 we have all come to know and love.
  
  Overall:
  Legend of Zelda... the name says it all. The reason I don't give this game the full 10 I feel it 
 deserves is because... well... it's Legend of Zelda... although the controls feel new and fresh... it 
 isn't new and fresh. Honestly it's just the same formula that Nintendo has been using since Ocarina 
 of Time. Even though it doesn't do anything brand spankin' new, Twilight Princess is still an excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The best game of 2006, one of the launch game for nintendo wii and the most wanted for all the 
 times, i can say a really art game
  
  The game is absolutely great!!!! good music, very good animation and a perfect history, every scene 
 makes you to know and consider all the possibilities, really you need to play it!!!!! 
  If you think that you are a good player or maybe has a good likes for the games this is the answer 
 for the boring and has really difficulty, good graphics and the most important a really fun gameplay 
 and a interesting story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geraldo18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I was a crazy fan of Zelda series till Wind Waker. What can I say, Ocarina of Time was flawless 
 in all ways, it was impossible not to fall in love.
  Good old times. 
  However, this Twilight Princess is an example of the decadence of the series. The game is linear, 
 repetitive, lacks important NPCs, the maps are quite few and small if compared to Ocarina of Time, 
 and really few and small when compared to Wind Waker.
  Ok, graphics are cool, but there's this disorganization in the distribution of equips, some you 
 use only once, some are useless, some are repeated unnecessarily. Heart pieces are easy to get 
 and unrewarding. The extras are simple and do not add much to the gameplay.
  The dungeons have all a set of bugs to catch and a light beast to tell you what to do before actually 
 entering it. Which consumes important time and gives little fun.
  The disappointment was to expected from a game that would supposedly be released two years before 
 its release date and got all aged while waiting.
  If it were GameCube's first Zelda game, I wouldn't be so hard on it, but Nintendo had several years 
 to improve it and didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxned
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Twilight princess is a game that really gets you into a puzzle-filled adventure, and the game's 
 controls are also a great addition to the series. 
  I put in about 50 hours, that includes the main quest plus about 15 side-missions involving new 
 gear and fun mini-games. While textures are a little dated, the lighting and the art design make 
 it look like a masterpiece. Music is also very good (except for when the wolves are howling wtf 
 is that) . 
  Only buy the game if you want to deal with puzzles and would like a new twist on zelda. 
  This 
 game will go down as my top 3 games I have ever played.
  
  Dont listen to Gerstman hes a douche :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behem0th247
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game in my view is the best in the series.
  The difficulty is just right, and the boss fights are amazing.
  This game uses the wii motion 
 senser controls to perfection.
  A must have for any RPG fan.
  
  This game will keep you busy for around 3 months, but unlocking everything and collecting all of 
 the heart peices and finishing all of the mini games (without a guide!) could well take years. 
 
  
  The storyline is one of the best planned in the series, were you see a normal person become a hero 
 who goes through dungeons and defeats monsters of all shapes and form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Best Zelda until now, The story of ocarina of time was a little better, but the game's still alot 
 of fun 
  
  -Musik that goes with the game
  -Good Graphics
  -Nice story (very big one)
  -and a really good gameplay
  -a huge space to just roam and beet 
 up some bad guys
  -YOU CAN LEARN 7 NEW TECHNIQUES !! :p
  
  if you're a Zelda fan you need to get this one, if not, just try it and you'll fall in love with 
 it!! Trust me, the story may not be as classic and epic as the first one but it's definetly worth 
 the money and worth to compare them both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fwept
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I was not any of the lucky few who got thier wii early. Infact i got my wii around Spring time 
 which much excitment. So there it was, the wii, and due to game charging people extra for four 
 extra games, twilight princess was one of these four games.
  So i played my wii for the first time and playing wii sports, but soon i wanted to munch into Zelda. 
 So i soon put it in. At first i was like, WOW. Im swinging my sword by waving shiny new controll 
 and controlling the horse with my nunchuk. Could i ask for much more? At the time no. So i carried 
 on the game still excited on the thought of the long and hopefully challenging adventure i had 
 ahead of me and soon enough i became the wolf. Again i was excited, im playing as a wolf, but soon 
 i started to note to myself some of the bad points of this much hyped and high rated game. The 
 music in twilight was very much depressing. But i dared not mute the t. v and listen to some music 
 in case something which relies on sound happens in the game e. g a tile that could make a odd sound 
 symbolising a hidden room (made up example) or a important cutscene which starts straight away with 
 speaking. So i endured the sound and i finally changed into a human again which i was quite relieved 
 about after what i found a boring time with the wolf. So i carried on the game and realised the 
 sword fighting actually is not that brilliant, no matter what way you waved the wii-mote, the game 
 just did a default hit, you would expect surly that the sword moved with the wii mote and hit the 
 way the wii mote moved? 
  Soon enought i got bored of the game only to keep coming back to it occasionally, playing half 
 and hour then getting bored. Some people say "you need patience". I reply with i play games to 
 have fun, not to play a game which i find dull and need patience for.
  And so coming up to 9 months later since i first slotted twilight princess into my wii with mch 
 anticipation and 20 hours gameplay to my profile i still find it dull and a waste of my time.
 
  This is most likly only because perhaps i might not be a zelda fan but i've enjoyed them on the 
 gameboy. So who knows, but sadly i fail to see why the high scores.
  Jonny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamking
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: Twilight princess is a game that is a game where you really need a brain. Awesome 
 gameplay to enjoy for people that like adventure. You begin like a normal teenager of 17 years 
 old. After a few hours of playing you are a big hero that must save the world. Millions of sidequests 
 and a lot stuff to do. This is a absolute must have for the Wii.
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  Game play:9,5
  Graphics:10
  Sound:8,5
  Believe me. This is a game that you need to have for the Wii.
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  would have been a perfect score but some irritating (but minor) gameplay issues stoped it from 
 being ultimate
  
  first of all the graphics are pretty good for a launch title
  and the controls (while lame "shakes wrists") WORK and yes even the nunchuck (dont understand how 
 so many people say it didnt work) works good too
  
  i know this is wierd but waaaaaaaaaay too long of an adventure game, they should really have cut 
 off about 10 hrs i think i finished at 56 hrs.
  
  but hey, thats good value anyways
  a few times i got lost and that really frustrated me and there is an annoying lack of direction (but 
 many zelda games are like that)
  
  Graphics = 9.5 (only because it was a launch title)
  gameplay = 10
  controls = 10
  replayablilty = 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigis_Shadow1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I am a great Nintendo and Zelda fan and Have played almost all of the Zeldas. This is definitely 
 the best Zelda. I also enjoyed the Twilight Princess experience on the Wii much more than on the 
 GameCube. 
  Zelda: Twilight Princess for one has GREAT graphics. The last few Zeldas have had cartoony looks 
 but this is SO much realistic. This game also has cooler enemies and more complex dungeons. Of 
 course Ganon comes back but some new awesome characters show up as well. The best part, Tingle is 
 gone! I am just kidding. The best part is the wolf!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  If you own a wii you must pick this game up. Not that it is perfect, but no game is. The true fact 
 is that it is long and well worth the buy. The use of the controlers are well put and make you 
 feel like you actually are doing what you are trying to on the screen. Without actually tiring 
 you out and making you feel more like your playing wii fit then Zelda. So if you have a wii and 
 you dont own this one then you are looking for a seriously need to get your mind checked due to 
 the fact this game just plain and simply rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeBreww
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a great game from beginning to end. It does get kind of slow in some 
 parts and some of the objectives get kind of annoying, but I think overall it was a great Wii gaming 
 experience.
  
  Gameplay- Of course you play as Link, but in this one he is adult the whole game. There is some 
 more things added onto this game like transforming into a wolf and you can warp with your buddy 
 who is a shadow dweller named Midna. She is basically like Navi, your fairy (who is also still 
 with you) . When you are a wolf, it's pretty cool for awhile, becuase you have dog senses, that 
 let you see things in the ground like secret holes, but fighting in dog mode, sucks. Most of the 
 time you'll just switch back to Link, because you want to fight with a sword. The creatures you 
 fight are totally different than any other Zelda. They are all shadow creatures, basically big 
 black blobs, but they do look cool. There is also definitly puzzles, just like any other Zelda, 
 and for the most part, they are pretty hard. As you clear out darkness from Hyrule, you get more 
 area to roam around. And also Link gets a few different suits, like water and fire, with each having 
 their own different use.
  
  Graphics/Visuals- For a Wii, the graphics are really good. And all of the visuals are pretty. The 
 land of Hyrule does look somewhat different from Orcarina of Time. They added alot of new things 
 like ruins. Personally, I think the lighting in this game was great. Everything may not look the 
 sharpest, but it looks fine. 
  
  Sound/Music- The sound in this game was fine. It wasn't the greatest, but it wasn't the worst. 
 But on the other hand, the music was excellent. The music really made the game more fun. Of course, 
 there is no talking in this game, so there is no voice acting. 
  
  Controlls- The controlls are not that hard. They are pretty solid. Mabey the sword will lag sometimes, 
 but that's not bad.
  
  The bad- there is some bad. You'll get a few bugs and glitches, like I said sword lags sometimes, 
 and the sound isn't the best. And also you won't amazingly impressed by the graphics, but they 
 are good for the Wii.
  
  For the most part, Zelda Twilight Princess, was a little different, but definitely a great gaming 
 experience for the Wii. And I would recommend it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that I've been a fan of the Zelda series ever since I played Ocarina of Time of 
 Time on the Nintendo 64. After playing that masterpiece it was hard to imagine that a Legend of 
 Zelda game could be done any better. So with Twilight Princess, you return to the land of Hyrule 
 and play the famous green tunic hero, Link. And just like all the other Zelda games you must save 
 Zelda and Hyrule from the ever reoccurring villain Ganondorf. It's pretty much the same concept 
 as the other games except this time they added a new shadowy sidekick named Midna who will be pretty 
 much with you the entire game in one form or another.
  
  Being able to transform into a wolf is a new element to the series and one that I thought was a 
 nice addition. Being a wolf is not the same as playing Link as you can run faster, are able to 
 see dead spirits and sniff out scents to track people. You can also dig up dirt to get items or 
 gain access to areas, which you couldn't otherwise get to and you can even talk to animals. So 
 it adds an nice extra layer of depth to the gameplay.
  
  Graphically the game is artistically well designed. For being originally on the Gamecube it shows 
 that you don't need the power of a Next-Generation X-Box or Playstation to make a beautiful game. 
 
  
  Sound-wise the game is great, all the musical tunes that Zelda fans have listened to all the years 
 is still there with some new ones. Most of the characters don't speak so you'll still be reading 
 subtitle texts. The music is in midi format, which is kind of a bummer because I believe this game 
 could have benefited from an orchestrated soundtrack. It's still great nonetheless.
  
  The controls using the Wii-remote is fun to use. It takes some time getting used to, but once you 
 do it feels so natural. For the most part though you'll be only swinging your remote and nunchuck 
 to to do simple slashes/jabs and heavy spin attacks. Not only that, but aiming your bow and arrow 
 or slingshot is incredibly easy and efficient. When it comes to fishing using the remote and nunchuck 
 in combination like an actual fishing pole makes it much for fun to do than on your traditional 
 controller. Other than that though you'll still be using the joystick on the nunchuck to move around 
 and the A button on the remote to interact with objects and perform combat maneuvers. 
  
  Overall the game is quite a great addition to the series and has a nice story to it even though 
 I would still say that Ocarina of Time is still the better Zelda game overall. I do consider it 
 a close second. So if you consider yourself a Zelda fan, child or adult I say you will definitely 
 enjoy the many fun hours the game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't as amazing as it was hyped up to be. What makes it up are its visuals, storyline, 
 and how it keeps to Ocarina of Time. Other than that the maps weren't done very good, puzzles were 
 either too easy or had you wandering around forever (especially if you stink at Zelda as much as 
 or more than I do) , and the controls felt like they were crammed onto the remote, though the Nunchuck 
 controls were a lot like Nintendo 64 games. This game would've been much better if Gamecube controller 
 compatibility was thought of for Wii games yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuR3SkiLLZ3525
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome- stunning graphics, brilliant gameplay, quick to learn how to handle 
 and a MASSIVE overworld. Add a sword or two and you've got a brilliant game. And thats exactly 
 what this is. A brilliant game. Admittedly, it's easier than i thought it was going to be- i thought 
 it was going to be hard but they've pitched it just right. All the years of planning have been 
 worth it. I liked it how you got your horse in this game from the start, unlike OOT where you had 
 to beat three dungeons and get the master sword first. Everything was perfect in this game. EVERYTHING. 
 I can't think of a single flaw. Music was awesome as usual as well. Just a brilliant game.
  
  PuR3SkiLLZ3525 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC2pwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  There are so many ways to describe the game's awesomness. Its story, the sound, the graphics, The 
 hype and its worth. Twilight Princess kicks some serious ass and if you haven't bought it, then 
 go sit at home and start playing Dragon Ball Z or Superman.
  
  The Good
  
  The graphics are highly detailed and colorful: 10
  
  The Gameplay is absolutely awesome. 9 
 dungeons with 9 bosses and some of the most memorable fights ever: Morpheel, Stallord, Argorok, 
 Zant, Ganondorf. Enimies are very clever andshow true work.: 10
  
  The music is recycled from Ocarina of Time, which makes it absoulutely awesome because of Ocarina 
 of Time's legendary soundtrack
  
  Lives up to the hype after 3 years of no new 3-D Zeldas. It shows true work and perseverance to 
 make an awesome game. : 10
  
  Value: Well worth the $50 for such a memorable adventure. : 10
  
  The Story is predictable like 
 Ocarina of Time or Wind Waker, not so much Majora's Mask.: 10
  
  The Bad
  
  Nothing bad too say about this game
  
  Final Note: Twilight Princess is an awesome game and 
 if you are not playing this game, or Final Fantasy VII, then you can just die sad because you didn't 
 play the best game of all time. If you like Final Fantasy VIII, and are playing this, then you 
 can rot in hell. That game was one of the worst i have ever played.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bojiggles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game was built on the concept of Ocarina of time, so if your one of the many Zelda fans looking 
 for another amazing game like Ocarina of Time, look no farther. The Legend of Zelda took a completley 
 different look in the Wind Waker for the Game Cube and changed the way the game was played from 
 Ocarina of time, yet still keeping that amazing Zelda feel. There's also been a bunch of handheld 
 Zelda games but they can never compare to an amazing 3-D adventure like these. Twilight Princess 
 brings the light, and the darkness back to the Zelda series. The game takes a more mature look 
 in Twilight Princess, much different than it's cartoony look in Wind Waker. The best graphics any 
 Zelda game has ever had is on Twilight Princess as well, you feel like your in the game that's 
 how realistic Nintendo has made it. People have gave it a lower score than it deserves. This game 
 truly is perfection, just because it feels like Ocarina of Time your gonna give it a lower score? 
 Well that's a GOOD thing if it's like Ocarina of Time considering it was one of the best games 
 ever made to this day. And they're right, is alot like Ocarina of Time. The way the game is played, 
 looks, feels, it even takes place in the same land as Ocarina of Time. The only difference in the 
 gameplay is that twilight completely covers the land and you have to rid the land of it's darkness, 
 doing so transforms you in to a wolf. That element changes the game and gives it it's own originality. 
 When in wolf form you cant use your sword or your other items so it changes the way the game is 
 played. Not much though, you still solve puzzles and explore, but just in a different way. I think 
 this keeps the same old sword fighting elements from getting old plus you're only forced to be 
 a wolf for three parts on the first half of the game, the second you get the option to transform 
 into one any time you please. Remember how long Ocarina of time was? Well guess what, this one 
 tops Ocarina and Wind Waker in length. What more can I say? This game is Zelda at it's best, if 
 only we could have more games like these now days. Now I'm going to list some pros and cons of 
 the game.
  
  Pros:
  
  Amazing classic Zelda feel to it
  Graphics are amazing
  The game's new mature look really made the game look so much better
  Great gameplay
  It stays 
 true to it's roots
  Awesome sequal
  Longest Zelda yet, you get your money's worth
  Lots of memorable moments
  Hyrule is designed better than ever in Twilight Princess
  Very nicely 
 designed temples
  
  Cons:
  
  Sometimes the graphics looks bad but mostly they're amazing
  The Wii controlls feel tacked on 
 like GameSpot mentioned, it doesn't feel right, neither is it responsive some times
  The Wii's sound isn't good cause they want most of the sound to come from the crappy, cheap speaker 
 on your Wii remote, which is dumb
  The second half of the game goes by too fast, it's too predictable as well
  
  Well, that's 
 pretty much all I have to say about The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. It's amazing and it's 
 a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This definetly tops the must-have list. And the zelda game list. Ocarina and wind waker were good, 
 and they are in the top 5, but Twilight Princess is certainly #1. The Graphics were outstanding, 
 With clear movement all the way throught the game. Play ocarina, then pop this game in and you'll 
 see the difference. The storyline was ok, but it didn't really have much to do with well... other 
 games but a little change is good. The sound was great, much much improvements. So if you're a 
 zelda fan, get this game. if you're new to zelda, It is still an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikmen_Power
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  The reason I think this is one of the best Wii games out thier is because The graphics are so amazing, 
 The story and gamplay are very solid. The assortment of links attacks work well with the Wii remotes 
 motion controll.
  I also love the challenge you get from the puzzels I liked talking the time trying to find out 
 a way to get past some obstacle. Theere are some amazing items as well like the zora armour and 
 lantern. But what I mostly liked about the game is the unforgetable bosses When you first see these 
 guys your first thought is probbably going to be Wow! The game is pretty chalenging but not enough 
 to make you insane. Overall this game is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The first Link's adventure on Wii is amazing, if you're bored about finishing the others for the 
 fifth time, start finishing this. This Zelda, for beginners is challenging, who didn't ever play 
 any Zelda has to know that you need patience and attention or you may loose that precious information 
 or clue. For who already played another Zelda game, know that this one is as good as others and 
 the fact that you may turn into wolf let the adventure much more fun. Having Midna instead of that 
 old fairy is much interesting, Midna isn't only that good girl that'll do all to help you, she 
 isn't always interested on what you are but is a good guide. You have lots of puzzles and ways 
 to waste time in this game if you don't want to enter dungeons, like fishing, searching for golden 
 bugs, searching for poe's or beating rollball's games.
  It's a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Phew. This game is so awesome, that one day I played it for 5 hours straight. I mean, almost everything 
 was perfect. Its creative boss battles, the complex puzzles, the items, the hidden skills, the 
 amazing storyline, its great sound...
  Well, the only complain I have is that nintendo didnt included and orchestrateed sound, but the 
 music is still great. And the wii remote responds incredibly, showing what it is capable of. When 
 you pointed, you could know exactly where you pointed, instead of having to aim old school style. 
 Minigames made you want to keep playing, and fishing is an incredible experience. And one of the 
 best things in the game: Midna. Without her, this game would be reeaaaaaaaaalllly boring and pointless. 
 Saving Zelda yet again? Nope . Saving Midna and the light world for the first time? Hell Yeah! 
 Play this game, you will never regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  I was a little disappointed in GS for giving this game a 8.8 because this was a truly outstanding 
 game that I couldn not get enough of. This was truly on of the best games its series. I enjoyed 
 every minute of this game and liked the fact that this one was longer than the old one. To tell 
 the truth the new look it was given made me happy because I really did not like the way the Wind 
 Waker looked. This game completely blew me a way and I was amazed at this game. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone this game is worth playing over and over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the score from game-spot (8.8) ... i was thinking not buying this game, because 
 this score is just not good enough for a Zelda game. But i still ended buying this game, and i'm 
 glad i did. This is the best Zelda experience i had since OOT. The story is just wow.... It's just 
 like watching your favorite movie or your favorite tv-show, u just want to know what happens next.... 
 i just couldn't let this game go. The beginning it's a little slow like every Zelda game. But after 
 3 to 4 hours of game play you'll get into some combat, and it's so much fun, because you now use 
 your wii remote. It's really nice not to have a controller in your hand and still play the best 
 game out there. I feel free playing wii, and my hands feel free. It's really a great feeling. Buy 
 a wii and buy this game, you won't regret it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happ1ness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  This was the very first game i bought to my Wii. When i finally got it I rushed up to my room, 
 turned the tv and Wii on, ripped the plastics around the package and pushed the disc into the Wii. 
 My first impression was that this game looks like any other adventure game, but after playing the 
 first hour i was trapped in the beautiful world of Hyrule. At the start it was a little hard to 
 get the controlls right, but when I got the hang of it I just ran around and choped bokoblin to 
 pieces with the wooden sword. Well, enough of what I did. This game is absolutely great. If you&acute; ve 
 just bought your Wii, buy this game. It&acute; s a great game to start with and it teaches you the 
 basics in how you handle the Wii remote. To everybody who don&acute; t own Twilight princess; BUY 
 iT!!!!! Shortly said, this is a must have game and if you start play it, you can&acute; t stop.
 
  
  PS. I&acute; m very sorry for all the misspellings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I hardly ever feel compelled to write reviews for games but after first Buying a Nintendo Wii, 
 then Buying Twilight Princess and finally finishing it I felt like had to set the record straight 
 - What is everybody on about?! Perfect scores? 100% ? 10/ 10 ?!
  
  Quite honestly I find it insulting that a game like Blue Dragon (just hear me out) on the Xbox 
 360 has fallen so short of admiration while a game like 'The Legend of Zelda, Twilight Princess' 
 can offer so little in the way of new content and character development and still get perfect scores 
 from Critics and gamers alike. To me, Twilight Princess was and is a total let down and deserves 
 to be Where Blue Dragon has been placed instead. Having Played the Zelda franchise since 'A Link 
 to the Past' in the good old days of the Snes, I am all too familiar with what 'supposedly' comprises 
 a great Zelda game. A link to the past introduced us to (well, me anyway) the marvelous 16 bit 
 world of Hyrule and the fantastic items, puzzles and weapons that made the game a masterpiece and 
 an incredible experience some 15 years ago. Fast forward 15 years later and I can hardly find the 
 strength to stop my self from hurling my Nintendo Wii out the window upon collecting a Boomerang, 
 Hook Shot (two of them this time) Boots, a Bow and arrows, a Blue mail and a Red mail, YET AGAIN. 
 This, Nintendo is quite honestly NOT what I signed up for when I got hooked on the Legend of Zelda 
 all those years ago. Back then as a young Link, I assumed that one day a new Zelda game would come 
 out and I would be treated to the same fantastic feeling of finding new and useful items, talking 
 to interesting people and crushing the powers of evil in another time, another place and in another 
 adventure. How wrong I was.
  
  For anyone that hasnt played the past Zelda games you have to understand that everything you do 
 in Twilight Princess (and Ocarina of Time for that matter) has been done before. Many, many times 
 before. All the stuff you collect this time round is regurgitated from the old Zelda games except 
 a couple of things like the Dominion Rod which (Surprise, Surprise) seems eerily similar to some 
 old Zelda game play anyway.
  
  Along with no originality, Twilight Princess comes with a pathetic and uninteresting story (the 
 Twilight world is a total rip off of the dark world from 'A Link to the past') and a plot that 
 lacks more substance then a liquefied Pi&ntilde; ata. Sure I can turn into a wolf this time (this 
 IS new content for a Zelda title) , but can i do anything remotely interesting? Nope. All I can 
 do is dig up hearts i don't need and crawl into empty houses to look at a large amount of nothing. 
 oh what fun. Finally I'm afraid, the real Tragedy is I'm starting not to care anymore. While Hyrule 
 is threatened for the umpteenth time and Gannon, the most over used and overly boring villain of 
 them all (a man that resembles a rural Turnip Farmer ) runs amuck in a poorly constructed fantasy 
 world, I honestly wish I could let Hyrule disintegrate into madness and never again have to revisit 
 such a mundane and poor excuse for story telling. Woah, thats Harsh I here you say. Well, yes 
 it is - but it doesn't have to be like this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is one of the best games of 2006. It is one of the best $50 
 games i've ever bought. It has great graphics, with amazing artistic environments, only a couple 
 blury textures found. It has great controls, the wii-mote really makes the game realistic. But 
 the sound is pretty bad, the music gets kinda annoying after a while and none of the characters 
 actually speak, they just make odd noises with subtitles. Also, a lot of the sound affects come 
 out of the wii-mote speaks and those little things just aren't capable of making high quality sounds. 
 The game is so freakin' long!!!!! It's over 60 hours of game play and is probably the largest scale 
 game ever made. Over all, i give this game an 8/10. The only thing wrong: Poor sound and a little 
 boring in some places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbiee430
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  this game starts off with the hero (link) in his village. one day link, his village, and hyrule 
 are attacked by evil shadow creatures from a different world. it is your job to restore the light 
 stolen by the creatures to hyrule. the game essentially plays out like all the other zelda games. 
 but the use of the wii's innovative controls makes the games a whole lot more involving and fun. 
 you don't just sit there and push buttons, you have yo actually get into the game. whether it is 
 shooting a bow and arrow or waving the nun-chuck like you are fishing to catch a fish. the game 
 provides a very nostalgic memory of the old zelda games. it brings back memories and improves the 
 already great gameplay with the wii's controls.
  
  graphics:
  the graphics are amazing. they aren't anything like the 360 or ps3 but they are crisp and clean 
 and still animated to the point were it is visually stunning. just riding on a horse through the 
 vast fields of hyrule was an experience in itself.
  
  sounds:
  the music to this game is amazing also. the music fits the situation in these zelda games as usual. 
 they even bring back the old classic zelda tunes and speed them up and slow them down. the drawbacks 
 were that sometimes during the music there would be a high pitch of sorts and it would essentially 
 sound like static. there is no voice acting in this game, but in a sense i am glad. it sticks to 
 the tradition and plus i do not think any voice is worthy to contain link.
  
  value:
  as in all zelda games there is extra content. but also as in all zelda games this extra content 
 can only be found with some help from a source. there is a very little chance you will get all 
 the extras on your own. and in most zelda games there is no replay value because once the game 
 is over, it's over. this game is very traditional to the zelda series but its not a bad thing. 
 it is a great installment to the franchise and a great game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rapid_Fire_360
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Good game, sometimes not sure what to do, graphics are good, but i have seen better graphics from 
 the Wii.
  8/10 as it can be sometimes difficult and also you can get bored for the first part of the game 
 and then it gets alot better whats good, anyway the graphics are good enough and the controls are 
 easy to use, also the story-line is good fun so its worth the money, shame its only 1 player and 
 does not put out high definition (HD) buts its a good game and worth the money, but the graphics 
 on this game are very simular to that of the gamecube version of Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is so good that the developers of this game deserve a standing ovation!!! This game is 
 fun, challenging, action packed, long, entertaining and just one of the best stories you will ever 
 experience. You use the WII remote as your sword and move with the nunchuk. Swinging the remote 
 around and fighting in intense battles with strong bosses minions is just enthralling. There is 
 not ONE BAD THING ABOUT THIS GAME!!!!!!! Even it's graphics are phenomenal. I knew the WII would 
 have fairly good graphics but these graphics have blown my mind. All in all great game. Buy it, 
 get it, love, hold it, be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  I have kept this review spoiler free and without any specific examples or details so that any players 
 that choose to embark on this adventure can discovery the game world fresh.
  
  As I played this game I was continually impressed by how much the game world communicates with 
 the player without using any words. It will mostly clue the player with sight, sound, smell, rumble, 
 and very rarely words. Words if any are mostly for some story cutscenes and talking to village 
 people or animals.
  
  Most games including adventure games like this one are completely linear so the game designers 
 don't have to worry about losing the player. This games single biggest challenge being as open 
 ended as it is would have been to keep the player focused.
  
  I have played many other open ended games and except for other Zelda games they use things like 
 Quest logs or some form of logging as well as some form of communicating but basically they all 
 use words that a player has to read or listen. Most of these open ended games have evolved into 
 very complicated and sometimes too complicated for their own good and initiating and keeping track 
 of sub-quests etc can become a heavy chore.
  
  Then there is Zelda Twilight Princess. It is one of the largest open ended game worlds I have ever 
 played and yet it will seem small and easy to navigate because it starts out small and simple and 
 just as the adventure becomes epic so does the world. But at the same time the adventure and the 
 world grows, so does your ability to navigate faster and easier. Also every part of the world is 
 interconnected and visually distinct with fairly effective and simple map system so I personally 
 never found myself lost or unsure of where I am and where I want to go. There is huge draw distance 
 and the environments are very open so even if you don't look at the map and are traveling you can 
 tell from a distance you are going in the right direction because the landmarks are absolutely 
 iconic and recognizable from a distance.
  
  In addition, the main game is very focused and the player is always directed very effectively to 
 where they need to go next and what they need to do. Most of the optional game content can be discovered 
 by the player just by paying attention to the environment travelled while pursuing the main games 
 objectives.
  
  A lot of times in Zelda game you may notice something that seems like another optional mystery 
 to solve but don't seem to have any solution... but later with the right equipment it will become 
 possible. In Zelda Twilight Princess these type of areas that might confuse a player are at a minimum 
 and the items/abilities you need to solve the general game world puzzles become available early 
 enough that I don't think the player would have learned how the game clues them into these optional 
 stuff to get frustrated for not being able to solve it by not having the right equipment yet.
 
  
  I think even players that have played past Zelda games wont notice certain things until they have 
 the right equipment and therefore wont get frustrated trying to solve without the right equipment 
 so in that this game is very well designed.
  
  The player is taught some new gameplay mechanic and then the player is told/shown how to use it 
 and then the player must use it a little bit and then it is avaible to the player for the rest 
 of the game. It is a very effective way to teach the player. Each new tool makes navigating the 
 world or dungeon or both easier. These also serve to open the players eyes for more optional stuff 
 in the rest of the game world.
  
  All the optional quests basically reward and make the player stronger. This isn't a game where 
 you just go around killing countless enemies to gain experience to get stronger. You have to observe 
 the environment and find the items that will make the game easier for you.
  
  It is in the optional stuff that you realise just how much good work they have put into the game. 
 In terms that you don't notice something until gradually overtime you begin to view the game world 
 with more observant well trained eyes/earns looking for the clues that will yield more tressure.
 
  
  The game also includes many sub-games which basically exist immersed in the overall game world 
 but provide basically high quality mini-games for anybody that would like it. All of these are 
 optional although just like every other optional effort a player might make they will get rewarded. 
 For people that have played past Zelda games this is also a common thing for Zelda games with the 
 exception that any single sub-game here is better than any in a past Zelda game.
  
  Another common thing for Zelda games is that nothing is supposed to get closed off once you complete 
 certain part of the game although in certain Zelda games this hasn't always held true (like Wind 
 Waker) .
  
  I am happy to say in Zelda Twilight Princess every single place in the game world can be revisited 
 anytime you like up to the last 'battle' to find whatever else you might have missed and it provides 
 some ability to help you find most of the things you might have missed within the game.
  
  I personally found everything I cared to find just keeping my eyes and ears open as I went through 
 the game world naturally playing at my own pace. Basically I didn't find it to be a chore and I 
 found a lot of stuff (easily 95% or more) . In some past Zelda games I have found finding some of 
 the stuff to be a chore.
  
  Bottom line it is a very simple, easy to approach, and fun to play game that has a lot of depth 
 and immersion and it truely is a game for all gamers. New or otherwise.
  
  PS - This game is available on Wii and Gamecube. The only differences are that on Gamecube there 
 is no widescreen support, link is left-handed, the game world is a mirror version, and it has different 
 controls with the gamecube controller. I played the Wii version. With the differences being what 
 they are the gamecube version is just as good but less immersive controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Aside from a new Lord Of The Rings movie, the discovery of a long-lost Beatles album or the second 
 coming of Christ, few things are likely to cause as much fuss as a Zelda game. But while Twilight 
 Princess feels like a natural progression for the treasured series, Links Wii debut is also his 
 freshest and most engaging escapade to date.
  
  Although the much-delayed quest is available on both the GameCube and Wii, its the motion sensitive 
 controls of Nintendos latest console that bring a new dimension to the traditional swashbuckling. 
 As always, simple actions such as pushing blocks, fishing and swordplay are the nuts and bolts 
 of the game, allowing players to interact with the fantasy worlds, complete challenges and battle 
 an inspired army of monsters. But while all these moves were once unleashed by simply pressing 
 a button, using the Wii remote and nunchuk adds a dramatic sense of interactivity: when dueling 
 with a skeletal warrior, players can jerk the remote forwards to parry, or swing it down to finish 
 off enemies on the ground; when fishing, you can tilt the controller towards you then flick it 
 forwards to cast a line; and when solving puzzles using Links boomerang, players can use the remote 
 to actually aim at targets on the TV screen.
  
  But while most Wii launch games go to elaborate lengths to exploit the motion controls, Twilight 
 Princess uses them in subtle, intuitive ways that dont meddle with your enjoyment of the game. 
 Unlike a title such as Far Cry Vengeance, which can be a chore to play until youve mastered the 
 controls, most of Twilight Princess basic actions are executed using the controllers familiar 
 thumbstick and buttons, and its only when tilting or swinging actually //add/// to the experience 
 that theyre used (even then, its only a flick of the wrist here, or gentle circular motion there) . 
 And as the controllers built-in speaker and vibration feature are used to enhance key moments 
 - when fishing, for example, the controller rumbles if you get a bite and the sound of the reel 
 spinning can be heard in your hand - Twilight Princess brings fans closer to the adventure than 
 ever before.
  
  Motion controls aside, Twilight Princess offers everything youve come to expect from the series. 
 The magical worlds are beautifully brought to life, the games imaginative graphics, attention 
 to detail and subtle lighting effects creating environments that  while they dont look quite 
 as sharp as similar adventures on the Xbox 360 or upcoming PS3  still wipe the floor with most 
 Wii launch titles, many of which look freakishly ugly by comparison. Moreover, the characters and 
 monsters you meet along the way are all bursting with personality and inventiveness, from the eccentric 
 villagers in your home town that help you learn the controls, to the towering, end-of-level bosses 
 that must be toppled to save the day. And with all the music and sound effects that will be familiar 
 to anyone whos stuck with the Zelda series throughout its 20 year history, key moments in Twilight 
 Princess are sure to send the hairs on the back of your neck shooting to attention.
  
  When Nintendo first announced Twilight Princess would be delayed to become a Wii launch game, internet 
 pessimists feared that shoehorning a new control system into an all-time classic was a dangerous 
 move. But in finding new ways to deliver Zeldas classic formula, Nintendo has shown that a simple 
 approach to the Wiis motion controls is the most rewarding, and that waving controllers in the 
 air like a twisted mime artist is more than a cheap gimmick. If youre only going to buy one Wii 
 game, make Zelda the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark-Arrow-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  When you play this game for the first time you feel all the shivers coming from tip to toe, In 
 my opinion its the best game i ever played (and I played a lot of games) .
  the controls feel perfect, the looks of graphics are awesome, it has lots of play time (trust me 
 you won't get bored) and it has a great story line.
  This game is like heaven for The Legend Of Zelda players.
  The boss battles are great so are 
 the puzzles and side quests,
  this game surely did not annoy me I played it nearly 24/7,
  The ending gave me lots of goose bums it was beautiful and that for one of the first game's available 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game that will give you extended hours of gameplay. 
 The use of the Wiimote is not great in this game, you basically just waggle the Wiimote to swing 
 your sword, however if you hold down the Z-target and then a direction on the nunchuck Link will 
 swing his sword whichever way you are pointing.
  
  The storyline in this game is very good, and you will be doing many of the things that are expected 
 in a Zelda game: fighting through temples, solving puzzles, and using a number of different items 
 to advance yourself through the different dungeons.
  
  Each dungeon takes on its own personality, and often one weapon is key for your progress in that 
 particular dungeon. This system makes each dungeon feel unique, and makes the game fresh and new 
 with every new dungeon you enter. Along with the unique dungeons Zelda: Twilight Princess offers 
 a number of side quests that will add hours to your experience.
  
  If you are a fan of past Zelda games, you will enjoy the added bonus of the Wiimote to this Zelda 
 game. Twilight Princess successfully incorporates the Wiimote into your gaming experience, and 
 actually makes the game better than if it would not use the unique motion controls capable on the 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The one and only thing i've never liked about zelda games was that they are all too freaking easy. 
 I'm sorry, but it's true. I mean, all the epic boss battles, all the memorable characters, all 
 the classic styled gameplay racks up a lot of points in my opinion. But since it was a bit too 
 easy i gave it a 9.5. Don't get me wrong though. It was still worth the wait. It is also a pretty 
 long game (for a zelda game) . Maybe I should try and beat them with only 3 hearts huh? That should 
 give me a good challenge. If you have stuck with the Legend of Zelda series since back in the day 
 and you have beaten every one and loved every one, then of course you should get this game. Good 
 job my fellow classic gamers for sticking true to your roots and for playing awesome games that 
 nintendo has always provided for us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migue9107
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was all I want for it the graphics and the game play was amazing, also the sound and 
 the possibilities of play make this one of my favorite games... I haven't played any other games 
 of The Legend of Zelda, but this game its simply amazing. Many people say they prefer Ocarina of 
 Time but I will reserve my opinion of that until I have played both of them. I took a little time 
 for me to complete this game but it bring me (until now) lots of fun. I highly recommend this game 
 if you want something with puzzles and one in which you have to take your time for completing it 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricio_gun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing, just amazing how you can lost precious time in your life but for spending this time 
 in this game is surely for a good reason.
  
  i've never played a game so happy since dragon ball Z budokay tenkaichi, it's incredible how it 
 can entertain you so fast and make you crazy.
  
  None words can explain what you feel playing this game even in game cube or Wii, as obvious that 
 on wii the sensation is another, like you think you are really link it's incredible.
  
  It can be compared to the same revolution of ocarina of time, the only thing that i don' understand 
 is why 8.9 and not a 10 like it's primordials
  
  bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshen2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series remains to be one of the only reliable series left in the world for 
 me. The flagship title with the release of the Wii uses the Wii remote's interactiveness to it's 
 fullest potential. Combining with a deep storyline and amazing graphics.
  
  Just looking at the game, the graphics are pristine and give a nice feeling to the surrounding 
 environment; the dungeons reflect an eerie feeling while a shop or the castle marketplace give 
 a sense of welcome. The music integrates just as well, a diverse and rich compilation created. 
 The only downside is that some of the dungeons are so dark that even your lantern is no use.
  
  The greatest aspect of the game is perhaps the integration of the Wii remotes' sensor to attack, 
 aim, and target. Using the remote offers a simple playing system, and the targeting system used 
 in the game lets players freely focus and swing at enemies. Again, the only drawback to this is 
 that there are just so many attacks a person can remember, and when going against a boss you don't 
 exactly have time to remember them all.
  
  In the end, the good covers up any bad aspects to the game, and is a must buy for any RPG fan or 
 Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpleblancfinal
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  First of if you get the WII or gamecube your going to have a good time. Now on the WII they add 
 some nice Wii-sifip controls that is most ley the pointer. the use of the sord and sheld are a 
 little anoying defenintly the sheld and spin attck getting confused by the sensers. as fare as 
 the other elamets of the game its primayly the same. same story, same caracters, but the sord is 
 on the right hand which dosent make much of a difference as fare as the game play goes. But in 
 the end if you have a Wii get this game or waite for the next zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuIgI_MaStR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a Zelda game? I'm sure you have, but you haven't played a good Zelda game 
 untill you play this one! I thought I was liven large with Wind Waker for my Cube untill I bought 
 this puppy! The graphics are unbeliveable, the gameplay is awesome, the weapons are off the hook, 
 and the music is fantastic! This was the first game I got for the Wii, and I am glad I got it. 
 It's an amazing story. You don't only control Link, but Midna on Wolf Link! I just have to say, 
 if you want a wii game and you don't know which one to get, pick this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This Game was Awesome!!! It had the 3D my brother and I had been looking for. It had hilarious 
 little stupidity, random, practical, jokes that he and I found very refreshing, like Earthbound! 
 They made one sikk looking dirt-bit outfit, a sikk Hero's Suit, a pimp water suit... and another 
 one that i won't give up to people that haven't this yet... The markets' ideas and little skeems 
 are so, so filling. I mean, what game gives you options to upgrade, a shop?! Zelda, that's which. 
 It has great mini games and ways to get rupees, awesome, strange, mysterious items. Incredible 
 game play mixed with classic Zelda and Windwaker, jump-slashing, sliding (I love those types of 
 moves ^.^) , rolling, etc. the list goes on for a bit... Moving on -- The game deals with a large 
 variate of items, the usual Hero's bow, classical bombs, new from OoT Iron Boots, magic shield, 
 I'd say about 22 items in all, including the new bombs... The game brings to OoT scenario, fight 
 three bosses then 7 more replaced with 5 more though, it includes a secret, awesome, newly invented, 
 fresh from the press, added power to all Zelda fans around the world... you... get... to... turn... 
 into a...... Wolf! Yes, don't adjust your screen, I said wolf. The great, blue eyed wolf spirit 
 from the Twighlight Realm has bestowed upon you. Which means, yes, more moves! Though commanded 
 by a nymph creature, named Nidma. Understand, this game is said to be the greatest of all the Zelda 
 games, but in some ways I agree in others... Well, the challenge of the game's core is sucked out 
 iternaly, the heart pieces can be found from a jypsee, the rupees flow to you when you collect 
 a single bug from w/e her name is, the sandbox land of Hyrule is very limited, I have to say the 
 graphics are impenetrable though... I am truly glad I own the life of this game, but all I'm saying 
 is that you can get the same thrill, and then some, from OoT. Call my clingy but this is upgraded 
 Ocarina of Time with fancy moves...
  
  I give it 10 thumbs up though =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game. After almost a year since I began to play it, I still think about 
 the nights I wandered through Hyrule with Link... Just for the wandering!
  It felt a bit awkward at first, playing with the Wii-controller. At the end, I honestly have to 
 say I don't think waving the remote for swordfighting was a major improvement in the gameplay, 
 it felt more like a gimmick. That's the only real letdown. Some people say they are dissapointed 
 in TP because the game is great, but nothing new compared to the Ocarina of Time....
  GET A LIFE people, wake up! OOT is the best rated game ever, so it's damn fine Twilight Princess 
 feels a lot like it. But is this one better?!
  If you look at the graphics, sound effects and atmosphere, I would say yes. I played with my mouth 
 opened whe I first ran through the twilight, with the utterly-brilliant background sound! This 
 is so brilliant, I even have it on my mp3-player. But enough of that...
  I you look at the originality, the story and innovation, I still think OOT is the better, simply 
 because at the time it was released it was a truly revolutionary game, and TP simply isn't. Many 
 games have been there and done that... but almost no-one as good as Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
 One of my favourite games of all time, buy it, love it, feel it, breathe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamfudge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  the legaend of zelda is defenitly the best wii game out to date and i think gamespot certainly 
 underated it ( 8. 8 ) t wilight princess ups the graphics and adds realism and much of the game 
 play was to easy such as the bosses but there weres till a few tricky puzzles in it , twilight 
 princess has all the things from past zelda things so it doesnt add much to the game but its really 
 big when u cross hyrule field u think thats realy long but its a small bit of the map i would recomend 
 twilight princess to any one with a wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyknux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Oh, how just a few years makes a difference. If you were one of those people disgruntled with The 
 Wind Waker, this one's for you!
  
  Story: As in many Zelda games, Link has simple roots... here, as a ranch hand. One day, preparing 
 to leave his hometown of Ordon Village to journey to Hyrule, the children of the vilage are kidnapped 
 by mosters. Link gives, but finds in place of what used to be a forest, a mysterious veil of darkness, 
 into which Link is suddenly pulled and transforms into a wolf! Taken prisoner, Link is freed by 
 a mysterious imp named Midna, who is at first reluctant to reveal her true intentions for doing 
 so. This initiates Link's quest to save Hyrule and uncover the mystery of the endless twilight 
 engulfing it. The story is full of twists, some easily foreseeable and some not so much, and also 
 has certain themes throughout, such as keeping hope no matter how dire circumstances become.
  
  Graphics and Art: A lot of people will contend that the game, being ported from the Game Cube, 
 acks a certain luster that Next-Gen games should have. I completley dsagree. While the graphics 
 certainly aren't on a 360 or PS3 level, or even a Metroid Prime level, they are still very well 
 done, including by Wii standards. The artistic style is brilliant, too. Each area has its own feel, 
 just like it should. Hyrule field is wide open, and consists of plains, canyons, and waterways. 
 Each town is unique, from the relative calm of Ordon, to the frantic big city of Hyrule Castle 
 Town, to the decrepet shacks of Kakariko. Interesting to note, though, is that because most people 
 are right handed, Link was made right handed, too. The game is a mirror version of the Game Cube 
 version, as the game was too far in development to alter the puzzles for a right handed Link. Its 
 nothing major, but it feels weird to play with a right handed Link, and its odd when I see videos 
 of the Game Cube version online, with scenes I know very well by now flipped.
  
  Sound and Music: Perhaps the most talked about fault of the game. The sounds is great... Link yells 
 with ferocity that specifically reflects the situation he's in. And certain sounds, like Link sheating 
 and swinging his sword, pullling back a bow string, and even the Puzzle Solved jingle come through 
 the Wii Remote. But the music always seems like a hot topic. Like the previous games, its only 
 MIDI quality, which is slightly dissapointing.. Especially when you consider how a beautiful rendition 
 of the Zelda Theme was orchestrated for Super Smash Bros. Melee. But OoT, MM, and TWW should let 
 you know that Koji Kondo is amazing with his music compositions, and Twilight Princess is no exception. 
 Many songs from Ocarina, and even a few from Majora's Mask, return sounding as great as ever, and 
 of course many new tracks have been created. Also, like the previous games, and somewhat moreso, 
 the pacing of the music will become altered depending on the context of Link's situation. When 
 fighting an enemy, when characters exchange blows, the tune quickly moves to a more savage theme. 
 In Hyrule Field, music wil change while Link is standing still, moving on foot, or riding Epona. 
 One of my favorites is during boss fights, when you have a boss in a position where you can start 
 to cause real damage to them, the tune will change to an excerpt of the game's theme.
  
  Gameplay: By now, veterans will know what to excpect froma Zelda game. Puzzles, Action, side-quests, 
 and fun to use items. Twilight Princess continues the formula, and like Ocarina of Time, nearly 
 perfects it. On of my favorite new items is the Spinner, a high-tech device (by Hyrule standards, 
 anyway) that allows Link to ride at high speeds along grooves in a wall and insert into certain 
 Spinner slots to cause new objects to appear. You've also got classics like the Bow, but even these 
 are upgraded and changed. Bomb Arrows, anyone? Not to mention one later in the game I'd rather 
 not spoil... Boss fights are more original than ever. None of them are very hard, but all of them 
 are unique. Puzzles are also as prevelant as ever, and some of them are truly mind bending. I'm 
 looking at you, ice block puzzle. Mini-games can stil be found to, as well as a new twist on Wind 
 Waker's Savage Labrinth and 3 new collection quests, in addition to the classic Heart pieces to 
 find... Which now require 5 for a full heart container. You'll be playing for many hours, as this 
 is easily the longest Zelda game to date.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is a game tha should not be missed by anyone. PERIOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasyfacade
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game. While not the best of the 
 series it still has undeniable charm that will more than likely have the majority of people hooked. 
 Like with every Zelda game you play as Link, the chosen hero who is given the task of saving all 
 of Hyrule from certain destruction. While it doesnt bring anything new to the series in gameplay 
 or story for that matter, it does however take a turn to a darker side for telling its tale.
  
  As Link and with the aid of an impish character Midna you will make your way between the realms 
 of light and twilight as both human and wolf in order to rescue Princess Zelda and aid the three 
 light spirits in order to restore the correct order of things. Only when crossing over into the 
 realm of twilight will you be able to play in wolf form at first. Though as the progression of 
 the games goes on you will eventually, with the help of Midna, learn how to change between the 
 two forms at will. While controls are generally the same in wolf and human form, the abilities 
 differ and in order to progress you must use both to your own advantage.
  
  Still, like in the previous Zelda games you play through dungeons solving puzzles and fighting 
 enemies with the aid of the various items you pick up alone the way. The majority of which, if 
 a long term fan of the series, you should be used to except for a slight difference here and there. 
 The interaction though is completely different when comparing the Gamecube and Wii versions. With 
 the use of the Wii-remote it is quicker and easier to target and fire an arrow, boomerang, hookshot 
 and many of the other items with very little trouble by simply pointing you Wii-remote at the TV.
 
  
  Puzzles are wide spread amongst the game, while they arent too difficult they arent exactly easy 
 either. Some of them will cause you to think outside the box. Sometimes youll even find yourself 
 in what feels like a dead end, only to find the solution was right in front of you the entire time. 
 Mostly this is down to how the design of them are, but depending upon how you look at it this could 
 be both a bad and good thing. On one hand is can be infuriating and on the other it can be satisfying 
 to accomplish. When it comes to fighting some might not be so enthusiastic about it at first. Waving 
 your hands about in order to defeat your enemies from a viewers point of view may look odd, but 
 its a completely different experience when youre the one waving your hands around. While precision 
 isnt the best when it comes to fighting enemies with sword in the Wii version, as it would be 
 to press a button, the wii-remote does however allow for easy access to special attacks with a 
 flick of a wrist, literally. It also makes it easier to access the later of attacks that you will 
 learn and need to defeat certain enemies. Though you will find the skills you do need along the 
 storyline, others are scattered throughout the map and in order to learn them you will have to 
 find them first. Though you dont need these hidden skills to complete the game they do make easier 
 work of the tougher enemies.
  
  The only area that the gameplay falls short of is when it comes to dealing with a dungeon boss. 
 Pit against something more than ten times your size you would think that it would be challenging. 
 However, these guys are ridiculously easy to beat as usually your newly found item just so happens 
 to be its weakness. Youll more than likely only need one try to beat them and be on your way. 
 Fortunately compared to the rest of the gameplay it is easily forgivable as youll more than likely 
 get around 40 hours of solid gameplay, which doesnt involve much backtracking.
  
  It is not just gameplay or story either that makes Twilight Princess a great game. The design of 
 the game is beautiful of both scenery and characters alike. The scenes are full of rich colours 
 and light that bring life to the scene, especially the Twilight Realm. Enemies are highly detailed, 
 each given a character of its own, whether it be a vicious plant to a creature from the twilight 
 and characters expression are riddled with emotions. While the graphics may fall short of the Wii 
 capabilities considering this game was initially to be released for the GameCube they are still 
 by far outstanding artistically and suites the style of the game. As sound goes though it does 
 tend to be a bit disappointing. Fortunately some of that doesnt actually have much to do with 
 the game as more to do with the quality of sound that tiny speaker in your Wii-remote producers. 
 Sounds like that of a bowstring being pulled back and shooting an arrow doesnt really give you 
 the impression that the bow it travelling away from you like. Instead what you get is a flimsy 
 sound that doesnt sound like it is meant to. As well what comes as a disappointment is that the 
 sounds used in the game dont seem to have evolved that much to the level of which other games, 
 even those before this generation, have been using and still conveys the entire story through text 
 with the odd exception of a word here or there like hey and for Midna, even though her entire 
 speech is made up of gibberish. Despite this the score is nostalgic and still manages to delight 
 and aid the scenes of the game. Its main disappointment only comes from where it is lacking.
  
  In all Twilight Princess is a great and memorable game that you will get many hours of enjoyment 
 out of. While it isnt the best in the series it is a good addition and a worthy successor to those 
 before it. The only area that it seems to fail in is that sometimes it can be a bit too nostalgic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeyz81
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is an incredible game, it has all the graphics and realism you ever wanted, one thing 
 is for sure its a game that doesnt really need a rating because you know its going to be better 
 than any game on the market in terms of epic quality. if you only play one more game in your life, 
 make sure its twilight princess. !
  
  anyway this is a great game, but i hope the one for the WII, adds more to what everyone wanted, 
 voices from characters, more realism, and revolutionize zelda a bit, and not make it so zelda-ish.
 
  
  cool game though, is it better than ocarina of time ? well as much as a lot of people would disagree 
 probably, i would say twilight is better than ocarina, because its superior in every way, more 
 fun, more better graphics, more depth, more everything.
  
  ocarina was a classic, but dont let a classic come in the way of a newly created game with new 
 content, i think this game deserves more than a 9.0
  
  you MUST buy this game for WII, a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  There is really nothing to say about this game except that it was the first game I got for the 
 Wii and was pretty much the best Zelda game out there. What I'm hoping is that before they announce 
 there new console that they make a new one. Now that would be the sweetest thing ever. Unlike Mario 
 Strikers Charged it is not a luck based game. it is more of a skill game and those are the games 
 I like. Nintendo is a luck based company which I have no problem with but when the go to the point 
 where they make the game to much luck then that just starts to piss me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a franchise like The Legend of Zelda, picking the best installment in the entire 
 franchise is difficult. They are all THAT good. Twilight Princess stands aside from others because 
 its the first Zelda game tossing Link and company into a PG-13esque atmosphere. The story is as 
 epic as it always has been. Link is a farmboy living a peaceful life until an evil force called 
 the Twilight invades the kingdom of Hyrule and turns him into a wolf. You are rescued by an imp 
 named Midna, who decides to help you out, but seems to have a private agenda of her own. Link learns 
 that he is the reincarnation of the legendary hero who once saved Hyrule from darkness and now 
 its up to him to do the same. The Zelda experience we are all familiar with is still here. You'll 
 explore the vast regions of Hyrule solving puzzles, engage in mortal combat, and explore temples 
 with the selection of tools you know and love: your sword, shield, boomerang, bombs, clawshot, 
 etc. Nintendo has managed to find new ways to use your tools, such as combining your arrows with 
 bombs or climbing up walls of magnetic rock with your iron boots (awesome) . Uses of the Wii remote 
 are well integrated. You attack with your sword by shaking the remote, you shove your shield forwards 
 with your nunchuk, and you use the pointer to aim your boomerang and arrows. As I mentioned earlier, 
 this is a much more mature Zelda game. Link's new moves are a big proof of that, such as a really 
 satisfying kill move. Also, there's your occational blood, but you'll barely see it. Still, Zelda 
 is a franchise that hasn't relied on gore to be amazing. Graphically, the game looks like a good 
 Gamecube game. Here and there, there are some areas where improvement could have been done. There 
 are moments that feel like they were inspired by something out of Lord of the Rings, making the 
 epic scope that we've come to expect from the series a whole different level. This is one of the 
 longest Zelda games ever, with up to 40 hours of gameplay. There's tons of side quests and a great 
 variety among them. With so much to do, it's garanteed you won't get bored. To top it all of, Twilight 
 Princess features some if the finest boss battles the franchise has ever seen. With a lot of unispired 
 titles coming out of Japan these days, it's nice to see a game that really delivers. About the 
 only complain I have is that the core gameplay is nothing new. Its Zelda just the way it is. This 
 isn't a bad thing for fans but others might expect more. But this is easy to forgive after Nintendo 
 has expanded the franchise on almost all levels. This is clearly the best Zelda game yet and will 
 clearly be an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Licaaa_manson
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twillight Princess is juts the best of every game of all wii, in fact he only loses for 
 Ocarina of the time on all the Zelda history (which was the most cool game ever made on the Nintendo 
 consoles)
  
  Awesome graphics, awesome sword moves that's the most rocking thing that you will notice, wich 
 you really fell welding a sword, killing enemies that are, not that hard, but if you get lazy you 
 really get owned, and owned really good!
  Bad thing is, the melodies (wich is the most cool in the ocarina) are few, and you only can play 
 these with wolf which it's bad.
  But the game still good anyway, and if one game worth the price of wii, Zelda is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2929
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that is good story line. But the boss that you fight are the same difficulty to 
 the game. The game has move meant to the controls. This is the game that all Zelda fans should 
 have. Cool thing to do many thing get. Get to do a lot of stuff after the end of the game the poe's 
 the heart container you probable want to get broad that fast. You got to play this game it fun 
 to play get to do more thing then the other Zelda. many place to visit biger land to cover other 
 mini game to up grade on the stuff you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odgiek18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  If your a lover of Zelda games (which all gamers should be) and you haven't picked Twilight Princess 
 up, drop whatever your doing and drive safely to your nearest game dealer. TP is a beautiful edition 
 to the Zelda saga, and is as close as you can get to Ocarina of Time.
  
  Gameplay-
  The Legend of Zelda series are all reknown for many things: Chanllenging Dungeons, Complex Puzzles, 
 Boss Fights, and Overworld Questing, and this installment nicely delivers these elements. You'll 
 begin the game as just a young village boy that's life unravels into an epic adventure before your 
 eyes. Your time is spent searching for items, finishing dungeons, and playing the various mini-games 
 that provide the Land of Hyrule with it's own breath of life. The dungeons, of which there are 
 plenty, are long and fun to play through, introducing new ideas never before seen in a Zelda game. 
 The bosses are fun, but easily defeated, and the overworld is the largest yet, spanning 5 huge 
 areas, including a Desert, Snow covered mountain, Huge lake, Fiery Volcano, and more. Speeding 
 through the quest will take you around 30+ hours and if your a perfectionist, you should have over 
 60 Hours of Gameplay (At Least) to toy around in. Link's Wolf mode offers a nice change of pace, 
 allthough collecting Twilit Parasites can get tedius. Twilight Princess throws curves at you every 
 step of the way, and there's always something new to see or do. Presentation-
  Totally discarding what people say about the Wii's graphical capabilities, Twilight Princess is 
 beautiful. The world is lush and full, all the characters are greatly detailed, down to Link's 
 rusty dirt-worn shield. the sun rises each game-day in a rainbow of color and beauty that rivals 
 Windwakers. The music is nostalgice, yet oddly fresh. You'll hear the re-hashed version of many 
 Legend of Zelda staples, as well as some new sites and sounds, including such classics as Ooccoo's 
 Tune. Overall, Twilight Princess pushes the Wii to it's max and is gorgeous to play through and 
 be a part of...
  
  Value-
  $49.99 seems like a steep price to pay for most games nowadays, epecially when your just given 
 a singleplayer mode that doesn't change. But with Twilight Princess your getting more than enough 
 for your money. The beautiful graphics and sound, coped with almost unbeatable logic gameplay creates 
 an experience that no hardcore gamer should pass it up. it clocks out at just the right time, not 
 falling short, but not drawing the game out, but it sometimes feels a little too easy (But don't 
 worry City in the Sky makes up for that!) All in all, TP is worth every penny that I payed for 
 it, and I'm still playing it almost a year later, trying to beat it another time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GanonBuRAP
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  All right, Twilight Princess has been out for a while now. Over a year, but now that the Wii craze 
 has died down, normal folk can walk into a store and get a Wii and Zelda TP to boot. I played this 
 game like 1 month after launch, but memory is pretty good, so I can tell you what this game is 
 all about.
  
  I'm forced by the rating system to give this game a 9/10. I'd really want to give it more credit, 
 like a 9.3/10, and here's why.
  
  [Graphics; 9/10]
  The two main components of TP's [Twilight Princess] visual appeal lay in graphics, and art design. 
 The graphics are smooth, fluid, consistent, and very satisfying. The shield on Link's back glows 
 in the moon light, Epona's mane flows as you race toward Hyrule Castle, and the game even incorporates 
 some cell shading into the graphical design. [Cell shading is the type of graphics used in games 
 like The Wind Waker] . I would give graphical appeal and 8/10, but I gave overall graphics a 9/10 
 because of the art design. Each map you enter is absolutely gorgeous. It's very easy to tell a 
 lot of effort was put into just the layout of each map. Landscapes and villages/towns are very 
 fantasy-like, while staying true to the Zelda theme.
  
  [Sound; 8.2/10]
  Don't get me wrong, the sound is good, that's why I gave it 8.2, the music is actually computer-produced 
 this time around. A short zelda tune that's looped over every 2-3 minutes. You don't notice it 
 [you do when you're on your like third time through xD] but it's something to take note of. Most 
 Zeldas are usually orchestrated, giving it a more powerful feel, and accordingly giving the situation 
 you're in a more powerful feel. It still has the same effect in TP, because the music itself is 
 so epic, but I have to dock points for not being orchestrated; just seems like a lack of effort.
 
  
  [Story; 7.8/10]
  Very simple, one major twist; but an obvious one you could probably see coming. NOTE: If you're 
 worried you can't play Zelda Twilight Princess because you've never played a Zelda before, have 
 no fear, this game has nothing to do with the other Zelda games, it is merely complimented by the 
 others. It would be BETTER if you played some other Zelda, for a more intimate feel of the characters, 
 because this game does a pretty bad job of flushing out character, but you definitely don't need 
 to have played previous Zeldas to enjoy this bad boy.
  
  [Gameplay; 9/10]
  Amazing. The Wii Remote + Nunchuck combo is very addicting, especially in bow-firing. It feels 
 so right, and I can't even imagine trying to play this game on a gamecube controller. The ONE gripe 
 I have with the gameplay is that controls are limited due to the fact the wiimote+nunchuck combo 
 has only one analog stick. It's used for moving Link, and a SECOND one would be to freely move 
 camera around, making a world of difference, however, the wii has no such analog stick. Therefore, 
 you're stuck with the angle you're given, which is usually a good one anyway. Other than that, 
 VERY fun, VERY addictive control scheme and gameplay.
  
  The game runs on the same Zelda formula; you have a open-explorable map of Hyrule with lots of 
 secrets to uncover, and then you have your towns/villages, and then you have the dungeons. Dungeons 
 this time around are a lot easier than previous Zeldas. They look and feel great, and they're designed 
 very nicely, but again, are fairly straight forward. Each dungeon is a big puzzle comprised of 
 smaller puzzles that lead to a VERY satisfying boss fight. That's probably the high point of this 
 game for me; the bosses. You'll fight dragons and giant squids, and enormous plants, and undead 
 monsters, all with a very creative and unique ways of taking them down using a new item that you 
 will have discovered in the dungeon.
  
  You will uncover more of the world map as you progress, unlocking some cool minigames like snowboarding 
 down icy mountain tops, collecting orbs in a steel cage using your hand-dandy hookshot, and you 
 even get a couple chances in the game to sumo-wrestle. Each mini game (quite a few in all) will 
 give you upgrades and various other goodies that will help you throughout the game. They're almost 
 all optional, but very fun to do. How long is the game..? It varies. If you blast through the story, 
 dungeon to dungeon, you can finish it in maybe 25-35 hours if you're really good. I don't like 
 doing that.. I like exploring, finding secrets, killing monsters, talking to NPCs, going fishing, 
 going swimming, catching bugs, snowboarding, riding epona, and all that fun stuff. When I defeated 
 the final boss, I clocked in at 71 hours total.
  
  Overall:: 9.3/10. Bottom Line; You have a wii? Great, get this game. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypershadow73
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  ok so im going to jump right into it. twilight princess on the wii i s the same as the gamecube 
 in terms of story wise nothing is differnt or changed, the only difference is that all the towns 
 and dungeons are mirrored (for all you ignoranus out there that means reversed) But what really 
 makes on better than the other is the controls the wii has you swing the wiimote to slash and to 
 do your spin attack you shake the nunchuck. i mentioned that the controls for the wolf are hard 
 to learn in the GC version and its way harder on the wii. But the wii has som good points as well 
 the way you use the sling shot and bow and arrows is very cool and uses the wii's motion sensor 
 very well i also liked the fishing expeirence what you cant get on the Gamecube. but alas i have 
 to answer the question... which game was better and with all consideration i say that the gamecube 
 version is the better of the two because it recreates the classic feeling we got on ocarina of 
 time... a feeling you could only get by playing with a controller and that conlcudes my 2 part review 
 of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
  
  -------------Preview ---------
  look out for coming soo will be my firsy video reviewand it will be on Tenchu return of darkness 
 until then this is hypershadow73 signing out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoPatient7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay Ill be honest and tell you that this was my first time playing a Zelda game. I know, I know 
 what was I thinking? Honestly though nothing ever caught my eye to play them. I got this game with 
 my Wii bundle and finally sat down to play it the other day. I COULDNT QUIT. This game is seriously 
 amazing. It has a gripping story and uses the Wii remote excellently. I absolutely loved the fact 
 that you turned into a wolf and could see the world in a different way. This game is just awesome. 
 I cant really say much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_0f_Hyrule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda twilight Princess is a great game.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Game play is great. New weapons, new moves, and dont forget the wolf. This game 
 consists of awsome new swords move that you acquire by talking to the golden wolf. For me, playing 
 as the wolf was an awsome experience. Also, like always the dungeons give the game a taste of the 
 old zelda games. This game has less puzzles than the other ones, but it gives you more fighting 
 then the othergames. Plus, you get alot of more weapons. Graphis 10/10 : The graphics are astonishing. 
 They put more detail to links clothes and the monsters, making it look awsome! Sound 9/10: The 
 sounds are good but its missing an instrument; like an ocarina or a windwaker. I wish the ocarina 
 came back. The only instrument you pretty much get is you wolfs howl. overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintsey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: twilight princess for wii is one of the most interesting experiences that 
 i've ever had playing Wii.
  You can shake the remote control and the nunchak very much and link will make your moves on the 
 TV! This is amazing!
  This game have the best game end got beautiful graphics and game-play. The musics are classics 
 on the best Zelda style.
  The critics and gamers score 8.5 to 10 and it's great but we have more bad games in our houses 
 that the score is 3.5, 4.0 and 5.5.
  If you realy like games very much you HAVE to play this game on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is late. The game has been out for several months -almost a year-, now. But I really wanted 
 to take my time to reviewe it because is so deep that it required several runs from my part to 
 better appreciate it.
  
  Ok, let's start. For beginers, The Legend of Zelda is a never ending story of the awakeining of 
 the chosen one, the one who should fulfill the hero rol, rescue the kingdom, the world and the 
 princess. There are some spin-offs to the franchise but the there are also some returning characters 
 which add to the fan culture around the games.
  
  For this Twilight Princess you become a young farmer who is entitled to deliver a royal present 
 at Hyrule Castle, but suddenly your friends are kidnapped by a horde of savages and you're left 
 for dead. You try to rescue them only to find out that twilight is consuming your world, you get 
 transformed in a wolf and, immediatly after, captured by some very strange creatures.
  
  From this point on you'll uncover a very deep story revolving around a completly revamped Hyrule 
 land, which boasts beautiful environments, tons of foes and thousand tasks and side quests to complete.
 
  
  Graphics are top notch and include a lot of particle effects, bloom lighting and several nice realistic 
 details, as Link's clothes getting wet when swimming. In general the graphic style adds a lot to 
 the mystic sense of a legendary land, but you also will find some minor clipping issues and washed 
 out textures from time to time. Neverthless, none of this is a real deception as this was originally 
 conceveid as a Gamecube game, and it really stands it place among the best looking games.
  
  Although there are no voice acting and the music is all sinthetized, Legend of Zelda appears 
 to be able to survive and, actually, it kind of require no actual voices to tell the story. In 
 any case, the music is charming and sound effects are goods.
  
  The big novelty for the game are the controls, as the gameplay by itself is similar to other Zelda 
 games. For the gameplay you need to follow simple clues to recover your friends, growing your powers 
 and abilitites as you progress, in order to overcome bigger challenges each time, and solve complexer 
 puzzles.
  
  Motion controls are used to swing your sword mainly and in some minigames. In general these does 
 not disrupts and adds some more fun to combat system, despite the fact that the motion are really 
 basic compared with later games in othere genres for the platform. IR is also used to pinpoint 
 with added accuracy when shooting some weapons, as well as to fly or operate menus. This is actually 
 a great use which also has been greatly adopted for other 3rd person games more vastly.
  
  For long time fans of the series this may be an easier game, perhaps in the level of Legend of 
 Zelda: the Windwaker , but that is not a bad thing and actually releases some more time to invest 
 in minigames and sidequests.
  
  For newcomers, is the best game to get along with the series and love all that the Hyrule Legend 
 has to offer. In any case, a difficult setting would had been a great plus.
  
  For any one, this is a game you should not miss, and, as a last recommendation, take your time 
 to play, to enjoy this beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmz13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  only 4 words describe this game
  BEST ADVENTURE GAME EVER!!!
  
  when I first played It, I though It was a regular game, so good as wind waker, but still worse 
 than ocarina
  although I couldn't stop playing, It was getting better, I just loved the wolf form and the missions 
 you do with it.
  Just when I finished the first temple I already new. BEST ZELDA GAME EVER!
  the WII control made 
 a good appearance, it was fun run with link while moving the WII remote to attack! awesome gameplay
 
  
  now im just waiting for Super Smash Bros. Brawl .... 10 February here we go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentom06
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is the first Zelda game I have played and it is definitely in my top 10 games of all time. 
 It's gamplay is very easy to pick up and is relitively easy to complete, which is not to say it 
 has a short storyline. It should take most people about 35-40 hours which is very long for an action-adventure 
 game.
  
  Quite early on in the game you first transform in to the wolf link and meet Midna, an impish creature 
 that rides around on your back in wolf form and gives you advice on how to defeat bosses etc. However 
 if you don't like being the wolf link then it could be a problem because you are switching between 
 forms for most of the game until you eventually learn to control it about 3/4 of the way through.
 
  
  Like the other Zelda games there is a new weapon to get about halfway through each of the 8 dungeons 
 except the final one, which are needed to defeat the boss of the dungeons. This Zelda game has 
 one of the things Zelda fans have been wanting for ages: A sword duel on the final boss.
  
  Throughout the game there are many small sidequests to complete including a bonus dungeon after 
 beating the game which is a survival trial comprising of 50 levels with many enemies on each. Not 
 too hard if you bring plenty of healing potions!
  
  There are a few different weapons and armour throughout the game although many of these are seldom 
 used, such as the hawkeye; a zoom in tool for the bow which sounds very useful but you will in 
 fact hardly ever use at all.
  
  Overall, I think it is a thouroghly addictive game, right through to the end, although it could 
 be said that it lacks, replayable qualities. My overall score is 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is a series that has had many changes within it. The largest change is undoubtedly 
 the transition into the 3D gaming world, which they did with Ocarina of Time, which is the prime 
 candidate for best game ever. With Twilight Princess, they go back to this state of mind with the 
 design, but there are a few new elements that really set this game apart from the rest in the series, 
 making it a very fun adventure.
  
  In Zelda, you play as Link. That they didn't change since there's no reason to change it. You start 
 in a peaceful village in the forest, going about your life as it were, which includes being pestered 
 by the common children for sword-training. Eventually, a local girl who is also a close friend 
 gets taken away by baddies, and you have to rescue her. This sets the game into a cycle of events 
 that eventually take you to the ultimate transformation: from elf-like youth to a black wolf. You 
 then are charged with the duty of clearing the darkness from the land, one area at a time, and 
 restoring balance to a world fraught with darkness.
  
  For Zelda veterans, the pattern should seem familiar. Go to a dungeon, get the key, fight the boss, 
 get the item, repeat. The hook of the Zelda games is the magnificently crafted puzzles you will 
 encounter, and they're as good as they've ever been. To add to the fun, the wolf form allows for 
 much more puzzle variety in the game, making a fresh experience for those that beat OoT. The story 
 is engaging and fun as it should be.
  
  Now, for the controls, which have been the hot ticket for this installment of Zelda. People are 
 eager to wield their Wii remotes as a weapon against the forces of evil. Sadly, this isn't so. 
 Ancient warriors didn't pivot their wrist on its joint to attack, and doing anything else makes 
 you seem downright foolish. The aiming controls are good, but the sword controls were left lacking.
 
  
  Despite an underwhelming control scheme, the game is a solid Zelda game, making it a great game 
 altogether. I got a good forty hours of the game my first time through, so it's worth a buy, and 
 stands out as one of the best adventures that not only the Wii, but the nex gen systems as a whole, 
 currently has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshirox
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  When i got TP I thought i wasnt going to like it too much because of the wooden sword. Oh boy was 
 i wrong i loved this game. One time i played for 2 days in a row and beat like 5 dungeons. My favorite 
 dungeon was the Temple of Time because of the Diminion Rod. The Diminion Rod's abillity to control 
 statues was awesome and who could forget the boss. The spider boss was awesome. First you had too 
 shoot him with the Hero's Bow and then when he was a group of little spiders or eyeballs (I forgot) 
 you had to use the Diminion Rod to make the statues pound on him. The last boss was also fun. First 
 you had to face Zelda being possessed by Gannondorf. Then Beast Gannon and you had to beat him 
 in Wolf Form !!!!
  Then you had to ride on horseback to beat him. That was my favorite part of the battle. When i 
 thought i was gonna die ( 3 hearts left) i accendently used the fishing rod :P. And whadayakno it 
 worked XD. So i beat the last boss with 3 heats. But my favorite boss was the dragon one in the 
 Castle of The Skies. You had to use your double clawshot like crazy. It was so much fun. My final 
 favorite item was the Ball and Chain. By what I've said if you don't have this game, GET IT!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess was a blast of an adventure to play on the Gamecube so now 
 I will try out the Wii version for the first time and I have to say that some of the features into 
 are pretty great.
  
  I will only point out the difference between the Wii and Gamecube version, for details about the 
 game check out my Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess Gamecube version review.
  
  Controls:
  The obvious differences here are the controls. You will need both Wii mote and nunchuk 
 to play the game. The nunchuk is used to control Links movements and directions, jiggling the 
 nunchuk will allow you to use a spin attack, but it can only be used frequently since Link will 
 have to give time for his sword to charge, while on the Gamecube you can use it as much as you 
 want by spinning the joy stick and B button. You can use the nunchuk to view in first person, however 
 there is no free camera control on the Wii, opposite to the Gamecube. You can also lock on to enemies 
 using the nunchuk. The Wii-remote is basically what makes the game exciting, you swing the remote 
 to draw and swing your sword while using the nunchuk for directions. Items can be placed on 3 slots 
 and can be used by placing then on the B button, while A still serves as an action button.
  Projectile weapons can be manually aimed by simply activating them and pointing on the screen, 
 Link will be on a cooler looking shoulder view and shoots where ever you aim.
  
  Game design:
  Twilight Princess on the Wii is a mirrored version of the Gamecube, so everything 
 that was on the left is now on the right (Explaining why Link is right handed on the Wii) . However 
 Graphically the game isnt different from the Gamecube.
  
  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess for the Wii is a great title by all means, the Wii controls 
 are responsive, very interactive and very simple to use, and if you need to adjust the sensors 
 for your comfort you can always adjust the remotes sensitivity.
  However the Wii version isnt really THAT much superior to the Gamecube, apart from the remotes 
 the games are practically the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncledean54
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Excitement awaited when i received this game. Would they hype that had lead up to it pay off? I 
 turned my GCN on and it started. From the opening scenes this game was an instant classic.
  
  It may have lost the cartoon style that zelda is famous for, but the grown up version of link 
 is possibly better then the groundbreaking LOZ: OoT. Everything seemed more realistic, instead of 
 fairies living in the woods, we now had a village of people and goat herding. This helped for TP 
 to seem as a more adult version of zelda. The gameplay itself was a more updated form of what is 
 a tried and tested formula.
  
  Tp seemed at times to revamp many of the ideas that were brought forward in OoT and quite honestly 
 made them better for it.
  
  This game is immediately playable you dont need to waste a few hours getting into the game, from 
 the get go you are link and it draws you in. It may not be the best ever game for everyone, but 
 for long time zelda fans, it is, filling a void that wont need to be satiated for a while to come.
 
  
  For me it is one of the best i have ever played, ihope i can forget how to do all the temples so 
 i can play it over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumbum2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess for the Wii is easily the best wii game out there. Its got an amazing story, 
 flawless gameplay, wonderful design and a great graphics. I wont go to much into the story but 
 i will say that it stays true to your tipical zelda game and delivers so much more. The story is 
 definatly darker but the lack of tingle was definatly something i appreciated. Gameplay was mind 
 blowing. The controls made the game for me. Being able to swing with the remote felt wonderful 
 and it definatly raised the bar high for its competition and should developer what and adventure 
 game on the wii is supposed to look like. The design was killer. Levels were great and temple design 
 was creative and, in the case of the water temple, challanging. Your never stuck in one place for 
 a long time and new wepons come in to play fairly often. The amount of game here is astounding. 
 I played through and did all sidequests and extras and got around 52 hours with two trips to the 
 cave of ordeals. Its MASSIVE. Hyrule field is huge, as without using midna or the hours, traveling 
 is a definate hassal. Backtracking is done with ease and finding things you might have missed is 
 a lot easier than some games. My only problems with the level design are the ease of bosses and 
 the many non-combat related injuries. There are many time where you'll die, not from battle but 
 from not jumping far enough. I do have to say the wolf is awsome. Level design increases so much 
 once u can be both link and the wolf, as it add an entirely new way of playing. The graphics were 
 amazing...... for a gamecube. There was a slight if not no difference between the gamecube game 
 and the wii port, which is unacceptable with a next gen. system. While Twilight Princess may not 
 have graphics, it sure has gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  IT's a gamecube game. Graphics is old gen but I guess that's what you can expect from the Wii. 
 Nothing spectacular but it works well and the artist direction is good.
  
  Sound
  Same old Zelda tunes, rearranged and orchestrated. Gets on your nerves in certain spots, especially 
 in long levels where the music tends to loop. Sound effects do their job, sounds coming out of 
 the Wiimote have very low bitrate. No speech, that is a shame given that now the game is on DVD
 
  
  Playability
  If you like Zelda, you'll like this. There are portions of the game I loved, the 3-4 dungeons in 
 the middle of the game are really well structured and every one has a gameplay theme so they don't 
 repeat each other. The beginning is very slow and I totally hated the wolf-only parts - easy but 
 slow and boring. The in-between dungon sections are hit or miss - some are fun, some are totally 
 useless and a waste of time
  
  Longevity
  You'll def get the bang for your bucks, the game is looong (took me 50 hours to finish it) and 
 has enough variety to have you play it until the end
  Value for money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! If it were legally possible, I would marry it!
  
  I have played it a bunch for the past month and I am at the part where you have to go in the lakebed 
 temple. ( I have the strategy guide! that helps a lot!)
  
  It is like you are Link (of course) , You ride Epona, and you have to restore each province to light 
 (not twilight)
  
  you meet up with this twilight dweller named Midna. She is practically using you, but then she 
 decides to really help. You have to find all the fused shadows too.
  
  In other words: IT ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelcoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Award to: Outstanding Graphics (Identical to Gamecube)
  Award to: Well done Motion Sensitive Controls Award to: Great Storyline (It's 100% Award to: Outstanding 
 amount of Gameplay Award to: Great Value: Worth the Money you payed it for
  Award to: Great Amount of Extras --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad: Sound isn't that Great, Graphics are Excellent, but if Gamecube can handle them then 
 Wii Should have better Graphics!
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Twilight 
 Princess for the Wii is nonetheless a Great Game! Soon as I started playing for the first time, 
 it seemed that i couldn't put it down for about 9 more hours! And I ended up playing for that long! 
 The Motion sensitive controls were Awesome! Sword Combat was Excellent, Jabbing with the Sheild 
 was cool too.
  Using the Wii as a Pointer on the screen to aim and arrow was so cool too. Fishing on the Boat 
 was better than fishing at any free spot, because you actually have to rotate the Nunchuck back 
 and forth to reel the fish in, and I thought that was really cool! A lot of the Hidden skills you 
 learn throughout the game were so cool to use! But as I mentioned, the Graphics are the Exact same 
 to the Gamecube one! And that stands for every wii Game, its like Nintendo didn't want to sucseed 
 from graphics they just cared for gameplay and controls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8nasty
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was the epiphany of the action-adventure genre. Almost all 
 games of this type have something in common with it because it did everything right: the story 
 was immersive, the combat was intense but easy to pick up, and the visuals were great! Twilight 
 Princess just redefined the concepts that made Ocarina of Time so amazing and put them into a Wii 
 format. The only flaw with this game was that it was released for the Wii too quickly. Like Jeff 
 said in the video review, the wii remote was just a fancy button. There was no finesse involved. 
 You could just swing the remote aimlessly and hope you hit something. On a final note, The Legeond 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess is just another addition to one of the most groundbreaking game series 
 of all time, but that in itself is a good thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulaman2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics for the wii. It is exciting to fight the bosses threw out each level 
 some hard some easy the game is mostly based on smarts if and common sense if u dont have either 
 then well dont buy it after beating the game there is mini missions they help get extra lives or 
 help u get a bigger wallet but in conclusion if u buy this game u will be blown away with all of 
 the exciting things like the adventure when u take there isn't anything u can say about this game 
 it is great and i cant wait till the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess started the Wii off with a bang and is the next big 3-D Zelda adventure. If you 
 own a Wii, you MUST buy this game. It has amazing graphics previously never before seen on a Nintendo 
 system, a great story, awesome new items, epic dungeons and boss battles, and everything else we've 
 come to expect out of a Zelda game. Hyrule is huge and there's so much to do outside of the adventure 
 that if you try to do it all, it'll take you several hours upon hours to do. Twilight Princess 
 is an amazing game, and considering it was pretty much the first Wii game, it's all the more impressive. 
 The only thing that put it down was that the Gamecube version had pretty much the same graphics, 
 and that's not anything to make this masterpiece any less worthwhile. It is strange that the Hyrule 
 in this version is a mirror image of the GameCube version's Hyrule because of Link's right-handedness 
 rather than left-handedness. Why did they bother doing that? The world may never know. But you 
 must play this game, whether it be on GameCube or Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tahakki
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I recieved this game for Christmas, along with a Wii. I played this game for three hours that day, 
 and only stopped because we were going to our Grandparent's house for Christmas celebrations.
 
  Why? Well, it's just the way the game introduces itself. You create a slot, and instantly there 
 is a cinematic involving Link and another of the characters. I won't spoil the story in this review. 
 The graphics are great. Better than any Gamecube game. But you expected that, this being the next 
 generation. Personally, I believe the graphics could have been better, but they're good enough 
 to stand against most other Wii games.
  The storyline is probably the main Pro to this game. It's epic and incredibly well written. I won't 
 spoil any of it, but it really is good. Trust me.
  The controls. Ah. Now that we come to it, you can tell this game was made for the 'Cube. The controls 
 aren't bad, but neither are they amazingly good. To swing your sword, you swing the Wiimote. Sounds 
 good, and does feel it for a while, but you'll get bored occasionally. This is because the controls 
 make the sword only swing one way, you don't have full control over what it does.
  Overall, I encourage you to buy this game. It really has fantastic gameplay, as do all Zelda titles, 
 and the 40-hour plus time it will take will consume your time like a dog with a biscuit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is, without a doubt, one of the best Zelda games to date. 
 This game mixes the "Ocarina Day's" with some of the new in a incredible revolutionary way. If 
 you are a Zelda fan or a Action/Adventure, owning a Wii or GCN, then this is absolutely the game 
 for you.
  
  Controls: The controls in this game are very revolutionary and amusing, but the olny problem is 
 that it it doesn't respond as exactly as you want to but you eventually get used to this problem 
 end move on. The spin attack with the nunchuke can be done, then you have to wait about 5 sec. 
 to do it again. Apart from these two flaws the control scheme is excellent.
  
  Storyline: The game's story line is incredibly great. This is the best storyline since ocarina 
 and it matches ocarina in how good it is.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing for a GCN port on the Wii
  
  Sound: The sound on screen 
 is very good but the sound on the WiiMote can be a bit static at times. That doesn't stop it from 
 being a great game.
  
  All in all this is a very very very very great game so go ahead and buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jkranzler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty cool for Wii, i mean the slashing with the remote is really cool. The story is pretty 
 nice and there can be some tricky puzzles. All and all its worth the money. Its basically the same 
 as the N64 Zelda games, it just introduces the new bad guys, the Twilight. When in the Twilight 
 Zone, you take the form as a wolf and a little spirit girl rides on your back and also serves as 
 your help. just like the spirit Navi in the first Zelda games, and thats pretty cool. The graphics 
 are good (i have HD TV though) and its worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess surely derserves more than an 8.8 as it is fantastic. The game is tricky, 
 fun, and (insert word similar to 'amazing' here) !!
  
  Graphics and visuals are marvelous, even for Nintendo. They really will make you cry. Seriously.
 
  
  You start as young Link (shocking) , the slave of the town (not really) . First you have to do your 
 duties, then of course, some bad dudes come and take out you, your girlfriend, and your horse. 
 Then you turn into a dog...
  
  Anyways, the game is truly magnificent. If you don't have it, buy it. Seriously. Amazing visuals, 
 awesome sound and music, and the gameplay is...
  
  Ready?
  
  Are You Sure?
  
  I Don't Think You Are...
  
  But OK.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  THE BEST!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Blade29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game was truly a masterpiece. I instantly fell in love with Zelda when I first got Ocarina 
 of Time and the next few titles released in the zelda series did not please me as much as the Ocarina 
 of Time. Until I bought a wii and purchased The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. The game consits 
 of the young hero Link saving Hyrule once again however he has no idea he has done it before. The 
 game hosts new faces and familiar Friends and Foes that make a surprising return. My first opinion 
 of the game was that it was a bit repetitive of Ocarina of Time because of the armour and similar 
 temples however my opinions changed as I progressed through the game. The armour is fantastically 
 detailed in this game and the Zora armour makes good use that it is from a water palace unlike 
 Ocarine of time where the game makers just changed the colour of Link's Tunic. However the game 
 did limit Link to possessing only two swords however these swords were well detailed and each had 
 a small story behind them. And I thanked the gods when they didn't get rid of the Master Sword. 
 The Master Sword for those who don't know is the sword Link used in the ocarina of time to slay 
 the Dark Lord Gannondorf and save hyrule and it makes a return in this game. Will Link use it to 
 complete the same mission?? Also the master sword has a brilliant feature where it glows the colour 
 of twilight once you possess the power of twilight. This to me emphisised the shear power of the 
 blade unlike Ocarina of Time. Finally Twilight Princess offers challenging temple puzzles, enemies 
 and they always end with a fantastic boss fight at the end of each temple. Like the first game 
 you must use the items you found in the temple to defeat the bosses which I believe is a good feature 
 to have in the game because it isn't just contiually attack the boss. I won't ruin the surprise 
 for the wii players who haven't played Zelda yet but the final boss consists of a fantastic sword 
 duel and the boss himself is fairly difficult unless you can master the wiimote and the nunchuck. 
 This game is not for the unskilled Written by - Silent_Blade29
  Date - 04/10/2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyuiop9876
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of the game you see the quests unfold and the many weapons you can get. You 
 get turned into a wolf and are helped by some imp demon who you don't know much about and she takes 
 you to princess Zelda. So much going on and its so hooking you don't wan't to stop. I can't get 
 over the wii remote aiming and picking off those green dudes. And every level theres a new weapon 
 that adds depth and more puzzles to the game. Sadly a lot of those weapons are abandoned after 
 the level is done. The bosses are a bit easy once you figure them out and the dungeons can get 
 tedious. But there's just so much to do that you could get lost in the game. The sword controls 
 and moves are amazing and the skeleton trainer is great. Added with humorous characters and mini-games 
 this game is practically perfect. A huge downside is that the characters don't talk, but it does 
 add some humor. So does changing your name to stud muffin or I'm an idiot. Horse ridding has been 
 given a huge boost and there just isn't much more that you could think to add to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  After playing one of the best Zelda games ever for 45 hours, I have completed just the main storyline. 
 That is just how huge this monster of a game is. You play as Link, an Ordonian farm boy who is 
 on a quest to Hyrule to see Princess Zelda that is until a group of creatures attack, kidnap a 
 group of children, and then knock Link unconscious. Soon after you are thrown into a world of magic 
 and adventure as you try to save Hyrule from the impending Twilight, its King Zant, and ultimately, 
 Ganondorf. The story feels so comfortable, so epic and cinematic that you feel like you are watching 
 a Lord of the Rings movie. There are plot twists and turns, hidden plots and deep dark secrets 
 that make this game one of a kind. Since this game is on the Wii, there are motion-sensing controls. 
 You can swing the Wiimote to swing your sword, shake the nunchuk to do a spin attack, and you can 
 aim your arrow/ slingshot pellet with the Wiimote. As mentioned earlier, the game is extremely, 
 yet rewardingly long at about 40 hours if you know what youre doing, 45 for me. Youll go across 
 around 15 temples/dungeons, each with their own style, but with the same objective-Get the Big 
 Key, take down the big boss. Youll find yourself doing a variety of things from riding horseback 
 through Hyrule field, saving an old lady from strange creatures, snowboarding down a hillside, 
 and more, all incredibly fun! All 45 hours of this game are a blast. The game all comes down to 
 the final boss fight with Ganondorf, which is definitely one of the coolest and most memorable 
 boss fights Ive ever experienced! Even after you beat the main storyline there are several other 
 hidden tasks and extras to explore. The only minor problem I had with these games is sometimes 
 the temples are just a little too confusing and you feel lost sometimes. Overall, this is a must 
 have game for any Wii or Gamecube owner, and I strongly recommend it to anyone who wants an adventure 
 of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with gamepost. They said something like: Wii specific elements feel tacked on. What? 
 Have they played the game? This game is PERFECT. First, the graphics, the first thing you look 
 at, are superb. The level of detail is almost (repeat: almost) entirely 3D. The first thing to come 
 out of my mouth when i switched it on was Wow. I spent five minutes staring at it. It felt real. 
 That sounds so cheesy, but it's true. Anyway, out of my weird fantasy world, the instant I set 
 about wandering, i realised what I'd be missing if i hadn't bought it. The effects both in game 
 and in FMVs are brilliant-water actually moves in pools instead of blocky movements like other 
 games. The wind picks up and the grass moves. Trees shake their leaves at you and the gas in the 
 forest swirls around realistically. There are no, repeat NO control issues. The controller fits 
 perfectly and works better than the gc pad. The camera does not go haywire, there is no annoying 
 aiming thingy (see resi 4) hanging around. The wolf sections are my favourite parts of the game. 
 The wolf link is much more intimidating than boring old link with his sword and fairy cap and pointy 
 ears. That said, the story, the side quests, midna, and the wolf are so perfectly made, with a 
 real sense of humour (gathering guards in the castle as wolf link then scaring them all away is 
 hilarious) and the feeling of perfection is within your grasp. Buy it. Like, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna keep it short and sweet. the plot was good. its a cool idea. the only problem is the wolf 
 thing. eople think oooooh, a wolf but then you play with it and they make you collect stupid water 
 drops or something and it takes forever, and just aint any fun. the controll for the wii sucks. 
 i mean, if your gonna do some actual sword fighting, that would be cool right? but its like, just 
 spasticly shaking the controller while link does all the work. my last bad comment: not enough 
 action. they could have had some cool giant monsters or dark knights or giant dragons, but nooooo. 
 its mostly slaghtering pretty flowers or tiny goblins. some good stuff is that its got the best 
 graphics on the wii, link is as cool as ever, and its got some chalenging puzzles (though some are 
 a little too challenging) overall im not complaining i just wanna knock some sence into thoses 
 people who were hypnotized by the hype and feel that they need to love it. the truthful voice inside 
 your head -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  well this was actually my third game for the wii, my first one after buying the wii. before i played 
 it i thought i wouldnt like it, but i was wrong, this game is a really good game.
  
  this is yet another zelda game, it starts at link village, and as always everything is fine until 
 something happens and then you gotta rescue, people, kill stuff, collect pieces of something broken 
 etc. Yeah its the same thing but, even by being the same thing it sticks you to the tv for hours.
 
  
  here are tons of dungeons, in which there are two bosses and after killing the first one you get 
 a new item to fight the final boss of that dungeon. i think the most fun thing to do in this game 
 is the boss battles, i personally liked the one with the dragon flying skeletal head. also the 
 shapeshifting to a wolf is a nice addition to the fighting gameplay.
  
  this game isnt actually hard, and there are a lot of jars or stuff around you can break to regain 
 health back, the puzzles are nice too and also there's some stuff you can do around hyrule after 
 beating the game, such as fishing, bug-catching and beating some fair games to get a bigger wallet 
 or a bigger pouch.
  
  the only bad thing about this game is that since it is an adventure game, it doesnt have much replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is now on the Wii and it's better then ever. The Twilight Princess delivers 
 amazing game play and stunning graphics, making it my one of my favorite games of all time. In 
 the Legend of Zelda, your character (Link) must save his world from being taken over by the shadow 
 world. The story is good overall and is quite lengthy, taking about 30-40 hours to complete. Even 
 with such a long story, the game never gets tiring. From running around in dog form to crushing 
 bosses with Link, the game all ways makes you want to keep going. The games bosses are epic, and 
 some of the most remember able moments of any video game. The game also has top notch graphics 
 to make it even better. These are some the best graphics Nintendo has made. The game still has 
 more good features like the fact that the games difficulty is near perfect. The game challenges 
 you a ton, but you can all ways do it without killing your tv. Overall the Legend Of Zelda is one 
 of my favorite games that I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as the first game on my WII, and I'm really impressed the game is extreamly 
 fun and highly addictive. As the story unfolds the game eventually unlocks a lot of fun equipment 
 and items. You play as Link or whatever you want your name to be in the game and go on an action-adventure 
 game that you won't forget. The game features a lot of areas and makes you use of the WII remote. 
 There are some bad things to say though, once you find a item that is the only item you have to 
 use for the rest of the level. When you became a wolf after you have done what you needed to do 
 with being the wolf you have to collect tears of light whick can take you a while to collect and 
 you do it a lot through out the game. There is no voice acting and a lot of reading and characters 
 make up for this by making retarded sounds. Other than that the game is amazing with a lot to do 
 and a lot of adventure envoled. If you enjoyed any of the other Zelda games this could be the best 
 in the series. A must have for any WII owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is another great Zelda game and in my opinion the true successor to ocarina of time. The game 
 looks stunning and has an original look to it. The gameplay is fun and the wii controls work great, 
 athough it would be nicer if the sword corresponded to your movement of the wii remote rather than 
 making it a fancy button.
  
  The dungeons are on par with Zelda titles as are all the side quests and mini games. The only thing 
 wrong with the game is the sound.
  
  No voice acting? the last generation of consoles saw the end of text dialogue rather than sound, 
 this is a bit of a cop out. And whats with the midi synth music? its not the 80s any more. I think 
 this is the last time that Zelda games will be able to get away with this as it is starting to 
 make the games seem a little dated compared to the competition
  
  As for now this is another fantastic Zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is just about perfect in every way. It looks, sounds, and controls beautifully, and is 
 great for any type of gamer. The controls in this game are similar to the controls in the previous 
 games, but with the added touch of motion sensory. Unlike some of the not so good games that have 
 totally milked the crap out of the wii remote's motion sensor capabilities, making the controls 
 frustratingly difficult, this game blends it very well into the controls making the gameplay smooth 
 and comfortable. The game looks and feels a lot like wind waker, but without the weird looking 
 graphics. The wii remote's speaker adds a lot to the effect of the game. If you have a wii, you 
 must add this game to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Wow... still can't believe I finished it. What to do now? I'm bored allready...
  
  Twilight Princess catches you right from the start. Ok, the start is a bit slow but it does give 
 you a great impression of what the situation is you're in and at the beginning you've got no clue 
 where this adventure will end.
  
  All the fights, including mini bosses and boss fights are a bit too easy. The puzzles are ok. But 
 it's too bad that once you know the 'trick' all bosses can be beaten without loosing a single heart. 
 There are just a few bosses where god timing is of great importance.
  
  However, the whole story, cut scenes and use of all weapons is GREAT and every setting is unique. 
 Really too bad it's finished for me, spent a good time with it... now let's wait for the next Zelda... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnknight1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Zelda fans rejoiced at this game, and for a reason. Not just is it the best in the series, it is 
 possibly the best game ever. Ya I know some people say this game lacks innovation, but I say this: 
 You are a fanboy Nintendo hating idiot who doesn't know revolutionary controls if it smacked you 
 in the face.
  
  Anyways, this is one of those games us dedicated gamers [what most consider hardcore, but I say 
 it diffrently] will simply love for the ages. Having been a Zelda fan [and anti-fanboy] , I was 
 expected A LOT from this game. I had simply TOO HIGH of expectations. But all in all, my expectations 
 were crushed. I got sooo much more then I expected. Best control scheme I've ever played since 
 I first picked up my first controller to Super Mario Bros. 3, amazing story, good gameplay, and 
 simply fun, challenging, and intriging dungeons. This is one of those games that is a MUST BUY. 
 As I say You don't own a Wii until you get Twilight Princess . Simply put, this game is amazing. 
 But enough of me going on about how great it is, I'll spill it out.
  
  ***Warning: Potential Spoilers Ahead***
  
  Graphics: Not too impressive, if even impressive 
 at all, to say the least. But I don't care about graphics much, because all you got to do is look 
 outside for the best graphics, though good graphical detail is nice. Plus, well... Gameplay &gt; 
 Graphics. With that aside, Twilight Princess has above average graphics for it's release time. 
 Nothing impressive with the graphics, other then great lighting effects, neat enemies, Ganondorf 
 is done exellently [best character graphically in the game] , neat cel-shaded particles [I think 
 they're cel-shaded] , and neat bosses.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  A simply step out of the box, that is both intresting, and somewhat neat. Still, it could have, 
 and should have been better. Plus Ganondorf looked way better then everything else in the game.
 
  
  Story:
  
  The story has some really good moments. From the first meeting with King Bokoblin, to the last 
 fight with Ganondorf, the story is pretty immense. Sure, it uses text, has no voice [other then 
 yelling and gibberish] , but it's intresting. The text gives it a sort of... story book feel, that 
 is neat, and somehow original in my view. Anyways, there are some awsome cinemas that rival the 
 best of Hollywood, and the story is pretty deep. There is tampering with Corruption, Evil, Good, 
 and the Twilight, and many things that make it a step out of the usual Zelda, much like Majora's 
 Mask. It is overall a big leap, and was a huge risk, that turned out good. Anyways, there are several 
 cool cutscenes, the story is perfectly smooth, and makes sense, and the overall feel of the story 
 is intresting. It is good in games when you can feel characters emotions, and this is best seen 
 through Midna, Link's partner, and greatest help, hurt, and is a complicated matter. You never 
 know which side she's on until a certain point. Is she a trustworthy ally? Is she using Link? Is 
 she with Zant? Is she out to take Zant's power for herself? Overall she asks suspisious, and the 
 end of it was neat. She's argueably more important to the story then Link. Honestly.
  
  Anyways, it has many good moments, though Nintendo should have made the reactions a bit better 
 in some spots. Link should have shown some emotions here and there at least every once in a while, 
 as oppose to just simply nodding, shaking his head, or giving a blank stare.
  
  9.8/10
  
  Overall, some of Link's reactions hold it back. Other then that, it is near perfect.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  
  Simply put, it has some of the best game play out there, if not the best. The Wiimote and Numchuck 
 controls is the best control scheme I've ever used. Not just is it revolutionary, but it's the 
 best thing to happen to the series since it's start, and Ocarina of Time's perfect 3D transition. 
 Simply put, running and slashing at the same time with Link feels so natural, to extends most controls 
 schemes would never dream. Nintendo has REALLY outdone themselves this time.
  
  Sure total control would be neat as oppose to pre-animated swinging, but that is minor detail next 
 to Twilight Princess. Simply put, it's been neat to have little edits on the control scheme, while 
 leaving it the same. Halo 2, Metroid Prime 2, and Metal Gear Solid 3 did this nicely [all improved 
 controls over their originals] , but this is just spectacular. Keeping the same perfect lock-on 
 battle system, and adding new motion sensor controls that actually make you feel like you're in 
 the game. This is something you can't see to believe, but you must experience.
  
  Thge dungeons are also neat, being some of the best dungeons in gaming, while you'll be saying 
 something along the lines of WTF? , Didn't see that coming , and Never thought of that before more 
 times then you have fingers and toes. Simply put, the experience and gameplay is the game.
  
  10/10
  
  Controls:
  
  Perfect motion sensor controls. Enough said.
  
  10/10
  
 
  Titl:
  
  The first Zelda game to compete with Ocarina of Time's popularity is here. While it definitely 
 is nowhere near revolutionary as Ocarina of Time, making the 3D targeting system, Zelda 2D to 3D 
 transition, and basic invention of action adventure games, it is still very innovative. You gotta 
 play this game, seriously. It's got it all [though has a few weak spots, like ALL other games] , 
 and you simply must play this game. If you don't get this game or plan on getting in, and you have 
 a Wii, you are a fool. Seriously. Best. Zelda. Ever. You can debate if it's the best Zelda ever, 
 but simply put, it is amazing. It has all the classic feel, upgrades past battle systems, and adds 
 it's own MAJOR unique and original twist. Definitely a must play game, and a game for the ages. 
 A instant classic as they say, like most of the games in this legendary series. Not just a game, 
 or a experience, it is a way of life. Okay... but it is a experience that is unforgetable. Definitely 
 worth your time, and you'll remember this game for it's brilliance for ages.
  
  Overall:
  
  10/10
  
  -Johnknight1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewAmerica2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I am a bit of a zelda fan, but I'll try to be unbiassed. I loved this game, but I do agree 
 with gamespot in that it does have some lack of evolution. I really did want something to be.... different. 
 It's not there, and you will be slightly dissapointed with the game if you think it will be. But 
 don't worry, it's still a great Zelda game all the way through.
  
  So basically, you're Link again, and he starts off as a rancher. You get asked to go to Hyrule 
 caste and then a bunch of stuff happens. You end up as a wolf, inside a twighlight world were everyone 
 else has turned into a spirit. Your job is to save the world from twighlight. Sounds familliar, 
 but they do a nice job of making things interesting along the way. The story is nice and the writing 
 is top-notch. I dunno if Zelda would be better if it had voice acting, but I think they should 
 try giving it a shot. The visuals are very nice, especially if you can run it in 480p (I believe 
 that's what it runs in if you have a tv that supports it and component cables, but not 100% sure) . 
 Yes, there are some muddy spots, but it's a fantastic world with some great art-design. I think 
 everyone will love the gameplay because the Wii controls just make the game much more fun. I went 
 back to playing windwaker after beating this and I found myself wanting to swing something. The 
 controls work well and add to the experience. This game is not really hard, but it's by far harder 
 than WW. I actually did die in this one, which is saying something because I've played every zelda 
 there is pretty much. It's also MUCH longer than other zeldas. I was clocked in at about 30 hours 
 (29 to be exact ( when I beat it, and now have about 34 after doing some extra stuff. All in all, 
 this game is great, and it's tons of fun if you have it on Wii. Don't expect Ocarina, but I think 
 that's been said every time a new Zelda comes out. I loved it, I just wish it had something new 
 in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  I have, until yesterday, missed out on the miracle of gaming that is the Zelda series.
  
  I purchased Twilight Princess after reading the review here on Gamespot. I do tend to agree with 
 most of their reviews and points of view. With a complete lack of stunning games on the Wii this 
 was my second choice, after Resident Evil IV.
  
  Having got through the introduction it was straight into the game. I do enjoy puzzle type games 
 so this was a nice blend of puzzle solving and sword fighting. I have to admit that it took me 
 an amazing amount of time to complete the first few quests (yes the practice stuff) . I am now onto 
 the meat of the game and find it rewarding.
  
  Graphics: I can see a definite oriental twist here, with the Manga styling of the characters. Not 
 too dis similar to the Characters in Final Fantasy. Landscapes are well drawn and the over all 
 feel of it is that you are taking part in a well drawn cartoon.
  
  Sound: Disappointing in some aspects. Speech from the Characters, even here and there might have 
 been a nice bit of polish. Overall the sound is quite atmospheric and the whistles of your grass 
 is good.
  
  Gameplay: Having never played Zelda on any other formats, I feel the Wii does a cracking job with 
 the nunchuck and stick moving ability. There are a couple of little niggles (like falling off edges 
 that look safe) but nothing that can't be handled. The Camera angles can be annoying at times but 
 with a quick zap on the C or Z button it soon puts it right. The characters are very easy to use 
 and the game world is very interactive.
  
  Overall: It's a great game that will have me, at least, coming back for more until I just get to 
 the next bit, then a bit more and more and......... yeah. Great longevity and not at all a bad Wii 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I got my Nintendo Wii last Monday for &pound;110, it was a bargain. When i first played it i thought, 
 yeah this is good, then i out Zelda in and then when it hit me. Nintendo have done it , they have 
 made possibly the best game i have ever played. The graphics are amazing and the game play is mind 
 blowing. The controls are really easy to pick up on and give the game that extra kick.
  The fighting in the game is one of the funnest things i have ever done, with having to swing the 
 controller side to side to do a basic attack and shake the nun chuck to swing.
  The puzzles the game are really hard and annoying but wouldn't be the same without them.
  
 
  I suggest you buy this game and you can check out this review and more at www. entertainforum,. co. nr 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4life95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun if you have been playling zelda for a long time now but if you get this and 
 this is the first zelda you have played your gonna sometimes gonna get confused and angry i do 
 on every game so every once in a while i use a help guide the usual is in this game save the world 
 confusing fun puzzles and being bad ass the concept is kindve from zelda and the ocarina of time 
 on the n64 with the opening screen of course you know riding on the horse i dont think nintendo 
 expected they would notice it the motion controls are very well set into this game but not to much 
 of it from my opinion the quests when you get em your like noooooooo but you realize it is fun 
 if you get it a chance they may be long but their fun when you are in the twilight you turn into 
 the wolf it has some advantages and disadvanteges you cant open doors you have to use sense almost 
 all the time and work on puzzles of how to get into buildings and that little annoying personn 
 or thing on ur back is just so annoying everytime she appears on the bottom of the screen she laughs 
 its so annoying when your are in link form she still appears!!!!! and tells you stuff u already 
 know the springs are convinient to regenerate your health and riding the horse is nice cuz it was 
 annoying in the windwaker you had to walk or sail everywhere their are also items that help you 
 on your quest like the boomerang lamp and slingshot they help getting rid of little things and 
 solving puzzles well my fingers are tired so goodbye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Yeah! This is the best game for the Wii yet, The Legend of Zelda: TP is the best looking zelda game 
 of all the times! (well.. for now) and the use of the Wiimotes and the Nunckuck are great.
  
  The history is more deeper than the last games, and the new buddy for you, Midna, she takes 
 the Spot. More action when you're riding on Epona, and a lot of things more, than i can't stop 
 of saying good things about this game.
  
  This game is very Immersive, sometimes you will act like if you have the sword in your own hands, 
 and start Screaming; YEEEEAH! hehehe :p
  
  And to finish this review, i need to say, that te best of the games are the Boss battles! Whoah! 
 they're amazing, and the best, the're a lot of 'em, so, have fun playing this Amazing Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddymaw
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of the Twilight Princess is by far my favorite Zelda game so far. It wasn't only 
 that it matched and perhaps improved upon the amazing Ocarina of Time, but because it managed to 
 pull me in the truly amazing tale yet again. Despite knowing the outcome, despite knowing the truth 
 well before I saw it, I appreciate every second that I was able to play it and I yearned to continue 
 playing after completing the final battle.
  
  I loved the interaction between the players, in spite of the lack of voice acting. While I'd rather 
 have no voice acting than bad voice acting, the pseudo-speak of your faithful companion adds an 
 interesting element and if it could've had voice acting, I believe the experience would have been 
 greatly improved. This and the learning curve for use of the Wii remote and Nunchuk being a little 
 steep were my only real gripes for the game. But, they are notable. The learning curve meant that 
 I spent a good 10 minutes trying to get just the right movement to make a given movement happen. 
 The gameplay was forgiving enough while I mastered it, however.
  
  The story is the basis of all Zelda games and this does not disappoint. It was the first game I've 
 seen since Final Fantasy VII where I felt that twinge (after Aerith...) during a certain point 
 near the end. Ultimately, the experience was worth-while and quite enjoyable. I would recommend 
 it for anyone who owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paksiwin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  THE LEGEND OF ZELDA TWILIGHT PRINCESS opens innocently enough: Youre a farm hand whos tasked 
 with simple things like finding a lost cats and rounding up goats. Things heats up when some 
 of the village kids get lost and strange, evil creatures starts appearing in town, and before you 
 know it, youre neck deepin the Grandest ZELDA adventure yet. Eventually youll uncover a strange 
 darkness called the Twilight Realm, youll be able to transform into a wolf . With WIIs unique 
 Control scheme , you actually swing it to make Link swinging his Sword. When you equip the bow 
 or asling shot, a cursor appears on screen and you use the wii-mote like a gun to shoot your targets.
 
  
  All in all, playing the game on the wii is a totally new and unique experience thats not to be 
 missed.
  BRAVO!!!!
  -Game Of The Month- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pax4491
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  So, Legend of Zelda: the Twilight Princess was probably the most anticipated game for the Wii's 
 launch. It introduces many new things from motion sensitive controls to transforming into a wolf, 
 but the difficulty was a little bit of an upset.
  
  Story-
  You start off as Link, the farmer. You aren't even in your green hero tunic yet! And everything 
 is pretty peaceful. After a good 30-180 minute prologue introducing you to various things such 
 as fishing and swordplay, you and your female-friend are suddenly attacked by a huge beast on a 
 boar. Just before slipping into the sub-concious realm, you see your friend get carried away... 
 This causes Link to begin his journey to rescue her. And the first place he visits is the frightening 
 Twlight Realm, where he meets Midna, a strange little girl with a hand for hair. With her, Link 
 is able to escape, and once her does, he learns about what the Twlight truly is. It's a terrible, 
 almost disease, that ravages the power of the four Light Beasts of Hyrule. The worst part is, once 
 you've been consumed by the Twilight, you don't even know it's happened. This is the product of 
 the Usurper King of the Twilight, Zant, and it's up to Link to travel through Hyrule, banishing 
 the Twlight, and finding a way to wage war against Zant himself.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of Twilight Princess is fantastic. The Wii motion controls are tight and very responsive 
 (sometimes a little too responsive when your attempt at a shield attack becomes a spin attack, 
 much to the player's dismay) . Also, the bow and arrow is surprisingly acurrate, and with the Hawkeye, 
 even Zelda can turn into a fun game of military tactical sniping! In battle with the various creatures 
 of Hyrule is where the controls truly shine, however. With the hordes of items you can use for 
 combat, the simplistic Wii-mote makes transitioning from boomerange, to sword, to arrow more easy 
 and fun that it's ever been! On top of that, the myriad of Sword techniques make your battles more 
 cinematic than ever before.
  The only complaint I have is the games simplicity. It is almost as if you have to try to die in 
 this game, which is saying a lot considering the difficulty of games like Teh Legend of Zelda, 
 and A Link to the Past. Even the childish Wind aker gave me more trouble than Twlight Princess, 
 and for that reason, I'm a little disappointed.
  
  Graphics-
  Hyrule's never looked this pretty. Even in the Twilight realm, the grpahics are nice... But every 
 once in a while, we get a good look at faces, and we see just how under par the graphics really 
 are.
  Sure, the enviroments, water effects, and detailed brickwork are fantastic, but the faces are a 
 little pixely, and transitions of emotion are a little... well bad (I'm looking at you, Link) .
 
  
  Conclusion-
  With epic boss battles, a huge selection of quirky items, a story that would impress any veteran 
 Zelda player, and a very long play time, Twilgiht Princess is definitely an elit Zelda game. I 
 just wish it were a little harder and looked a little better. It is the Wii after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Slightly better than Ocarina of Time which means this game is superb. Nintendo has done it again 
 making a hit game that will keep players coming back to explore the vast world of Twilight Princess. 
 This Zelda by far has the best visuals next to Majora's Mask. I'm glad Miyamoto did not continue 
 the cel-shaded look for this game; personally I like the cell-shading back in the GameCube, but 
 it doesn't feel like what a Zelda title should look like. Zelda is a classic game which needs to 
 have details, details, details. TP delivers, undoubtedly the best game for the Wii as of today. 
 Can't wait for what Nintendo has in store with their next franchise game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  where to begin, where to begin, ah yes, graphics.
  the graphics of this game are, how should i put this, beautifully made.
  now unlike in the other 
 games, you get a twilight girl named Midna, instead of those freakin annoying fairies.
  also, you can turn into a wolf, ya, a wolf, how pimp is that?
  the combat system is AWSOME!
 
  many new items and old ones redone, the hookshot? its a claw now.
  also as a wolf, you can talk to other animals, see things through smell that human Link can't, 
 and find buried treasure.
  the downside of this game is the puzzles are somewhat annoying, and by somewhat i mean pull your 
 hair out, and by pull your hair out i mean WTF hard.
  i may have left out some stuff but this is good enough, So long!
  
  Shadow_Fire41 signing out 
 y'all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patriot6
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I know that lot of people think as I do... we were not really waiting for the Wii to come out, 
 we were waiting for this super Zelda game Nintendo promised us after The Wind Waker (not a bad 
 game, but I know we didn't really feel confident with it) ; just imagine it... a Zelda game with 
 motion sensor, outstanding graphics... what could possibly go wrong???.
  
  I still remember the moment I first opened the box and saw this beautiful gold disc, waiting to 
 be used, a promise...
  
  Twilight Princess combines everything: really nice story, long game play, the motion sensor works 
 perfectly, an OUTSTANDING MUSIC... at last after Majoras Mask we had a real Zelda console game.
 
  
  However It wasn't a total blow mind game experience as Ocarina of Time was, there is something 
 missing in this game, not really an instant classic, it showed that a new time for Nintendo was 
 coming, not better nor worse, just a different perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper9-07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Link's adventures have made it. He's been around for a little over 20 years now. And he's a wolf. 
 Link makes his greatest game 3-D, more sword moves than ever, and he can fight to the death. Link 
 adventures over Hyrule, into the Ordon, Lanaryu, and desert provinces, and more. This games heat 
 dungeon is very realistic, and the ice dungeon... well a yeti's masion isn't really what I expected, 
 but... Most of the dungeons are expected, and most puzzles are still here with that You solved 
 the puzzle tune.
  Anyway, Link's adventures will get better and better, till the end of time. This is an unfogettable 
 adventure. I will never forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  this game is the greatest game for the wii! what is there not to like?? the graphics, characters, 
 levels and even the bosses are great! if you are a huge zelda fan then you would know what i mean!!! 
 :D
  
  though i do not have the game (my brother does and i play it sometimes) its easily the best zelda 
 game ever to be sold. it is soo incredible watching all of the scenes and playing as nintendo greatest 
 and ONLY hero!! and it makes it feel like you are actually there! all i really need to say is that 
 it is the greatst wii game ever!! and if they were to make this a movie then i certainly would 
 love to see how that turned out! (i wonder who the actor would be?? lol) so ...... if you dont have 
 this game i am telling you go out and buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  It be hard for Nintendo top this outside of the Smash Bros. or this series for that matter. this 
 i s long immersive and practically the best wii game there is and is the best in the series. it 
 is a real must own game for wii owners and is highly unappreciated by people haven't actually played 
 it. I DON'T GET WHY PEOPLE DON'T JUST SAY THIS Legend od Zelda, a revolution unappreciated. Most 
 action adventure games dirive from Zelda elements. There you have it another game overshadow by 
 Gears of War and Halo on the piece of crap known as the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess / Wii / Adventure / 9.5 
  
  THE GOOD: Innovative fighting controls. Lots of new items. Very long game,
  
  THE BAD: The 
 game goes downhill in quality after the first half of the game.
  
  Story: Link is a guy from a peaceful village called Ordon... And well, if you're a Zelda-fan you 
 know what to expect.
  This one has a great plot with great action such as unexpected events.
  
  Gameplay:
  This 
 game works great for the Wii-mote, aiming is easier and more fun.
  The only flaw in the controls is that there's no camera controlling.
  However the game does solve 
 that problem very nicely, not a single time have I been complaining about the angles. Best auto-cam 
 I've seen in a game so far.
  
  The fighting is innovative and features so called "hidden skills". There are 7 hidden skills to 
 discover and they make the fighting a bit easier.
  A couple of examples of the skills is the shield attack where you thrust the nunchuk forward to 
 stun your enemy and after that you can Z-target and jump twice to the side to perform another hidden 
 skill which is similar to Wind Waker's *A* attacks. These moves makes the fighting in the game 
 brilliant, innovative and fun.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are stunning, Hyrule looks really good this time.
  nothing to complain about here.
 
  
  Sound: The sound are great even though the dungeon melodies can get repetitive.
  
  Value:
  The game will hold for ~60 hours in one play through if you do some exploring..
  A 
 second play through isn't tempting at all though. This is more of a one-time adventure.
  
  The last words:
  This game could almost get a ten if there weren't so few side quests.
  But 
 hey! It's a new Zelda game that's filled with what you expect so It's something you should play 
 before you die. And if you find it for less than $60 you should buy it. 
  
  Review by: Smithy92 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  After months and months of anticipation for Twilight Princess, finally being able to play this 
 game is just so wonderful. The quality of the game certainly makes up for the incredibly long wait 
 for the game (well, almost does) ! The Gameplay is exactly what you would expect from a zelda game, 
 which is a very good thing. You travel through the land of Hyrule, which is quite big, while fighting 
 foes, visiting a few towns, and going through what makes a Zelda game so fun, the dungeons. The 
 dungeons are as fun and puzzling as always, and are full of enemies and traps and puzzles, as usual. 
 In this game, you can turn into a wolf, which allows for completely different attacks and moves. 
 You're certainly in the wolf form quite a bit in the beginning of the game, where you must try 
 to charge some plant with some special kind of bug a few times, which is half fun, half tedious. 
 The graphics of Twilight Princess are beautiful, and I'm talking about everything from the scenery 
 to characters and enemies and all. The story is very good and compelling and epic, what you'd normally 
 expect from a zelda game. There is some great music in the game, too, especially when fighting 
 bosses. And you'll here some familiar music and sounds from past Zeldas as well. If you are a Zelda 
 fan, I highly recommend this game, heck, I recomend to anyone who's just itching for an incredible 
 adventure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jo_Dal92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game of the series and its actually awesome if you haven't played Ocarina 
 of Time, but if you have passed a Zelda game you will be annoyed at some parts of the game because 
 of the same monsters, temples, and even the same map... its like a copy from The Legend of Zelda: 
 Ocarina of Time with the twilight theme included though this is not an excuse for not buying it 
 if you have the Wii.
  
  Im not saying this game sucks at all, or that its bad, because its the best Nintendo Wii game in 
 my opinion. Its a very challenging game with amazing temples, good graphics (for a Wii game) , and 
 it will take at least 40h if you do it the fastest you can (I spent 50h passing it) . It will suck 
 you up and you won't stop playing until you have completed it and you will be getting better and 
 better every time.
  
  I totally recommend this game if you have the Wii but if you don't have it don't buy it because 
 of this game and Wii Sports... buy the PS3 or the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyore_bec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Ocarina of time you'll like this Zelda. You don't need to know the other Zelda games 
 to understand the story though.
  
  The main story will take you quite a while to finish and there are all kinds of side quests to 
 do if you want to. The wii controls are easy to learn and make you feel a lot more involved in 
 the game. Swinging the wii remote like a sword sounds tiring but you never have to swing very much 
 at one time.
  
  There are parts of the game where you get turned into a wolf. Playing as the wolf can be fun but 
 your skills are limited and I found I enjoyed playing in human form better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  If you're don't like The Legend Of Zelda, don't bother trying this one out.
  Just start your XBox 360 or PS3 and play a game on that.
  For the people who haven't ever played 
 a Zelda game and for the Zelda-fans: this is everything you want.
  
  Story:
  If you know your Zelda, you know what you're in for. If not, here it is in a nutshell: Link (You) 
 saves Hyrule by beating the crap out of Ganondorf) .
  
  But wait: there's more!
  You grow up in Ordon as a goat herder, there are 4 kids who worship you in various ways and there's 
 Ilia, the daughter of the Mayor, who gets to be the love interest for Link. The kids get kidnapped 
 and it's up to you to save them.
  That's where the **** hits the fan: the moment they are kidnapped, you get hit in the head, and 
 you wake up a short time after the kidnappers left.
  When you want to follow them, you hit a big black wall..
  
  find out the rest by playing the 
 game yourself :P
  
  You'll have a lengthy story with plenty of surprises.
  9/10
  
  Graphics: Sure, people who are used to XBox 360- and PS3-like graphics may find the amount of polygons 
 and the 'blurriness' of the textures ugly, but Wii-owners don't look at mere statistics (at least, 
 I don't) . The art-direction is great, the maps are pure eye-candy and the model-design is simple, 
 but beautiful.
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Sure, there are whiners who say: It plays no different than Ocarina Of Time, only you get to change 
 into a wolf! 
  Partly true, but was the gameplay of O. O. T. THAT bad?
  I'd say, Nintendo decided not to change the winning formula for controls.
  Aiming with the wiimote 
 is easy, and the items you get are not only useful, but also fun to use.
  10/10
  
  Replay:
  This is it's only weak point. The game is VERY easy. The hardest time you will have 
 is when you are confronted with a puzzle, because the bosses don't put up much of a fight once 
 you know how to hurt them, and the difficulty can not be changed in a menu, so if you don't beat 
 the boss the first time, you WILL the second. The minigames make up for that, so
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX_242
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Zelda twilight princess is the latest zelda title for wii. with great gameplay, this is a sure 
 fire hit. At sme times I think it is a bit tricky, the puzzles especially. The bosses are a challenging 
 and fun experience. It has clever temples and dungeons that will keep you entertained. It is a 
 long game that should last you a while, but don't feel bad if you need to use the guide. The dungeons 
 are set in a wide variety of terrains, undewater and volcanoes just a few. though it is also on 
 GC, you will enjoy it much more on wii with it's interactive gameplay.
  
  THE GOOD
  Great gameplay and audio, much improved graphics and whole new moves for you to try out.
  
 
  THE BAD
  some parts of the game are a little slow and can be a bit boring and you only want to do them to 
 get to the next. Bosses may be a bit too easy for your liking.
  
  Apart from this, it really is a great game, if you havent gotten i already, you better think about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunkonshadows7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The Game Itself would have to be given a 9 out of ten for how much I liked it though surprisingly 
 I felt a bit let down by the other points.
  
  For instence, we all know how much the wii is capable of... why not put it to use. The graphics 
 In the wii's case - 8. They were pretty good but it lacked the visual appeal during the actual 
 gameplay that most other platforms have. don't get me wrong I love the wii but I just think nintendo 
 are being a bit lazy this time round with the graphics that are put onto the disc... Its nothing 
 to do with the wii itself. Anyway...
  
  The gameplay - 9, Great game and everything but was missing something that oot had, dont know what 
 will edit this review when i find out.
  
  The sound well It is obviously a lot better technologically wise but the melodies aren't as catchy 
 so i'd have to give them an - 8 for that. Nice addition with the wiimote speaker but the sounds 
 that came from it were terrible, annoying and crackly.
  
  The value - Very satisifying if you don't use a walkthrough like most people It should last you 
 around 60-70 hours of just plain fun... that would be a - 10 for value.
  
  tilted towards a nine in the end - and i've just realised what was missing the innovation in the 
 storyline and also wheres an elf without his fairy I mean come on like it says in OOT your not 
 a real man without a fairy lol!
  
  Hope this review helps you all and I have some really good suggestions for a new zelda game or 
 even a movie...............
  
  I know it probably won't happen but it would be awesome right??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  If your like me, you like Zelda, it's that simple... Well, I could have bought this on the GC, 
 but waited till I could Afford a Wii... And it was worth it!
  The way I feel when playing this game is amazing, The characters are good, story is good, good 
 length, and fun controls!
  
  Now, most games are short, when they are good, which makes me mad, because I tend to beat a game 
 within a day or two, so to have me still playing this long, is a great accomplishment!
  
  The way you attack get's you more involved, and makes you depend on your own skills more, which 
 can be good or bad. The fact that you learn new moves in the game is a great Idea, because you 
 learn and develop your own way of fighting!
  
  Now, the wolf transformation looks and feels great! and since I love wolves, that might be a bit 
 bias...
  
  At any rate, you won't be able to beat this in a day, so it should last, and the story should make 
 you compelled to keep going...
  
  In all I think this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidypitt
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  For the beginning, the story is very attractive. It's have some suprises and some interesting facts. 
 They are some new music and new arrangement. The gameplay is so original. We have to shoot with 
 the wii mote. We have old and new techniques of fighting, like the mortal draw. We can be a wolf, 
 ride our horse ( very useful ( more than the others zelda games) ) . We have also new weapons, like 
 the chain ball ( cool) . The graphics is beautyful, but not more than that. Zelda, Link and Ganondorf 
 have new design. The dungeon are enough though. You can't pass a dungeon so easyly. You can do 
 full of things likes mini-games, the bugs collection or the heart container collection. It, s a 
 great game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterskywalker
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  If you are planning to get a wii game then i suggest twilight princess. It is a great game and 
 you will most likely enjoy it. It plays like most zelda games and if you enjoyed ocarina of time 
 you will love this game. 
  
  It hasn't deteriorated one bit from other zelda games. It may not be the most challenging game 
 but is has great puzzles and there are many times you wnat to go on your computer and look for 
 a walkthough. 
  
  The graphics on this game are great for a wii game. They look appealing and make you want to play 
 it even more.
  
  The sound is awesome. When you are riding epona (your horse) you almost feel as if you were on 
 our own horse. When you go fast you hear it galloping but when you go slow it trots and sounds 
 different. 
  
  Overall i really recommend this game to anyone who loves fighting rpgs or just wants to play a 
 good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsdudemember
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  not very good graphics for a third generation console but you forget all that stuff when you are 
 playing and it was quite interesting to finish these kind of game. I thought it was going to be 
 more interesting but i found it tirng in some parts of the game. Also I hate the part of the game 
 where you are suppose to transform into a wolf, I know most people will say that I am crazy but 
 I really missed my sword in that parts of the game.
  I liked it because it was challenging for me, it was the first legend of zelda game I have finised 
 but i dont think I will play these hell for a long, long, long time because my brain suffered a 
 lot to finish it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclue_27
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If you liked orcarina of time, you will love this game.
  
  The only game that can ever possibly compete with this will be Halo 3
  
  This is the greatest 
 game I actually cried at the end as it brought back so many memories from orcarina of time.
  
  Before this game orcarina of time was the best game I had ever played, but this game changed 
 it all. This game is what orcarina of time would be like if it were released in 2007.
  
  The Zelda series has never been blessed this much since orcarina of time, I can't say much more 
 then I already have. This games greatness cannot be converted into words. If you have the opportunity 
 to play this, play it, the game will get better and better until it is finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megayugi369
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is great with giving things new looks and feeling, for instance the Wii, it is a whole 
 new way to play games and it turned out spectacular. Also Metroid Prime 3, it is a fantastic rendition 
 on a first person adventure/shooter. But Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess simply the best. First 
 off LoZ TP was originally a gamecube title, so bear in mind it can't truly be judged too harshly, 
 then again this is Legend of Zelda and it has a whole set of standars of it's own that it is held 
 to. The graphics for this game are kind of bad. They are phenominal by gamecube standards, but 
 seeing screens of Galaxy and playing Corruption, I know Wii can do so much more. Textures are simple 
 and look ok, but almost the entire world is brown, even Link's green tunic looks brown at times. 
 The world can get a little boring.
  
  The control scheme is fantastic at first then becomes like an added distraction, especially when 
 you can't pull off some of the more complex motion gestures and end up shaking the nunchuck only 
 to have Link do a spin slash. But the one new thing that the Wii does bring to the table is aiming 
 with the Remote Pointing Device. It works phenominally and anyone who has struggled with the shooting 
 minigames in Ocarina of Time or killing those dagnabbed bats in Windwaker will truly appreciate 
 the great aiming system with the remote.
  
  Legend of Zelda's gameplay seems dated, and after playing a lot of the handheld versions of the 
 past as well as the console versions I have to say I am getting more and more ecxited with Hyrule's 
 setup. Now don't get me wrong I love seeing Hyrule with increased polygon's, but I was one of the 
 few people who appreciated Windwaker's new take on things with a giant ocean and island's to explore. 
 Now I play Twilight Princess and I grow a little tired of visiting the lake, the mountain, desert, 
 and a fantasy land (in this case the sky) , I only wish Nintendo would've gotten a little bit more 
 creative. The dark and light worlds are fun, but only show up in a significant way in the beginning, 
 and boss battles seem downright easy.
  
  Overall this game is fun and may cater to the hardcore fans of the series, but I want something 
 new and exciting that takes Link and friends in a new direction. Its a masterpiece launch title 
 for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlink500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is purely amazing. It has amazing game play and as usual, has those puzzles that just 
 sometimes annoy you so much you want to kill someone. This game is worth the price. It has amazing 
 graphics especially considering that it is for the Wii. It definitely stands out compared to all 
 the other games in the series and makes a great addition to the Zelda series. My only problem with 
 game was the sound. I think that nintendo could have done a tad better with it, but all in all, 
 this game is definitely one you want to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushnate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  I don't even have a Wii, but i bought it for my friend who had one JUST to play it. That may seem 
 a little desperate, but I really needed to play the game! It's that good! My friend had never played 
 any Zelda series game before (Amazing huh?) that is why he was no interested in purchasing it for 
 his Wii. But once i bought it for him and he started to play it, he forked out some money for me! 
 He was instantly addicted (Which cut into MY playing time) and had a blast figuring out all the 
 classic Zelda puzzles! And for those of you who have played Zelda before, twists on old puzzles 
 as well as entirely new puzzles made the game interesting. I recommend the Wii version for the 
 sheer pleasure of swinging the Wii-mote around although sometimes it's had to get the Spin-Strike 
 down. The game is still geared for a younger audience, so some of the battles may seem overly easy, 
 but Zelda fans everywhere as well as others, will enjoy the complexity and depth of yet another 
 prime example of the addictiveness of the Zelda franchise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the one of the best games ever made.
  
  Zelda is legendary for being great... always but, this time around Nintendo out done themselves 
 with this gem. This game just keeps going and going.. sometimes you don't know when its gonna stop! 
 Anyway....
  
  Gameplay- as always you have to find a way to save Zelda....... what to simple yeah i guess so, 
 You have to solve puzzles to get through dungeons, find secret chest, a bunch of side quests, defeat 
 massive bosses and even when you get to those bosses its sometimes a puzzle to inflict damage upon 
 them. The world is vast and Hyrule Field and Lake Hylia never looked so big.
  
  Graphics- The Wii version may not look any different from the cube version but the game is beautiful 
 none the less. Also this is like the first game that everyone truly has some kinda expression on 
 their face which is recognizable. Environments are done quite well, especially the water, which 
 at times looks drinkable :P.
  
  Sound- As always is epic with the songs sounding authentic in every way.
  
  Value- Although 
 after you finish Ganon you can't save your game and do more there is a lot of side quest to do 
 before you finish him (So save right before you fight him) .
  
  Overall-Legendary. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefly06
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  After a few disappointing Link games, it's about time we were given Twilight Princess. This game 
 + wii remote + a nunchuck will give you hours of fun, addictive gameplay that will have you bending 
 your mind around tricky puzzles and at giant sea monsters. Although you are forced to go into a 
 dungeon numerous times, each involving finding a weapon, finding a key and fighting two bosses, 
 each dungeon has its own uniqueness and each has its own puzzles and enemies. The game also contains 
 many different weapons, quests, armor, swords, shields and other random objects to collect, to 
 make the game easier or harder. Overall an intense and fun game that should be a must for anyone 
 with a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podboy1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Don't be mad at me but, is it just me, or is this game lacking something substantial? I have been 
 a Nintendo fan as far back as 1988 and have never stopped supporting the system even in to my 30's. 
 So please don't call me a basher. After playing this game, I was left wanting a bit more. Is it 
 just me but is this game the exact same replica of the Game Cube version with the exception of 
 using the Wii mote and the Nunchuck (which is pretty cool) . The story line is top notch of course! 
 I wouldn't expect any less. I have enjoyed thoroughly playing the game, not based on its technical 
 achievements, but based on its innovative puzzles and gripping story line. But every so often while 
 playing this game, I was left with the sense of wanting more from the textures, graphics, and dialogue 
 delivery. Additionally, the battle sequences can be repetitive and camera switches become rather 
 obtrusive.
  
  What did I like, you ask me? Well, overall, the game design is excellent. I like the open expansive 
 world which allows for exploration but focused enough to keep you in line if you decide to veer 
 too far from the story line. New characters such as Midna was cute and interactive. I especially 
 enjoyed the cut scenes which appeared to have better graphics that took full advantage of (let's 
 face it) dimmunitive Wii hardware. The battle sequences were intuitive and the storage system was 
 simple to use. I own both the PS3 and Xbox 360 and if you're expecting next generation graphics, 
 you will be sorely disappointed with this rendition of the Zelda series. I was left wishing for 
 more from this game. But again, you would be sorely mistaken to go into any Wii titles with advanced 
 technology expectations. You will be disappointed. What this game does excel is that it continues 
 the great tradition of excellent and ingenious Zelda series that will keep you glued to the TV 
 for hours while you solve some of the greates puzzles you have ever seen, along with compelling 
 story to boot. I just never got the wow factor from this game. Take it for what it is. The Wii 
 and this version of the Zelda series is for the complete experience, and while it does nothing 
 spectacular in terms of technical wow factor, it delivers again on what the Wii was intended to 
 do. Bring addictive game play that incorporates the essence of game play- fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I played Zelda on Gamecube then I played it on Wii and well it is just more fun on Wii. You are 
 in complete control with Link and his actions. It makes you feel as if you are actually playing 
 as Link. Great game one that I will never get rid of. I was never a huge fan of the Zelda games 
 but this one changed me for the better and I am glad. A big thing about Twilight Princess is that 
 it has its challenges but you are able to get through it, this game allows the player to think 
 instead of just slashing through it. This is a definite winner for anyone who wants a fun challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  If you have been following this series up until now, you will not be surprised by the general story. 
 It does a fantastic job of remaining nostalgic while implenting entirely new plot points, characters 
 and even the subject matter is more mature. Once again, evil and darkness begin to take over the 
 land of Hyrule, though very literally this time around. Realms of twilight have spread throughout 
 the vast land under the reign of the powerful King Zant, the Ruler of Twilight. The world in the 
 twilight world is essentially the alter-ego of the regular world of light as it is perpetually 
 evening time. Humans become spiritual entities in the Twilight but the dark creatures that inhabit 
 this land remain just as mean and terrifying. There is one young man however, who remains a living 
 and breathing being when he enters the land of Twilight and he goes by the name of Link. Evidently 
 Link is the main character of the game and is the only playable character during this lengthy adventure. 
 Link's quest begins in the small secluded Ordon village with generally insignificant errands to 
 run, including finding a baby's basket, fishing for a fish in order to lure a lost cat back to 
 its owner, and hearding some weird breed of goat. The game does a good job of introducing the player 
 the numerous entertaining puzzles within the game right off the bat. You must complete many of 
 these errands in a certain order to earn the required tool for the next errand and so on. In this 
 same part of the game you will get a wooden sword which is used only for training purposes but 
 once you get the Ordon Sword, given to the village as a gift, from the mayor you give it to one 
 of the young boys who look up to Link as if he were his older brother. Before trying to leave the 
 village you go and talk to another female resident who is taking care of your horse. Soon after, 
 both of you and your horse get ambushed and both Link's companions seemingly dissappeared after 
 Link has woken up from being knocked out. He then tries to leave the village, but a giant wall 
 of Twilight blocks his way. Some unknown creature pulls him into the depths of the wall and this 
 is where he turns into the wolf and soon after meets the mysterious new character Midna. Midna 
 is the queen of the people of this land called the Twili and she also sort of serves as Navi from 
 the previous games, providng hints occasionally and generally telling you what to do to continue 
 your adventure. The wolf gameplay mechanics do not change a whole lot of the gameplay around, but 
 do add some new techniques and obviously cannot use the items the human Link can. One of these 
 wolf-specific abilities is the Senses. If you press left or right on the Wii-Remotes D-pad you 
 will enter sense mode where your field of vision is limited but you can track certain scents, see 
 Poes and see areas where digging is possible. Digging can lead you to the occasional treasure chest, 
 ruppees, recovery hearts and even sometimes a new area. Another one of these new wolf techniques 
 is the ability to jump to farther or higher locations than usual using Midna as a guide. There 
 is clearly more focus on combat this time around as you can learn new moves as you progress, and 
 there are many more types of tough enemies to take down. You swing your sword using the wii-remote 
 and aim it at the screen to aim such items as you bow and arrow. Both of these mechanics work quite 
 well. A lot of these new enemies, such as some Armored Lizafos, require you to use one of the most 
 effect secret moves, the back slice. It allows to get around to the enemy's back by rolling around 
 them, at the move's end you perform an upwards slice on their back, delivering a great amount of 
 damage. If you so desire, you can put your combat skills to the test in the 50-floored Cave of 
 Ordeals, but if you want to make it all the way to the end of the cave, you must have all the special 
 items up to the Double-Clawshots. On top of the dual clawshots, there are a few other new items 
 at your disaposal. As you progress through the dungeons you will find such items as the Ball and 
 Chain, and the Dominion Rod which allows you to move certain statues with the item's magic. For 
 the most part, the combat is a little to easy, even in the later levels of the game. The dungeons 
 in the game are expertly designed both from a gameplay and a visual stand point. There is a great 
 variety of different puzzles and challenges throughout the game's various dungeons, most of which 
 won't take to long to figure out. Even though they aren't too difficult, they are still a blast 
 to complete. Almost all the dungeons have the same structure. You will find a new item about half-way 
 through by downing a mini-boss and proceed to use that new item in cool puzzles until you fight 
 the boss, where you will be using the item to take him down. The boss fights are truly epic and 
 are one of my favourite aspects of the game. Again, they are not too difficult but some may take 
 a little messing around to figure out what to do. Midna will sometimes help you out a bit as well. 
 The bosses are huge and look incredibly evil. Essentially, they are moving, attacking puzzle fights. 
 At least the final two boss fights are more challenging than those of The Wind Waker.
  
  Aside from the main story, there are plenty of things to do in the Twilight Princess and to explore 
 pretty much everything the game has to offer will take the average player at least 40 hours. There 
 a few mini-games to play, and if you complete these games with good scores you will earn upgrades 
 for your items, like higher possible totals of bombs and arrows. There is also a multitude of items 
 to find and collect, including the heart pieces (you need 5 to complete a heart container this 
 time around) , golden bugs (to earn ruppees and bigger wallets) and ever Poe Souls. Overall this 
 is a masterpiece of a game. In my opinion it deserved all its hype and was completely worth the 
 long wait. If you have a Wii this should be in your collection without a doubt. It will be difficult 
 to make the next Zelda installment more epic than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a amazing game. it goes beond the standard video game expectations. 
 With really cool inovative controls you can't go wrong. The levels are really hard depending on 
 what one you do. there is sooooooo many side quest to do so this game has a really high replay value 
 you cant collect bugs go fishing or play a ton of mini games or do the side quests available to 
 you. The plot is really good and has a ton of twists you start out as a farmer then the shadows 
 fall from the sky and you wake up in a prison cell finding Midna she later on tellls you she's 
 the princess of the twilight realm but mean while a sorcerer named Zant is trying to stop Midna 
 and Link from saving the twilight realm and later on ganon makes his apperance in the game as well. 
 So overall the game is really fun so if you don't own this game GET OF YOUR ASS AND GO BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperion886
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great addition to the Zelda universe. The perfect blend 
 of action and adventure make this game a must buy for anyone who owns a Wii. The control scheme 
 is solid and adds a degree of fun to your game. Swinging your sword in the game is as easy as swinging 
 the Wii remote, aiming the bow and arrow is easy as pointing and shooting, etc. The graphics, however, 
 don't seem to be upgraded much, if any, from the GameCube version of Twilight Princess. The game 
 does, however, have some great graphics, even if they aren't updated. Overall, Twilight Princess 
 is a great game for anyone who likes the series or is slightly even interested in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Before you guys rip me to shreds for saying this game isn't amazing... HEAR ME OUT! This game has 
 excellent graphics, its beautifully done, the wiimote does a great job... but my problem is that 
 it just doesn't hold my attention. Because its a port from the gamecube, it has a problem with 
 audio. My trouble with audio is the boring and repetitiveness of the character movements and speech. 
 I like to hear the emotions in the characters, and this game just lacks in that department. Also, 
 missions feel unimportant, like saving monkeys... The game is fun, i admit, but after an hour or 
 two of playing it.. i move on to a different game like metroid prime 3 or resident evil 4. Been 
 there, done that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboy51804
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is the sh*t im just agreeing with everyone who gave this game a 9.0 and above if you 
 own a wii and dont have this game you should definatley get it if u have a wii and dont have zelda 
 metroid 3 resident evil 4 super paper mario and wariowarez cause they are the best games for the 
 wii those and wii sports 100 words bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla blabla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla blabla bla 
 bla there is that enough? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since we saw our old friend Link as an adult ,but it was worth the wait. This 
 game is in my opinion the best Zelda in the series. It has parts of it that we've seen and new 
 things that we've never seen before. It has classic parts in it like Link saving Zelda from Ganondorf 
 and the Master Sword, but it has new things in it like teaming up with Midna and taking down the 
 Twilight. Dont forget about golden bug collecting! With plenty of things to do like tracking down 
 heart pieces, bugs, weapons, completing dungeons, and sidequests this game will have you playing 
 anywhere from 40 to 60 hours! Things I thought could have been better are the graphis of the land 
 when you are up close ( they did a great job on Link, Zelda, and Ganondorf though! ) , and the sounds 
 at some parts of the game. If Link's first Wii adventure is this good, it makes me want his second 
 even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manictrooper101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Heres a breakdown of the game guys and gals.
  
  GRAPHICS: Very good, they dont let you down at all or stunt the gameplay as most technically unimpressive 
 games do, they are smooth, great character expressions, landscapes and bosses. nothing to worry 
 about here.
  
  SOUND: great sword slashing sounds from your remote, along with midna giggling every time she wants 
 your attention aside from effect sounds which are superb u dont even think about the music in the 
 game so not much a point talking about it as ive never took the time to concentrate on it.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Superb, very satisfying combat system, hard to think it was ever just buttons, temples 
 provide semi-difficult puzzles which give a huge satisfaction when resolved, nothing to frustrating, 
 fun boss battles and a tonne of variation in things to do. The game took me around 70 hours to 
 complete without completing many sub-quests. satisfyingly lengthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxfall2pieces
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  If you own the Wii and do not own this game, you need to go get it! Twilight Princess features 
 a depth, look and style similar to Ocarina of Time and it is almost as perfect. If you are worried 
 about getting value from your $50 game, you really don't have to worry with this game. The story 
 is so long that you will play it for hours and hours without wanting to put down your controller.
 
  
  The Wii version adds something to the game because of the controller. The movements used with the 
 Wii controller are great for this game. Whether you are swinging the controller like a sword, or 
 aiming the controller at the screen to shoot an arrow, these movements only help you feel like 
 you are actually a part of the game.
  
  The difficulty in this game is just right. The bosses and story-lines are not too hard or too easy. 
 The game also takes a lot of thought when figuring out certain puzzles and where to go next. This 
 only adds to the games greatness. If you are a hardcore Zelda fan, you must buy this game, it will 
 not disapoint you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaaze101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun after you get passed the fairly boring intro where all you are doing 
 is herding goats and exploring houses in the small village of Ordon. As you get farther into the 
 game however, you find that you are part of a very immersive quest to save Hyrule from a coming 
 twilight. The characters in this game have humor and class one of my favorite the impish Midna, 
 who serves as your guide and mentor during the quest. Her voice can be irritating at first, but 
 it eventually grows on you. The envirorments in this game are simply stunning especially the great 
 lake Hylia which sports wonderful views and the area music is very touching. Also the Twilit areas 
 are spookingly beautiful. What I really like about this game is how the Wii Remote and Nunchuck 
 work. The Wii Remote acts as your sword and when you swing it the sword on the screen swings which 
 gives the game a lot higher immersion than the Gamecube version. The Nunchuck acts as the shield, 
 so when you raise the Nunchuck, you are raising your shield on screen. One of the best mini games 
 in this game is fishing because you actually feel like you are catching fish in real life thanks 
 to the Wii Remote Technology. The only problem in this game which is a pretty big problem, is that 
 the boss fights are not tough at all. My 6 year old sister could beat them and I know this because 
 she showed me at least 10 times. It is because of this that the game does not get a perfect score. 
 I am rating this game 9.5 because it is truely epic and lots of fun, but the difficulty level is 
 just too easy. However, I still highly recommend this game to any Nintendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABetancourt
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  What can I say?? This game is a total recovery on the franchise... after playing Windwaker for 
 de GC i was pleased but in someways wanted more action with a REAL Link, well... Nintendo have 
 heard my pleas and brought this game.
  
  From the beginning to the end it has action, very gorgeous graphics and a NEAT controller, the 
 innovation with the fighting techniques, the use of the bow, boomerang, clawshot, it was all fun. 
 In less words, they've updated the perfect controller for the series.
  
  For the story i've no complains, a great one if you ask me, being a wolf and experience another 
 kind of movements was good as eating ice-cream.
  
  Ocarina of Time was perfect, this too. A must-buy for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoods470
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I just beat this game and I must say I was very impressed. With deep characters, a compelling story 
 line, and an arsenal of awesome weapons for boss fight and puzzles, this is the best LOZ in my 
 opinion. In this version you get to be the adult Link (who is much better than the other versions) , 
 and you can also play as a wolf (playing as human is WAY better) . Its much longer than most adventure 
 titles. You'll probably play a good 50 hours at least. Though the complex puzzles and dungeons 
 are fun, I think the bosses are WAY too easy. There really is no difference between any of the 
 bosses except that you have to use different weapons for each. Even the final boss is dissapointingly 
 easy and you don't really get a sense of accomlishment. Other than that though, this is the greatest 
 game I have ever played and if you don't have this as a wii owner, YOU ARE CRAZY! If you don't 
 have a wii, you should buy one just for this game. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  The best wii game to dateby far. Only zelda could bring you a game with hard bosses tons of side 
 quest millions of items a predictible but still fresh story line good controlls. deserves a 100 
 out of 10. Although nothin can compete with orcarina but still a nearly flawless game It deserved 
 all the hype it got and I can't wait the til next zelda game. typical story line evil guy kid in 
 green gets magic sowrd and uses the power of the triforce to againts all odds overcome and triumph 
 over evil but this one acturally makes you belive that theevil villon isn't ganondorf. SPOILER 
 ALERT zelda isn't the twilet princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubs500
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is great with giving things new looks and feeling, for instance the Wii, it is a whole 
 new way to play games and it turned out spectacular. Also Metroid Prime 3, it is a fantastic rendition 
 on a first person adventure/shooter. But Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess simply falls flat. First 
 off LoZ TP was originally a gamecube title, so bear in mind it can't truly be judged too harshly, 
 then again this is Legend of Zelda and it has a whole set of standars of it's own that it is held 
 to. The graphics for this game are mediocre. They are phenominal by gamecube standards, but seeing 
 screens of Galaxy and playing Corruption, I know Wii can do so much more. Textures are simple and 
 look ok, but almost the entire world is brown, even Link's green tunic looks brown at times. The 
 world can get a little boring.
  
  The control scheme is fantastic at first then becomes like an added distraction, especially when 
 you can't pull off some of the more complex motion gestures and end up shaking the nunchuck only 
 to have Link do a spin slash. But the one new thing that the Wii does bring to the table is aiming 
 with the Remote Pointing Device. It works phenominally and anyone who has struggled with the shooting 
 minigames in Ocarina of Time or killing those dagnabbed bats in Windwaker will truly appreciate 
 the great aiming system with the remote.
  
  Legend of Zelda's gameplay seems dated, and after playing a lot of the handheld versions of the 
 past as well as the console versions I have to say I am getting a little bored with Hyrule's setup. 
 Now don't get me wrong I love seeing Hyrule with increased polygon's, but I was one of the few 
 people who appreciated Windwaker's new take on things with a giant ocean and island's to explore. 
 Now I play Twilight Princess and I grow tired of visiting the lake, the mountain, desert, and a 
 fantasy land (in this case the sky) , I only wish Nintendo would've gotten a little bit more creative. 
 The dark and light worlds are fun, but only show up in a significant way in the beginning, and 
 boss battles seem downright easy.
  
  Overall this game is fun and may cater to the hardcore fans of the series, but I want something 
 new and exciting that takes Link and friends in a new direction. Its a good launch title for Wii, 
 but sadly the franchise's ideas seem dated and the games just leaves me waiting patiently for the 
 next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeDeeDee-er
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is, simply put, an amazing display of the Wii's capabilities, and overall, the best game 
 int the Zelda series. Although some complain about the graphics, the fact is, the other new-gen 
 systems (Xbox 360, and PS3) both have great graphics and sound. The Wii has a completely new form 
 of video-gaming, and creative new controls that put you in the game, not just controlling it. The 
 game still has great graphics (just not as good) , and makes up for anything less of the graphics 
 in gamplay. Speaking of the gamepla, the stroyline is excellently put together, and like a good 
 book, it makes you want to keep doing it. The characters are unique to the game and fit perfectly 
 into the story. Midna is without a doubt, the best new character there was in 2006. Anybody who 
 has a Wii, but lacks this game, needs to buy it, or face the wrath of me whacking them with a wet 
 noodle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. Link starts out as a farm boy and has a horse and then when you get Links 
 clothes about 3 hours in the game realy picks up. The weapons fit the controls most of the time 
 realy good! The only thing I thought was a little shaky is how you wave the wii remote to swing 
 the sword. Even the slightest movements can send you on a chopping rampage! The story I think is 
 even better than ocarina of time because its more epic and theres more suprises and twist and turn 
 but I dont want to spoil it. The wii sound are also a little anoying like when you swing the wii 
 remote it sounds like a mallet hitting a wall.
  This is how I rated it.
  
  graphics:10 out of 10: The best graphics for any game to date but we will see how halo 3 turns out.
 
  
  gameplay:9 out of 10: Some puzzles like the ice brick puzzle will drive you insane enough to quite 
 for a couple of days.
  
  controls:9 out of 10. The controls for this game are revolutionary. The anoying wii remote sounds 
 and choppy sword swing bring it down a point.
  
  Overall:9.5 out of 10
  
  This is a great wii game and has great graphics. Even if you dont like zelda give it a shot and 
 you might get addicted to the awsome controls! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themasterjov
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest Games Of All times The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess is a great game that 
 brings the players a great story and gameplay with the serise charecters with a new twist and i 
 think they have a great start on the Wii system since they made is for the game cube to but they 
 can still improve on some of the areas in the game as it cantinouse with the serise since they 
 will most likely to make it better next time around but all in all great game it worth your time 
 if you play it so give it a try even if your not a fan it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I watched a trailer two years back and I recalled Link in this war field full of guys on horsess 
 you would kill while riding Epona. Well I though it would give new gameplay style to Zelda but 
 that was a lie.
  
  This game is good but has been done. First off they didn't give Link new items really (If they 
 did the items weren't very good) they just improved on the old ones. It's a good idea but it wasn't 
 executed right. So I don't think they have changed a thing. About now you're probably saying what 
 about the wii controls. Well, you swing your wii-mote for a sword. That gets old fast. For a spin 
 attack they had you swing the nunchuck. It could have been more creative. Arrows and the slingshot 
 were the items that were executed right.
  
  This game had some fun moments and puzzles but everything was to easy. So I would say this game 
 is just good. You should rent it or buy it because it's pretty good to most people. I personally 
 thought it was okay but you might think differently and you probably will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbellows1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess immediately sets itself apart from its other zelda counterparts with a more subdued, 
 darker, and better drawing style.
  
  Instead of pressing buttons to swing your sword and use your items, you point and slash with the 
 wii remote, making the game feel more realistic and more fun.
  
  With over 40 hours of gameplay, it will keep going and going and going and youll never have to 
 stop.
  
  I did encounter the one major glitch in the game though, which really sucked.
  
  DONT SAVE IN THE SKY CANNON ROOM. YOU CANT PROCEED IF YOU DO THAT AND YOU HAVE TO START OVER 
 AND IT SUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  ~~If u never play Zelda read this -----&gt;&gt;&gt;
  What to say??? Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is PERFECT game!! And is shame if u dont buy 
 it. I dont want to talk nothing abaut the game its better when u buy it and than start play it 
 without any information! As long as u play game every SEC. gonna be better and better!!! The story 
 isnt new but its interesting, because many stuff's u will get due playing and new gear! This game 
 is exampl for any other ADVENTURE!!! Its long game with good story and great GAMEPLAY. I can't 
 imagine what game will beee with better graphic?!?? This isn't shooter adventure ore any game when 
 u will learn new magics and buy them!?! This is game that MAIN CHARACTER must have HEART and no 
 muscles or high-tech weapons. U need IRON BOOTS; FISHING ROD; LANTERN; BOW; BOOMERANG and many 
 other u gonna find out long u play!!!
  
  ~~And if u play The Legend of Zelda before than u know what u must do?!! And that is for shore 
 u must buy Twilight Princess!!! FOR ALL the GAME IS GREAT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that some games just for there name alone are over rated that being said the praise 
 the zelda series has got in the past I feel like it earned but I must say I am dissapointed in 
 this latest installment.
  
  I thought long and hard about it and I realized that although this is zelda it has stuff that a 
 zelda game does not need like collecting collecting the tears of light witch is boring and way 
 to easy, and the dungeons don't have that head scratching quality to them as they had in the preveous 
 games. I found myself blowing though dungeon and the boss within easy. Well all except the water 
 dungeon. The graphics are the high point of this game going back the the more realistic look of 
 the N 64 Zeldas. Great detail and the twilight zones look really good too.
  
  I have too say though if you want a great zelda experience check out the other zeldas available 
 for download on the wii shopping channel, I think you'll have a better time with those than you 
 would this. Its not a bad game but after playing The ocarina of time, a link to the past, or the 
 wind waker, this game just feels a little weak compared to those in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendog84
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I would have never believed that this Zelda game was as intuitive as all the critics say. I own 
 this game and I can say that this game has tens across the board. Graphics - better than I imagined 
 and if you check out images or videos you'll see what i mean
  Gameplay - I have never been into a Zelda game this much in my life, the wii-mote is most definitely 
 the reason for this
  Sound - Great, but you will be too engrossed into the plot and excellent gameplay you wont even 
 notice the sound, unless it is coming from your controller
  
  All-together I don't think ill ever quit this game (even after the 3rd time i've beat it) because 
 of the creativeness that it puts forth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hylianhero1991
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  You Start out as a teenage boy living in a place called Ordan in Hyrule. You Heard bulls, play with 
 kids, and your pretty much the hero of this town. It turns out you have chosen to take a gift from 
 Ordan to the Hyrule. But.......
  Evil monsters take over the village. You have turned into a Wolf due be entering the twilight. You 
 end you being taken to a Prison In Hyrule. You meet midna who helps you with her twilight powers. 
 Shall I go on..................
  Nah why spoil the fun for you. This gam is a instant CLASSIC. you encounter a verity of weapons such 
 as The Hero's bow, Bombs, the gale boomerang and much more. This game is a Automatic get every one 
 who has a GC or a WII MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_188
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Took me awhile to beat, but it was fun! You play as a farm boy who later wears green clothes and 
 has to protect hyrule from evil. You also transform as a wolf and there fore ore puzzles are created. 
 You have this lil imp girl thingy who is called Midna and she guides u on your journey. Sometimes 
 when your stuck she'd give the answer right away and sometimes tells u obvious things. =O Bosses 
 were easy shulda been more stronger and tougher. Dungeons were okay. graffix were fine and enemies 
 were clever. The playing area is HUGE especially hyrule field and you would have a fun time exploring 
 the land. I recomend it to u even if u hate zelda games cuz u will like it even if u dont!!!! =D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rorkror
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Once completed the game the overall sensation is that this game doesnt reach the quality of his 
 successor. Mi personal favourite one is Zelda Link to the Past (SNES) .
  
  One thing that in this Zelda is overwhelming are the secondary characters. They are the one I like 
 most. The graphics are excellent, for a Game Cube, but not for the Wii. The control is well adapted 
 put not exceptional, the music is very nice composed but I miss the Zelda main theme of the over 
 world. The plot is elaborated but is too similar to others Zelda and brings only a few innovations. 
 Nintendo didnt fit everything well to make a master piece. I think the game has a lot of updowns 
 during the game play, and playing it has created an sensation of never reaching the climax.
  
  Dont miss understand me, the game is a very nice game, but it doesnt overpass other games 
 of the Zelda Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felialois
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I've completed the game 3 times and everytime I am surprised how wrong Gamespot was. THe game is 
 a million times better than every other Zelda except Ocarina of Time wich I enyoyed a little less 
 than TP. THe story, the characters, the gameplay and even the Wii controls are so great. This game 
 is a perfect reason for sleeping infront of a Gamestop for my Wii.
  
   
 llllllllll l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l lk lk l kl k l kl 
 l kl k l k l kl k l kl k l kl k l kl kl k l kl k l kl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  It took my wife and I 80 hours to beat Zelda Twillight Princess sence we tried to not use any guides 
 unless we were just flat stuck. But for the most part the game was easy compared to the previous 
 Zelda Windwaker.
  
  The boss fights in this game were well easy and short. I do with the games monsters took more hits 
 to kill honestly. And it was very easy to figure out the weakness to killing them which is a plus 
 for kids. The story in the game started really slow untill you finally see the games main bad guy 
 Zant. Then it finally gets interesting and pulls you in at that point in time. And by the time 
 you've been in 4 castles thinking the games near and end, you have 7 more castles to venture too 
 (which is a good thing for your money's worth.) Gameplay: Tons of fun and you learn 7 attacks through 
 the game as well. My only quirk was riding the horse. It felt stiff and when you hit a wall it 
 just stopped. Besides that the swimming, running and everything flowed very nice and flawlessly. 
 Lets not forget you play as a wolf through 1/4 of the game which isn't bad either and it gives 
 the game a nice change of pace though with the dog you will back track over were you with in human 
 form later. While being a wolf you have sense's to see things Link never would have seen.
  
  Graphics: For what they are working with, gamecube, they did a fantastic job. The game has 
 some graphics scenes of sheer beauty thats for sure. But during the whole time playing I kept thinking 
 of how awesome Zelda will be on Nintendo's next system after the Wii. The water graphics in the 
 game look realistic as long as your running as well, but thats the case for lots of games.
  
  Value: I can see my self playing this game again in the future maybe even with my kids some 
 day. Its a fun family game with no worries of to much violence. Lastly Sound: Not a thing wrong 
 in this department either. Classic Zelda with some new tunes thrown in. Its perfect.
  
  I didn't give it a perfect score because the boss fights were way to short, and the horse bothered 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isawthelight
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Ah dang am I late on this one. Oh well. Anyway The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii 
 is what some might say, the true sequel to Ocarina of Time. This time around you play as Link of 
 course, but on a darker quest. Your childhood friend gets kidnapped and Link gets thrown into the 
 Twilight world where he meets Midna ( a crazy darkish imp girl) and together you have to save Hyrule 
 from the creeping Twilight Realm. Thats a brief summary, but it gets crazier.
  
  Gameplay:
  So anyway this is your standard console Zelda game. Those familiar with previous games 
 like Wind Waker of OoT will get comfortable pretty easily even with the new control setup. Thats 
 right the Wii version has a different setup. If you swing the wiimote, then Link will execute sword 
 slashes. Run around while doing so will result in a sweet new running and slashing technique that 
 has been needed for a while. Anyway a quick shake of the nunchuk will initiate the classic spin 
 slash which uses no magic this time around. Well thats because there is no magic (sorry) . Anyway 
 aiming for projectiles or clawshot works like you think it would (point and shoot) . Now whats great 
 is that these controls work really well. You won't get tired and its really simple to use. Honestly, 
 I don't think I can play a regular Zelda game after playing TP because the controls are so good.
 
  Anyway you'll be playing in two forms now. First is the standard Link and the other is the crazy 
 Wolf Link. Wolf Link controls pretty much the same way except for some differences. First of all 
 Wolf Link can do a crazy area move that will be neccessary for some enemy encounters in the twilight 
 realm. Next is the scent ability which will allow you to see hidden things in the world.
  The main quest is pretty good and will take a good amount of time on your first try. The field 
 of Hyrule is HUGE and you'll be glad to ride Epona through. The feeling is great actually and feels 
 epic when your traversing the field while engaging the enemies. And with Zelda fashion, the temples 
 are amazing. This game features some of the best dungeon designs I have seen and that they all 
 make sense. The puzzles are not too bad, but the bosses are insane. They are crazy huge monsters 
 that are always fun to fight against ( too bad there isn't any boss mode.) but I found them all 
 a little bit on the easy side.
  However, if your bored with the main quest then there is the sidequests with bug catching and an 
 impressive fishing mode among others. Simply put, this game has some great gameplay and you won't 
 be dissapointed. The only problem is the lack of 3D camera, which isn't too bad since you can automatically 
 revert to the back of Link with the press of a button.
  
  Graphcis: Bear in mind that this a GCN title. With that being said this a gorgeous game. The towns, 
 dungeons and environments are beautiful. But what sold me was the art style. The game has this 
 beautfiul artstyle through out the entire game that really adds to the experience. Just take a 
 look at the Twilight World. Frickin Bloom Heaven. With that being said there are some ugly textures 
 if you zoom in and try focusing on something, but like I said the art more than enough makes up 
 for it.
  Oh and did I forget, the game features cutscenes? Yep, this game is the most cinematic Zelda game 
 to date and it is nice.
  
  Audio: The game's soundtrack is a mixture of MIDI and orchestral. The tunes are nice and you'll 
 hear all your favorites here. The Lullaby , Saria Song and even the Song of Time. The MIDI are 
 nice, but hte orchestral stuff is fantastic. You won't here too much of these, but when you do, 
 they blow you away. I still remember hearing the main Zelda theme played by the orchestra. Rest 
 assured the game as no voice acting. You will hear the little laughs and moans and stuff when taling 
 to people, but no acting. Although I have to admit if you play this game then you will probably 
 love Nintendo's approach with Midna. Seriously, by the end of the game you will have a good idea 
 of what Midna would probably sound like if you spoke actual human tongue. Oh and Links new voice 
 recordings for his battle cries are nice additions with his older and mature voice.
  
  Overall: Overall this is probably one of the greatest Zelda games out there. If you are a Wii owner 
 or a GCN owner you must have this game. Its amazing. Yes there are some flaws, but techniquely 
 no game is perfect. However, Zelda shows that any short comings can be easily overcome. This game 
 is just well polished and I recommend people to go out and buy this game. Trust me, you'll love 
 it.
  
  Pros: -Amazing artstyle
  -classic Zelda gameplay
  -awesome audio
  -Wiimote controls are great
  
  Cons:
  -no 3D camera
  -not fully orchestrated BGM
  -a 
 GCN title with GCN graphics
  (Honestly who cares, I just told you guys that these are easily brushed away anyway) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrAgOnZeYeZ3
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are not the issue. On the surface this game looks awesome, but soon that will not be enough 
 to entertain you. The issue is that this game is just way, I mean WAY too easy. The game basically 
 leads you from start to finish telling you ecactly what to do and when to do it. At no point did 
 I ever really need to stop and figure out what to do next because the game just flat out tells 
 you what to do. The game is moderately fun, but I basically went the entire game without being 
 even remotely challenged in any way. This game was not worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Zelda game that I have ever finished. One of, well probably, my favorite Wii 
 game to date. (8/25/07) Filled with amazing puzzles, areas, quests, and well everything that you 
 would expect from Zelda plus much, much, more. If you own a Wii, I'll bet that you have this game, 
 and if you don't, then there is something wrong with you. Before this game I didn't even like the 
 Zelda games. I have every single one, but have never played them.
  
  In my opinion, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess has some of the best graphics on the Wii to 
 date. In fact I think that it does. It's to bad that the Wii doesn't support full HD. Then it would 
 be even more amazing. But graphics don't really count for anything in a game. Unless if you can't 
 tell if it is a man or a monster lol. It's all about having fun, and gameplay. To wrap it up this 
 is a great starter, and hardcore game if you have a Wii. It is worth every penny. $50 for such 
 a great piece of entertainment is really under priced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ako389
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  THis game has a wonderfful combat system, but the graphics could use some serious help. While there 
 is an engaging story keeps you playing the puzzles are hard to the point of frustrating at times. 
 The puzzles are also unrelated and aren't always clear on what to do at times. However the control 
 scheme in my opinion is pretty good there are quite a few moves you have to learn, most of which 
 you won't really use. The best thing about it is the amount of free reign you are allowed in the 
 game and the many sidequests that are alot of fun to do. I enjoyed the game for a little bit and 
 definetly think you should rent it first to see how you enjoy it. Don't spend 50 bucks on it first 
 see how you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacowned
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  The only bad thing I can say about this game is that the combat is too easy, especially the bosses. 
 I didn't quite feel the same sort of accomplishment as when I defeated Ocarina of Time bosses, 
 but really this is the game's only glaring defect.
  
  The game's greatest strength is its extremely varied gameplay. There are all kinds of different 
 encounters, its got the basic Zelda combat from back on the N64, ranged battles vs armies of goblins 
 over vast expanses, but with plenty of cover, mounted combat, and even battles in places you'd 
 never expect (upside down, hanging from plants, and riding on walls to name a few) plus the game 
 has some very creative puzzles that will keep you guessing, but rarely will they be overly frustrating, 
 and the game's myriad and very entertaining minigames. You will not be bored by repetitive gameplay, 
 which is often the undoing of many games with a great story, but not Twilight Princess.
  
  Speak of story, its absolutely epic, and its only enhanced by many of the game's encounters, which 
 can seem cinematic in nature. I was so totally engaged in the story that I did absolutely nothing 
 but sleep, eat, and play Zelda from the time I opened this game until the time a finished. I can't 
 say this about many other games that take more than 20 hours to complete... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiNet
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Once i started playing this game i couldn't stop, i was consumed by the whole story and the theme. 
 But the downfall to this game is that, well its to easy but it still deserves a perfect 10 in my 
 books. Although i can't call this the best Zelda game ever made, cause Twilight princess was my 
 first ever Zelda game, its still one of the best games on the Wii, and a must have for anyone that 
 owns a Wii. My favorite part of the game is becoming the wolf, it adds a bit more flavor to the 
 game. Also after a long tiring walk in the dungeons you can go fishing, which is one the most amazing 
 things in this game. And again if you don't have this game, your missing a big part of the Wii 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merhimek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound:8/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  Overall:8.5/10
  
  My first impression with this game was amazing! But as the nostalgia wore off, I noticed some flaws. 
 The game offers nothing really new to the Zelda table . It is similar to Ocarina of Time and thats 
 good but when I played Wind Waker, I thought the graphics were excellent and unique. Ocarina of 
 Time brought us unprecedented graphics and an experience like no other. This offers, uh... motion 
 sensor technology. Don't get me wrong, this game is very innovative in several aspects such as 
 the control scheme and the Twilight Realm concept (not to mention the whole wold thing) but I feel 
 that it wasn't as amazing as other Zelda games. Is it worth your time? Definately. The graphics, 
 while nothing revolutionary, are still nicely rendered and the environments look realistic. The 
 characters (including Link) show more expression than ever before (although in Wind Waker, Link 
 was extremely expressive) . Pick it up and see for yourself. While I had an enjoyable gaming experience 
 all the way through, I wasn't fully amazed. The sound was good with good effects but the music 
 was kinda bland compared to Wind Waker or Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weemanrulez
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  firstly i played this game day and night so addictive i have went thru so many batteries in my 
 wiimote and they were duracell. I gotta say one of the best storylines i have ever played in a 
 game, should be turned into a film. wot i loved about the game was the fact that the hero's clothes 
 are brilliant they are so like in Ocarina!, the zora armour makes you look strange and the magic 
 armour should not be bought it drains rupees fast ! (the only bad thing ive found) . The fact that 
 all the elements of ocarina of time and more are contained in this game just made me fall in love 
 with the game. Seeing Ganondorf re-appear in the series, the master sword (It glows Ooh) and alot 
 of the weapons and more appearing once again just made this game so good. I completed it quickly 
 (partially because i had a case of insomnia joking) but other than that i have the knack to complete 
 puzzles and a whole array of other mind boggling things. I shouldn't have rushed the game so quick 
 but i have to say the puzzles had me quite stoked and you use weapons an other gadgets that you 
 have discovered to complete parts of the game. If you get stuck in a boss fight i could garuntee 
 that in order to defeat the boss you would of had to use a special weapon or gadget that you have 
 obtained in that dungeon. It's a shame that the bosses were too easy other than that this game 
 is a must have ! ! !
  one last word
  ASTONISHING ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! (and a few exclamation marks : ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weltyd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Another great Zelda game. It's definitely the longest Zelda game and it has a good story. The wii 
 remote controls work, but I was expecting something more. All you do is swing the remote to swing 
 your sword, but you might as well be pressing a button because it doesn't feel like you're actually 
 swinging a sword. Aiming with you bow or other things is a lot easier though. The game looks and 
 sounds really good. The combat is really easy, but the puzzles will stump you from time to time 
 like past Zelda games. Definitely a must own game if you have a wii and a good reason to get one 
 if you don't. Hopefully the next Zelda game will make better use of the wii remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadoc
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the game once and that was at a friends house and I thought it would be a whole 
 lot easier... it wasn't. My friend told me that every time he played it again he kept messing up 
 all the time even after he played for a bout 6 months he still hasn't mastered it. The graphics 
 are some of the best graphics for the Nintendo Wii. Also with the Wii Motion Sensing stuff it is 
 the best Zelda game I have ever played. Not to mention that I have played almost every Zelda game 
 ever. Because my brother use to have a Nintendo and later a Nintendo sixty four and he had bought 
 5 Zelda games and the rest I have played at friends houses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playersonly656
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you, Twilight Princess isn't going to make your all time games list. Probably on your 
 top 50, but not on your top 10. It has to be a been there, done that type of game. It's a great 
 game, no doubt about that. But its overhyped. I was looking forward to this game since 2004. But 
 ended up in disappointment to the graphics and the feeling of playing a Gamecube game with tacked 
 on controls. Don't get me wrong, its an epic game with a superb story, and the same great Zelda 
 gameplay we've come to know and love. This, and the ability to play as a wolf, really got the best 
 of the disappointments of the game, as it has very few. It's the system seller that beat out the 
 PS3 and its one hell of a game. But its overly hyped. But you don't care about that do you? You 
 care that its a great game. And yes, it is a great game that should be in at least your top 50 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  As a huge Zelda fan, waiting for the Twilight Princess was as painful as waiting for a hemorrhoid 
 to go away. This highly anticipated title was pushed off many times, and Nintendo kept saying, 
 It's worth the wait. Could they have been any more correct? No. Twilight Princess brings a new 
 age of Zelda to the table, and the first thing you will notice that is the most different is how 
 dark and sinister this game appears to be. I actually found myself jumping out of my seat a few 
 times when baddies came out of nowhere. The controls for the Wii, I thought, were wonderful. As 
 one of the first games that I played on the system, Zelda actually got me used to using the new 
 control schemes. I find myself easily adapting to the newer games simply because of how easy it 
 was to pick it up on Twilight Princess.
  
  As for the new twist on the Zelda franchise, I must give my 5 cents on the wolf. At first, I could 
 not stand playing as the wolf, but I learned to tolerate it. Before I knew it, the wolf became 
 one of my favorite aspects of the game, because it was in the wolf that you got to see some of 
 the most sinister areas of this new Zelda Universe. Twilight Princess was everything I was expecting 
 and so much more. The environment was enormous, the side quests were filling, the character development 
 was wonderful, and the story was as dark and intriguing as Zelda will ever get. Seriously one of 
 the best games I have ever had the opportunity of spending hours upon hours of playing and exploring... 
 and fishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ampersan5340
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The twilight princess is a spectacular game with great fighting, puzzles and exploration. the land 
 of hyrule is large enough so you never get bored. and you can't walk about 10 steps without encountering 
 an enemy. This game features great sword techniques you can learn that lack in the other zelda 
 games. the biggest improvment however are the items and armor you cna use. The item like the game 
 boomerang and diffrent variations of bombs are amazing, and the best item of course is the chain 
 and ball.
  
  The only thing this game lacks is the AI intelligence. Like other zelda games three's the magic 
 number and most moves are predictable
  
  Give this game a 9 because it should've been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostermw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I am starting to believe I am motorial disturbed. I get stuck at levels where the control of link 
 (read: steering him in the right direction) is vital. I let him jump into the lava one time after 
 the other. What's getting on here? Is my nunchuk broken. No, it simply takes a lot of practising 
 ... I guess .. and I am getting too old for this. Beware! But the game is so addictive; it calls 
 me back and back again. I want these rupee's and I want them all. And I long to move every stone 
 in the game to be sure there's nothing underneath it. It's absolutely crazy. The graphics are very 
 average. The sounds are not very different from the bleeps that came from the SNES ... but it al 
 does not matter. If anything needs to be improved, then I would opt for more puzzles and less platform 
 jumping kind of things. I love it and that frustrates me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  To put this review in short terms.... if you don't get your hands on a copy of The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess soon, then you have to be INSANE! This is the one true sequel to the Ocarina 
 of Time! Although it may seem to be a normal Zelda game with dungeon crawling, puzzles, and the 
 usual bad ass boss fight. Unlike the its predecessors, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess will 
 having you craving for another goblin to kill, either as a brave hero, or a dark mysterious wolf 
 of the twilight. To summarize The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, I'm laying done 3 facts.
 
  
  1. The ability to play as a wolf, and a brand new, more mature Link.
  
  2. A storyline that will have you at the edge of your seat from beginning to end.
  
  3. With 
 a whole new darker setting, the battles seem much more like Lord of the Rings rather than a normal 
 Zelda Game (Which is VERY good) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stilesman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda twlight princess is an excellent game, actually it is probably better than ocarina. 
 The graphics are pretty good with all of the sweet effects and everything (even though the graphics 
 are from the gamecube's engine) . The sound is as good as ever with all of the orchestrated themes 
 from other Zeldas and a few new ones. The gameplay is about the exact same as ocarina but with 
 some sweet motion sensing controls. This game also has great replay value as it can last over 50 
 hours. This is one of the wii's top games and will be remembered as well as ocarina. This is a 
 game nobody should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey321
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is the first game i got on the WII and it was amazing. It's intricate mazes and new game-play 
 makes it a game for all and any to buy. Although it was truly amazing i can become frustrating 
 sometimes because sometimes it isn't easy to get through some of the level designs and sometimes 
 it takes a wile to figure out what to do. Once you do though it becomes a lot more simple but still 
 challenging enough to be fun. There is a lot of stuff to do and the twilight zone was awesome. 
 I love how he becomes a wolf and the way that eventually you are able to change between wold link 
 and boy/young man link. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_is_fun
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  It is absolutly, positivly great!!! It was my first Zelda game and it certainly lived up to all 
 the hype! The story line was fabulous. It is one of the longest games I had ever played, ove 50 
 hours of gameplay. Plus there is all the collectables you can get. The combat system is also very 
 high quality. The special abitities you get have very prominant uses in the game. Plus the puzzles 
 are very chalenging, but fun at the same time. The Rupee system was a bit harsh though, as I often 
 found myself having filled up my wallet half-way through a doungeon with nothing to spend it on. 
 But, all in all, a throughly brillent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is the 2nd zelda game the first was windwaker which was good and long. this one offers 
 the next gen look . the ability to wield the sword using the remote is fun even though my wrist 
 kinda pained a little but i got use to it but the point is the game started slow but good. its 
 very creative like with the hawk and horse grass. u can summon a hawk or your horse. i named mine 
 INFURNIUS. THE HORSE battle run in the fields is fun to fight the monsters on hogs and the bow 
 and arrow action on the horse is great like time crisis game the big areas u go to like trying 
 to find the boss key and the boss door and unlocking doors and the way u uses the items like the 
 the iron boots and the boomrang to fight the fire monster and sumo wrestle the gorons. this game 
 has some orcirena of time thing with the blue outfit to go underwater. the twlight area is okay 
 but not my favorite. this game offers a lot like finding golden bugs and fishing the fishing is 
 great . however i didn't finsh it because i traded back in because of some questionable elements. 
 u may say that is stupid but i don't care what u think what i played was good i didn't get the 
 master sword but oh well. this game is kinda like windwaker but i like windwaker better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendevil
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, ok. Graphics, a contriversial issue, do they realy matter? No. Not always. Still pleasurable.
 
  Sound: I still think WW was the best in sound, but the Wii remote sound was crappy. Then again, 
 you could turn that off and it still sounded great. the music fit wonderfuly with all of the new 
 adventure areas.
  Gameplay: do I need to say it? It was a Wii launch title. The combat System was stupendous, with 
 7 unlockable moves (and an 8th one when facing the final boss) the fighting was incredible. Tricking 
 foe into thinking you have a sword, Chancing, dodges, shield bashes, and tons more, it was great. 
 The story line had some great twists as well. I won't give too much of this away, but the main enemy, 
 was much more evil than previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richeyrich027
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  the new generation of nintendo gameing zelda came out for each consoles
  they crate form nintendo entertantment system, super nintendo, nintendo 64, and nintendo gamecube........ even 
 gameboy. gameoby advance, nintendo ds well there one cooming pretty soon for the ds backin the days 
 zelda ocrina of time was a very popular game for nintedo 64 i wanted that game so bad and i wanted 
 to play i didn't know how to play but i heared it was the greatest game of all time it still worth 
 playing right now!.... til i was 8 or 9 i haved beating my frist zelda game then came zelda the 
 wind waker for gamecube that was a great game but kinda tried of sailing... uhh and the now i heared 
 of zelda twilght princess is cooming out they kept on holding it back for a long time at frist 
 they said it cooming out for the gamecube
  on 2005 but it didnt it kept on hold until they said the new nintendo wii was cooming out so and 
 then i heared it cooming out for both wii and gamecube
  then i had but i stores zelda twilght pricess was sold out for the gamecube
  so my friends got 
 a wii and then i bought zelda twilght princess foe the wii
  but there was a problem i didnt had a wii until i had to play with my friend almost once a week 
 or two i coundnt wait to long but on aug 14 i got freaking got wii the day before madien 08 came 
 out i think zelda the twilight princess is an amzaing for the wii being adult link the hole time 
 was great almost all aelda games accept the ocrina of time u get to be adult link beeing i like 
 the new feature for zelda on the wii i enjoyed swing the wii remote and nunchuk and useing items 
 and still using the same items on some zelda games mostly on adult on ocrina of time u dont get 
 use ur item when ur kid link but on the twilght princeess u actually can just the boomramg every 
 zelda u have to have a boomrang but it is diffrenent on the twilight prncess the gale of boomrang 
 the wind type and all the items invole pointing ur wii remote inculding ur bows and clawshot the 
 new striyline for zelda actullay has more to it turning into wolf link was kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This new Zelda entry is reminiscent of the old school zelda: link from the past. It includes all 
 of the old weapons from the old game, including some new ones, such as an enourmous ball &amp; 
 chain. The game looks as good as youd expect it to be considering this is one of the Wii's first 
 big titles. The music brings you back the series by altering certain tracks to bring its own spin 
 with twighlight princess. Gameplay feels like the ocarina of time, and thats not a bad thing. The 
 bonus to this is that you go throughout hyrule learning new moves to expand your combat. Its no 
 longer just block and strike. The Wii remote responds pretty good, just flick the remote and you 
 will swing. There is no need to really simulate link's moves, but you can try without to much mishap. 
 The sound is beautiful, especially with dolby digital. You can her everything that is happening, 
 which is great for predicting those enemies trying to flank you. The puzzles are the hardest theyve 
 ever been for a Zelda game, alot of them are solved by remembering stuff that is out of place that 
 you couldnt do any thing with before hand, so remembering is key. This would lead zelda to be difficult, 
 but the fights are funny and not so mind boggling, so it balances itself out real well. I reccomend 
 if you have a Wii to get this one, cause its at least 30 hrs well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I have to say I wanted more well why because same bosses same weapons just a little different story. 
 You wold pourable say you hate this game no i do not hate this game it is a grate only wanted more. 
 So this is the story you live in a litle village you work there is a horse that helps you in youre 
 work you can name him let me skip so you by mistake went in to twilight zone you become wolfe go 
 in to a dungeon a little freaky girl recuse you. I think I told you a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagletactics
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Altough it is a great game (music, game play, value) after I played it leaved me with some kind of 
 I wanted more feeling. After having played the first Zelda, after having finished Ocarina, Majoras, 
 A link to the past, and so on, this game really gave me a sort of disappointment. It was really 
 so easy compared with others and so short, taking into account it was a game for Wii/Game cube. 
 Maybe because they had me waiting for so long! I had really expected more! Let's see for example 
 the pieces of heart, I had really no problem in finding all of them, exept for a few ones. The 
 dungeons were a piece of cake, compared with the water temple of Ocarina, the bosses altough great 
 designed, weren't difficult enough, Ganondorf's final battle was stupendous, but again too easy, 
 for experienced players, of course. It really loses, also, in some parts the Zelda essence. For 
 example why did them quit the magic!!! I recommend this games for newcomers and for you veteran 
 video gamer don't excpect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindkorn09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  .... you compare them all to today's standards. Twilight Princess didn't have as big of an impact 
 as Ocarina, due to the fact that Ocarina broke the mold for what a 3D Zelda game should be almost 
 10 years ago, but that doesn't mean that it isn't as good of a game. If you just review the quality 
 of the game and remove the impact it had on the gaming community (like OoT being the first 3D version 
 of Zelda) then The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is the best Zelda game of all time. The 
 Good: The scale of the game was very impressive. And I like the fact that the motion controls were 
 kept to a minimum. Also I thought that the IR aiming was a big improvement over using the analog 
 stick. The Less then Good: No voice acting.
  
  Score: A
  
  Side note: The last 3 Zelda games to be released on a home console, have all averaged scores in 
 the low to mid 9's. Why? Because they didn't have the luxury of being the first 3D Zelda game. 
 The fact that Nintendo made OoT in 3D, but still made it feel like the previous 2D Zelda games, 
 help it become one of the greatest achievements in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongobbo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess has the same plot as the rest of the Zelda games. You start 
 out as Link, a happy go lucky boy who lives in a small village, and has nothing to worry about. 
 Nuff said. Suddenly some kids go off on some stupid junk, and you have to go rescue them. The game 
 continues after the kids return and the day comes to an end. When you wake up, you go to get your 
 horse, and some evil guys ruin your day and you're off to save your friend, and end up trying to 
 help Princess Zelda in the process. The controlls to the game feel natural in your hands. The sword 
 is activated by swinging of the Wii remote and nunchuck in diffrent ways. In some of the attacks, 
 you are required to lock on, and use the A button as well. Your Wii remote pointer serves as the 
 sight for all your projectiles. Then no supprise, you have to go get some random junk so you can 
 kill some fooz. THen you have to go through several dungeons, one themed with fire, another with 
 ice, and the final boss is no supprise. Gannon/gannondorf is here to kill you!!!!!! THen you kill 
 him, then the game ends, and then the credits roll.
  
  The graphics are amazing. It looks fresher than any Nintendo title so far. The last thing that 
 really comes into view is one of the big parts of the series that is worth it, the chickens. Chicken 
 throwing is as fun as ever, and if you jump off a ledge while holding on to a chicken, you fly 
 through the air. THe are also several other mini games such as the roal goal minigame in Hena's 
 fishing hole.
  
  The game is superb, all eccept for the fact that the slingshot can't hurt the squirrels, and that 
 the slingshot does more dammage to a scarcrow than the Master Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Zelda game second only to Ocarina of Time. It will keep you playing until you 
 get every heart piece so it is completely worth the $50 (Almost a bargin.) The game is your normal 
 Zelda game, fight bosses, get items, etc., but that formula never seems to get old with the new 
 bosses and new items it really never seems like the same game structure as before. Now if you didn't 
 like the others, you probably won't like this one ethier, but the Wii controlls do make the game 
 a little different than the games before it. Now if you like a cross between adventure and RPG 
 games this is for you.-mario2295 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongefan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Story: Link is at his village and then these black creatures kidnap his friends. Now Link must 
 go into the twilight realm. While there, he turns into a very awesome looking blue-eyed wolf and 
 meets an imp named Midna, who says she'll help you if yoyu do whatever she says. Link agrees and 
 now you have to save hyrule, your friends, princess zelda (again :P) , and pwn Zant.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is pretty fun. Attacks involve swinging aroung the wii remote, its good exercise 
 I suppose :P. Some of the special moves are a little confusing, but you should get used to it, 
 and it feels pretty good owning people with the moves. You can also use items such as potions, 
 Oocoo ( a bird.. alien thing.. whatever it can help you warp out of dungeons and stuff) , bow and arrow, 
 sheilds, grapple hooks. Seems to have a fair amount of classic stuff. Ok now on to gameplay as 
 a wolf. While playing as a wolf you cant use items. But even without items its really awesome to 
 be able to bite people and pwn them with Midna. After a while you can transform into wolf link 
 or regular link at will using Midna. There are also other minigames such as chicken gliding, your 
 basically using the chicken as a parachute, thats right for the first time ever the chicken cant 
 kick your ass XD, fishing, fishing i pretty fun I guess. and some challenging puzzles. Also when 
 you riding on Epona the controls make you feel like your really on the horse kinda.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are beutifull!!! the water, the lighting, and everything really shows off 
 the wii's capabilities graphic wise. Although its a bit lacking in some areas but who cares graphics 
 aren't everything.
  
  Music - sound effects, voices, and.. music of course :P:
  
  The music is pretty good. The action type orchaestra music in Hyrule feilds fits with the area. 
 All of the other music is good to. The sound lacks a little in some areas tough but who cares :P
 
  As for voices, No one even talks in this game but sometimes to much voice actiong knida ruins 
 it but I think that when Link attacks and stuff it sounds really great and has plenty of emotion, 
 same as wolf Link. As for Midna she just does this weird langauge o_0 but I like the langauge, 
 I think it suits her.
  
  Overall:
  If you have a wii get this game its really fun and it will take you on an adventure. Also dont 
 listen to the reviewers from gamespot they can never recognize a good game when they see one for 
 example users- 9.4 critics-9.4 gamespot- 8.7 uuh WTF. Any ways dont believe the reviews that say 
 this game sucks because it doesn't, this is the best Zelda game yet. Also when you do get it FOR 
 GOD'S SAKEE WHEN YOUR IN THE ROOM WITH A GIANT CANNON IN IT DO NOT!!!! SAVE IN THERE AND QUIT BECAUSE 
 YOU'LL END UP BEING STUCK IN THERE AND YOU'LL HAVE TO START A NEW GAME!!!!!!! yeah, thats the only 
 bad glitch so watch out for that. Its a great game go buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun on the Wii. There is always something to do and the puzzle solving (always 
 fun in a Zelda game) is awesome. No matter how many times you play this game it is always fun even 
 if you do it the same each time. The graphics are much improved and so is the combat system. You 
 are now using the Wii remote to slash your sword. I thought they could have made this a bit more 
 fun and made Link's sword actually slice in the direction you swing the remote. But overall the 
 game is a satisfying experience and if you own a Wii there is no question, you need this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is no doubt the best in the series. You can expect all the 
 things you've come to love in past Zelda games. The story is simply amazing and the characters 
 are all very compelling. Every last dungeon in the game has a ton of creative depth. The graphics 
 are also another positive, although the graphics aren't exactly better then the GameCube version, 
 the art is still presented brilliantly.
  
  I've heard people complain about the controls over the Wiimote, but the controls are in fact very 
 well put together. If you've never used the Wiimote before, it will of course take some getting 
 use to, but once you get the hang of it, it only makes the gameplay better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walter10H
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  By Walter10H/NEO117.
  
  Ok guys I can see you already throwing curses at me and saying that Im a fu*** idiot and that 
 I should get a life, but seriously this game has just been too overrated and inferior as to older 
 Zelda games like Oot, WW and MC, I mean it got excellent graphics, and comfortable gameplay, but 
 it couldve been so much better, and Im going to tell you why.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  
  The graphics in this game are excellent, Ill admit it. Theyre very realistic and well-taken care 
 of, but there are some anomalies as to some characters. I. e. Colins father. His head is just too 
 big for his body. But apart from that the graphics are very well done. Of course they can be a 
 bit of a pain at the beginning but youll get used to them.
  
  Storyline- 5/10
  
  Ok they got a pretty decent story for this game. At least that what people say, but to me it seemed 
 like it was too pushed, at the beginning is really slow, almost annoying in some parts, and after 
 the first half of the game. It just goes straightforward to the end; also the important characters 
 show almost no emotions.
  
  Link its well ok as hes the silent type. But you could see a more emotive version of him on 
 WW and MC. In TP he just seems so I dont know dry except for some parts in the ending.
  
  Midna is by far the most emotive character. She shows her feelings pretty much throughout the game. 
 Shes a little sarcastic and she seems not to care for anything but herself, but in the end shes 
 actually sincere and kind-hearted.
  
  Zelda I dont know what to say. Shes so cold, I mean she only smile once in the entire game 
 and her dialogues are reduced to almost nothing, she doesnt even appear that much. And as for 
 her interaction with Link well it's like ok you're here whatever , I mean in Oot you could see 
 a more human Zelda, who opened her heart, even to our silent hero. You can actually feel her as 
 she were truly alive. Zelda in TP is not the case; SHES NOT EVEN BLONDE FOR GODSAKE! *sighs* Anyway
 
  
  Ganondorf is just so out of place, he couldve got a heavier role but no hes just the Surprise 
 Im the last boss of this game and it doesnt matter that Im just entering type of course hes 
 mentioned sometimes in the game but it seems like a lame excuse to justify his appearance. And 
 as for Zant, well he seems pretty tough in the beginning but in the end hes just a crazy squashed, 
 ridiculously high-pitched voiced idiot.
  
  The ending disappointed me big time well I wont spoil it for you, watch it if you want to know 
 what I mean ;)
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  
  Controls: Ok the controls here are pretty comfortable and balanced. If you have the GC version 
 good. they wont cause any trouble for you, so be happy.
  
  The Wii version of the game is now something different, I mean yeah the controls are really comfortable 
 too, but they showed to be a unresponsive at times and a bit annoying because of the sword getting 
 in your way sometimes, of course once you get used to them its no problem, and you got the option 
 to return to the old control type if you didnt like the whole aim by moving the Wiimote .
  
  Puzzles: The puzzles in this game can be somehow hard at times but as you progress youll see 
 that the dungeons become very straight forward and repetitive after a while.
  
  Arsenal: The items, differently from the other installments are useful for every temple. As you 
 complete each one of them youll find yourself using a lot of the items you got on the last dungeon. 
 So thats good, but dont get me wrong I dont mean theyre necessary, its just that it will be 
 easier for you to complete the temples without much of a headache. However there are some items 
 that you will be using only once, after that they become pretty useless.
  
  EPONA: Ok no comments. Epona is by far pretty useless in this game, you get almost no time with 
 her and when you do, Midna will be able to teleport you to different location already, so sorry 
 Epona. Ah yes not to say if this game happens 100 years after Oot Why is Epona in there I mean 
 how long can a horse live? that's just so wrong, let alone the fact that there was no need for 
 her except for the annoying goats part.
  
  Music/Sound- 6/10
  
  Ok dont get me wrong theres some pretty cool music in here, but still it seem like Nintendo only 
 remixed old versions of the songs, and added some new songs to the game which in some cases didnt 
 fit in at all. Theres for example, the Hyrule Field theme, its a cool track but it just doesnt 
 fit very well with the atmosphere, and with so much remixes in the game, and Oot Hyrule field theme 
 wouldnt have been so bad. Yet the temples got more of ambience sounds than an actual soundtrack. 
 The sound effects were really good, and very realistic. They did put some effort into them.
  
  Replay Value: Well is a good game however too overrated, to me its a play-once game but of 
 course you can always replay it and try to find secret stuff if youre bored.
  
  Rent or Buy it: I recommend you to rent it first, since its really a different game and not everyone 
 will like it, and yes I got this game and I liked it but I rather play other games since this one 
 can be really annoying at times.
  
  Total- 5.9/10
  
  Well there you have it folks, thats what I think of this game, it's not so bad but it messed up 
 pretty badly compared to others, it even got a typo on the side of the GC box since it says Twilight 
 Pricess yeah Pricess I mean wtf?... oh well . Flames are welcome but they wont change my point 
 of view. Now if you really want a 10/10 Zelda game with a good storyline and emotive characters 
 play Ocarina of Time and you won't be disappointed. So come on flame me all you want, I got a 1GB 
 mailbox so write to me all you want but please not spam or publicity I don't want to get a free 
 cellphone or get my penis enlarged. AND NO I'M NOT INTERESTED IN A FREE PS3 OR XBOX360 THANK YOU. 
 Also compliments, your points of view in a NOT flaming way, hi's , marriage proposals, Free wii 
 points are also well received cya ;) .
  
  P. S: English is not my native language so forgive me if I have any mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong. I really wanted to like this game I really did. I loved Ocarina of Time 
 and even played Wind Waker through more than once.
  
  But surely there comes a point where you have to stop regurgitating the same old formula and content 
 and move on ?
  
  Well someone at Nintendo doesn't think so. So welcome to Twilight Princess - aka Ocarina of Time 
 3. Yep all the same elements are there again. Thrill as Link gets his first sword and shield, act 
 all surpised as the first dungeon gives you a boomerang (with wind !!!! wow !!!!) and marvel as 
 you ride Epona (now 86 yrs old) across Hyrule plain... again.
  
  It's not a bad game but there surely comes a point where you have to raise the bar otherwise you've 
 feel you've seen it all before. Even the graphics and sound seem to be ported from OOT.
  
  Worth a playthrough if you're a die hard Zelda fan otherwise I can guarantee you you've seen all 
 this has to offer before. Time to leave 1980 Nintendo ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir1-9-9-0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game to anyone who owns a Wii or a Gamecube. This game should be on you birthday 
 and/or holiday list if you don't own it already. This game is great for beginners who need to get 
 used to the system or veterans who want something challenging to play. If you don't want to risk 
 wasting money, rent this game instead so that you get to see how great it is, and if you like it 
 and decide to but it, you have save data ready o you don't have to start at the beginning again. 
 The best thing about this game is the story line that you absolutely need to pay attention to. 
 Not really any voice acting for the characters is probably the only negative to this game, but 
 there is no problems with it gameplay wise, so the lack of voice acting wont be a hindrance. My 
 conclusion: Best game to get for anyone who wants to enjoy their Wii consoles and their Nintendo 
 Gamecube consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  My score may say 8 but i dont like this game if i just gave it a score and not an average 7. This 
 is so different from a zelda game and not different in a good way. the wii controls make it seem 
 bad to me like your not playing zelda. the story was so different to i didnt beet it because i 
 just couldnt play it my brother played it AND defeated the final boss who im pretty sure wasnt 
 ganon its like wtf whos hell is that guy and there were like 6 stages you had to do to beet him. 
 if there were no other zelda games ever created and this was the first then it would be better 
 but i dread to call this zelda. id call it how zelda messes up zelda gave it wii controls and made 
 the story just completely different than any other zelda its been a while since i played this but 
 that princess in the twilight place that was zelda right because if it wasnt this game would be 
 even worse. This game is okay but its not zelda okay. this would be better on the gamecube but 
 still not near as good as other zeldas i dont like the wii the controls make it just seem weird 
 its good for wii spots and stuff like that but those get boring after a while i prefer the gamecube 
 this game is alright but not a zelda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  + The Combat
  + Story
  + Characters
  + Use of the Wii controls
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Controls get boring
  - The Graphics
  
  The Ugly:
  
  -- No Voice Acting 
 implied
  
  Zelda, that one name every gamer has in his or her heart. The competitive gameplay and puzzles 
 that makes every fan of Nintendo shout, Triforce! . Well, this one has that same element as the 
 other Zeldas, but this one has a little more differ side to it's controls.
  
  Ever since Nintendo created the Nintendo DS, things had started to be a little more shakey when 
 it finally shown the control for the Wii. Two wands, that really looked liked remotes you can find 
 under your couch. Everyone thought, It's over! Nintendo finally came to the dark side of producing 
 horrible ideas. Let's start remembering the dark days of the VB. However, all hope was not lost. 
 When it was produced in November, it implied that it was way cheaper than the PS3, given it a huge 
 advantage. Then Zelda also gave it a shine of its own.
  
  I have to admit this game, didn't I played this about nine years ago? The story starts to unfold 
 too much like the Ocarina did. Temples? Gorons? Zoras? Doesn't this world happen in Ocarina of 
 Time? Oh well, it was good, so why fix it when you can just leave it. However, tools start to break, 
 so this say doesn't fit in this Zelda.
  
  The story is way too similar, I have to say that Nintendo is just drying up with this line of events. 
 You start out as Link, duh, and you are growing up to be a man. Wow, a man. When you are done with 
 your work in a typical day, all hell breaks loose and warthog people attack your girlfriend and 
 kidnaps kids. You realized that when you go to the far edge of town, a realm is shown as a dark 
 figured. Soon you turn into a wolf when you entered it... yeah. So after you meet Midna, the little 
 annoying floating girl with a huge dark crown, you start you journey as the Chosen and have to 
 defeat the Twilight realm and save Hyrule from Ganondorf, again, and defeat Zaat or whatever the 
 king of the Twilight. Temples!
  
  The gameplay is a huge factor in this version of Twilight Princess. Gameplay! That is all Nintendo 
 wants to do, just focus on Gamplay! Well, you got Gameplay! You swing, or shake as what I call 
 it, your Wiimote around like a wimp and you kill things with unsatifying results. You block by 
 targeting enemies with the Z button. No block button, just defend automatically, which takes out 
 the fun because the only way to get hit is by attacking when they do at the same time. Link will 
 special secrets attacks by progressing through the game too. The A button is just the universal 
 button, by rolling to opening doors. B button is your select button action button thing, which 
 is used when you used one of your D-pad buttons. The - button is your select screen and the + button 
 is more like your pause button. What is bad about the Wiimote is the 1 and 2 button because they 
 are so far away from your thumb. 1 does the map, and 2 makes the map disappear and reapear on the 
 screen. Fun? Gets pretty dumb after the Water Temple.
  
  The sound is pretty well, but pretty crappy too. Music, cutscenes, and odd sounds from people sound 
 great and very superb. However, the sound, like sword whacks, rolling sounds and hit the wall, 
 Midna's Laugh, ect, all sound choppy on the Wiimote. I didn't like the sound quality on the controller, 
 reducing the value of the game. It sounded like you were playing on a Gameboy Pocket. What another 
 let down was the not voice acting. Text is not the new black anymore.
  
  The graphics were also good, but were too last gen. One point I think about it, doesn't the Gamecube 
 play this too? Lame, very lame indeed to the graphic imput. Why does Nintendo all of a sudden start 
 hating the art in the game? Games today should have quality graphics so the the player can feel 
 the game.
  
  So at the end, the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was kind of a let down to the story, gameplay, 
 and graphics. It could have been a whole lot better if Nintendo didn't put in the part where the 
 Gameplay must been the whole deal of the bargin. Twilight Princess is pretty well done right for 
 the Wii. With good controls and story, this one won't leave your Wii. It just wasn't that good 
 as a Zelda fan wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfHyrule910
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  nintendo has outdone themselves! legend of zelda twilight princess is the best game i have every 
 played theres so much to do u can fish, canoe, horseback battles, and so much more that i dont feel 
 like saying! its so fun to do glitches and fight random monsters! i love riding on the horse and 
 shooting people with arrows! snowboarding is the best because you can use your sword while you 
 snowboard! No game can be better than legend of zelda twilight princess! I can play legend of zelda 
 twilight princess over and over again ever if i beat it! i gave this game a 10 rating cause it 
 rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drift2Cyber
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I say. For the first time ever beating a zelda game I say. Wow! From the gameplay was great. 
 Didn't take long to learn the moves. The graphics improved alot. And the fighting was fun. With 
 the wii version, swinging your controller around made it fun to exercise. lol. As fore all zelda 
 I played the death sequence haven't changed. It still only take 3 major hits to killed the bosses. 
 And the second form made it fun to scared people. The hours where short, but then again this is 
 my first time I beat zelda. Here is my thumbs up! Now go play it to see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soni337
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazed me better than any other game it is pretty easy to get used to the controls 
 the enemies are very smart and the graphics are perfect . it is the biggest and longest Zelda adventure 
 ever it takes about 45 minutes to go from the beginning to the end of the map it is a great game 
 in some peoples opinion the greatest game of all time the soundtrack is the best in the series 
 it is worth about $50 in my opinion. overall it is worth way more than it is priced and is very 
 fun and addictive. I will never get tired of fighting ganondorf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosalmon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Recently I played the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. I thought it was a pretty good game, 
 and a good step forward for Nintendo. I was wrong.
  
  
  I also played the Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker recently. I was expecting it to be mediocre and 
 nothing compared to Twilight Princess. Again, I was wrong. The best way to see how good the latest 
 game in a series is is to compare it to its predecesors. So I shall compare Twilight Princess to 
 Wind Waker, and examine how it improves upon Wind Waker, or how it doesn't.
  
  
  First, graphically. Most people would defend Twilight Princess' graphics to their graves, but I'd 
 have to say that Wind Waker wins the graphics fight. Wind Waker's cel shaded graphics are very 
 smooth, and every object is the shape it's suppose to be. Twilight Princess, while there are some 
 amazing visuals, is very pixelated in spots (like the entire ground) , and some spherical objects 
 are pointed and uneven. So graphics were a step backwards for Twilight Princess.
  
  
  Next is Sound. While neither game has what one would consider voice acting, Wind Waker's characters 
 possesed more sounds that resembled talking that Twilight Princess could ever hope to claim. Also, 
 Wind Waker possessed fresh, new sounds that were unique from Ocarina of Time, and had charming 
 sound effects that fit well with the cartoony art style. Once again, Twilight Princess recycles 
 A LOT of Ocarina music, making the few times there is any sound stale and annoying. So Wind Waker 
 wins again.
  
  
  Next, and probably my biggest complaint, are the sidequests. Wind Waker was a great game mostly 
 because of the shear amount of stuff that you could do. There were upwards of eight sidequests 
 that you could do, along with a handful of minigames and weapon upgrades as well. Twilight Princess 
 had a grand total of four sidequests (including the Pieces of Heart quest) and 5 minigames. And 
 their rewards are not even very useful, aside from the bomb bag and quiver upgrades. For example, 
 for the Poe soul quest, what do you get? He fills your jar full of Great Fairy Tears, which is 
 good for one use. This sounds good, but you'll probably never need to use the stuff, so it's just 
 wasting space in one of your precious few jars. So after painstakingly scouring every corner of 
 Hyrule for 60 stinkin' Poe souls, you get a practically useless drink that wastes valuable space. 
 The Wind Waker's sidequests and minigames are much more useful, offering not only bag upgrades, 
 but also new abilities and charts that let you locate useful items. Another major issue is the 
 lack of playable music in Twilight Princess. Sure, you get to howl at howling stones every once 
 in a while, but you can do that only once, and you have hardly any customizability like you did 
 in Ocarina of Time. While Wind Waker doesn't have as many notes as there were in Ocarina, you can 
 change the beat time, which yields almost as many options for music. Granted, there are less than 
 half as many learnable songs in Wind Waker as there were in Ocarina, but that's more than Twilight 
 Princess can claim to have. This was something that made me dissappointed in Twilight Princess. 
 The Wiimote would have been perfect for a musical instrument, or conductor's baton. (Wind Waker 
 for the Wii, possibly?)
  
  
  One last point. In Twilight Princess, they were going to have Link being able to cast magic originally, 
 (You know this because they never removed green potion from the game's program) but they took it 
 out of the game. So when they were making Improvements on it and pushing the release date back, 
 they were actually removing stuff from the game, and Improving the Twilight Realm! This is ridiculous! 
 Spells were a major theme in the Zelda games previously, and they removed it! This leads to a lot 
 of tedium in the game. Link lacks any sort of teleport spell, so he has to rely on Epona and Midna 
 to cart him around. Yes, I know, Midna can Warp link to different locations, but this is more cumbersome 
 than anything, because you need to transform into a wolf, warp, un-transform where no one can see 
 you, and then run to your destination. It'd almost be easier to ride Epona everywhere. Also, the 
 warp spots are placed in the worst spots. If one wanted to go to the Arbiter's Ground for some 
 reason, they'd need to warp to the warp spot next to the Cave of Ordeals, and then run across the 
 enitre desert to reach the place. In Wind Waker, teleporting was more fun, as you just needed to 
 play a song to teleport. You had to be in your boat to do so, but you couldn't get around anywhere 
 without your boat anyways. Plus, the warp spots are much more convieniently placed, as they are 
 right next to some important Islands. Overall, Twilight Princess was rather dissappointing. It 
 looked nice for a while, and kept me mildly entertained, but it's not perfect by any game standards. 
 I just can't call this the best Zelda game in good conscience. That distinction belongs with Ocarina 
 of Time, just like always. In fact, Twilight Princess might even be one of the worst Zelda games, 
 as it just recycles EVERYTHING from Ocarina of Time, while at the same time taking away everything 
 that made Ocarina special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydr017
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Wish it was bigger and harder, they are my only complaints but it's just amazing, what they can 
 do these days and just the basic ideas that they have used........ it comes very close to OoT, there 
 aren't words to describe how well they pulled it off. Now we just have to wait for the next installment 
 in the LOZ series and we have something, the best part is that they changed it so much, without 
 changing it a bit, although Link could be a little more heroic I suppose, and the map would've 
 been better if not mirrored, anyway 9/10 and 3 thumbs up ( I stole someone else's thumb btw) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is in the simplest terms a pleasure to play. its graphics are good even considering its 
 wii limitations, and its greatly complimented by its breathtakeing art design. But thats just scratching 
 the surface of this amazing game. The controlls have their problems, as well as the presentation. 
 For some reason, not known by me, the menu system that was so great from some of the older legend 
 of zelda games was overhauled. instead of haveing the item menu, map, and quest items all together, 
 they are each assigned to separate buttons instead of cycled from screan to screan by buttons. 
 also the item select screen, instead of being gridded off, is put in the shape of a circle, which 
 can be disorienting to someone playing it hours on end.
  
  now to the positive. The games item quick select system has been changed so that you can assign 
 one to the down right and left button as well as B. When you select one of the arrows, it switches 
 spots with the arrow. The ranged combat is greatly complimented by the wii remote, but i wish the 
 camera would move with the pointer, much like in wii FPSes, but its still an improvement over the 
 joystick. Sword play is a joy, due to the simpleness of it. you just flick your wrist. the game 
 also allows you to learn 7 special moves that get really technical and complex to do, in the best 
 possible way. They are taught by an old warrior spirit in the form of a gold wolf. The animations 
 are extreemly smooth and well pollished.
  
  The game, like all zelda games, thrives with its story, which this one is a wierd one compared 
 to all the others, because its much darker and character driven than the other games. unlike other 
 zelda games, this game has a farily short lite and fluffy side, because unlike OOT, MM, and WW, 
 this game has no extended time as a child. Its light story naritive only lasts about 30 minutes, 
 and then you are thrown straight into the darkness of the story.
  
  to say i enjoyed this game would be an understatement, it is one of the best games ive ever played 
 and i would recomend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oyvoyvoyv
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  The Gameplay is amazing. The wii remote is just marvelous. This game bring out the best in it. 
 It can be anything, a sword a fishing pole a bow, and lots of more. And the wii-specific elements 
 DO NOT FEEL TACK ON.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  
  The best on the Wii. Almost as good as Ps3, and you really see it is Link. SOUND: 10
  
  The 
 music is dated eh? Well, i can't agree with gamespot in that. They gave it a 7. But for the gamecube 
 they gave it an 8... It's the same music. Anyway, the music is FANTASTIC! It's the old OoT melodies 
 just tuned up. Riding Epona on hyrule fields simply makes me happy. All gadgets make sounds that 
 fit them perfectly too! The characters do not talk, but i think that's just fine. VALUE: 10
  
  I first played this game in 90 hours, no game book just me. I have played it again, and it's 
 a 10 the second time too! Now playing it a third time, I have played it over 200 hours! That's 
 the second most ever for me. (Ssbm has 500+ i think) . And every time I play it, i find something 
 new :) OVERALL: 10
  
  Fantastic. I wonder how Miyamoto does it. I can understand how he does Mario, but The Legend of 
 Zelda is just too good. I am just hoping there will be another Zelda on the Wii, because this game 
 is just... indescribeable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfan89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Now I do consider myself a Zelda fan, it was The Ocarina of Time that kickstarted my video game 
 hobby after all, but I am also not a Zelda fan that feels obliged to call this the greatest game 
 of all time, the greatest Zelda of all time, or even the best game I've played recently. Why? Because 
 this game falls short in some areas and I'm not afraid to admit it and I actually think that Gamespot's 
 controversial review is possibly the only accurate critic's review out there. Anyways, here is 
 the biggest problem with the game: IT IS TOO FREAKIN' EASY; the reason I fell in love with the 
 Zelda series was because of the challenge it provided, the mind boggling puzzles, the beeping sound 
 of low life that lets you know that you better figure out what to do quick or you'll be pushing 
 up daisies (okay so the beeping is actually annoying but you get the point) . This Zelda game put 
 so much hype on the action portion of the game that I was greatly dissapointed to discover that 
 your character can breeze through enemies with very little effort; the boss fights are also incredibly 
 easy and once you begin to get into it and start enjoying the fight, the boss dies. Since the action 
 provides so little of a challenge there is little incsentive to collect heart pieces except for 
 the sake of completely beating the game. My other big complaint is that the side quests are not 
 nearly as fun or rewarding as on other Zelda games; I collected 58/60 of those stupid poe souls, 
 and finally I just gave it up since I couldn't figure out which two I was missing (no little logo 
 to tell when you got all of the poes from a certain area like the skullta spiders on the ocarina 
 of time.) Some rewards are rather dissapointing, I won't give any spoilers though.
  Okay, now there are some things that were done right in this game:
  1. There still are a good 
 amount of clever puzzles although in general, they aren't quite as challenging as in other Zelda, 
 but still some tricky ones.
  2. This game does probably have the coolest items featured in any Zelda game yet.
  3. Cool dungeon 
 designs.
  4. In its own right, this still is a very fun game and worth playing
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very good, not quite next-gen good, but are still impressive.
  
 
  Sound:
  A little disappointing, the music is just there but doesn't stand out. Voice acting anyone?
  
 
  Value:
  This is a very lengthy adventure and can be even longer with the side quests. I logged in over 
 85 hours on my game.
  
  Overall this is a fun game that is worth playing and still is the best non-virtual console game 
 on the wii, but just don't expect what all the reviews are raving about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safaria5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  this game really got to me the game play is great but sometimes there can be diffucult areas that 
 you have no hints to. the raphics are like all zelda games and the controls a very akward but you 
 will get good gameplay out of this. graphics rock well thats probably because I never have seen 
 a zelda game so this is the fist time. sound is pretty good but ya know coming out of the remote 
 and not your t. v. is kinda of anoying. this game has good value as well you can get the feel of 
 the game. the storyline for this game turns out sad in the end but is a great game and I recemend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shige-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda, has had a very good legacy of games. This game is no exception from the other 
 games. It has been improved in every aspects from the former games. Even so there are still something 
 missing.
  
  The gametime is very long in comparisation with todays average game, which usually only last up 
 till about 12-16 hours. I dont know how fast its possible to complete this game but im pretty sure 
 it will take you more than a few days if your really a gamer nerd.
  
  The game has better graphics than the old games and it also has good music. Which has been the 
 trademark of the former Zelda games. Least thats my opinion.
  
  Seeing that this game has had improvements all over the game still fails if you compare it to OOT 
 . The game has way better graphics and such, but oracle just had a better story and the way you 
 went through the story line was just better.
  
  In this game you just go from one temple to another, and the temples are also nothing to brag about. 
 In the old zelda game you had to do several sub quests before heading into a new temple. Zelda 
 twilight princess is more about just heading from one temple to another and completing that. There 
 are of course subquests but these just arent as appealing as in the previouse game. They are more 
 of an obstacle just plain boring.
  
  The controlling system is great, nothing to complain about there. Overall this is a very good game, 
 but if you compare it to the previouse Zelda games, it comes in last place. Despite it being in 
 improved in almost every aspect of the previouse games. This just proves that graphics and sound 
 isn't everything for a game. You just dont get the good old feeling you got when you were playing 
 OOT, or Majoras Mask. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  This is it. The game Nintendo fans have all been waiting for, and it's finally available on the 
 GameCube and Wii. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. It came out as a launch title for the 
 Wii and happens to be known as one of the best launch titles ever, if not the best. It may be a 
 really good game, but it still has it fair share of flaws. This is a spoiler-free review so anyone 
 who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Bloody brilliant controls, Link is an adult the whole way through, keeps you hooked throughout 
 the game, sword availability while riding on Epona.
  
  THE BAD
  No Ocarina and is replaced with silly plant instruments, no magic bar, Magic Armour uses up rupees, 
 kind of annoying when figuring out how to get through dungeons, you now need five pieces of heart 
 every container instead of four, has it's fair share of bugs and glitches.
  
  Graphics
  So what if they aren't up to date with the 7th Gen? They're still really good and I don't see any 
 problems.... except the glitches but apart from them!
  10/10
  
  Sound
  Once again, we hear another great soundtrack from the Zelda series. Heck they even brought back 
 the OoT Temple of Time theme! However it still isn't as good as OoT's Soundtrack.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  If you ask me, the gameplay is pretty much Ocarina of Time mixed with The Wind 
 Waker. And that's a good thing. TP's game engine is a heavily modified Wind Waker engine, that 
 explains some sound effects similar to The Wind Waker's. Anyway, in Twilight Princess you just 
 do what you usually do in Zelda games. Run through the fields and dungeons, finding heart pieces, 
 beating bosses and solving puzzles except the scenery is completely different... as always. I have 
 noticed some changes in the gameplay which aren't so good. Firstly there's no Ocarina, now that's 
 INSANE! Instead, we get these silly plants which Link blows through to make them sound like some 
 whistles. That's how you call Epona. With the other plant, you can call birds and get them to do 
 stuff such as getting some item and such. Secondly, there's no Magic Bar. So that means hardly 
 any Magic Powers, however there's the Magic Armour you can get in the game but how are you gonna 
 use it instead of using MP? Hey , said the drugged man in Nintendo's building, Let's make them 
 use up rupees . Okay, that's enough of the bad stuff. Let's move on to the good stuff. There are 
 new wacky items in the game such as the Ball and Chain. The Wolf Form is also quite fun, although 
 I didn't really like the Twilight World at the beginning. I thought it was boring getting the Twilight 
 Tears or whatever. But I also really like the fighting and exploring like I always do in Zelda 
 games. The bosses are simply awesome and there are very creative ways to kill them. The Temples 
 also look great, maybe not as good as OoT's temples but hey, they're still good. The difficulty 
 to this game is quite easy, like most Zelda games, but the Temples are still challenging in puzzle. 
 And overall the gameplay is pretty good.
  9/10
  
  Controls
  Wow. The controls are brilliant. They are very creative and they make the game even more fun!
 
  10/10
  
  Character Design
  Like a typical Zelda game, there's Link, the Princess, a guide, an evil guy. I was kind of disappointed 
 not to see a fairy in the game, but Midna kind of is one. But at least you get to see Navi as your 
 pointer.
  10/10
  
  Storyline
  I was kinda hoping for the story to be connected to Ocarina of Time since it has Adult Link and 
 all. But in my opinion, the game's story is pretty good. One thing I didn't really like about the 
 Map was that every location were in completely different places, but that doesn't matter too much.
 
  
  Overall
  If you have a Wii and you don't have this game yet, then go out and buy it. NOW. If you're planning 
 to buy a Wii, make sure you get this game with it. Wii Sports won't keep you entertained forever. 
 Besides, Twilight Princess is so far the best Wii game available.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxremyxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is soo amazing. I mean i cant even describe it! I love tjhis game I went crazy waiting 
 for it. If you have a Wii or Game cube you need to buy this game. There is like no excuse to not 
 like this game. tHIS GAME IS PERFECT! Its like the best game for the Wii after SuperSmash Bros 
 Brawl.
  Its like the best Zelda game in the series. I dont know anyone who doesnt like it. It has a great 
 story it has great gameplay and great everytjhing. I could never ive without this game! THIS GAME 
 ROCKS MY SOCKS!!!!!! ITS SOOOO AWSOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I have recently just bought the wii. To be totally honest i have never played any Zelda game before. 
 I just became hooked on zelda when i first got my wii. I am very hard to buy games for. My dad 
 just picked up zelda one day because he thought it looked like a good game. I am still thanking 
 him to this day. This was the best game that he had ever bought me. I have played it so much because 
 i hear that it is such a long game. I have looked at the walkthroughs on it and it looks like ive 
 done nearly half of it and i had the game for a month. Another thing i love is that it makes great 
 use of the wii remote and nun chuck. For anyone that is thinking about getting this game I highly 
 recommend it for the length of the game and for the excitement of the game. It has to be one of 
 the best games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosabres26
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  This is a great LOZ game that i consider bested by only Ocarina Of Time for the Nintendo 64. Great 
 graphics, and the best yet by any LOZ game. Great gameplay, although the controls for the wii didnt 
 seem like they were originally intended to exist and that they were just tacked on by the producers 
 to make it wii-compatible. Huge complex levels add to the classic nature of all LOZ games. I didnt 
 like the wolf-feature much, thought it didnt rly make the game any more fun and just made it more 
 frustrating to get all those bugs in between the first 3 levels. Huge, immensely detailed bosses, 
 that were at times a little too easy, but were still fun to beat anyway. Overall, I believe this 
 is a great game to buy or to rent and is, in my opinion, one of the best zelda titles to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever!!!!!! its a really long game but every secound is fun and amazing 
 graphics YOU DEFINATLY NEED THIS GAME the story is 1 of the best storyline games in video game 
 history!!!!! The sound in the game is alsome and so is the music like every zelda game. Its really 
 addictive and fun if i were u i would get this game if u are a fan or not if u have a wii or a 
 gamecube buy this now!!!! this is better than ocarina bye 5% and there is some humor throught the 
 game and there are some scary parts in the game and really actionist parts throught the game!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: Twilight princess is a launch game for the nintendo wii. The graphic style 
 in this edition of Zelda is true to it's n64 predesesor. Once agin you play as link and set of 
 on a quest to restore light to the world of hyrule. You use the wii remote to slash and shoot enemies 
 and obstacles that stand in your way. For the most psrt these work pretty good but at times it 
 feels like this game was obviously designed for the gamecube. Another area that this shows through 
 is the graphical appearence. The evironments look dull and jagged at times, and the character models 
 look pretty goofy. Everyone seems to be saying that this is one of the best games ever but I don't 
 quite agree with this. At times this game looks dated and its not all that fun during some quests 
 that you can't beat. :) The length of this game is pretty amaing. One of the longest action adventure 
 games ever. You coulf find your self spending 50 hours trying to complete this game. All in all 
 this is a very good game but it is starting to show its age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godiko
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Link and his quests. I originally thought that no game could ever come 
 close to surpassing Ocarina of Time, However i was proven wrong. If any Zelda game could come close, 
 this is that game. No game has had me on the edge of my chair for the ENTIRE game. There is just 
 nonstop action and plenty of side quests such as The Cave of Wonders in which you go through levels 
 and kill the baddies on that level. The final fight is a battle upon Epic Proportions. I dont want 
 to spoil anything but lets just say you run into an old nemesis. This video game taps into the 
 potential of the wii remote and nunchuck. It also begins to show us the Power that these gameing 
 devices have. After beating the game you may raise your wii remote and dub thyself SAVIOR OF HYRULE!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Well everyone who is reading this reviwe has quite a knowledge of zelda games already...
  If not- You are Link. A young farmboy who does jobs and practices many diffren arts. Then all hell 
 breaks loose and the monsters of the twilight apper.
  Overall this game is freakin sweet. Many to do such as fishing and fighting, to sumo and riding 
 horses. The game makes good use of the cntrols and is sure a hell o alotta fun.
  The graphics a superb and the game is worth every penny. Theere is just one flaw. The main caves 
 you must explore take a bit of time. If your like me, very busy all the time, you dont have muc 
 time to pla this loooooong adventure.
  
  But itis still a very good game.
  Great first coice for a game on my new wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsta7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Everything is absolutely perfect.
  
  The Bad: Um......... Er.......... I dunno.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  The Gameplay is perfect. Easy 
 to play. The Wii mote is Fantastic. The best game if you wanna see what the wiimote can do. It 
 can be a sword, bow 'n' arrow, fishing rod + plenty more. You NEVER get frustrated at the remote 
 not working, unless you've got no batteries in it. Derrrrr!! Anyway, the nunchuk is also brilliant, 
 and works perfectly.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  
  The Graphics are Amazing. The best on wii by universes. Could be on PS3, and no, I'm not joking.
 
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  The Music could be in movies. It seems just too good for a video game. The sound effects are perfect, 
 and the sword effects are very effective coming out of the wii mote and it sounds real. Same as 
 all the other weapons and gadgets.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  The longest game I have played in my life! I used the guidebook and I got just under 100 hours. 
 I got all the pieces of heart too.
  
  OVERALL: 10
  
  What a Game! Do you have a Wii? If you do, you must have this game. Everyone that has a Wii should 
 own this game. Thankyou Nintendo, for making the most enjoyable and long-lasting game I have ever 
 played. Why can't every game be as good as this? Can't developers put in a little extra effort 
 to make it amazing rather than just okay or good? I hope there's another Zelda on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Prior to this release I probably played The Wind Waker nearly a dozen times, partly since that 
 too was a spectacular and enthralling game, but after about the 5th time completing it, I did merely 
 to psyche myself up for the next predetermined success, in my mind at least. And by no means was 
 I disappointed. The new mature look of the game is a pleasant return to the style of Ocarina of 
 Time, and with the heightened ambience of each area, along with the compelling visuals, whether 
 it was intended or not, emphasize the pointy-eared protagonists singularly significant struggle. 
 The artistic design of the creatures of Twilight was spot-on. They, to me, represent the cold, 
 calculated, and emotionless ferocity of an alien invader. Their design is like a hybrid of what 
 seemed to be intimidating tribal masks of war, and computer technology. For instance, the portals 
 in which the twilight creatures travel through appear digitized, yet fluid, and at times unnerving 
 when you seem them looming in the distant sky over Hyrule. Throughout the game there are moments 
 where itll leave you taken aback, like the springs of the light spirits or just standing on the 
 shores of lake Hyrule gives you something to admire and welcomes you to explore. Something else 
 that was refreshing, is the blatant line between good and evil, which is prevalent in all Zelda 
 games. In our world full of so much confusion and insecurities, its nice to get caught up in a 
 world that has defined the one and only evil in their world along with the singularity and non-denomination 
 of their faith (something that is beyond our world) , and has conquered it time and time again. Romantic? 
 Sure, but its nevertheless a great world to be caught up in. Now, with all of the abstract aspects 
 out of the way, lets get down to the game mechanics. As is evident with other installments in 
 the series the gameplay is top-notch. You travel dungeon to dungeon solving puzzles fighting monsters, 
 collecting the dungeons main item, and then utilizing it in the dungeons boss battle. It may 
 be a recycled formula, but it still works perfectly, and with some of the Wii features, it enhances 
 the experience. The soundtrack was of typical Zelda fashion, with simple nerve-racking, yet compelling, 
 melodies for each dungeon, and the epic over-world composition. And with the addition of the Twilight 
 realm, it lead to a lot of frantic, melancholic synthesized parts. At times of great importance 
 whether it be dialogue between characters, or a somewhat eerie and mystic flashback, the music 
 may cease, heightening the players sense of anticipation, very much appreciated. The artistic 
 direction compliments the Wiis capabilities well. As my friend John out it, the Wii has a way 
 of rendering colors and shading that neither of the other systems can do. Everything in the game 
 is great to look at, except the Twilight portals they creep me out. In the end, if you have realistic 
 expectations as to how the game will play, especially seeing since its a launch title, you will 
 not be disappointed. It is an essential title for the Wii, and a delight to anyone who enjoys compelling 
 worlds and unique artistic choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendians
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was a letdown; it was interesting in the beginning and all 
 the way to the end of the 1st dungeon/stage. More important the gameplay seems kind of a rip-off 
 version of Ocarina of Time mix with Wind Waker but with advance moves. If Nintendo is going to 
 do a next Zelda game for the Wii (which is most likely that they well do it) , they should make 
 the game harder like Ocarina of Time and make the game enjoyable.
  
  The Gameplay: The gameplay was weak, sometime I have to swing the wii-mote 2x so it well respond 
 and some of the hidden skill was a waste and it shouldn't be call Hidden Skill at all.
  
  The Graphics: Well graphics are decent and a little up the Sony Playstation 2's specs; the shape-ness 
 was not (like those close up cut scenes, not even on the Nintendo Wii) . The design was awesome 
 and peaceful that I wish I was there.
  
  The Sound: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princesss sound was okay but the not best either. The 
 music was like hardly heard for 4 to 5 seconds from the beginning like 50 to 70% of the music was 
 lame. The voice acting was good except Link's voice. It sounds like half of Dark Link's voice and 
 it was awkward to hear it, but it doesnt matter.
  
  The Value: Well, Twilight Princess was quick and easy, but I rushed to beat the game in the 1st 
 place and have a lot of game over, because I was impatient to beat it early, there is a little 
 replay value in this game, and I might play again.
  
  The Conclusion: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess might not be fun as I thought it would be, 
 but I credit Nintendo on the character design, those where some good designing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, how do I start here, oh yeah, this is one of the best zeldas I ever played! It's very similar 
 to the Ocarina of Time, except better, way better. It's also a lot better on the wii than the gamecube. 
 (Trust me here)
  
  Pros:
  Great Graphics
  Intuitive wii remote system ( i'll get into this later)
  Interesting Temples / Bosses
  This 
 game is really long, i spent about 45-55 hours in the main game alone, and about 5-10 more hours 
 on side quests.
  Lots of new features.
  
  Cons:
  Horseback Riding, when you hit a wall while on the horse, it has to stop for like 4 seconds (gets 
 really annoying)
  The first temple is really annoying and confusing.
  
  The Combat system is greatly improved due to the wii remote.
  Examples:
  You can now swing 
 your sword while running.
  You can now swing your sword while on horseback.
  Using projectiles just got a lot easier.
  And much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koldewyse
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Let me start off this review by saying this: I am not a troll, nor am I a hardcore Zelda fan. I 
 am a normal gamer with no hate or allegiance for Legend of Zelda games. When I picked up Windwaker 
 for the GCN a few years ago, I didn't know what to expect. The game had received mixed reviews, 
 and many people denounced it for straying from the typical Zelda formula. Getting into it, I found 
 that it was one of my most favorite action-adventure games ever. The visual style was new and vibrant, 
 the gameplay was innovative and fresh, and the whole world felt new and yet oddly familiar. Naturally, 
 getting myself a Wii at launch, I expected Twilight Princess to match its hype and Zelda name, 
 to blow me away. Boy, was I wrong.
  
  In case you don't know, most Zelda games share a similar story. Young boy from some forgotten village 
 goes on a mission, travels across the land and becomes a hero, usually ends up saving a princess. 
 I have no problem with this, as a different story line for Zelda would just feel... weird. So, 
 as the opening sequence played itself out, I thought to myself, well, this is okay, I guess. I 
 was already becoming wary of the crappy low-resolution ground textures during gameplay, the pointiness 
 of round objects, and the same, recycled Zelda theme songs.
  
  So bam, here comes your first chance to play. So I run around, the controls work nicely enough. 
 I get to slash around with a sword, ride my horse, all with the Wiimote. Nice. Exploring throughout 
 the world, you find that the graphics are quite dated, normal GCN-level graphics. The sound is 
 old and reused, and the gameplay is painstakingly similar to Ocarina of Time's. Sure, the story's 
 slightly different -- now, you get to voyage into the twilight realm, where particle-confetti things 
 float around, and everything's brown. But playing through the story, I was extremely bored. The 
 twilight realm wasn't scary at all, not even a bit creepy. The regular towns were almost all similar. 
 The villagers were boring and didn't talk about anything much. There was no real characterization.
 
  
  I wouldn't mind this years ago, on the N64, in my earlier years -- I actually would have considered 
 it a great game. It's just that it's been so long since a real remake of the original Zelda formula, 
 and it's not much improved, not much changed, and Nintendo's using the excuse of nostalgia to push 
 a mediocre game, an insult to the Zelda franchise, onto the market.
  
  But that's just me. There are some who will praise this game as the best in the series, the savior 
 of the Wii. It's just not so. Maybe if you're a Zelda fan who's gone through OoT countless times, 
 never getting bored with the experience, you'll find this game fresh and fun. Me, I just find it 
 old, rehashed, and nowhere near next-gen.
  
  Another thing: why is there still no voice acting? Sure, they probably couldn't do it on the N64, 
 maybe it was tough to do it on the Gamecube, but now you're on the Wii, people are expecting a 
 magnificent game, and you give them a totally mute experience, save for the SFX and the MIDI backgrounds? 
 (Oh yeah, the sound's all in MIDI, no orchestration. Sorry.) Overall, I'll say this. I don't recommend 
 this game to anybody but Zelda fans, those who grew up with Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, 
 those who will stick with Link to the bitter end. Me, I found this to be Ocarina of Time with slightly 
 better graphics, a different story, and the all-new twilight realm, which isn't all that ambient 
 or creepy. Seven or eight hours into the game, I got excruciatingly bored and put down the game, 
 never to return again. It's just that Nintendo remade the same old game, gave it new controls and 
 put it on the market. Note that many people have told me to continue on, and that it's really good 
 once you get into it, ~20 hours into the game. It's just that I'm not going to play through hours 
 of lackluster gaming just to get into it. That's not the point of a game.
  
  I don't find the allure of the game. It's average at its best points, and dismally mediocre for 
 most of the ride. I'd suggest you rent it, and see how you like it before you go out and buy it. 
 Or, save your money and just buy Ocarina of Time on the Virtual Console. Or Windwaker.
  
  Pros:
  + Typical Zelda formula, if you're into that
  + Wii controls work well for most of the 
 game
  + It's pretty long for an action-adventure game (if you can get through it)
  
  Cons:
  - Typical, old, Zelda formula -- nothing new. At all.
  - MIDI soundtrack
  - No voice 
 acting
  - Last-gen graphics
  - Typical story
  - Old, rehashed puzzles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLAudio7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't excited about this game until I heard from Nintendo that this game was going to be the 
 best Zelda game ever made. To me, Twilight Princess was the first real Zelda game after Ocarina 
 of Time. Since Ocarina of Time recieved alot of perfect scores and was often called The best game 
 of all time , I was interested in seeing on how Nintendo could do better than Ocarina of Time.
 
  
  In terms of the storyline, Twilight Princess definately got my vote. I spent about 50 hours on 
 the main quest alone. It was definately an epic game. There were some minor nacks about the story 
 I didn't like towards the end of the game (specifically dealing with the last 2 bosses, if you 
 want to know the juicy details you can PM me.) , but other than that, it was great.
  
  The gameplay outstanding, but I was really disappointed with how easy the game was (especially 
 the bosses) . Kudos to Nintendo for making a game that casuals as well as hardcore gamers can play, 
 but I think that sacrificing the difficulty for casual / core gamer appeal was too much. I think 
 that if they wanted to make the game easy enough for casuals to play, they could've added an option 
 to adjust the difficulty (ie. easy for casuals, and then core gamers could crank up the difficulty 
 for a challenge) . One more thing: maybe it's just me, but I wanted the option to go back and refight 
 the bosses. Especially the one in the desert. Maybe that'll be something they'll put in the next 
 Zelda.
  
  Sound: The Zelda series has never really had proper voice acting, and while I'm fine with reading 
 text for a few more games, I think Nintendo will finally have to give in and start doing voice 
 acting. To me, not only does VA give the character more emotion, it also adds up to the epicness 
 of the game. As for the Wiimote sound effects, they were surprisingly bad. Most of the time, the 
 sound would be fine, but every now and then it would just crackle up. No other Wii game has done 
 that other than Twlight Princess as far as I know.
  
  The graphics were good. They weren't drop-dead gorgeous, but I'm glad they weren't cell shaded 
 like Wind Waker's was (I don't have anything against cell shaded graphics, I just think they don't 
 exactly fit in a Zelda game) .
  
  Overall, this game will go down in my book as second best Zelda game. All complaints aside, this 
 game is a must-have for Wii owners, Zelda fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great the controls are kinda hard to get use to but once u get use to it the game 
 plays so smoothly. This is one of the games i recommend to any gamers that have a wii or a gamecube 
 its just fun. The storyline is cool but i've played it for a while and haven't herd any voice only 
 stuff like HEY!! or YEAH!! but thats all. The game goes so well with the wiimote but you'll probably 
 have to get use to it first. sometimes i mess up even tho i've played for quite a long time but 
 this games storyline is a good one and like i said before one of the best zelda games i've ever 
 played graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I am not a BIG fan of OoT, but I am a HUGE fan of Wind Waker. Yes, I have played every Zelda game, 
 yes, I do only beat the one's I like. It's not that OoT was a bad game, it's just it felt like 
 Super Mario 64, but with Zelda instead of Mario. My peers thought it was a riot when I stated that 
 I wasn't impressed with The Ocarina of Time. You know... they still do ... but enough of whiny 
 opening, this is about Twilight Princess! I could just say that Twilight Princess is exactly like 
 Ocarina of Time by saying it's easier, it doesn't contain the "wow" factor that used to be there... 
 in SOME people's minds, nor does it contain the ocarina that let's you screw with weather, the 
 sun, makes you old, etc (I must say, the ocarina was the coolest item I've ever seen in a Zelda 
 game, besides Wind Waker) . Turning into a wolf doesn't replace the notorious Ocarina of Time that 
 was accessible in The Ocarina of Time. If you want to know how sound was and graphics, just read 
 Gamespot's, I agree with what they type.
  
  So, try the TP, you will find some fun in it... as long as you're not stubborn and like this kind 
 of genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time coming for this newest installment in the flagship Nintendo series. Twilight 
 Princess was in production for a very long time, too long to count, and many were waiting impatiently 
 as the delays kept coming and coming. All the hype surrounding this game never faded away, and 
 it is easy to say that it meets every expectation the hype has given to it. It is a highly polished 
 game, even with its Gamecube roots, and it easily one of the greatest launch titles ever created, 
 and quite possibly the best Zelda game ever conceived.
  
  The latest installment of the series has a lot in common with its predecessors in terms of its 
 story, but this is by far the darkest and most mature game the series has seen yet. Link starts 
 off in his home village where he regularly herds goats on the farm. Very early on he meets up with 
 a creature name Midna, from the twilight realm, an alternate world to their land of Hyrule much 
 like the Dark world in A Link to the Past and the Adult Links world in Ocarina of Time. The Princess 
 Zelda, whom we have seen countless times in peril, is once again in danger of destruction. The 
 story gets much deeper and more complex there, and really becomes an extremely dark reality that 
 Link must face off against. With so many similarities from the older Zelda games, it might be hard 
 for some fans to take this in and not go been there, done that, but there is so much more to 
 the story that Link must discover, and getting there is loads of fun.
  
  The Twilight realm turns Link into a wolf when he is there, and Midna serves as the Navi of the 
 game, giving many hints and offering some help with hard to reach ledges and areas. All of the 
 combat in Twilight Princess is controlled with the Wiimote. Swinging the Wiimote will execute a 
 bite attack with the wolf and a swing with Links sword. It may come to some peoples surprise 
 that Link doesnt exactly follow the motions that the player is doing. No matter what way you swing 
 it, Link will do his normal combination of attacks like he would in the Gamecube version, but it 
 is definitely more exciting to do when taking down humongous bosses and fighting hordes of monsters. 
 Many people will just move the Wiimote slightly back and forth as they attack, but they can also 
 wiggle the nunchuk and Link will do his spin attack. Unlike in the Gamecube version where you can 
 do this as many times as you want, Link can only do this when his swords recharges from using the 
 move (which takes about 3-5 second) , but it doesnt take long and doesnt slow down the pace of 
 the combat at all. There are also statue points in the game where you have to be the wolf and follow 
 a pattern to a song by howling, and once completed you can learn a new sword ability to use in 
 combat. Theres 8 in all, and they are all extremely useful in taking down the bigger enemies in 
 the game.
  
  All of the conventional items to collect from going through the puzzle filled dungeons and beating 
 the bosses are in place, but there are new ones and new ways to execute them. Aiming your bow, 
 clawshot (basically the same as the hookshot in Wind Waker) , boomerang, slingshot, and anything 
 else requiring aiming is done by pointing the Wiimote at the screen. Standing to close to the screen 
 will cause some unwanted tediousness, so standing a far distance away from the screen will maximize 
 your precision and accuracy. It has never felt so good to aim and something with the bow and arrow 
 and take it down with a simple click of a button. It is much easier to aim than in the Gamecube 
 version and is an enjoyable experience. The newer items are the iron boots that now can magnetize 
 to things, allowing more complicated puzzles and traveling to take place, the ball and chain which 
 can brake down ice in certain areas, the rod of dominion which allows you to take control of statues 
 like in the Wind Waker, newer types of bombs including ones that can explode under water and ones 
 that can cling on to arrows and be shot which explode on impact, the spinner which allows you to 
 ride in insertions in walls, and the gale boomerang which is the boomerang only with gusts of wind 
 that come out when shot.
  
  Theres a few of elements from Ocarina of Time present in Twilight Princess, including multiple 
 tunics to equip that allow you to breath underwater and prevent damage. There also the Master Sword, 
 obviously, that is obtained at about the halfway point. You also have all the staples of the series 
 including multiple empty bottles, the lantern to see in dark dungeons, and all the other previously 
 named items. All of them are necessary at some point in the game to solve puzzles, and work extremely 
 well with the excellently crafted logic and skill required in solving the puzzles. Late in the 
 game, you are allowed to transform back and forth between the wolf and human form, making puzzles 
 require going back and forth. The wolf form can go into a sense mode where you can see enemies 
 not able to be seen by the naked eye, and places to dig under the soil. The most interesting part 
 of the scent mode is the scents you can acquire. You find many different scents that allow you 
 to track down certain people and items that are necessary to complete the game. This is something 
 new for the series and definitely is a warm welcome.
  
  Really the only disappointments in the gameplay are the difficulty. Many of the bosses are extremely 
 easy to take down once you find out there weakness, but it is so much fun to swing the Wiimote 
 and gaze at the beauty of the game that this doesnt even really effect peoples perception of 
 the game. Even the final boss isnt very difficult, but again it is a blast to swing the Master 
 Sword with the Wiimote. The puzzles actually make up for a lot of the easiness in the boss battles, 
 as getting to them can definitely prove to be a challenge at points. The puzzles are excellent 
 and require a lot of thinking and logic to get through. They are expected from a Zelda game, and 
 Twilight Princess definitely delivers. One change that some people might not like is that Nintendo 
 changed the traditional 4-heart piece to make a full heart up to 5, making it harder to form heart 
 pieces and more to find. This will be an off and on thing with people, some will like it, and some 
 wont.
  
  The graphics in Twilight Princess show that this game is a Gamecube port, but it has great artistic 
 style that many wont even mind that the Wii isnt put to full use when it comes to the graphics. 
 Even though it is a Gamecube port, Twilight Princess is still the best looking Wii game and that 
 is impressive. The soundtrack in Twilight Princess is great, but Nintendo still hasnt changed 
 from Midi over to an orchestra, which they should have done in this game. The soundtrack still 
 sound like an orchestra at times, but many will wish they would switch sometime soon. All the songs 
 are still amazing, including all the traditional chimes. The major thing that is wrong with the 
 sound is what comes out of the Wiimote. It has all the sound effect coming out of it, but the cheap 
 quality of the speaker really makes it not sound like it should. It is still an innovative idea 
 by Nintendo, and many will give them credit for it.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess will take people between 40-50 hours to complete the main 
 story, making it extremely long for an action/adventure game and the longest Zelda to date. There 
 are plenty of things to do even after you complete the game including getting every item and its 
 upgrade, collecting all the heart pieces, and learning all the sword techniques. The Legend of 
 Zelda is absolutely the best Wii game, and might always be. Anyone who buys a Wii has got to purchase 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. It is one of those rare things called a superb launch title. 
 If you want a long quest, spanning a huge world with amazing combat, and story with some pretty 
 high production values, you will be foolish to not buy Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for Wii owners. SImply one of the best Wii games ever. Maybe not perfect like 
 the Ocarina of TIme is, but it's simply makes sword fighting, bow and arrow shooting and fishing 
 a blast. Just like you're in the Zelda world!!! Love the fishing!!! Love the sword fighting!!! 
 and I just love the adventure in this game!!! THe graphics are simply awesome soooooo realistic!!! 
 Almost like you're in the medieval times or what time period this took place in. Anyway this game 
 rocks out loud. Like I said Zelda fans that own a Wii GET THIS GAME NOW!!! AND I MEAN NOW!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adio2190
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece and if you dont buy this game you will be disappointed it would have 
 recieved a perfect 10 from me except the graphics were not the best it was ported from the gamecube 
 which isnt the end of the world but you arent feeling like this is a Wii game more a gamecube, 
 but this game is great go out and snag a copy. This game will keep you occupyed for a while. You 
 will go through an adventure that will make you want to praise the devolpers and I thought this 
 game was underated by gamespot but that's why they are the professionals, so again hope you enjoyed 
 my review and go grab a copy and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game with incredible graphics. The sound quality 
 is great and the storyline is one of the best I have ever played. There are lots of puzzles and 
 very confusing levels, but mostly just right. The option for changing into the wolf is very helpful 
 when it needs to be. You can also warp to the other side of the map in about 5,6 seconds. The tear 
 finding missions are very cleaver except for the very last one with the giant boss. The part with 
 the rock on Goron mountain is a bit confusing until you figure out that you have to warp it up 
 to Zora's Domain to free all the Zoras. It's quite funny how you can scare people in Castle Town. 
 Once you leave as a wolf and come back as a human, everybody is not frightened anymore. It would 
 be a cool feature if they would all be scared when you came back as a human. The river bomb game 
 is quite a challenge for you gamers wanting a challenge once in a while. You get to shoot the jars 
 with a bomb arrow. The gamecube version of Twilight Princess takes a lot of practice with the arrow 
 aiming, but with the Wii version, it's easier than ever! I think you win a giant bomb bag or a 
 giant rupee case or something like that. This review will be quite helpful for when you think of 
 purchasing this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnykilljoy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  the man is the green hat the fimilliar hiiiiiiii is back and he now even comes in wolf form to 
 with a funky girl on his back named millina. the game's fun and new way of playing the game will 
 hook you the moment you start and now link for the first time has becom and right handed archer. 
 also the wolf gives the game a a very cool twist being able to sense ghoust and track people by 
 sent and with an add twist in the end (i'll leave that to you) makes this game one of my favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  I respect Jeff Gerstmann. He's a great gamer, and i usually trust his reviews. BUT HOW THE HELL 
 CAN HE GIVE TWILIGHT PRINCESS AN 8.8!!?? Even more astounding is that he gave Ocarina of Time a 
 10 and Wind Waker a 9.3, so he's obviously a Zelda fan. Now i'm not saying 8.8 is a particuarly 
 bad score, but how a Zelda fan can bring himself not to classify this game as at least 'superb' 
 is beyond me.
  
  I've been a fan of Zelda games since Ocarina of Time, which remains one of my favourite games ever 
 and the best game I've ever played. Since then I've played every major console Zelda game released 
 both before, and after Ocarina of Time. And I can honestly say that Twilight Princess is better 
 than Ocarina of Time -- it's the best Zelda game ever created.
  
  With that said, Twilight Princess certainly doesn't have that 'classic' feel to it as Ocarina does. 
 That's to be expected -- Twilight Princess can't be called a classic because it doesn't reinvent 
 the genre anything like Ocarina of Time did. It just refines it.
  
  It delivers one of the most well executed, well designed, and well produced action/adventure games 
 ever created... But is doesn't have the same level of 'wowness' as Ocarina of Time. It's like Max 
 Payne -- it's a classic third-person shooter, and its sequel was better, but not as amazing. You 
 could say the same thing for games like The Sims, Halo, Metroid Prime, Burnout 3, and many more. 
 It's the same thing with Twilight Princess.
  
  The game's graphics are absolutely awesome for a GameCube game, though they have their rough patches 
 (such as aliasing and blurry textures) . But this is a Wii we're talking about, and it has the ability 
 to create games that look much better than a top-tier GameCube game. That said, the game still 
 looks really amazing and has an art style that beats 95% of games in the industry. Almost as impressive 
 as the art style is the frame-rate, a factor which very few reviewers have commented on -- not 
 once in my 40+ hours of playing the game did I experience a drop from 30fps.
  
  The sound effects in the game are what you'd expect from a Zelda game, so in this day and age they're 
 nothing spectacular, and the recording quality could be a little better. The music is fantastic, 
 among the best in any Zelda game, but it's annoying that it's MIDI and not fully ochestrated. There's 
 no excuse for Nintendo there, most games these days have orchestrated music. The E3 2005 trailer 
 of Twilight Princess got me really excited because it had orchestrated music, and led me to believe 
 Twilight Princess would contain this too. That's not the case. I do agree with Jeff on the point 
 regarding the Wii Remote's speaker: it's a really neat idea but the sound quality of this speaker 
 is pretty awful. It doesn't detract from the game, but it doesn't enhance it. Also, there have 
 been complaints about the lack of voice acting, and it's true that this does seem dated, but one 
 has to remember that this is really a GameCube port, and for the amount of dialogue in the game, 
 voice acting would've been near-impossible.
  
  The gameplay is what you'd expect from a Zelda game too, though there are so many additions like 
 wolf Link, new dungeons and items, gameplay sequences (sumo wrestling, snowboarding) that it feels 
 totally perfect and like a new experience. The game is also LONG. I finished the game with a play 
 time of 40 hours. There are very few games in history that I've played for more than 40 hours, 
 such as Perfect Dark (140+ hours) , Ocarina of Time (100+ hours) , and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 (50+ hours) . This game is packed full of secrets and extras, and to see it all you'd be looking 
 at a play time of around 70 hours (without a walkthrough, of course) .
  
  I've completed both the Wii and the GameCube versions, and the Wii version is just that little 
 bit better. The controls are better in general, though I preferred combat as a wolf on GameCube. 
 Additionally, using a button to swing your sword is much more responsive than using the Wii Remote, 
 but not as fun -- so it balances it out. You have no free control over the camera in the Wii version, 
 which is a bit of a shame, but isn't a crippling ommision. Also, as the Wii version is mirrored 
 from the GameCube version, basically everybody (except Link) is left-handed, which is a bit unrealistic, 
 in addition to little details like the sun rising in the west and setting in the east. Nintendo 
 probably should have ironed out these issues. However, the Wii version runs in 16:9 which is a 
 welcome addition, as well as having slightly quicker load times and it's far easier to aim the 
 distance weapons.
  
  All in all, any Wii (or GameCube) owner should check this game out. Any fan of Zelda should DEFINITELY 
 buy it. Any fan of action/adventure games should DEFINITELY buy it. Anyone who likes puzzles, exploration, 
 and swordsplay should also love the game. It's the best Zelda game I've ever played, making it 
 the best Zelda game ever created, and the best game so far on the Wii, rivalled only by Resident 
 Evil 4: Wii Edition.
  
  ... but what was Jeff thinking?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ichigo22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  i love zelda: twilight princess. it's one of the best zelda games so far. the controls with the 
 wii remote are great not to mention fun and innovative, the graphics while still not as good as 
 other games are still really gorgeous, i love the more mature direction it takes and the fact that 
 link is already an adult at the beginning of the game, and i love how epic it is. i did find that 
 the game can be really easy at times even during boss battles but that's only a minor complaint 
 since it's fun enough that i don't really care. like i said before i love the motion sensitive 
 controls which make it that much more engaging and i found that swinging the wiimote as a sword 
 never makes your arms tired and the motion sensing controls actually make the use of the bow, boomerang, 
 and claw shot much more effective. my only other complaint which isn't all that big an issue are 
 the lack of side quests as compared to previous titles in the series, but like i said it's not 
 a big deal since the main story is so epic it's easily the longest zelda game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Anger
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  unlike most other zelda games in the past, this game is more linear on a 3D playing field. there's 
 a character that stays with you throughout the game to keep you going in the right direction. going 
 back and forth from the twilight to real world reminds me a lot of Metroid Prime 2. the items list 
 is slim and the available weapons list is kept to a minimum as well but does not take away from 
 the game. you may find the camera angles a little difficult to work with when there are multiple 
 enemies on the screen but overall this is a great game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johncena12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  all though orcarina of time is unbeatable, and will remain unbeatable for a few more years to come, 
 but i would say this game is kind of close of it. The graphics are cool and updated waaaay better 
 than wind waker's graphics. the gameplay is excellent with also a good storyline that you won't 
 be bored of for a long time. And the music and sound is cool but could be a bit better. But overall 
 a brilliant game, better than wind waker and some other games i have played on and you can play 
 it over and over again i say. but not as good as orcarina of time was though. this game is a must 
 buy for both wii and gamecube :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ah Legend of Zelda how I have missed thee. I must sadly admit I have not finished one of these 
 games since Ocarina of Time. I played through about half of Majora's Mask and then happened to 
 catch the ending when someone else beat it and felt uninspired to finish. Then Wind Waker came 
 out and the idea of sailing around the ocean held almost no appeal for me fun though the game was. 
 As such I did not progress past... I think there were these bird people? Yeah, didn't go past there. 
 But all that is behind now! Twilight Princess was an utter delight to play and I thought the Wii 
 controls were very well implemented.
  
  The way it works in the Wii version is you Z-target and then you swing your Wiimote like a sword 
 (Or vigorously flick it depending on how into the battle you are) . This system worked very well 
 with a number of deadlier attacks coming into play utilizing the A button later in the game. The 
 other thing you could do is the classic spin slash by shaking the nunchuk from side to side which 
 also worked very well and got me out of several tight situations. As for other weapons and items, 
 the bow and arrow system worked very well, probably better than with just an analog stick. Picking 
 of enemy soldiers from afar was quite enjoyable, especially when I placed a bomb on the end of 
 the arrow for a little extra bang. Also the variety of items you gain is impressive with the top 
 being one of my favorites. Did you ever play with one of those spin fighter tops or, more recently, 
 a Beyblade battle top? Well its like one of those and I was very surprised and impressed to find 
 it as an item. The functionality of it within its level was very enjoyable. I hope its usable in 
 Smash Bros. Brawl.... Anyway, the other thing about combat, and really the game, is that very early 
 on you turn into a wolf (If you didn't know that, don't worry, its so early its basically story 
 setup) and you can use rather different attacks that I thought were an interesting change of pace. 
 One was a move where Wolf-Link leaps on an enemy and bites them repeatedly as you mash the A button. 
 The other is an area attack which makes use of your Twilight companion Midna by holding down the 
 B button and hitting everything in range, which is essential in certain fights. Both of these are 
 good play experiences.
  
  If you're worried about gaphics, I say don't be. Sure they aren't Next-gen , but they work well 
 and, aside from the occasional octagonal pool, the shapes are rather smoothed out. There are also 
 a number of sequences that are amazing and have a better effect than most next-gen games just because 
 Nintendo knows how to work the graphics for cool effects.
  
  Music is rather good with pretty much the pieces matching the mood. Also a lot of the classic pieces 
 return like the theme from the home forest in OoT. However I'm torn between whether the Malon shop 
 theme is annoying or catchy....
  
  If you're looking for side-quests in this game, you'll have plenty to occupy your time. Whether 
 looking for the classic Poe souls or gathering bugs for Princess Agitha, you'll doubtless find 
 plenty to satisfy your completionist urges. I personally didn't bother finding all the Poe souls 
 because by end game I still had 14 and had no idea where they might be, but finding all the bugs 
 can be very benificial if you plan on investing in the Magical Armor (Which I highly recommend 
 for the fairy endurance dungeon) And, as usual, the world in general is light-hearted and charming 
 with amusing characters like the mail runner and bomb shop owner as well as quality characters 
 like Midna and Ilia (Oh, does that show my soft spot for female protagonists? Ah well) . Also the 
 inclusion of extra characters who interact with you in a big way (Like a band of four adventurers 
 you meet in a tavern) and don't just leave the story when they've finished their primary function, 
 things like that really add to the story. Also I loved the ending of this game even though, being 
 a hopeles romantic, I wish it could be different.
  
  So, for my final analysis:
  
  Pluses:
  +Great story (Not life changing, but very enjoyable)
  +Solid gameplay
  +Innovative 
 items
  +Large world that is well designed
  
  Non-pluses:
  -Sometimes you'll be accidently attacking instead of side-rolling due to some weirdness with analog. 
 I never died because of it, but it was annoying in some battles where you needed to side roll.
 
  -*Spoiler?* Does Ganon need to be the final boss in every one of these games?
  -Fishing wasn't as rewarding as OoT I felt despite the innovative controls.
  
  Question:
 
  ?Since Link is the Hero of Time, and the outfit is what makes him such, couldn't there theoretically 
 be a Legend of Zelda in modern day setting? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  legend of zelda is an amazing game. but i do feel gamespot is right that the wii controls do feel 
 tacked on. but the game is great. the storyline nicely moves along, the difficulty is perfect, 
 and the puzzles are tricky. many times i had to refer to a online guide to figure things oout and 
 keep the game moving. however seeing as this was the big launch title for the wii i couldn't ask 
 for anything. the only thing i can think of is that the game gets a little boring and the story 
 in the start is slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrozazul6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess gives zelda fans a fresh new story with exciting new game play. The new temples 
 and bosses challenge your mind more than ever, and the new revolutionary wiimote give you more 
 control over all of your weapons. Different actions done by the player allow Link to master many 
 skills. The skills will prove to be very handy in the long adventure. Usually zelda games aren't 
 known for their visuals, but this game ends all of that. Twilight Princess offers some of the greatest 
 graphics nintendo has put in any game. The new legend of zelda game has set high standards for 
 future wii titles to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogtoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  A Legend of Zelda game in the flesh! Okay, so to start off this review .... I was totally captivated 
 by this game! I played it for over 120 hours! Not straight hours..... but you catch what I mean. 
 I am a true Zelda fan, all the way back to the beginning of the NES days! Over the course of the 
 years, the Legend of Zelda has become an iconic franchise for Nintendo platforms, and are heavily 
 scrutinized to be near perfect. Now, with all that pressure to be so great, its absolutely amazing 
 that the games STILL do not disappoint! I got this game on launch day of course..... no way was 
 I going to miss this game! And even though it has taken long enough for me to do a review, I have 
 my reasons. I wanted to totally finish it from beginning to end, collecting every heart container, 
 item, Poe, bug, etc. So now that I have indeed been finished with it for several months (finished 
 in January) , I can be totally objective about the short comings, and positive points. The game 
 itself is a masterpiece! From beginning to end, the gameplay, the content, the storyline, and the 
 immersive feel you experience while playing all make up the best Zelda title, since to the Ocarina 
 of Time ! The game came close, but there is at this point no way another game is going to be able 
 to touch the perfection that was OoT. Hands down!! Ocarina was an exceptional experience and pioneered 
 so many game play techs that are still used in games to this day! It is the only perfect 10 rated 
 game, that I recall..... ever! So therefore, Twilight Princess was doomed, to be second to the king, 
 from the start! The game has so much great content, but when all Zelda fans that have played Ocarina 
 compared the two..... most were still sold on the fact that OoT was still the big dog!! I remember 
 seeing that question voted on, by several sites, as to which game was the superior, and of course, 
 Ocarina by a land slide. By no means am I saying that Twilight Princess is a bad game, it is far 
 from it! I personally, loved it; it's not better than Ocarina, in my opinion, but it is an awesome 
 game in its own right! The nature of the beast with games in a popular franchise is each game has 
 pressure to be better than the previous, ... especially franchises like the Legend of Zelda. I enjoyed 
 this game, and I'm strongly considering a play through again, .... already. However, this fall holds 
 a great deal of games coming to the light. So it may have to wait for a little while longer. Now 
 to touch basis on the one hugely talked about aspect of this game..... graphics. For a great many 
 Zelda fans, there were extremely high expectations dealt out for this game. With that being said, 
 I personally don't understand what the big deal is?! This game looked absolutely fantastic! Yes, 
 it is true that the game was originally suppose to be the grand finale for the gamecube, but I'm 
 glad they did what they did. The graphics to me are better than people are giving credit for, and 
 with the addition of the motion control.... why would you not want to play it? The only thing about 
 the Wii version in relation to graphics that puzzled me is....... Link is not right handed! Many 
 die hard Zelda fans were probably not pleased with this change, however; it was not much of a bother 
 after a while to me. The Wii version is in fact, a mirror image of the gamecube version, cubers 
 out there playing it right now, already know this. The wolf play is probably my only REAL beef 
 with this game ..... there were times of monotonous game play, and I felt like the fighting aspect 
 could have been modified a bit more. Other than that, I loved it. Overall, this game truly opened 
 the doors of what the Zelda Universe looks like with realistic graphics, and game play. The puzzles 
 weren't terribly difficult, but not too easy. Loved the soundtrack, and the surround like impressions 
 coming from the wii-mote. I'm pretty sure that the next Zelda will be better, due to being designed 
 from the ground up using the Wii dev kits. In conclusion, despite the short coming in being compared 
 to Ocarina of Time , I totally recommend this game to anyone, it truly is a game that needs to 
 be played. No true Zelda fan should miss this title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Im finally able to lay my Wii remote and nunchuk down and join the millions of other Wii owners 
 that have beaten the best game on the system. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess doesnt stray 
 too far from foundation that the previous titles have laid down before it but it is still a solid 
 game that contains all the best that the franchise has to offer.
  
  Ill start my review with the graphics seeing as they are the weakest point of the whole package. 
 Its pretty obvious from the muddy textures found throughout the environments that Twilight Princess 
 is, in heart, a port. Links running animation also brings back memories of the liquid metal terminator 
 in Terminator 2; Stiff and goofy looking. Fortunately, the art style makes up for it. This version 
 of Hyrule is easily recognizable by the staple landmarks such as Death Mountain and Zoras Domain, 
 but these locations just look better aesthetically this time around. Twilight Princess world is 
 amazingly surreal and highly immersive and easily the most realized version of Hyrule so far.
 
  
  Familiar monsters are everywhere with quite a few new additions and the bosses are grander and 
 more imposing than ever. The whole Light and Dark worlds theme that has become such a clich&eacute; d 
 theme in Japanese developed games is present here, but really doesnt take away from the environments 
 found in the game. Its just a point in the story where you think to yourself, Oh great. One can 
 never have enough light/dark dimension hopping.
  
  The Wii remote adds a few new gameplay elements to Legend of Zelda, but they play it pretty safe 
 here. Swinging the remote unsheathes the sword and swings it, pointing the remote at the screen 
 aims but other than that, theres really not much else it does. Seeing as Twilight Princess was 
 a launch title, its easy to see the reasons they kept the controls so simple. Another addition 
 is the fact that quite early on in the game; Link is cursed to the form of a wolf whenever he enters 
 the shadow dimension. During the times as a wolf, youll find out that you cant open doors, talk 
 to people or use any items, you can however, talk to animals and youre blessed with a great leaping 
 ability thanks to a dark being named Midna.
  
  Other than that, the game is filled with the typical Zelda gameplay. The story unfolds through 
 cutscenes, dungeons challenge you with puzzles and award you with new items that you will utilize 
 to further the game. Its what you expect from a Zelda game and Id be hard pressed to hold something 
 the game does so well against it.
  
  The sound department doesnt break any new ground. There are still no voices except for Midna are 
 heard, the music is still epic sounding and all the usual sound effects are present, even the annoying 
 Japanese grunts from Midna and Link. The game does utilize the tiny speaker on the Wii remote however; 
 Ive heard better sound come from the original Gameboys speakers. The sound from that speaker 
 is low quality and tinny to say the least.
  
  Where Twilight Princess excelled at is the story. Well not the story exactly but the characters 
 in the story. The story is pretty predictable and doesnt stray too far from Link is the hero, 
 Ganondorf is the villain and Zelda needs to be rescued Its just the characters Zant and Midna 
 end up far more interesting than usual plot devices are. Zant is the first of the shadow race called 
 the Twili, to display motivation and greed in a long time and Midna goes from a selfish little 
 imp to a proud and mature ruler. Its too bad that the way things work out in the end, that these 
 characters could end up tossed away. Twilight Princess, in the end, finally delivers what fans 
 have wanted for years; a showdown between Ganondorf and Link, just sword vs. sword. Even though 
 the combat in the Zelda series is rather shallow so the sword fight wasnt satisfying, the end 
 turned out to be truly spectacular.
  
  Yeah the game is pretty much a port Yes Twilight Princess trod the same path just like most of 
 the previous titles in the series, but that only took away a minute amount of enjoyment from the 
 whole package. You can view this game as half empty or half full, I see it as a game that is highly 
 polished and holds up to the standards set by the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- a deeper, darker story to it. Starts slow at first, but gets funner and has many challenges 
 as you go about including incredible puzzles. Some of them, however, are the same and overall the 
 game's formula in the dungeons are exactly as I remember them. This the Link from Ocarina of Time 
 and Majora's Mask who is all grown up. One of the features is that you can transform into a wolf 
 and you Midna. You'll be on a quest to restore Fused Shadows and bring the Twilight World and Link's 
 world back into balance. Graphics- Since it is from a Gamecube game, I will look at it that way. 
 These graphics are one of the best on the Gamecube. The problem with it though is that the frame 
 rate drops. Ohter than that, no problems. Sound- Again, very unoriginal. MIDI music is used and 
 many of them are back from the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. The sound effects are great. Each 
 monster has its own sounds. This game lacks voice acting which is.. at this point... just plain 
 sad. Value- on the main quest, 40-50 hours playing time. LOTS of side quests that will keep you 
 playing this game. So far the lengthiest Zelda yet (combined Main and side quest it is) Tilt- First 
 time Zelda fans and experienced Zelda fans should definitely own this game. Whether on Gamecube 
 or Wii, $50 is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Now since this was my first Zelda game, I wasn't quite sure what to expect. The first part of the 
 game where you start off in the village is kind of dull, but that is the only dull part in the 
 whole game. And it's only for 15 minutes so who cares? The story in this game is one of the best 
 I have ever heard in a video games, in fact I think it rivals my Number One Favorite Video Game 
 Story of All TIme: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. This story is absolutely amazing and 
 well written, leading to my liking of the game to be perfect. There aren't any voice actors save 
 for grunts and some laughs however. This game has the best graphics on any Wii game to date. It 
 will run in a 16:9 widescreen presentation coupled with 480p. Very nice. The art style is wonderful 
 but there are a few graphical issues, preventing it from getting a perfect score in graphics. Nothing 
 major, but it is annoying.
  
  The sound that isn't from your Wii Remote is great. The sound that is will hurt your ears. It is 
 very annoying.
  
  The game is well worth $50, I would have paid $100 for it. Though you'll get over 50, maybe even 
 100 hours from this game. Although if you use a walkthrough it will be more like 40 hours.
  
  You might want to use a walkthrough. For the many dungeons you explore you WILL get lost and 
 confused. The controls could also have been better implemented instead of tacked on and the item 
 equip interface falls short. The boss fights are rather easy, save the last one. These things will 
 detract from the gameplay experience.
  
  All in all however this game should be Number One on any Wii Owner's list. There is no game on 
 Wii that is better than this,,,,, for now at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_elements600
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Righty then. Chances are if you're reading this, you already know what the game is about, so I 
 won't waste both my time and yours typing away about it.
  
  I picked up this game with my Wii on launch day, with the confidence that because it's Zelda, the 
 game will be great fun until the bitter end. Well I'm sorry, but it just isn't. (I made the same 
 mistake with SMB: BB aswell sadly) . I've played this game for a few hours and I'm bored stiff of 
 it. I mean come on, this is Zelda, it really shouldn't be this un-fun to play. My friend also has 
 the game and has completed it says that It's fun once you get into it and I'm sure it is, but I'm 
 not prepared to play through the boredom to find out for sure.
  
  The graphics, while giving a sense of nostalgia from the Zelda games of old feel dated somewhat. 
 I would have prefered the vastly superior cel shaded method used in The Windwaker.
  
  Plus the controls feel very poorly put together, although to be fair, all the Wii version is is 
 a rushed port from the Gamecube to make Nintendo a quick buck. To sum it up, a well presented turd. 
 I would have been happier if they delayed it for 4 months to make it perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game supports a slightliy older link whos trying to free the world of the twighlight. Throughout 
 the game you will find amazing scenery, a devoloped story, and much action to go with it. This 
 game is probably the longest zelda game yet, so I highly recommend it as a first for any hardcore 
 gamer who is just now getting the wii... This game features the return of many old characters such 
 as Link, Zelda, Ganandorf and stirrs it once more with newer characters such as Midna etc... What 
 more, this time you are granted (or cursed, however you look at it) to become a wolf! The only 
 con I could possibly think of for this game is that the boss batltes are too easy, aside for that 
 7 thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda makes its debut on the wii console with a huge bang. This game is all that 
 you would want from a Zelda game, a great story, gameplay twists, and well thought out dungeons 
 to name a few.
  
  As we all know The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was one of the greatest games of all time. 
 This game is definitely like the game with the length, in which it is very long. The adventure 
 is amazingly epic, and the game really sticks you in the action. The controls on the wii mote are 
 very nice, in which swinging the wii mote anywhere will strike any enemy with your sword. It also 
 is an aiming system for when you use arrows/clawshot. These controls work very well in the game, 
 and get even better with the epic battles on your horse. The only thing that bothered me with the 
 game, was sometimes in the game, there was a lack of originality. Like I said Ocarina of Time was 
 one of the best games of all time, so they decided to re-use some dungeons tricks from the old 
 game. This can get really annoying leaving you with a feeling of deja vu.
  
  The graphics, for the wii standards, are very well polished. The dungeons look very nice and many 
 different twist and turns. As for the sounds in the game, they would be what you would expect from 
 the game, funny noises from the enemies or friends. The wii mote speaker is used in the game, but 
 all the sounds sound very scratchy, a nice idea, but not done that great.
  
  In the games main story, you could spend anywhere from 20 to 30 hours. But with all the extras 
 from the game, you could spend up to about 60+ hours with this game depending on if you decide 
 to do all the side stuff. Overall this game is absolutely amazing, with an epic adventure that 
 will keep you in the game for many months. If you don't have it already, do yourself a favor and 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Before playing this game I had pretty high expectations because of some of Nintendo's previous 
 installments like, Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, and Wind Waker, but after playing nearly 50+ 
 hours of the Twilight Princess, my expectations were surpassed by a mile. The graphics were great, 
 the gameplay was better, and tons of replay value. The plot itself was spectacular and the entire 
 land of Hyrule was very diverse and large enough for just about anything. I can't wait to see what 
 else Nintendo has to offer Zelda fans across the globe. I give The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 a 9.4/10. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_1ne
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth 50 bucks. It took me 53 hours to play through it one time. I enjoyed 
 the fact you could name your horse as well as your character. I named my character Tyler, and had 
 a tough time choosing between Horsy or Glue for the horse. I picked Horsy. About the only thing 
 i had to complain about was the predictability of when, where and how the boss fights would go. 
 i guess that's the point of LoZ though. the graphics were great on the Wii and i always love LoZ 
 music. i am still not sure whether to congratulate the dungeon designer or stab him in the jaw... 
 the dungeons were difficult to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sd_davis
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I love this game, as does my 5 year old Son. We can play it together; I let him play until he needs 
 help, and then I do the parts he can't, and hand it back to him.
  
  I love that Wii control in this game. The fighting is the best part, slash, push, duck, roll; fun 
 stuff with the sensor remotes.
  
  I love that the game is mostly linear. There are paths to be taken, but too many times I have played 
 games, and just feel like I have too many quests going at once. Additionally, I really like how 
 the game builds the character, and then the skill sets.
  
  As you progress through the game, you see your character grow, and as you move on, you get more 
 items, and skills to go with them. It makes it very easy to learn the skills and use them in the 
 game.
  
  If you have a Wii, you MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  So it's finally come. Was it worth the wait? Maybe, probably. Is it one of the greatest games ever 
 to be released? oh yes, definitely.
  
  While many people may judge this game to be disappointing, even mediocre when compared to Ocarina 
 of Time; when you put this game in an objective spotlight, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 excels Ocarina of Time in every aspect. It seems as though people have hyped this game to unreasonable 
 levels, fuelled by the nostalgia from long years past. What this game does do, is tick every check-box 
 in a big list of what makes a great Zelda game, or an absolutely astounding adventure experience.
 
  
  Reviewing this game is slightly 'off'. What i mean is that, this game is just a Gamecube game which 
 has been flipped from left-to-right, widescreen-added and wii controls thrown in. This IS an outstanding 
 game in its own right, but what lets it down is due to technical reasoning rather than gameplay 
 reasonings. As a game, this is a phenomenal piece of work. But, just as Gamespot has mentioned, 
 there are low resolution textures, 'last-gen' sounds, and the crackly sound effects of the wiimote 
 speakers which let this piece of work down. And i agree with these negatives, but Jeff's review 
 has come off a bit too harsh in my opinion.
  
  True, there are low res textures which looks bad every so often in close-ups in cut-scenes, BUT, 
 the way the game is portrayed, the directing, and the overall aesthetics is just a work of art. 
 Bloom is quite excessive at times, but the 'feelings' that it induces is fitting. When you're in 
 wolf-form, it creates a very dark claustrophobic atmosphere. In Lake Hylia, the glow of the watery 
 scene unfolding before your eyes, is just... beautiful.
  
  Most people would be put-off if someone mentioned sound quality and midi. This game heavily utilises 
 the midi format, however, orchestrally or in terms of the musical score, it is spot-on. A negative 
 also comes up around the wiimote speaker. While it's surprising and refreshing to hear sound effects 
 coming out of the wiimote, you just have to knock it for sounding crackly~as if the sound is coming 
 out of a &pound;1 radio. Put the speaker volume lower and then it's easier to game with.
  
  In gameplay-terms, it's all there. The chest-opening, compass-finding, level-by-level, room-by-room 
 puzzle solving, keys, weapons, abilities, field-roaming, money wallets, shooting 'gallery', mini-games, 
 something-collecting, heart-finding,  too-short-and-too-easy. 
 Yep, this IS a Zelda game. A lot of people knock it for being too familiar, but i honestly can't 
 think of how to improve adventuring except in making the game more difficult, and just more of 
 it.
  
  Things that are slighlty different or improved in the Zelda series, seem to be ignored or just 
 taken for granted. Swinging the sword is done by the 'waggle', which does feel a tad inaccurate 
 but it makes up for it by allowing you to run and chop grass at the same time! Wahoo! :P It may 
 sound like a small thing, but it definitely makes you feel like you are Link. The remote-pointing 
 is excellent for archery, clawshotting. And the fishing feels very refreshing when you're doing 
 the actions of casting, tilting, and reeling in the hook. This Zelda outing is now more cut-scene 
 ridden than previous Zeldas, and the loading times have just slightly, marginally increased. The 
 plot is decent, but can be a little underwhelming if you've been playing Zelda games for the past 
 decade. The game is portrayed in a much more epic style and feels darker in tones than every other 
 game Zelda game, darker than Majora's Mask.
  
  It took me about 42 hours to get to the last boss and defeat him in the first go but that was playing 
 the game at a leisurely pace, and without intentionally exploring around to get every heart piece, 
 bug or items; just playing normally through the game till the end. At first, the d-pad controls, 
 item-switching gets getting-used to but the 3d character movement feels right at home. The game 
 takes off in a very linear fashion early on in the game and that extends a lot longer than it did 
 in OoT; the feeling of a open wide landscaped world in first impressions is diminished when compared 
 to OoT, however, it couldn't be further from the truth. The illusion is slightly broken by throwing 
 the player behind the horse early on in the game rather than letting you go out on foot before 
 attaining the horse from the farm. The game moves very fast, probably because of the cut-scenes, 
 but i felt rushed in the first few dungeons; and the game only really picks up once you're about 
 15 hours in. The pace was probably too fast from the get-go for it's own good.
  
  I've already mentioned some good highlights of the game, but some of the items are just great fun, 
 magnetic boots, bomb-arrows, upside down walking, some spinning... and some new armour... it just 
 feels awesome using these items. There are some new moves to be learnt, such as the shield bash, 
 one hit kill and the 'head-splitter', which makes Link a joy to watch and play as.
  
  This is one of those very few games with experiences that are worth the full asking price. But 
 you'd ask why have i rated value quite low? Well, i just keep getting this nagging feeling that 
 i could have had this game quite some time ago (before Wii-release) , it's a GC game, and it's hardly 
 pushing my brand new piece of hardware. Not to mention, now that it's on a full-sized DVD rather 
 than the GC DVD discs, there could have been bonus extras or even some older Zelda game packaged 
 together with it like the Wind Waker had on release. This is an awesome game in its own right, 
 but lets down quite a lot if you're expecting a Wii-Zelda game, a Wii game made from the ground 
 up for the Wii. Other than that, this is one must-have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC19
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is easily the greatest, longest Zelda game of all time. Some people say that this game refers 
 to Ocarina of Time way to much. It does resemble the game but it just makes the game greater. Mostly 
 because I liked how I was playing the spiritual sequel to Oot. This game is a perfect mix of puzzles, 
 adventure, and action. So everyone can come to love this game. And what shocked me was how big 
 Hyrule is, it is huge . And you can never get bored with this game because you are constantly going 
 to different places and there is alot of action. There is one thing I didn't really like, the boss 
 battles were way to easy. Other than that the music is great, the graphics are amazing, and last 
 but not least this is a very lengthy game. So I highly reccomend that if you have a Wii get this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladmoring
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought my wii with this game, and became addictied ever since. My first zelda game I played to 
 the end, and by far my favorite. A great lengthed game and fantasic graphics and gameplay. This 
 game really uses the wiimote uniqueness. The best wii launch title is ALSO my favoorite wii game 
 to date and I have played the campain twice and want to play again. It is sad that the wiimote 
 speaker sounds cheap reducing the sound quality but it is used quite well in this game. This game 
 is a classic and for all wii users. I don't recommend rentingthis game because of it's length and 
 the first 5 hours are just learning and practicing.
  
  Overall- One of my most favorite games... ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpinalClash
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  10/10: Twilight princess is by far the best Zelda game you will ever play. This game has taken Ocarina 
 of Time, Majoras Mask and Wind Waker they filter out all the crap and your left with one kick ass 
 game. There are only two things in this game i would change 1: Give the game voice overs. This game 
 would have been absolutely great with voice overs it would draw you in to the experiance more.2: Boss 
 difficulty level. The bosses in this game are easy to figure out how to beat and than when you figure 
 out how to beat them its basicly 5 minutes tops till they have beem beatin. But even those two little 
 problems aint holdin this game back from a 10/10 score. This game has good graphics, really good 
 story line, you have a really good inventory, the camera is great, each temple is fun and challenging 
 and hudge enviorments. Let me break all this down. considering this is a game cube game the graphics 
 are excellent if you have seen pictures of it you will agree. Same in this Zelda game the story 
 line is great i dont have to say anymore about that. Links inventory is upgraded with more and better 
 weapons in this game you can combine your arrows with bombs to make bomb arrows some new weapons 
 are the Bey Blade (Spinner) , Ball and Chain, Gale Boomarang plus many more!. The only thing I have 
 to say about the camera is I have had no problems at all. Even though I said the temple bossed are 
 easy but the temple are really fun they do get chanlenging but its more like fun difficult than 
 I want to rip my hair out difficult. The enviorments are hudge it would take you 2 days (in the 
 game which are pretty long) to get like half way across hyrule field
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If You Havent Got This Game Yet Go Out Right Now And Get It Right Now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  So why the 8.5 then ? Well simply put , I'm one of many gamers out there who has played most of 
 the entries into this very long running franchise. I've finished a link to the past on the SNES 
 back in the day, completed links awakening and links awakening DX for the gameboy and gameboy color. 
 I trudged the premier 3d entry on the N64 and thoroughly enjoyed the gamecubes Wind Waker. I've 
 even played through the capcom developed GBA game - Minish cap for the gameboy advance. All told 
 that's 6 seperate zelda games and most especially with wind waker and zelda 64 , 2 previous 3d 
 entries in the series. This doesn't exactly explain why I'd throw out 'only' an 8.5 but hear me 
 out. Zelda games are essentially the same formula from link to the past onward, you kind of know 
 what to expect with it and well, it's certainly enjoyable each time you play a new one.. it starts 
 to get a bit hazy as to which one is which. Sure they each have some small quirk from game to game 
 and twilight princess wolf areas are a refreshing change of pace compared to normal zelda worlds 
 but ultimatly I couldn't help but experience a major sence of deja vu throughout the entire experience 
 this game offers. It takes the gameplay additions of wind waker and mixes it with the atmosphere 
 that many adored in Ocarina of time and polishes it up to probally the highest level of any game 
 in the series.. but it's still just another zelda game.
  
  For those who don't mind that this is essentially the same thing with new maps and a new gimmick, 
 add 1 full point to my score. Damage control of my own opinion aside though, I can't add much that 
 isn't allready brought up in the official gamespot review and the 1300 odd other reviews of twilight 
 princess, if you wanted this game chances are you allready bought it. It's zelda, if you like zelda 
 you'll like this one. Not much more needs to be mentioned.
  
  Aside from the wii nuances ... 90% of the time using the wiimote with nunchuck works great and 
 feels pretty intuitive .. the other 10% of the time you'll wish you could simply use a controller. 
 I'd still recommend getting it for wii over the cube if you own a wii. If nothing else it'll look 
 better on that widescreen tv you allready own or plan to buy. Finally if I had to nitpick some 
 more I must add that I much prefered the charming cel shaded look of wind waker to the drab OOT 
 based look of twilight princess, the design of twilight areas and lifeforms was cool but the other 
 stuff was pretty standard. So there you have it. Buy a wii, buy zelda, play it , enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maynardgilmour
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  While I did not think the Windwaker was a 'bad' game, it wasn't completely a Zelda game, not to 
 me anyways. Twilight Princess brings The Legend of Zelda back to it's glory days while improving 
 on a solid system.
  
  The Wii controls are nice, and don't change the Zelda franchise dramatically, which is good.
 
  
  The graphics look good artistically, but are average technically.
  
  The one thing the franchise could use is some voice acting.
  
  Like any Zelda game, you're 
 going to find yourself trying to get anything and everything. You'll want all the hearts and all 
 the bugs, and so on.
  
  If you're a Zelda fan and you had a problem with Windwaker, rejoice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai-Setoshi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is wow ... this game has it all .. its very fun and very long .. i myself havent 
 beaten the game yet but so far its awesome .. it uses great work of the Wiimote and Nunchuck .. 
 u wil swing the Wiimote to swing your sword .. and use the Nunchuck to guard with the Shield .. 
 it all comes in a great package .. the story itself is VERY lengthy .. and i mean lengthy .. its 
 a 50 hour story .. i am only about 15 hours into the story .. the game is hard at sum points but 
 easy most of the time .. all i can say for now is that its an Awesome game and no doubt the best 
 Wii game out so far .. its very fun and replay value is high .. so at my end point .. BUY IT if 
 u have a Wii .. its a MUST .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredrising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was the first game I chose for my Wii, and to be honest, 
 it's the best game I have (for Wii) . The graphics were suprisingly good for a Wii game. The gameplay 
 is set up well with motion sensor. This should certainly be a first choice buy for Wii owners. 
 In the game the fights are very interactive. To swing your sword you must swing the remote, to 
 fish you must cast out the line as if you were really fishing, to shoot arrows you must point at 
 the screen and shoot. This makes the game very fun and interactive. The graphics and physics are 
 also well done. One good example is when Link goes into the water and comes back out his clothes 
 are darker from the wetness and as he dries up the color starts to fade. This game is pretty long. 
 It took me about 50 hours to beat the game and I'm still not done with all of the side quests. 
 This is definately worth buying and I give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game... This game... This game.... I just dont know what to say. It is just the greatest game 
 i have ever played, i just dont know, the graphics are great, the story is MARVELOUS!!! The gameplay 
 is SPECTACULAR!!! I mean really, it is the best, for any zelda fan for any action adventure lover, 
 that love a great story, this is ur game. I never thought there could be a game with no flaws no 
 glitch, and im still wondering if there is any game like that. This game is awesome, but not perfect, 
 the sound has some problems, the speakers of the wii-mote make a good sound, but at times it gets 
 all staticky, the sound breaks apart and make it sound cheap and bad, which can get annoying. The 
 other flaw is that there is no voice acting, i mean u would hope that u get to hear links voice 
 after 20 years! But nope. The game play is just amazing, u use ur wii remote for a sword and then 
 u point at the screen to fire projectiles (bow and arrow, boomarang, bombs etc.) so its great, and 
 fighting while riding epona (the horse) is even more fun. PLZ PPL! This game is just... well... JUST 
 BUY IT AND PLAY IT! U will understand the greatness of zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomheffernan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  + 40 plus hours of gameplay that entertains from start to finish (and beyond if you want)
  + Superb visuals despite clearly being created for the Gamecube and Link looks real again!
  + 
 Fantastically dark storyline with a great attitude
  + Maybe not as life-changing a play as Ocarina, but that's because we've played Ocarina. And despite 
 this fact, it still manages to keep you grasping the Nunchuck and Wii-Remote from dawn 'til night
 
  
  - It came after Ocarina of Time (i. e. it will be judged, as will every Zelda game, on how it compares 
 to the King of Games)
  - Orchestral music nowhere to be seen - this series thoroughly deserves it
  
  OVERALL
  
 
  Probably better than Ocarina of Time in many ways but due to it being released after the N64 legend, 
 Twilight Princess will be judged rather unfairly by some reviewers. This is one of the most enjoyable 
 journeys somebody can go on.
  
  ... Oi, Maj... give Miyamoto a knighthood. It's about bloody time! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokedude1991
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  You Start out as a teenage boy living in a place called Ordan in Hyrule. You Heard bulls, play with 
 kids, and your pretty much the hero of this town. It turns out you have chosen to take a gift from 
 Ordan to the Hyrule. But.......
  Evil monsters take over the village. You have turned into a Wolf due be entering the twilight. You 
 end you being taken to a Prison In Hyrule. You meet midna who helps you with her twilight powers. 
 Shall I go on..................
  Nah why spoil the fun for you. This gam is a instant CLASSIC. you encounter a verity of weapons such 
 as The Hero's bow, Bombs, the gale boomerang and much more. This game is a Automatic get every one 
 who has a GC or a WII MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Preemptive Warning : Extreme Ranting and Criticism and possibly spoilers (although none will be 
 game ruining... as there is nothing to ruin and chances are if you've played Legend of Zelda before, 
 you've already played this game) .
  
  Ok, now that that has been said, you probably know the drill. If not, I'll lay it down like this. 
 You're some young dude who you can name (officially his name is Link) , you save the princess, Zelda 
 (no, you are not Zelda) , some bad people come and take over the world with darkness and its up 
 to you to save it with swords, bombs, arrows and... some weird chicken thing that gets you out 
 of dungeons. Throw in a little here and there take away from other Zelda mythology here and basically 
 you got the whole game boiled down, congealed and then coated with a new layer of frosting, in 
 this case, graphics. But forget that for now, the story is essentially non existant as I'm concerned 
 and you don't even hear about the Triforce for the first 12 hours of gameplay, just a bunch of 
 annoying cutscenes, puzzles, and fetch missions with children that look they all suffer from Down 
 Syndrome (no offense to those with Down Syndrome) .
  
  Ok, that didn't make much sense as a paragraph, so let me break it down into each of Gamespot's 
 categories. Gameplay : Oh boy... This game was, and at the same time, wasn't made for the Wii. 
 As you all may or may not know, this game was built upon Gamecube hardware, but was quickly ported 
 to the Wii so they could have something to sell. I personally found this to be a grave mistake. 
 You can see clearly that Nintendo is trying to make this work, but some of the controls are tacked 
 on and don't feel crisp. It will become clear when I explain in detail how the game plays... starting 
 now.
  
  Ok, you have to use the Nunchuk in coordination with the Wiimote for this game. It functions as 
 a sword and shield, where the shield is the chuk, and the mote is your sword. The chuk is what 
 controls your movement with the joystick and the two buttons on the chuk allow you to use Z-Targeting 
 (a staple from Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker) and free look. The Wiimote needs to be pointed at 
 the screen at all times otherwise your pointer will cause the controls to go haywire and lead you 
 to the left or right, VERY annoying when riding a horse or aiming in battle or just in general. 
 A is your all purpose roll/climb/interact/leap slash button. B is your item button which can be 
 toggled with assigned items on the D pad. Up on the D-Pad is reserved for talking to Midna (which 
 will entail a huge rant later) . To attack you have to wave your Wiimote to pull out the sword then 
 slash with it. It requires somewhat heavy movements to get the sword swinging, not just a simple 
 wrist flick half the time. I swear this system was made for kids in fat camp...
  
  Other weapons like the Bow and Bomb are used with the B button as previously described to attack 
 enemies and solve puzzles. Bottles make a comeback in which you can fill up stuff, such as potion, oil, 
 bugs, etc. You can change armor in this game again for added benefits (and drawbacks) like breathing 
 under water. But again, this is more or less the same thing as before with the item selection and 
 use. + and - serve as menu buttons and 1 and 2 are your map buttons. In the game you also transform 
 into a wolf when in the Twilight Realm. Links options are cut down here to basically run, and jump 
 and bite which... you guessed it, use the A button. You can use the D pad to sense things like 
 where to dig and scents. Down on the D pad allows you to dig up random things, like bugs, hearts, 
 rupees (which are completely useless and impossibly easy to find in this game) . The only real mission 
 you have as a wolf is to kill insects of darkness to restore the realm to the world of light... 
 Yay...
  
  This is the most tedious part of the game which is more or less a hide and seek mission to kill 
 bugs that are often hard to find and fight back. I mean, c'mon, insects of darkness? Lame... I 
 dreaded the time I did those each.
  
  Now the game often consists of puzzles, moving blocks, blowing stuff up, shooting triggers, getting 
 keys, blah blah blah. That hasn't changed. A few new things have, and not always for the best. 
 First off, you get to fight some ancient hero skeleton thing. It gets you new techniques, such 
 as Finishing Blow or Shield Bash . The finishing blow is fairly neat, which as the name implies, 
 finishes off enemies quickly. But the Shield Bash is flawed. To attack with it, you hold the Z 
 button and thrust the chuk straight out. More often than not, this ends up causing me to do my 
 spinning sword attack (which for some unknown reason is assigned to the nunchuk, not the Wiimote 
 which is the sword) . This would be very annoying in the parts where you must reflect projectiles 
 back at the enemies according to LoZ tradition. Second, there are various duels or jousting events. 
 This involves some large orc on a warthog to duel Link and Epona. This is annoying because more 
 often then not (especially as a newbie) you have to learn how the game responds. He has a big shield 
 and sword and you have to run by, slice him and not get hit yourself, easier said then done. I 
 must have tried for at least half an hour, screaming at the top of my lungs. I think my neighbors 
 hate me now. An interesting concept but due to the finicky controls of the chuk (namely the joystick 
 doesn't always point directly up when pressing up, and you run into the brute getting sent flying) . 
 This scene is an interesting attempt but the controls are flawed. Finally, there are other things 
 like escort missions and flying missions which basically feel like either...
  
  A minigame in Wario Ware Smooth Moves, but it lasts for a few minutes now rather than a few seconds, 
 and is very annoying yet again due to non crisp controls and very murky graphics. And the escort 
 scene can be described in the following manner. Imagine chasing a burning wicker basket on wheels 
 while a bunch of fat kids on bikes (in the game, orcs on warthogs) chase you and poke you with a 
 stick (bow and arrow again in game) . Sound like fun? I think not. I can't tell you how bad and 
 hard it is to target the wagon which can miraculously catch on fire, be put out at the last second 
 (through sheer dumb luck or an act of god) and then be able to sustain a full 3 minute burn yet 
 again. Basically I spent the better half of 30 minutes chasing the stupid wagon around, putting 
 the fire out, killing orcs and only to get denied because of one specific bomb that keeps preventing 
 the driver from going up the path. If you don't kill the assailaint at the exact time, you are 
 doomed to repeat the cycle. A pathetic and flawed attempt at something new. One last thing. Remember 
 the annoying Navi the Fairy from Ocarina of Time? Meet her slightly less annoying, infinitely less 
 helpful netherworld cousin, Midna. When it comes to help for clues, Midna is as useful to you as 
 a telephone is to a deaf person, in otherwords, absolutely useless. Oh, you mentioned the Fused 
 Shadows? She's quick to tell you gather them up, and forget saving the rest of Hyrule unless it 
 allows you to gather them faster. Ever so annoying and haughty and not helpful in the least. I'd 
 rather have Tingle riding my back, and you can quote me on this.
  
  So... for ancient gameplay plots and flawed execution with a gimmicky controller, I condemn this 
 game's gameplay to a 5 out of 10. Yes, if someone didn't pay 50 dollars for this game for me, I 
 would have stopped playing already. But I'm not a quitter. Graphics : Oh man... where to start. 
 I think the artists who made this game decided to go into the color selection and pretty much remove 
 any red shades from the game and any color of blue that isn't as dark as the night sky. The world 
 of light looks passable enough... for a Gamecube game. The colors are fairly vibrant... if you 
 like your world made of only brown, black, green and grey with a few splotches of water blue. Oh, 
 what does the world of twilight look like? Vomit. Yep. Like someone went bbbgggggbbbbgg all over 
 it, where the letters in that grunt meant the colors of the world. Black brown, green grey. Then 
 take some paint thinner and smear it all over the canvas so everything looks all messed up and 
 run together. In fact I couldn't find where to go more than once simply due to the sheer crumminess 
 and blended quality of the pathetic pallete this game offered.
  
  Oh, and you know another thing that symbolizes the world of Darkness? Lots of black squares. Yep, 
 particles in that realm are black squares. And black and neon vortexes. I saw the same level of 
 graphics in a Playstation 1 game...
  
  Not only that but I said this before... and I will say it again. The characters in this game with 
 the exception of Link and Zelda look like crap. The children Link knows all look like pushed up 
 nose, deformed faced Down Syndrome babies with personalities to match (Again apologies to people 
 with Down Syndrome) . They also look like something straight out of the Ocarina of time, that's 
 the quality of the polygons and rendering here.
  
  Oh, you think that the game has wonderful textures and geometries? No, it doesn't. It should be 
 titled The Legend of Jaggy Polygons and Wallpaper has better textures .
  
  The only thing have to say about the graphics that aren't N64 quality are that the animations are 
 surprisingly good, way better than the rest of the graphics. They are quite fluid and neat little 
 touches like Links full swim stroke are well made. Also I like how when Link gets out of the water 
 he drip dries and his lighter green tunic is dark green from the water. But the wolf link will 
 shake off like a dog. Cutscenes are rendered at a slightly better standard and they all use the 
 nice animations, so I would be lying if I didn't give credit in this situation, but otherwise, 
 this game has horrible textures, color selection and overall, artstyle. A generous 6 out of 10.
 
  
  Sound : The Legend of Zelda has always had amazing music, and this game returns with many of the 
 familiar themes, intact and remixed. A few new themes come to mind, specifically during the wagon 
 escort mission, it is a thumping and intense battle fare which fits well with the moment... too 
 bad the gameplay didn't mimic it. But that's where the quality stops. The Wiimote spits out ear 
 rending tinny sounding effects like when you swing the sword. A metallic swoosh pops up. Or when 
 Midna signals you, it sounds like a little witch is trapped in your Wiimote. The Wiimote should 
 have been without sound for this game because in my opinion, it detracts from the otherwise beautiful 
 sound effects... with the exception of the annoying chain on wolf Link's leg that mysteriously 
 keeps appearing even when he switches back to his human shape and then back to wolf. It drives 
 me nuts more than the Tell Tale Heart.
  
  Finally, the biggest affront to the sound score was the lack of voice overs. Instead of full voice 
 overs we get a heeyyyyyy or uggh or some other base gutteral growl. So if you like incomprehensible 
 noises that are to make you believe they constitute a full conversation, then well, this game is 
 the one for you.
  
  Value : If you like 50 dollars worth of something you've already played before in the Ocarina of 
 Time and Wind Waker minus the originality with additional frustration, then this is the game for 
 you. I imagine this game will take me a solid 35+ hours to beat, but I will never play it again, 
 that I can assure you.
  
  Tilt : I had a lot of hopes for this game when I heard it was going to be like the Ocarina of Time, 
 you know, like it was going to be good and such? I was sorely mistaken. This game would probably 
 be a solid 8 if they left it as a Gamecube game and let the little purple box have a last hurrah, 
 but instead they did a slapdash job tacking on an unproven control scheme and made a half assed 
 tired adventure that we've all played a good 10 years ago before. Now I love Nintendo, but I am 
 mortified with the downward spiral that the Legend of Zelda has been in since after the Ocarina 
 of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padfoot7351
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best game (solo player) for the wii, but i just don't think it innovates enough, 
 it just uses the same old zelda franchise stuff. It is still amzaing, because , after all i haven't 
 ever seen a bad zelda gam, but just including the wolf, and the whole twilight didn't blow me away... 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
 rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock rock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessFiMH
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth a try. This game was a lot of fun. I found this game to be well worth the time 
 I put into it. It was both entertaining and fulfilling to find out how the story developed as the 
 game continued. It was very worth the money. The amount of extra things to do outside the main 
 quest makes it that much more entertaining. Definitely worth picking up. The graphics may not be 
 amazing but they are good. Its all about the gameplay. Its a ton of fun. (Just try not to hit your 
 friends in the face) . Sounds are good as well. It was a little startling at first to have sounds 
 coming out of the Wii Remote but it became that much more amusing. One of my favorite random little 
 things to do is to go into Castle Town and play fetch with a little puppy next to the carnival 
 tent. Puzzle solving in the game is fun and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeiamtumadre
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Basically all i can say about this game is that its just amazing. Sure its a gamecube port, but 
 the graphics still look great especially for a launch game. Some people say the motion controls 
 feel tacked on, but I think they really add to the game experience. The game is definitely a lot 
 easier than the other Zelda games but you will still be playing this for at least 50 hours with 
 the story alone. The side quest will probably add at least ten more hours. This game is truly unbelievable 
 and in my opinion the best Zelda game yet. So if you have a Wii and don't own this game, go buy 
 it now or die =&gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HMN_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Like i said above, the begining of the game is boring, you have no weapons and no idea on what 
 to do.
  But when you get epona back (not when you first get her on the begining of the game) its just...*happy 
 sob*... good.
  
  Story: 8/10 The story is cool, but i dont get why is link turned into a wolf and if this game is 
 centuries after OoT (Hvent played OoT) why is Link, you know, alive?
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 The gameplay is pretty cool, you go from cool enviroment to cool enviroment slashing 
 monsters and solving puzzles. Although every objetive is changes from the next one, it gets repetitive, 
 but its still fun.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  No complains
  
  Replay Value: 8/10
  Although i havent beat the game yet, there are things i could do again, and things i could do to 
 improve my status (like bothering to search for the heart pieces)
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  It has pretty cool graphics. Cheerful when it needs to and dark when it needs to too.
  
  Well, 
 if you want a game thats killing from the begining, buy RE4.
  
  P. S. I wrote in classification worth the wait because it starts slow and stays there for a while, 
 but then it gets awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triforced3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  If you ask me, what killed this game was pointlessly odd wolf/midna scenes.
  
  Let me rephrase that, what killed this game was midna. Link turning into a wolf is cool but becoming 
 the horse of a goofy-looking, chubby, black kid doesnt exactly strike my fancy. They should of 
 been more critical with the story, with that said -
  Items/weapons were great, as with the puzzles and most boss battles. It just got way too wierd 
 - same downfall as majora's mask.
  
  Honestly, the game had more to do with midna than link, zelda and gannondorf - Did I miss something!?
 
  
  If they focused and fine-tuned more of the human link aspects, this game could have been longer 
 and have more of an epic feel.
  Also some characters seemed way too rediculous (this is expected, but there has to be a line drawn 
 somewhere.)
  
  I didnt like being teased with cameos of dark link and never seeing him outside a small cutscene. 
 Instead I retained only minal exposure to classic zelda gameplay doused in some form of bizzare 
 anime drama. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Another Zelda game.
  
  But to me... just another letdown.
  
  Im going to keep this one short and sweet.
  
  Yes, your Link again. This time theres a darkness 
 breakout all through the lands and you have to collect tear necklaces or something and give it 
 to these dragon gods to shed light on the land. With the help of this weird creature that helps 
 you when your a wolf and needs help herself, this game looks very nice. But don't think it's amazing, 
 You end up doing too much of the same stuff over and over again.
  
  This game should be 30 Bucks, Not 50.
  
  I'd say even though this game is great and that maybe 
 i haven't appreciated it enough, save those 50 bucks for the New Smash Bros. coming out, or Super 
 Paper Mario.
  
  Needed something more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draftrough
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Hello Matthew Ellison here. I love this game just to let you know: This is the best 3d zelda ever. 
 I understand that OOT has sentimental value but that doesnt make it better then an OOT with better 
 graphics, better gameplay, and a better story. So with that you know in my opnion this is a perfect 
 sequal it improves on everything and shines for it. Twighlight Princess is dark and brooding yet 
 fun and exciting its the perfect mixture. Its like OOT with improved story and gameplay with a 
 darker hue to it and thats cool. The world is huge and lush with lots to do and lots to explore 
 not just the main quest. The enemies and characters and just that: Characters. This makes the game 
 a game that your sure to fall in love with not just the story not just the gameplay and not just 
 the characters its a mixture of all and thats why i can explain the wheels behind this game in 
 one word: Mixture. Yes this is a beautiful dark fun Zelda that happens to be a mixture of everything 
 that made Zeldas great before it and new stuff that i hope will improve the series in the future. 
 So if you like what you read and youd like to pick this game up i say do it and more power to ya 
 so have fun and keep on a rockin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I have long played Zelda games since they first showed their face with Legend of Zelda. I have 
 play every game since then to carry the name Zelda and I have loved a couple, like a lot of them, 
 and well hated a few. But this one is going down as one of the better games of Zelda in my book.
 
  
  Every since OOT I thought it would be hard for them to make another good Zelda game that grabbed 
 me and pulled me into it, but this one proved me wrong. While its not quite as good as OOT it is 
 still worth the money. So if you are a fan of Zelda games, get this one, you won't be sorry.
  
  Game play 8 - While the game has a great story, great use of its mechanics some of the game 
 seems a little to easy. Such as the boss fights. They could of been harder, but still over all 
 they were fun and kept me on my feet.
  
  Graphics 9 - While this game is not game breaking in its graphics they are still really good. The 
 use of effects when going from human link to wolf link are amazing, and the game is beautiful even 
 if it doesn't look like oblivion.
  
  Sound 9 - I gave the sound nine because they did a good job using sound, how ever they are kind 
 of using old outdated sounds and you can tell just by listening that some sounds are still being 
 used from the first game made.
  
  Value 10 - I the value a 10 because this game was just plain good. The story was long and great, 
 the puzzles and action were mixed nicely together. No it did not bother me they didn't have voice 
 overs, to be honest I would probably hate the game if they did since it would take away what I 
 love about Zelda.
  
  So all in all I give this game a 9.2 It is not perfect but however it comes close. If you are all 
 a fan of rpg's or Zelda games get this. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iar099
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is ver good graphics wise, for the Wii anyway, has great gameplay, great 
 story, and great alot of things. thought this game is prett fun and all, it could have been a lot 
 better, there is still text, no sound from link, but who cardes. it is one of the best graphical 
 games on the wii, but still could have been better. the sound on the wii remote kinda stinks. it 
 takes 40 to 60 hours to complete so there is alot to do. over all it is a great game but could 
 have been a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: althegeek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  ah Zelda... where would i be without it? after the dissapointing japanese sales of the wind waker 
 nearly killed off the series, Nintendo decided to go back to the gameplay of Ocarina of Time (still 
 in my books, the greatest game ever made) so we go back to hyrule. (technically, we never left) 
 Set hundred years after Ocarina Of Time the story starts of with Link, (or whatever you decide 
 to call him) an ordinary farmboy who lives in Ordon Village. a village far away from the hustle 
 and bustle of Hyrule Castle Town. On the way to Hyrule Castle town to deliever a sword to the King, 
 he is dragged into the twilight realm, a place that appears to have engulfed everywhere except 
 his home town. On arriving in the Twilight Realm, he takes the form of a wolf, which is the real 
 emphasis of the game
  
  Being a typical Zelda game, the main aim is to get through the dungeons and picking up important 
 items that are relevant to progress. there are surprisingly small amount of these in this game, 
 something i hope is improved in the next incarnation. The dungeons are very familiar if you've 
 played Ocarina Of Time, but do offer slight more challenge
  
  The controls in this game are excellent regardless of which version you buy, the Wii version has 
 good motion sensoring controls, you can aim with the remote (i turned that off) or control stick, 
 and the Remote is also used to swing your sword, it's a tried and tested method, but it still works 
 so it's good
  
  i thouroughly enjoyed the game, sorry if this reviews awful, i don't write these often 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First, this is a great game. I would recommend it to anyone who has the Wii. It has good graphics 
 compared to most Wii games. This game has a long fun storyline. Lots of stuff to do. The downside, 
 I have been waiting so long for this game to be out in stores I thought it would be amazing because 
 it took so long to make. It just felt like any other game. I personally hate the concept of turning 
 into a wolf and then turning to a human. When I played as a wolf it was much darker and boring. 
 Another thing I was disappointed with the game was that the desert was only the temple there was 
 no village or anything and the desert was huge. Now don't get me wrong this is still a good game. 
 And at the end of the game nothing happens when you defeat Ganon, he just dies and then the game 
 resets as if you haven't killed him and no new bonus are anything or even a heart container. O 
 yea, and all the temples suck in this game : ( . Mabye I just had to high of an expectation for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Zelda has been one of the best series in video game history if not the best. Some were good and 
 some were bad, but most of them were great. THE GOOD: Legend of Zelda; Twilight Princess has over 
 60 hours of gameplay that will keep you playing for weeks, the funnest gameplay out of any Zelda 
 games, tons of unlockables, puzzles, and side missions to play after you beet the story mode, Link 
 looks cooler, makes full use out of the wii remote and nunchuck, new characters and weapons to 
 use, has everything a Zelda game should have.
  
  THE BAD: The graphics are good but Nintendo could have done a better job, Link still doesn't talk.
 
  
  OVERALL: The best Zelda game yet, it's a must buy, I'm going to buy Legend of Zelda; Phantom's 
 Hourglass for the Nintendo DS, and hope that there is another Zelda game for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  If you were looking for a reason to buy a Wii your search is over. Twilight Princess takes not 
 only an amazing franchise in the right direction but, it is taking gaming as a whole down a very 
 bright path. From the moment you turn the game on you are transported into a very beautiful and 
 familiar Hyrule. The new controls are so good that you start to wonder how you ever played with 
 the others. The stunning visuals and rich story line make this a must for any Wii owner. There 
 is a large amount of replay value as well. A great game all around. Just try it once and you will 
 see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastwick_playa7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  This spectacular title puts the Wii remote and nunchuk to full use. With plenty mini-games to keep 
 you more than busy. You might even see yourself spending more time on the mini-games and side-quests 
 than the game itself. The Legend of Zelda series has always been about having fun and this game 
 sure does bring that out. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess allows you to have fun and go through 
 an immensive adventure. This game is quite similar to the all famous Legend of Zelda Ocarina of 
 Time for N64. If you're looking to spend time shopping in Hyrule Castle town and having fun in 
 mini-games all while doing your missions this is the perfect game for you. All in all, The Legend 
 of Zelda Twilight Princess is a great game for the fans of the series and newcomers, as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Koopa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  I must admit that when i first played this game i was dissapointed. I will detail why i dont think 
 its the legendary game its made out to be.
  
  Gameplay: For the whole this is generally good but there may be one or two points were you won't 
 know exactly were to go in the games many dungeons but thankfully this doesn't happen often apart 
 from that its very good as it's the classic Zelda formula which we all know and love. The wii controller 
 really improves the gameplay as it makes you more involved with the game. One of the minor updates 
 this has over previous Zelda games is that you can now swing your sword while running although 
 this is a tiny update it feels immensely satisfying to do so. A major update this game had is horesback 
 combat, im pleased to say that this works extremely well and id fun to do. I didn't give this a 
 10 because we've seen this type off stuff before.
  
  Graphics: I'd like to address a major point here as this was once a gamecube game but was ported 
 over to the wii, so there will be a few bland textures which look really ugly in what is a (mostly) 
 good looking game.
  
  Sound: Considering this is a wii game (as ported from the gamecube) I expected a proper orchestral 
 soundtrack but instead we get the same music as we had on the N64 which is a letdown. Then there's 
 the wii remote's speaker which is a nice idea but it ends up sounding cheap and tinny.
  
  Value: This a long game of about 20-30 hours gameplay I would recommend it to everyone who enjoys 
 playing games. I may sound like I dislike this game but I absolutely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesarspalace
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda was a bad ass game, i have never played any of the other Zelda game, except like 
 3 others, but this one was really good. yes the game was fun, but its also hard and sumtimes complicated 
 cuz u dont know where to go next, i thought bout buying the stragey book but i never got around 
 to it, so i ended up passing the game without it. it took a long time to pass it though cuz i got 
 stucked a **** load of times, but figured it out sooner or later. well to sum this up, the game 
 was bad ass hell, really fun, and im even trying to pass it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirk_anam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game. i got this game the day it came out, and it took me a while to beat it, 
 since its 70 hours long. But you have a fun time playing it! this is much to do in the game, but 
 you probably wont do all or any of the minigames, like the fishing. The controls are pretty responsive 
 the only problems with the controls is trying to do the different things with the nunchuck and 
 the game mixes it up with something else, but the most fun is aiming with the Wii remote to use 
 the bow and arrow. I beat the game me, and when you beat it, you feel like you accomplished something... game 
 wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  It's been ages since i wrote review... neways on to the main review...
  
  ZELDA: WII Twilight Princess
  UPS:
  Its a great game with beautiful graphics for the wii.. 
 i mean its really good compared to the other games... I love the music it has... i think its one 
 of the best music in the series... Love the WEAPONS... Some are really cool! i wont spoil it for 
 you :3
  The mini games are fun too! go get those golden bugs!! GOLDEN
  The reason i scored this [hard] is because OF the FRICKEN puzzles... to get the all the heart pieces 
 some puzzles are just plain ludicrous hard
  And finally just fun to play as a zelda fan.
  
  DOWNS:
  Bosses are for girls.. i bet even a little 5 yr old kid can beat the bosses with 
 his/her eyes closed. cmon is the creators of zelda j/k with me?! DOnt MESS WITH ME COmpany... these 
 bosses SUCK
  Controls are wicked at first.. but when u think of it after your done the game.... there isnt much 
 realism or revolution with the remote and nunchuck other than aiming at the screen. Its kind of 
 like a gc controller and u take it apart in half... u still walk with the control on the left.. 
 but the buttons are still the same on the right... Get it? :\
  And finally, i agree with gamespot.. There is no real revolution in this zelda series... its another 
 been there done that but with the wii. Still i'd say if u like zelda... by all means get it... 
 just dont expect ANY replay value unless u like to do 3 heart runs...
  Au revuoir!~ enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess has to be one of the best zelda games since the Ocarina of 
 time in 1998. The game kicks off as link wakeing up in a rural village called Oradon and that it 
 is in the forest once you get settled into the game it becomes a masterpiece like when you collect 
 ur sword and shield and your slingshot but in order to do this you need to catch a fish from the 
 river in Oradon. Once your out of Oradon You can Explore the Whole of Hyrule which looks nothing 
 like a really good job done what they have done with twilight princess is astonishing in every 
 way the graphics may look similar to the Gamecube if You are playing the Nintendo Wii version but 
 the art in this game looks amazing and the character design looks awesom. The gameplay in zelda 
 is the best of the series there is just so much to do without even hitting the main story. You can 
 fish, shop, explore, kill and search for hidden secrets. If you have never played a zelda game you 
 don't need to worry much the game dosent mention much stuff from its predessors. The sound and Graphics 
 in Twilight princess are incredible the Graphics look high-end for a gamecube and Wii game. And 
 if you are using a surround speaker u will think the sound is really realistic and well done after 
 all the work that has been put into this game .So i suggest if you are a zelda lover you should 
 buy this game without even looking at the back because the game has just got the best gameplay 
 elements, graphics and sound that nintendo has not senn in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a fantastic launch title but it fails to live up to the 
 greatness of Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time. TP seems to be similar to Super Mario Sunshine for 
 the Gamecube, as it had to be the true sequel to a simply revolutionary game like Legend of Zelda 
 Ocarina of Time, which to give TP some credit, is almost impossible to live up to.
  
  While the game takes a little bit to get actually started in combat and the real story, once you 
 get into it, the game gets great fast and you get into the fast paced combat and the great horse 
 back riding and experiencing the twilight world. The gameplay in TP is similar to any previous 
 Zelda game, so if you've played a 3D Zelda adventure before, you'll know what to expect, challenging 
 puzzles, sword fighting, horse back riding, etc.
  
  The graphics in TP are pretty solid for a Wii launch title however they could be improved. The 
 frame rate stays steady throughout and you wont experience any problems with that.
  
  The sound in TP is fantastic, which is to be expected. The game has a great soundtrack and its 
 always good to hear the old you unlocked a secret tune.
  
  The gameplay is amazing and the combat is a lot of fun, however the use of the Wiimote in this 
 game could have been a lot better. Just slashing constantly does get old fast and shooting your 
 bow does get frustrating after a while, actually I turned off the pointer so I could aim with the 
 analog stick. Also the camera is frustrating, you'll find yourself having to adjust it constantly 
 because you will be missing jumps, seeing there is no jump button, you simply run to where you 
 want to jump, and you will miss a lot throughout the game.
  
  All in all, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is another great addition to the series, however 
 some minor shortcomings with camera issues and frustrations with the Wiimote, this is the kind 
 of Zelda game that fans have come to expect and hardcore Zelda fans will feel right at home with 
 this great game. If you own a Wii, you have to at least rent this one, and if you're even a slight 
 fan at all of the series, purchase this game without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banestyrelsen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  TP didn't impress me. It seems Nintendo overcompensated for how badly the excellent Wind Waker 
 was received, and went too far in the OOT direciton. Been there, done that. There were some cool 
 things about this one, such as the magnetic boots, but nothing really memorable.
  
  Just like all the other 3D Zeldas (and The Minish Cap) , TP is too easy. I never died once, so there 
 was no practical need to expand the number of heart containers like there was in the NES/SNES installments. 
 TP bosses are cool, but also exceedingly easy, including the final boss. The only difficulty in 
 the game is of the type what am I supposed to do next? This being Nintendo, I was also surprised 
 at how boring and repetitive the wolf segments are. The Wii controls work excellently when shooting 
 the bow and swinging the sword while riding and running (cutting grass and bushes) . There is an 
 excellent western movie segment with the bow, but it only composes ten minutes out of a total gameplay 
 of around 50 hours. Horse combat also works fine, but is not central to the gameplay since combat 
 is still far too easy in Zelda. Ultimately, the Wiimote falls short of feeling integral to the 
 gameplay, and feel sort of tacked on, since the way Link swings the sword does not in any way correspond 
 to how you swing it - neither direction nor force. I ended up doing lazier and lazier wrist movements 
 until I missed no longer being able to just simply press a button to achieve the exact same thing. 
 The wiimote also sacrifices the C-stick camera control I loved in Wind Waker for the OOT/MM fixed 
 camera solution. It's because of this I sort of regret not getting the GC verison, but it wouldn't 
 have changed my overall impression of the game. The graphics are good artistically but inconsistently 
 so, and they are technically unimpressive. The ground textures really stand out as being much lower 
 res than the character models (and yes I played the game in progressive scan) . This would have 
 been ok if the massive plains the game contains served any actual gameplay purpose apart from simply 
 creating the illusion of a larger world, but Hyrule field is lifeless except for the enemies that 
 keep respawning in the same place. A Link to the Past, Wind Waker, Majora's Mask and Minish Cap 
 were all much more impressive in the visual department. The Zelda series has gone stale for me. 
 It needs a new approach, &agrave; la RE4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This is Zelda. Nintendo always does a great job at them, and you never expect a single game to 
 get less than a 9. That would be disastrous for Nintendo. But Nintendo has worked hard on this 
 title, and it really was worth the wait. Twilight Princess has the best graphics out of any game 
 I have seen come from Nintendo. The controls are easy to master, and I am 100% sure that this game 
 will be the best Zelda game ever. Or better yet, the best game from Nintendo or any other console 
 to date. Nobody should miss the opportunity to play this game, NintyFans, and NonNintyFans alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought that Gamespot had under rated Twighlight Princess. The game does have a beautiful 
 presentation, with striking music and visuals. The story is one of the more interesting variations 
 on the save the princess plot that has been told and re-told for all of these years. However, even 
 with all of these high points, the classic Zelda formula is starting to show its age. Let's get 
 this out of the way right now: I'm not exactly a huge fan of Zelda. The first Zelda game I played 
 was Majora's Mask. I thought it was fun for a while, but I was young and couldn't solve some of 
 the more difficult puzzles by myself. That kind of turned me off, but not enough to skip over Wind 
 Waker. Wind Waker was, in my openion, a high point in the Zelda series. It took the somewhat boring 
 gameplay of previous console Zelda games and spiced it up a little with special attacks that had 
 to be timed perfectly and wonderful cel-shaded graphics. Still, it wasn't perfect. Something about 
 the Zelda series just doesn't appeal to me, but it's hard to place my finger on exactly what that 
 something is. Fast forward to July 1st, 2007. I've had Twighlight Princess since around January 
 or the beginning of February, and I've barely logged 10 hours into it. When I first got the game, 
 I could see myself giving it a very, very high score. I was entranced by the good graphics and 
 fantastic music, even if some of the sound effects have been recycled from previous Zelda games. 
 Nature plays a larger role in this Zelda game, which makes it seem almost a little like Princess 
 Mononoke in some parts. I was playing TP for at least an hour every day at that point, and for 
 the most part I was loving it. But clearly it didn't have what it takes to keep me hooked. Quite 
 frankly, the archaic gameplay just can't support the beautiful concept that is Twighlight Princess 
 on the Wii. Everything else in this game points to a new and exciting Zelda, from the more epic 
 feeling (if somewhat easy) boss fights to the transformations into the wolf form. The environments 
 are bigger, the enemy designs are fantastic, and the characters are amusing (but could still benefit 
 from voiceovers.) But all of that fades away when you have to swing the Wii remote around like 
 a madman just to get Link to perform one slash of the sword.
  Motion control has been done quite a lot better on the Wii since Zelda came out. It's not that 
 the controls are bad or poorly mapped, but they're just spotty. I've had a few targeting problems, 
 in which an enemy will be directly in front of me, with a BIG YELLOW ARROW (to indicate that it 
 is close enough to target) over its head, and I press the target button and Link turns around and 
 starts aiming in another direction while getting attacked. One time I had to shake the nunchuck 
 for about 10 seconds before Link would do his spin attack. That had never happened to me before, 
 or since. And if you compare the sword slashing used in Zelda to the knife slashes in Resident 
 Evil 4: Wii Edition, RE4's is better, no contest. In the end, I think that the motion controls 
 actually do benefit the game in many ways. Specifically, it is very fun to aim arrows, boomerangs 
 and such with the IR sensor. It is so much more practical than using a control stick, and unless 
 you happen to aim your Wii remote too far offscreen, it just feels right. In conclusion, the ideas 
 in Twighlight Princess are some of the best to ever find their way into a Zelda game. The world 
 is deep and involving, and is the main reason to play the game. The gameplay just needs to match 
 the quality of the world it takes place in before we can truly have a perfect game on our hands 
 (and I do believe that this game would be just about perfect if not for the stale gameplay.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game was the 1st I bought with my wii and it's the best 50$ I have spent in a while. Nintendo 
 delivers on it promise to bring the best zelda experience since OOT. Lets start off first with 
 the controls since they are the most important aspect of the game. They work perfect you swing 
 the remote left or right and Link dose the same you jab forward and link jab's his sword forward 
 the equipment system they put in is also well done because they allow you to map which side on 
 the directional pad you want to put a weapon. The story is a bit darker in this game to match the 
 more mature appeal with the twilight realm being engulfed in darkness and the real world in light. 
 You get a funny smart ass companion named midna who helps you along throughout the whole game (shes 
 like navi from OOT) The gameplay is satisfying with Nintendo changing it up by turning you into 
 a wolf to either get pass a low area or solve some of the excellent puzzles they have put in. My 
 only gripe about this game is the soundtrack they choose to use MIDI music instead of fully orchestrated 
 which was a disappointment but the MIDI music is good I just wish they used instruments. All an 
 all this is a most have Wii game with tons of sidequest and gorgeous graphics. 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjbartels
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Zelda we have played and now we want to go back and play the rest. In our family 
 my husband does all the driving and the kids and I watch and give tips on how to solve puzzles 
 and things we should try next. The puzzles and free play of the game are amazing. We also love 
 the characters. We were a little put off at first by the lack of voices, but we have had so much 
 fun making up our own voices and taking turns reading the parts. It has added a new dimension to 
 the game. I highly recommend this game to everyone especially families that are looking for a family 
 game to play together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deus_Wrath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  on of the best games i have ever played   
   
 dksjbzsdfvjbzkjsbdfvkzdsf vjdsfbjkvlzbsd vjzbsd kfkjzs bdvj bkzjsbdvkjzbs dvjbkzsdbvkjzkjsbdv kzsdbvszelusdfnvberub 
 vfdnvzbdsur vsjhzdfj vbhzdfjhgzjdfh zjkdhfkjvzhsdr gz fdjghszeourghvzds fjhvzuj rgvhzurj egfv szu 
 rehgfu suzarheu hgv uzserl; h gvulsz ierguhvruf esul gvsaregsrefghiaze rfgvuhzaser gua wr gfa weru 
 gariuwhgfu erg ru guj ujr ug eru geu g eg rearkgarg kier aeikrg ik ik i i ik ik irdirdirijhgrhuigrhur 
 hugreuhgre fuhgr hugr uhgr uhg uhgr uh gruh rguh uhrg uhgr uhrg rg hugr hu gruh guh gruh gruhrguhrg 
 uhr guhr guhrg uhgr uhrg uhrg uhrg uhrg uhrg uhrg uhrg uhr guhgr er gerg u gru gu rguhugr ru usrgeuerhue 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilianetty
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a masterpiece that everyone could get fun with it!
  I enjoy spending my time playing this masterpiece than calling my friends on the phone (girls do 
 that all the time, but im the kind of girl, who likes to play videogames and see movies all the 
 time, hehe) .
  
  Anyway, I love Link (my fave hero of nintendo) , and beating Ganandorf's butt it's way fun that I 
 spected on this game. I was very quick on the moves, and beat him slow and smudly (hehe) . The graphics 
 are way to awesome!
  (It's WII, what did I spected) . And the worlds are fantastic!
  
  I miss to much, this fellow guy.... (the green one, Tingle) , he was way to funny.
  And Zelda looks 
 cute and cool in this videogame. SHE ROCKS!
  
  If you havent play this game, your waisting your time!
  PLAY IT, IT WILL BLOW YOUR MIND!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the fourth 3D installment in the
  Zelda series. Ocarina of Time first established and perfected the 3D Zelda formula back in 1998 
 when it was released for the Nintendo 64. To this day Ocarina of Time is the most critically acclaimed 
 game of all time. Twilight Princess stays true to the Zelda formula that everyone has grown to 
 love. The very same formula has stayed almost completely true to original form since the days of 
 Link To the Past on the Super Nintendo. With each installment you see the same familiar weapons, 
 familiar abilities, same locations, and similar dungeons as well. Nintendo have been able to keep 
 all of this fresh for so many years by tweaking and adding here and there, coating its flagship 
 franchise with shiny coats of wax, and I can safely say that the formula still works wonderfully 
 in Twilight Princess. It just may be a good idea to move on after this installment before it starts 
 to grow stale.
  
  Twilight Princess once again is set in the land of Hyrule. Over the years Hyrule has steadily grown 
 in terms of landmass, and the Hyrule in Twilight Princess is the largest yet. One of Hyrule's smallest 
 villages happens to be the home of the game's hero, Link. Like previous Zelda games before it, 
 it takes a little bit of time, patience, nitpicking, and fetching missions at the start of the 
 game until you are able to get your sword, shield, and other items to go and save Hyrule. In Twilight 
 Princess you begin your journey in Link's home town, Ordon Village. Link lives the simple life 
 as a rancher. Everyday he rounds up the goats with his horse Epona, and then he heads home to sleep 
 in his tree house. Ordon village is a peaceful place until some very strange things start happening. 
 Strange creatures invade the village, kidnap some people, and Link suddenly finds out that there 
 is much more to himself than he could ever have known. Link seems to adapt well to suddenly finding 
 out that he is the chosen one to keep the Light and Twilight worlds separated from each other. 
 A task that can not be done with bare hands alone. The first weapon that you will obtain in the 
 game is your sword along with a reliable shield. What separates the Wii version of the game from 
 the Gamecube version is the motion controls. I'll rundown the motion controls starting with the 
 combat. First off, you control link with the analog stick on the nun chuck attachment. You lock 
 onto enemies with the Z button of the nun chuck attachment. You attack your enemies by swinging 
 the Wii-mote side to side. You can make a jabbing motion with the Wii-mote in order to do a jab 
 attack. You can do a spin attack by shaking the nun chuck attachment. So do the motion combat controls 
 work well? Yes they do. They can feel a bit unnatural at times however. Link usually does not always 
 swing his sword in the same direction that you are swinging your Wii-mote. Bringing Twilight Princess 
 to the Wii was a very late decision. The motion combat controls do feel like a fancy button. Twilight 
 Princess was meant to be a Gamecube title. So it's no surprising that the combat controls can feel 
 a bit tacked on sometimes. I expect a different result when or if we get a Zelda exclusively for 
 Wii that is built from the ground up. Swinging your Wii-mote is really the only thing that initiates 
 any kind of sword swinging. Any special attacks that Link learns later in the game are button based. 
 I have to say that my position on the combat controls is a favorable one. Though it does feel tacked 
 on, for whatever reason I'd takes it over using the Gamecube controller any day. Where the Wii 
 version definitely wins against the Gamecube version is how you use your special items. To use 
 arrows you simply aim with the Wii-mote and shoot with A button. The same applies to other items 
 similar to the bow and arrow. Aiming with the Wii-mote gives you better precision, accuracy, and 
 a smoother glide with the aiming reticle than what you could get with a standard controller. If 
 anyone looked at previews or played any demos at any game store of Twilight Princess, then you 
 most unlikely have seen the fishing mini game. The fishing mini game is better on the Wii version 
 because it actually takes some practice and honing of skill to master it. You cast your cork with 
 bait into the water with the Wii-mote. Then you wait to get a bite. Once you get a bite you have 
 to yank the Wii-mote, press different buttons depending on how crazy the fish is reacting, and 
 reel in with the nun chuck attachment. The mini game is a good simulation of fishing using the 
 Wii's controllers.
  
  Now I will get to the meat of the game. The main reason we love the Zelda series as much as we 
 do. I'm talking about the dungeons. Let me just say that out of all the Zelda games I have played, 
 Twilight Princess probably contains the most gorgeous and entertaining dungeons in the series. 
 While the puzzles may not be as difficult and the enemies as challenging, the look of the dungeons, 
 the way they are laid out, and the traps, surprises, and overall design make them standout amongst 
 the series great dungeons. The dungeons in Twilight Princess are huge. Conquering one does take 
 some time. If you are a dungeon conquering veteran with the Zelda series then you probably know 
 how it works. You will solve puzzles, use items, kill enemies, find secret passages, and ultimately 
 defeat the dungeon master and receive a piece of heart to come one step closer to saving Hyrule. 
 Speaking of boss battles... the boss battles in Twilight Princess may be the biggest disappointment 
 in the entire game. Sure the bosses look cool, but defeating them is way too easy. I have actually 
 found myself trying to make the game more competitive by purposely losing health or trying to let 
 a boss or enemy hit me with their best shot. The bosses are not the only piece of cake in the game. 
 The enemies that are spread all throughout Hyrule and its dungeons just don't know how to put up 
 a good fight. The enemies die quickly and sometimes stand there and let you beat the living snot 
 out of them. Since I am on the subject of disappointments I mine as well go ahead and talk about 
 them all. One of Twilight's strengths is it's huge open ended world. It's fun to ride around on 
 your horse and discover new areas, items, and side quests, but the game simply does not take full 
 advantage of this huge world. As gorgeous as it looks, Hyrule is a lot of empty land. There just 
 aren't enough exciting places to explore or enough goodies to hunt down. When you do find a treasure 
 chest or a new place to discover, the reward is too predictable to feel like an actual reward. 
 You already know that what you will get is either rupees (which are almost useless) or a piece 
 of heart. Some areas in Hyrule can only be accessed once you get a certain item or ability in the 
 game. Sometimes you get a pleasant surprise and sometimes you get a dead end. I mean you sometimes 
 literally get a dead end. There is this one area in Hyrule that comes to mind particularly. I needed 
 a certain item to reach a small platform that was down in a small valley like area. The only thing 
 I saw was the platform and a rail system that was made for that specific item. Once I finally got 
 the item I decided to go back and see if there was more to that area than a small little platform. 
 I use the item to travel to the platform and guess what? Dead end. Nothing else to do or see. Putting 
 that rail device and that platform there for nothing makes absolutely no sense. In a game that 
 looks made for exploration and discovering on your own, Twilight Princess deceives in this regard.
 
  
  Twilight Princess takes a page from an old Zelda classic. Like in Link to the Past, you will travel 
 back and forth from the light and dark worlds. In the light world you are Link equipped with all 
 your weapons and items. In the dark world Link is a wolf. Wolf Link runs faster than human Link, 
 but that may be his only upside. Wolf Link's bite and tail slap attacks don't reach very far, and 
 they aren't very powerful either. Luckily you do have Midna. Midna is a weird little twilight lady 
 who rides on your back. She helps you open doors and defeat these dark creatures that fall from 
 portals in the sky. By holding the B button Midna will cause of red circle to spread out from under 
 neath her and Link. Once the enemies come into the circle you can let go of the B button and Wolf 
 Link will ferociously slaughter them all with one hit each. The game looks great. Not great for 
 a current gen game but great in terms of art style. Technically the game is sharp looking as a 
 Gamecube title, but Wii is capable of more. Sound wise the game is also solid. Though there are 
 no big orchestrations as everyone hoped, there are some great memorable tunes. The speaker on the 
 Wii-mote can also be turned on, but you'll most unlikely will want to keep it turned off. Twilight 
 Princess is a very long game. The first time through you could be playing for 50 hours until the 
 credits roll. You'll want to play through the game twice because it's so good, and you'll want 
 to explore all of Hyrule as well. All in all Twilight Princess is a successful installment in the 
 Zelda series. Though I was disappointed in many areas I was won over by the game's artstyle, dungeons, 
 and Wii specific controls. Though it barely makes the cut, I give Twilight Princess a solid superb 
 rating. If you own a Wii you should most definitely pick this one up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeNM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Zelda is a great action packed game that will keep you on the edge of your seat begging for more! 
 I enjoy playing this game vary mutch.
  
  It has many good and bad characteristics.
  
  GOOD
  This game has a great story line. Zelda is also a game that twists fantacy with action 
 making a great combination. It is also a mystary and you are allways getting a new task to do for 
 someone.
  
  BAD
  Zelda has disapointed me with it's horable graphics. the game has you go right through the bridge 
 supports when yoy fall! I also hate the controling for Zelda on the Wii. The camra is constly driving 
 me insane who wants to set the camra durring a battle!
  
  Even with it's flaws I still recommend you buy this game for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captianpunkrock
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best of the series of this game. I love it a lot because the graphics make 
 certain parts of the game creepy and keeps you on your toes, even though they could get better. 
 The story is great and theres a very good ending, which left me satisfied about the story. Even 
 after the story there is a bunch of stuff you can do just for the fun of it. The controls aren't 
 hard at all and are easy to use and don't get tiring like some games. There was only one bad part 
 about it, the lack of voice acting real made it dissapointing. Over all this game was great and 
 should be bought as one of the first games you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koyerrico
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  when zelda twilight princess was first announced to the public by nintendo fans rejoiced. tloztp 
 was made to be a revolutinary game. that is till they changed the name of the console to wii. then 
 it was sposed to be ... amazing lol and it is just that. zelda twilight princess is arguably the 
 best zelda game in the series since ocarina of time. it continues with the traditional zelda storyline. 
 you are the hero of time, link, who is desitined to save the land of hyrule from the evil gannon. 
 along the way you meet midna, a crazy imp from the realm of twilight whom you team up with to take 
 down the maniac who took over her land, zant. of course zant doesnt end up being the main protagonist 
 of the game becuase if he was then it wouldnt be a zelda game. in the end you defeat ganon and 
 save the world once again. the contorl scheme on zelda is tight and intuitive. zelda really makes 
 great use of the wiis motion sensor controller . sword fighing is done with quick flicks of the 
 wrist. aiming your boe and boomerang is done with the remote as well. sadly since the wii doesnt 
 have hi def capabilities the game only looks like a top notch gamecube game but nintedos purple 
 lunch box's graphics are good anyway. as usual zeldas storyline is very compelling as it is with 
 every zelda. great adventurous elements dungeon crawiling and that all too famous zelda music all 
 bundled up in one package and secondly its on the wii. that doubles everything. if you want nuthing 
 but action and explosions and no skill go pick urself up a copy of gears of war. if you want great 
 action, puzzle solving, adventure, and a compelling storyline than the legend of zelda the twilight 
 princess is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game, it's the 1st game I brought when I got my wii (apart from wii play) and 
 I'm sure glad I did.
  
  The game starts off nice and slow in links sleepy little village, teaching you how to use the controls 
 to use your sword and then slingshot. Then you go on a little starter mission getting you used 
 to fighting with the wiiremote. This is nice as you aren't rushed into the story and you get to 
 get used to the game for abit 1st. Then like all Zelda games something bad happens and then you 
 (Link) must become the hero and save the day. The story is good and links the levels together well 
 and making some interesting levels, each getting you to think and use your items well so you can 
 get to the end in one bit. The amount of content in this game is great, there is loads of it and 
 it will keep you going for ages and you will enjoy each bit of it, you may get stuck in some parts 
 but when you solve it, there is no better feeling, of course if your really stuck there are walkthroughs 
 on many websites. The games only let down is of course the pages of text you have to read through 
 as the people don't like to talk, but you can easily overlook this, as it's something your used 
 to from zelda games.
  
  Overall if you have a wii, this is one game you don't want to miss and want to make sure it is 
 in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was supposed to be the GC's swan song. The game that would let the system die 
 with its head up before it was thrown into your closet until the end of time. Nintendo billed it 
 as the greatest Zelda game ever made . Well, stuff happened. After a torrent of delays and the 
 announcement that exclaimed the Wii would get Twilight Princess stirred controversy. And after 
 all that, no, it's not the greatest Zelda game ever but it's still an excellent addition to the 
 franchise. The time-tested formula is starting to get overly familiar but it's hard to deny how 
 well it still works in Twilight Princess.
  
  Things start off predictably enough -- boy (Link) in quaint forest town learns the ropes of combat 
 and moving around. You have your usual compadres telling you how to Z-target, swing a sword etc. 
 After that, the plot takes a sharp turn for the better as Link's forced into the land of Twilight 
 -- a world where darkness prevails and light's all but blotted out. Link's body doesn't seem to 
 agree with the atmosphere in the Twilight realm and transforms to a wolf as a result. From there, 
 you meet Midna -- an impish creature that only seems to care about her own agenda. She serves as 
 your Navi except shes not annoying and is very well developed. By the end of your 50-70 hour quest, 
 you'll still face off against that evil we all know. But, everything in-between is well written, 
 surprising, and compelling. Without spoiling much, Twilight Princess has the most plot-intensive, 
 character driven and dark plot in a Zelda game ever. Complementing the plot are gorgous cutscenes. 
 They've been motion captured and it shows. The lighting, the camera work, the cinemetography, just 
 spot on perfect. Nintendo's put much more effort with cutscenes this time around and you can really 
 see the results.
  
  As mentioned above, you'll turn into a wolf early in the game. As a wolf, you'll gradually lift 
 the twilight that's spread out in the lands of Hyrule by finding the Tears of Light that were stolen 
 by the Twili. In short, the wolf sections are boring fetch quests. The visuals in the Twilight 
 help it from falling into sheer boredom but the wolf sections are the weakest parts in the game. 
 Fortunately, these only pop up only in the early parts of the game and then cease to rear its ugly 
 head. After that, the wolf will or will not come into play; it depends on whether or not you want 
 to find all the optional things. Considering this being the only real new gameplay mechanic, it's 
 disappointing that its tedious and not very fun.
  
  Everything else -- the combat, dungeons, exploring, minigames -- are back in excellent form. The 
 combat once again feels great. Every hit carries weight and the enemies react appropriately when 
 you strike from certain angles and distances. New to the combat are skills and equestrian combat. 
 You'll find new combat skills that range from shield bashes to a finishing strike. Each skill has 
 its own use and they look extremely cool. The improved equestrian combat now allows you to attack 
 with your blade while on your trusty steed. Unfortunately, your sword is rarely needed while on 
 horseback but when its called for, it's an exciting thing to be part of. The trademark dungeons 
 are back and like past Zelda games, they're excellent. While these multi-floored labyrinths are 
 still excellent in design, they feel very formulaic this time around. Solve puzzles to find key. 
 Progress by unlocking doors. Beat mini-boss to obtain new item that'll be used to defeat dungeon 
 boss. The bosses are massive, huge, daunting and overly familiar. It's all about hitting the weak 
 point and which then exposes their weak spot -- again. Dungeons are still fun and the classic Zelda 
 chime evokes nostalgia, but it's nothing new and feels too familiar as a result.
  
  Twilight Princess overworld is grand in size and scale and it rewards you for exploring every nook 
 and cranny. Secrets are littered everywhere; ranging from heart pieces to secret grottos hidden 
 deep in the earth, it's fun to hoof it on foot or horseback. And when you consider how huge Hyrule 
 is, it's impressive that it doesn't bore you. If you're in a hurry, expertly placed warp points 
 keep it from being overwhelming. If you're not then there's also a lot of minigames and sidequests 
 to keep you busy. Minigames and sidequests don't feel like they're there for the sake of stretching 
 out playtime; they're fun and the rewards are more than decent.
  
  So, how does this all work with the Wii controls? It's known that Nintendo tacked on the Wii functionality 
 at the last minute it sure as hell doesn't feel like it. The Wii controls offer more percision 
 and involvement; you barely need to flick your wrist to make Link swing his sword, but it's easy 
 to get into a battle and start flailing your arm like a total moron. You might feel dumb but it 
 feels so fresh and involving sometimes that you won't care. The spin attack also becomes a more 
 important part of your combat repertoire because now a quick shake of your nunchuck triggers it. 
 It's instantly there and you'll really need to use it during serious crowd control moments. However, 
 the thing that blows away the old GC control scheme is the percision you're offered. Lining up 
 your arrow to that moblin's head is snap with the pixel perfect percision. The game demands that 
 sort of percision at times and you'll sometimes wonder how you ever hit Gohma's eye without it. 
 The only concern here is the lack of controllable camera but don't fret. It's smart enough to give 
 you the views you need and it'll rarely get caught up in anything. In short, the Wii controls are 
 superior.
  
  This is great right? The dungeons are still great, the combat's still fun and the plot is above 
 and beyond the call of duty. The Zelda blueprint delivers but now, it's starting to feel very predictable. 
 You know that item is going to deliver mighty justice on the boss. You know something's going to 
 happen after finishing the first three dungeons. You know that enemy has that one weak point. In 
 Nintendo's efforts to top Ocarina, it takes much in terms of gameplay mechanics, boss patterns, 
 etc., that it sometimes feels like you're retreading the same ground. For the most part, Nintendo 
 straddles the line between nostalgia and familiarity well but sometimes it relies on Ocarina so 
 much that it becomes distracting. In the end however, it's hard to deny fun it still is. It's still 
 the Zelda we all know and love, just maybe now, the formula's starting to show signs of age.
  
  The same thing can't be said about the graphics. You'll see Zora's Domain again, Death Mountain, 
 Hyrule Castle, all your favorites are here. But they've been carefully reworked and renvisioned 
 that the results are jaw dropping. Technically, its competent -- textures blur up close, NPCs could've 
 benefited from more polygons, and aliasing is a common occurence. But the art drives the game into 
 visual bliss. The amount of creativity poured into an area really shows -- the game is just a pleasure 
 to look at. Especially the Twilight Realm. The bloom, the trippy lighting, spectacular special 
 effects -- it's really here when the game reaches its visual zenith All in all, Twilight Princess 
 is a strong testament to how great art can carry the game visually.
  
  The audio doesn't quite match the visuals but it's still solid. The music has its fair share of 
 remixes, new and even songs straight up ripped from past Zelda games. The compositions are great 
 but again, Nintendo opted for MIDI instead of a full blown orchestra. For the most part, everything 
 sounds authentic enough only to run into something that sounds like it was done through the N64. 
 The MIDI does provide the same dynamism -- music changes on the fly depending on the situation 
 -- so that's a definite plus. And like always, the ambient and other miscellaneous sound effects 
 sound perfect. To keep consistent with Nintendo's previous work on Zelda's audio, there's absolutely 
 zero voice acting. Besides the gibberish Midna spits out (which sounds fantastic) the most you'll 
 hear is Link grunting or yelling and NPCs following suit. By today's standards, it just feels dated 
 and this is one area where you wish Nintendo would jump on board and get some voice actors.
  
  Twilight Princess may quite be the longest action adventure game ever made. The quest can easily 
 take 40 hours to complete and that number can potenially double or even reach triple digits for 
 completists. Even with the long running time, the game rarely gets tedious as Nintendo's carefully 
 paced the game with tasks that don't feel like they're just there for stretching time. By the time 
 the game reaches its satisfying conclusion, it's impossible to say the game wasn't fun even though 
 it was at times predictable. Twilight Princess offers up another solid experience and it's a must-play 
 for anyone who cares about videogames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9344891
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Just Ignore What jeff says this was better than gears in my opinion as game of the year. Epic brilianc 
 I have Played through three times and loved it more each play through. This is worth the price of 
 a wii alone .Not a Must have if u own a wii it's a must have Full Stop no excuses THis how long 
 this review needs to be just Buy IT. This has to be a hundred words but ignore this last bit . IGNOTRE 
 THIS BIT JUST READ UP TO BUY IT g g g g o o o o o o o o d d d d d d d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disgaeamad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Over the years, the Legend of Zelda franchise has gained extreme popularity. Here we are, at the 
 12th game in the series, and as expected, Twilight Princess was an instant hit, and not just because 
 of the name 'The Legend of Zelda' being in it, but because of how magnificent it turned out to 
 be, with a perfect blend of memorable characters, beautiful artwork, great music, and of course, 
 the most well thought out story present in a Legend of Zelda game to date.
  
  Hyrule is in trouble once again, the threat this time being Zant, a creature who has power over 
 twilight. The twilight is dangerous because when an area is exposed to it, any creature that isn't 
 affiliated with its power is turned into a spirit and twilight monsters are spawned. The only way 
 to defeat Zant and end this threat is, of course, the legendary hero spoken of in legends.
  
  We then meet Link who, just like in every other Legend of Zelda game, turns out to be that 
 legendary hero. This time around though, Link is a ranch hand at Ordon Village, and when he pursues 
 a group of monsters that kidnap some village kids along with his childhood friend, he gets dragged 
 into the Twilight Realm, where the main adventure begins.
  
  When considering that Twilight Princess is a fantasy action adventure game, you would expect a 
 rather large overworld, but Nintendo expanded on that idea and made the overworld extremely large, 
 offering a great adventure with many secrets to find.
  
  What's most surprising about Twilight Princess though is how well it works with the Wiimote, as 
 it was ported over from the Gamecube. The gameplay flows extremely well, with good uses of the 
 motion sensing, such as swinging the Wiimote to sheath and slash your sword, and spinning the nunchuk 
 to perform a spinning slash. When using projectile weapons, pointing at the screen provides a crosshair, 
 and then pressing the required button (which in most cases is the B button) will fire the projectile.
 
  
  The controls also work well with Link in his wolf form. While in his wolf form, Link loses the 
 ability to use his weapons, and these are replaced by 'Dig' and 'Sense'. Dig, as it clearly states, 
 makes wolf Link dig. When using this, heart pieces, rupees, etc can be dug up, and he can also 
 gain access to sealed off areas that have soft soil. Sense allows wolf Link to see and hear the 
 spirit of humans enveloped in twilight, and also allows him to trace distinct smells.
  
  Z-targeting is once again featured, allowing more efficient slashes and more accurate firings of 
 projectiles. This time around, it can be used to deliver finishing blows when an you have knocked 
 and enemy to the ground.
  
  Unfortunately, Twilight Princess can be rather easy at times, as most enemies can be dispatched 
 with a single blow in both human and wolf mode. The bosses are also rather easy to defeat. However, 
 they are extremely entertaining to face off against, which more than makes up for the relative 
 lack of difficulty.
  
  You can easily tell that Twilight Princess was intended to be a Gamecube game when you look at 
 the graphics. However, the artwork in this game is stunning. Sure, you might notice some bad detail 
 once or twice, but the scenery has the ability to make you say wow, such as a sunset while at 
 the top of a bridge overlooking a huge lake, or when overlooking the hyrule fields on top of a 
 huge mountain.
  
  Character models are also impressive. Link sports his look from the Nintendo 64 days, and the smooth 
 animation makes characters look more realistic than in any other 3D Legend of Zelda game yet.
 
  
  When witnessing all of this beautiful scenery and animation, the music comes in and adds a whole 
 new feel to it, giving it a pleasant atmosphere. Boss battles are always enjoyable due to the music, 
 as it gives them a lively and competitive feel with the upbeat tune.
  
  Twilight Princess also features the legendary tune that plays whenever you discover a secret, such 
 as a hidden chest, completing a puzzle, or blowing up a wall. Many other sound effects from past 
 games are also present, such as the melody that plays when you open a big chest.
  
  All in all, Twilight Princess is a beautiful and welcome addition to the series, and it may even 
 be the best, considering its perfect mixture of a great story, innovative gameplay, outstanding 
 artwork and enjoyable music. Definitely worth buying, whether or not you are a fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krnc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a great game for many reasons, its only a little better than ocarina of time 
 in my opinion. Its so much more different, you can turn into a wolf! I've always been a Zelda fan, 
 but this is definately the best. The puzzles are amazingly hard, you have to have all your wit 
 about you. The enemies are more or less the same and the boss battles are so intense and you could 
 only believe what they looked like if you saw it for yourself. It uses the Wii mote in an exellent 
 way. Slashing with your sword by waving it and aiming your bow &amp; arrow with the Wii mote pointhing 
 at the screen. The Wii is the best console to ply this game on simply because it's more fun to 
 play. The items are still great too. My favourite item is the ball &amp; chain. There is also different 
 costumes the link can wear which give him different abilities. The story line is great, it has 
 a great ending and some bits you would not expect. This game is worth the money. RECOMENDED TO 
 EVERYONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sentarx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  The new Zelda game is here. I have been waiting for a console Zelda since Four Swords Adventures 
 for the GameCube. It was worth waiting through all those delays because Nintendo took the extra 
 time to polish the game and tack on Wii controls which I have to say work very well but there was 
 never a time were it really impressed me. I wasn't to exited over it as I thought I would be when 
 I first saw the game in action on the Wii. I have to admit that its all very responsive and the 
 aiming is very precise and never annoying. My favorite console Zelda game is actually the Wind 
 Waker for the GameCube. Unfortunately it still is however that doesnt mean this is a bad game by 
 any means I just think it couldve been better even since they had alot of time with it. I enjoyed 
 many elements of windwaker. I loved the full 3d camera control and I loved the spy missions. Twilight 
 princess doesn't have that which was a element I was hoping for but they did bring in a few things 
 that are new and old. They brought back fishing which works well on the Wii. They brought back 
 Epona which is cool and fun. They added more actual cut scenery and the feature of turning into 
 a wolf. It also has cool action sequences that work well. These make up for its exclusions but 
 I still have WW on my top. I thought the game looked really good but I actaully glithced once or 
 twice but got out of it withought having to restart. It doesnt have the 3d camera control but its 
 camera sceme works just fine withought it and I dont see how they couldve tacked it out so I wont 
 complain. The game was pretty long but it was at the same time not that hard of a Zelda game. I 
 only encountered a few hard puzzles but I was never stuck for more than 30 minutes. I believe they 
 couldve made the dungeons a little more mind puzzling but the game still feels your money's worth. 
 The games sound was good and has the addition of the little sounds from the Wii remote which I 
 like but I wasnt too impressed at the games soundtrack and didnt like the games instrument which 
 is a must in almost every Zelda game. Its actually not a instrument here its the wolfs howl which 
 his different but it usually only serves one point to it in the game and after awhile feels like 
 a little mini game. Over all this was a great addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pthor655
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  all you need to know is that this is one of the best zelda games ever and if you are a fan of the 
 series go and get it, the game is really an excuse to buy a Wii and why not, the game play is really 
 fun and some of the moves and items are amazing to play around with (look out for the spinner and 
 the ball-n-chain. The sound is very nostalgic but still very cool the only bad points are the lack 
 of voice acting but zelda games are famous for their silence so thats not really unexpected, the 
 other bad point is the non-nextgen graphics, I know the wii doesnt have the power of a 360 or a 
 ps3 but dont let it put you off this is still a really good game and i hope everyone has a go at 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan326
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  the title says it all; the traditional puzzles we've all come to know and love, and the wiimote 
 makes it oh so much sweeter. While you can't slash in the direction you want (unless you want to 
 just slash up and down and occasionally left to right) you can time your movies to defeat the most 
 difficult opponents. Whilst the dungeon puzzles can be quite tricky and take a long time or a walkthrough 
 to figure out, the same can't be said for the bosses. Once you figure out their pattern of attack, 
 they're incredibly easy. The hardest boss would have to be a giant skeleton brought to life, that 
 to defeat you must use a beyblade like devise and climb walls to get too. This still doesn't stop 
 it being a great game though, taking about 30-40 hours for an experienced player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Years ago around the time of Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, fans thought the Zelda series couldn't 
 get any better. Years after, Wind Waker hit the shelves improving OoT and MM's gameplay, but not 
 returning with realistic graphics. Now comes the latest installment of the series, straight to 
 the Big N's newest system, the Wii. Behold the beauty that is... Twilight Princess.
  
  Twilight Princess shows what the Zelda series can really do. Returning with a new story, beautiful 
 graphics, a bigger Hyrule and smooth gameplay, this game really delivers.
  
  Taking place in an alternate Hyrule, 100 years after OoT and MM, Link starts out as a normal farmboy. 
 One day, his village is attacked by field bandits, kidnapping the village's resident younglings. 
 Going after the bandits, Link stumbles upon the mysterious Twilight Realm, which is slowly taking 
 over Hyrule. There Link learns a secret plot to takeover Hyrule and even turns into a Wolf.
  
  TP returns with realistic graphics that really make Hyrule truely beautiful. Think of OoT and 
 MM's graphics, only updated and more detailed. Not as good as a 360 or PS3's graphics, but who 
 really cares?
  
  TP makes great use of the Wii's controls. When you swing the Wii-mote, Link slashes his sword. 
 Aiming for items such as the Slingshot has improved using the Wii-mote. Slick and smooth.
  
  Sound is great as ever. However, the music is not orchastrated like OoT and MM, making TP the 
 losing in that comparison. Still great though. Boss music can really suck you into the battle. 
 A real rush I tell you!
  
  TP is probably the longest Zelda game ever made. With mind-boggling dungeons, various sidequests 
 and so many things to do, this game will keep you busy.
  
  It's not my favorite Zelda game (GO MAJORA'S MASK!) but Twilight Princess is another great addition 
 to the Zelda series. This game is an experience that no one, whether you be a Zelda/Nintendo fan 
 or not, should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStealthGhost
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Zelda used to be a good series. But it gets old. Thats all it is a good series . The Twilight princess 
 is the worst game i have ever played for a nintendo console. The control scheme is clunky the graphics 
 are not what is excepted from a next gen console. Zelda the twilght princess is getting good reviews 
 because of the series. not the game. The game is so horrible. I think that it was a leap of faith 
 for nintendo. I mean launching Zelda along with a new console thats a huge leap. But Zelda was 
 horrible. I just think that the Zelda series would be better off without this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellythrion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes along which completely floors the videogaming public and critics 
 alike. A game which not only becomes a console-seller in and of itself, but also secures its place 
 in the hallowed halls of videogame history. Shigeru Miyamotos classic The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time, the series first foray into 3D, is one such title. Its success story is much recited 
 and speaks for itself  now having appeared on 4 separate videogame platforms, including a recent 
 release on the Wii virtual console, having sold more than 12 million copies since its release, 
 and regularly being applauded the label of Best Videogame of all Time.
  
  Given such a legacy, its successor would have high expectations heaped upon it, and the first 
 direct sequel to the game, The Legend of Zelda: Majoras Mask was a solid but less well-received 
 title, taking Link into a much darker world in something of a race against time. When Nintendo 
 released its Gamecube in 2002, much hype grew around the early shots of the platforms new Zelda 
 title that was in production. Eventually, these were revealed to be mere tasters of the graphical 
 power of the Gamecube, and true shots were released of what the first next-gen Zelda would look 
 like  and many were shocked indeed. Whilst the finished version of The Legend of Zelda: The Wind 
 Waker was a highly accomplished game, and the new cel shaded graphics were capable of impressing 
 just as much as a more realistic alternate, many fans longed for the time when Ocarina of Time 
 would garner a spiritual successor and sequel. Their pleas did not fall upon deaf ears, and but 
 a couple of years later, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was revealed and fans held their 
 breaths in the hopes that their wishes had been granted.
  
  Youll forgive such a protracted opening, but, fittingly for a series which uses the word Legend 
 in its titles, the Zelda games have managed to create their own videogame legacy, and it seems 
 only just to set the scene for my review of the latest, and some say greatest, outing for Link 
 and friends. Many people wanted, nay demanded, a game more in line with the brilliant Ocarina 
 of Time, and Im thrilled to agree with many critics and fans in saying that this is exactly what 
 Twilight Princess offers, though not without its own unique feel and special touches.
  
  First and foremost, it is important to point out that this review is Wii-specific. I have not played 
 the Gamecube version of Twilight Princess, nor am I likely to now. The basic differences I have 
 heard are that the Wii and Gamecube versions are visually mirrors of one another in terms of maps 
 and dungeons, and of course the controls do not come with the Wii motion sensitivity. Aside from 
 that, therell be no allusion to the Gamecube release, so if it is that version you are considering 
 purchase (why oh why?) then I strongly suggest reading a Gamecube-specific review as there may 
 be other differences I am not aware of.
  
  Going into Twilight Princess, it is immediate from the onset that something of a contradiction 
 remains prevalent throughout most of the game  it is surprising, and sometimes a little bewildering, 
 to see somehow how things seemed to have changed both so much and so little since Ocarina of Time 
 was released. It is a strange and curious thing to have a game which both advances and regresses 
 at the same time, but it is undeniable that Twilight Princess does exactly this.
  Twilight Princess begins, in typical Zelda style, with our hero Link who begins his quest as nothing 
 more than a ranch hand in a small forest village, where he spends his days watching the world go 
 by, engaging in the odd bit of fishing or helping out, but generally living a peaceful life. Then, 
 again in typical Zelda fashion, things go a bit pear shaped, this time with a botched kidnap attempt 
 on some of the local kids all leading to something much grander. Link finds himself in an alternate 
 reality known as the twilight realm, where, as if matters werent bad enough already, he has found 
 himself transformed into a wolf. Luckily, he has aid from a brand new character in the series, 
 Midna, who has obvious connections to the twilight realm, and the pair set out looking for answers 
 to unravel the games rather complicated plot.
  
  Although the Zelda titles have always had injections of darkness and grittier undertones, particularly 
 in the likes of Majoras mask, it is nice to see the game as a whole seems to be overshadowed by 
 desperation and urgency. The plot itself, as mentioned, is considerably layered, and even manages 
 to include the odd twist and turn here and there, and the overriding race to stop the darkness 
 of the twilight king and his plans adds a nice impetus to the narrative. However, whilst it is 
 undeniable that it is one of the richer and more deviating plots to come out of the series, the 
 overall progression remains fairly similar  young innocent Link must go around the world doing 
 some collecting from various temples before he discovers the bigger picture and can team up with 
 Zelda to try overcome the big bad guy.
  
  Twilight Princess, does, however, have an ace up its sleeve in regards to keeping this tried and 
 tested formulae fresh and playable  and it comes in the form of Midna and the twilight realm. 
 Midna as a character is a breath of fresh air to the series, and, aside from also being brilliantly 
 realised and crucial to the plot, manages to bond with Link and the player, somehow managing to 
 assimilate the roles of Links constant aid (ala Navi or The King of Red Lions) as well as almost 
 being Twilight Princess substitute for Zelda herself, in that Links friendship with Midna replaces 
 the usual one present with Zelda, the latter only really taking much part in events during the 
 last parts of the game.
  
  The twilight realm itself is home to Links metamorphosis into wolf link, who controls pretty 
 much the same as human link but, excusing the pun, feels like a different beast altogether. The 
 twilight area challenges are fairly straight-forward and simple, again usually requiring some simple 
 collecting, but the inclusion of wolf Links ability to sense, smell, dig etc. as well as a more 
 feral means of attacking keeps this interesting and fresh. For the first half of the game you will 
 be forced to play as wolf Link to complete your trips to the twilight realm, but afterwards, for 
 reasons I wont go into at the risk of spoiling things, you are able to switch between Human and 
 Wolf Link at will.
  
  When youre not playing as wolf Link, things will feel very familiar indeed, even on the Wii. Human 
 link isnt as fast or aggressive as his wolf counterpart, but has access to a considerable inventory 
 of weapons, tools and items which he can use as he traverses the world of Hyrule and its many 
 dungeons on his quest to stop the twilight king. It is here that Twilight Princess feels quintessentially 
 human, and plays almost identically to Ocarina of Time. When Ocarina of Time was first released 
 its gameplay was new and spectacular, and even today, some 9 years after its release, the fact 
 that Twilight Princess plays pretty much the same is a testimony to the strength of the foundations 
 Ocarina lay down. There are also some new additions, some of which are genuinely brilliant and 
 fairly innovative, such as the dominion rod, a particular favourite which completely changes the 
 strategic nature of one of the later dungeons, and lots of neat little touches throughout the game 
 which really add a bit of spice and originality to the game. Trust me, there are plenty of little 
 touches and moments which will really jump out as fun and new for even the most ardent Zelda fanatic.
 
  Taking this much-loved and highly effective gameplay and adapting it for use with the Wiis unique 
 controls must have been a daunting task for the developers, but they have managed to do so very 
 effectively indeed. Although initially, getting used to swishing the wiimote itself around to make 
 Link attack with his sword and use some of his items takes a little getting used to, once you have 
 settled into the controls youll find they allowed a degree of precision and comfort that will 
 make you wonder how on Earth you got by with analogue controllers in the past.
  
  Overall, the Wii controls are fairly simplistic but ultimately very playable. You move Link with 
 the nunchuk stick, and attack by moving the wii-mote around in various different ways. Different 
 movements of the wii-mote will cause Link to attack in different ways, particularly if you start 
 include the Z lock-on function. It culminates in combat and swordplay that is more fluid and accomplished 
 than I was first anticipating when hearing of the wii release of the game. When facing even multiple 
 enemies, the combat is involving and enjoyable, with Link eventually becoming something of a master 
 swordsman and acrobat, and taking on your opponents with your sword and shield proving to be a 
 fun affair indeed.
  Using items is equally pain-free and effective, switching between the menus of Links inventory, 
 equipment etc. using the  and + buttons on the remote, and then assigning them to the B button. 
 Most of the items require you to aim with the Wii-mote itself, and thankfully the sensitivity of 
 the technology makes this a highly accurate and enjoyable experience. Using the Wiimote to aim 
 with the bow or hookshot especially are particularly enjoyable and easy experiences and a testimony 
 to how well the game has been adapted to the wii hardware.
  
  Adapted is the key word however, for this is quintessentially the same Zelda gameplay that Ocarina 
 threw up with wii functionality added on. Granted, the gameplay is as mentioned solid even today, 
 and the wii functions work perfectly, but for anybody expecting to go into the title with the expectations 
 that it will make full use of the wiis abilities will be a little disappointed  this is clearly 
 a game where the wii specific controls were not in mind upon original conception, and have since 
 been tagged in afterwards, though thankfully with great aplomb.
  
  It is, however, the aforementioned little touches which really help to elevate Twilight Princesss 
 gameplay above that of its spiritual predecessor, and in fact all of the previous Zelda titles. 
 Not only am I talking about the twilight realm and all of the added touches that wolf Link offers, 
 but even when playing as Human Link youll find lots of neat little additions all over the place, 
 be they knowing winks in the story or settings to previous instalments, or neat little mini-games 
 or puzzles which really add to the overall experience significantly. They arent necessary, and 
 they arent always anything particularly original, but they add to the overall richness and quality 
 of the title.
  
  Looking at the core of Twilight Princess adventure, when youre not in the twilight realm or watching 
 cut scenes, youll either be exploring towns, traversing Hyrules vast over-world or making your 
 way through one of the games many dungeons.
  
  The towns in particular are where Twilight Princess seems to have gotten a little too stuck in 
 the past. Although graphically superior to Ocarinas towns and villages, the locations on offer 
 feel decidedly dated, and at times rather fragmented and split up, helped in no small way by the 
 numerous load times. Castle town, in particular, seems strangely empty, despite it being at times 
 bustling with people and activity. The Wind Waker seemed to pull itself away from this problem 
 of more fixed, fragmented feeling towns, but in being so loyal to Ocarina of Time, Twilight Princess 
 seems to have taken something of a step back. Hopefully for the next instalment of the series, 
 the developers will really tackle the towns and villages and really give them some variety and 
 spice, as at the moment they feel rather perfunctory to say the least.
  
  Fortunately, the Hyrule over-world and dungeons in particular feel a lot more elaborate and detailed. 
 There are plenty of locations which fall somewhere between the two, such as Ordona forest etc. 
 which all luckily feel much more detailed and ripe for exploring than the less impressive towns. 
 The over-world itself is considerably vast, with plenty of secret nooks and crannies tucked away 
 for the intrepid explorer. Hyrule field itself is suitable impressive, and far bigger than its 
 Ocarina counterpart. Although it doesnt quite feel as large as Wind Wakers ocean, it still is 
 a pretty enormous environment which successfully separates the major areas of the game with enough 
 distance and scope to make them feel like they are all part of one enormous, connected world.
 
  
  The dungeons themselves are suitably vast and varied, and Twilight Princess offers incredible variety 
 in terms of what dungeons are on offer. Yes, we once again get the obligatory temple of time, Hyrule 
 castle, Zoras domain etc., but this is the first Zelda title to really seem like it is enjoying 
 exploring new themes for its dungeons, taking us to the flawed but bizarrely engaging city in the 
 sky and the beautifully icy snowpeak ruins, two locations in particular which feel fresh and new, 
 with their own interesting and at times somewhat hilarious inhabitants really adding to the depth 
 and impressive scope of the title.
  
  Of course, the main focus of the dungeons are their environmental puzzles, and once again the Zelda 
 team outdo themselves. Very few games can do environmental puzzles like Zelda titles can, and once 
 again the majority of them are an absolute joy. It is a true testimony to both the skills of the 
 creators and the extent of the playtesting that the difficulty curve of the dungeons and their 
 puzzles are so masterfully balanced. The earlier puzzles will be occasionally taxing but mainly 
 problem free, until eventually the later larger dungeons become a bit more confusing, requiring 
 more advanced thinking and manipulation of the environment to progress. It is truly impressive 
 stuff, and no exaggeration to say that Twilight Princess offers the best dungeons the series has 
 yet to offer, which in itself is high praise indeed. They reward exploration and experimentation, 
 and throw countless challenges at you across numerous floors and levels, all the time remain fun 
 and engaging to play. Each dungeon is usually made that bit more unique and fresh by the inclusion 
 of a new item in your inventory which usually becomes integral to some of the puzzles throughout 
 that area, and eventually the dungeons final boss.
  Talking of bosses, Twilight Princess keeps the tradition of having the end of dungeon boss fight, 
 but also now includes half-way sub fights with smaller bosses, usually to obtain the new item needed 
 to progress. Whilst the sub-bosses are usually simpler affairs, usually relying on more generic 
 combat and the bosses themselves being not overly large, the end of dungeon bosses are once again 
 suitably grand and imposing. The boss challenges throughout are highly engaging and enjoyable, 
 often taking place in stages, and usually requiring some strategic thinking before you are able 
 to take advantage of weak spots which eventually expose themselves. As with all areas of the gameplay, 
 Midna will occasionally offer you hints to help, but usually with a bit of experimentation, the 
 bosses can be figured out without too much stress or confusion. They are an example of what all 
 boss fights really should be  impressive in scope and execution, and highly fun and engaging experiences. 
 The final four-staged boss fight in particular proves to be an incredibly satisfying and epic encounter 
 which closes the game with confidence, variety and a strong inventive flair. Graphically, Twilight 
 Princess manages to impress, despite clearly being far from the quality of any top PS3 or Xbox 
 360 title, particularly considering it was built as a gamecube title. It offers some strong art 
 direction in particular, with some of the countless varied locations being nothing short of stunning. 
 Lighting and character models (including those of enemies) are not quite up to next gen standards, 
 but dont fall too far short, and some of the environments in particular are impressive in terms 
 of both their overall size and construction as well as the considerable amount of detail. It is 
 indescribably the overall look and feel of Twilight Princess which manages to inspire and beguile 
 so much  it may not technically be outstanding, but is rarely anything less than enchanting and 
 genuinely beautiful, particularly as you progress to some of the later areas.
  
  In terms of audio, Twilight Princess does fall by the wayside a little in terms of overall quality. 
 A lot of the music is of a high quality and gets the job done efficiently and at times very effectively, 
 but does occasionally suffer from clearly not being orchestrated. Likewise, many of the sound effects 
 are improved upon Ocarinas templates, but nonetheless remain quintessentially the same collection 
 of dated jingles and clangs. Whilst the sound effects manage to creative effective ambience in 
 the dungeons in particular, future titles would really benefit from dragging the soundscape of 
 the game back into the 21st century somewhat. Graphics are constantly being improved in the series, 
 audio simply has to follow suit.
  
  Speaking of which, one of Twilight Princess most immediate and remaining flaws is its total lack 
 of voice-over content, the occasional grunt, gasp or otherworldly babble notwithstanding. Going 
 through the entire game reading bountiful amounts of text and not hearing a single word of spoken 
 dialogue really does seem to hold the title back from being a more complete and contemporary experience 
  the vast majority of videogames released today employ the use of voice-over, and whilst Twilight 
 Princess is an epic game with a lot of dialogue, other titles with an even fuller script have pulled 
 it off  look at the likes of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and even, say, Kingdom Hearts 2 or Final 
 Fantasy 12. The latter two maintained a successful balance between voice-over for the main characters 
 and important scenes with text dialogue for the rest, another step which really does need to be 
 taken at the least for future Zelda games, or risk them feeling even more dated than they already 
 do in this area. Other smaller notable flaws are some of the gameplay elements which seem to be 
 added in almost out of obligation and loyalty to the previous titles than necessity to the gameplay 
 itself. The inclusion of Links horse Epona almost feels like an afterthought, as I rarely used 
 her even before Link has the ability to turn into wolf Link at will (after which I dont think 
 she was used at all) . Likewise, the inclusion of a musical element to the game (following in 
 the footsteps of the Ocarina and Wind Waker) also seems tacked on, and is nowhere near as influential 
 or important to the game as it was in previous titles. The accumulation of Rupees as currency 
 also feels rather dated  finding countless gems lying around in the grass is starting to feel 
 a little unbelievable to say the least, and whilst I may be getting a little too pedantic, when 
 titles such as Final Fantasy 12 strive to keep advancing all areas of its gameplay, including the 
 acquisition of money to buy items with, seeing Twilight Princess innovate so little in such areas 
 does make it feel a tad too stubborn to alter Ocarinas ways.
  
  Overall though, these little niggles really do very little to damage the overall quality of an 
 experience you are getting with Twilight Princess which is, above all, a supremely well crafted 
 videogame. In my opinion it is the greatest Zelda title so far, which already marks it out as a 
 must-have title for any wii owner. You simply cannot fault what is on offer here, even if it is 
 a little dated in places, for what you are getting is a brilliant, beautiful and resoundingly accomplished 
 adventure with plenty of scope and a genuine epic feel to it. Itll keep you hooked for many hours 
 until completion, enveloped comfortably in its enjoyable, engaging grasp, and even upon completion 
 youre likely to go back and do it all over again just for the sheer fun of it, and to seek out 
 all those little side-quests and touches you missed out on first time round.
  
  As far as the Legend of Zelda goes, it is unsurprising the game has failed to have quite the same 
 degree of success and acclaim that Ocarina of Time did upon its release, seeing as how it is effectively 
 an advanced re-imaging of that very same game. It has, however, deservedly met acclaim and reception 
 far beyond that of most of its equivalents, proving that once again, as Zeldas legend walks hand 
 in hand with Nintendos success story, they once again close another highly accomplished and hugely 
 successful chapter in their own legacies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, was first released on the Wii, then later on the Gamecube, in November and December 
 of 2006. Twilight Princess though, but in other people's minds, is truly the best Zelda ever created 
 so far. Twilight Princess has had some of the biggest hype for a game I've ever seen, and to turn 
 it on and start playing was a dream come true. Twilight Princess was the first 'big' title to ever 
 hit Nintendo's latest console - the Wii - and a lot of people were speculating that the Wii controls 
 weren't going to work, and it's just an excuse to make more money. Well technically, it was a very 
 smart buisness move, even if the game was bad. But trust me, it isn't. The Wii controls on Twilight 
 Princess are like Peanut Butter to Jam, they just work together. It was really surprising to find 
 that the Wii controls worked better than a traditional controller, and now I can't see myself ever 
 wanting to go back.
  
  Twilight Princess starts off in a small village called 'Ordon' where you - let's just say Link, 
 because you can name your own character - are getting told by a friend to deliver a sword to Hyrule 
 Castle for him, and it will be a long journy. Afterwards, you are to run around the village, and 
 look for things to do. Here, you must do certain things for other people in order to advance in 
 the story. Some examples of things you have to do are fishing, and herding goat. This part may 
 seem a bit boring at first, but you only have to do this for about an hour or so, so it wont be 
 punishing. What Zelda game doesn't start out a bit boring anyways? The Wind Waker came close, but 
 I think Twilight Princess' start is the most boring so far. Eventually, after you meet up with 
 one of your friends Ilia, who finds out that Epona - your horse, you can also name it whatever 
 you want - has a wound on it's leg from you being to rough with it while herding goat. Ilia takes 
 Epona to the a spring located in the forest, and you must get there somehow. Once there, something 
 terrible happens: a gang of monsters on pigs barge into your village and take Ilia hostage, knocking 
 Link out cold in the process. Once Link wakes up, he trys to go save them but finds himself at 
 a very stange dark wall with little symbols here and there. Then, Link all of the sudden gets pulled 
 in.
  
  Once Link is in the Twilight Realm - which is what the dark wall was - he turns into a wolf right 
 away. Then, he is dragged dragged to a jail cell. Link wakes up and sees that he's in a jail, but 
 he's also chained down to the ground. Suddenly, a mysterious being comes in and starts to talk 
 to you. She says her name is Midna, and she'll help you escape. So once out of the cell, you must 
 - with Midna riding on top of you - try and get out of the prison. After you get outside, you find 
 that you're in Hyrule Castle, but everything is surrounded in the Twilight. You eventually find 
 a room with someone standing in it, but who could it be? She turns around, and it is none-other 
 than Princess Zelda herself. She tells you what has happened and that Link must somehow turn all 
 of the Twilight back to where it came from, and make all of Hyrule normal again. That's where I'll 
 leave off. Twilight Princess' story is somewhat original, epic, and clever. Every Zelda fan knew 
 that the game would boil down to 3 main characters, but how Twilight Princess would get there, 
 was anyone's guess. Just looking a Twilight Princess, you can tell right away that it's no doubt 
 a Gamecube game. But it doesn't change the fact that it's still one of the best looking Wii games, 
 even in 2007. It goes to show you that the art in this game is truly remarkable, and it can make 
 a game look amazing no matter what system it's on. Twilight Princess' dungeon design is the best 
 in any Zelda series thus far. Every dungeon has a theme to it, and the design fits the theme perfectly 
 without any disappointment. The Boss' in Twilight Princess were also very thought out, and they 
 look and feel very mighty. One of my favourite bosses in Twilight Princess - Stallord - is a huge 
 skeleton that sits waist up in a pool of sand. Stallord looks amazing, and is one of the best detailed 
 things in the game. There are some places in the graphical department where Twilight Princess does 
 disappoint a bit. The graphics could have been as good as Brawl or Corruption if Twilight Princess 
 wasn't a port of the Gamecube game. Also, looking at the walls or mountains from afar may look 
 nice, but going right up close, and they're all smudgy, and the textures just look awful.
  
  The sound also has some flaws. Nintendo has decided to still stick with MIDI music, which can 
 seem very, very outdated when you look at other games and how they sound fantastic. Twilight Princess' 
 sound out of the Wii Remote can sound very low-quality also. It's crackly, and just sounds bad. 
 But Twilight Princess doesn't only have bad things wrong with its sound. Twilight Princess also 
 has one of the best soundtracks ever writen in any Zelda game before. All of the music, where ever 
 you go in the game, is outstanding. Some of the dungeon music may get repetitive - Temple of Time 
 anyone? - but most of the music is well thought out, and can be one of the best listening experiences 
 ever. If only Nintendo had a real orchestra, it could've been something to remember.
  
  The new Wii Remote controls work almost flawless, and it makes the game even better. To control 
 Link's movements, you use the joystick on the Nunchuck attachment. Z is auto-aim, and the C button 
 is to look around. Minus on the Wii Remote is to go to your item inventory, and the Plus button 
 is to go to your mission status, like changing outfits, and seeing how many heart pieces you have. 
 Down, Left, and Right on the Directional Pad are all for item storage, and when you press the button 
 of the item you want to use, it brings the item down to the B Trigger, and you can use the B Trigger 
 to use th item. A is action, like always, then Up on the D-Pad is to talk to Midna. 1 is Map, and 
 2 is show, or make the small-map disappear. What about the sword and shield you ask? No problem. 
 When you hold the auto aim button, Link automatically uses his shield. To use your sword, just 
 swing or shake the Wii Remote, and Link will swing his sword. Aiming is also easier with the Wii 
 Remote. When using the Bow &amp; Arrow, or the Boomerang you aim the Wii Remote on the screen, 
 and a ridicule will come up. You aim the ridicule anywherem, then shoot, easy as that.
  
  Horseback combat was also added to Twilight Princess. Now, you can swing your sword at enemies 
 while on Epona. All you do is swing the Wii Remote, and Link will swing his sword. There are some 
 parts in the game where this is necessary, and other than that, you barely ever use it. But, it 
 is still very fun, and I can't wait for Nintendo to use this more in the next Zelda. There's also 
 Bow &amp; Arrow combat on Horseback, and with the Wii Remote, it makes that even easier. Speaking 
 of Bow &amp; Arrow, the Wii Remote does disappoint a bit in some cases. Sometimes, it doesn't realize 
 that you're aiming the Remote at the screne. Also, when using the Zoom Feature you buy in-game, 
 you have to zoom in using the Wii Remote, and aim with the joy stick. These can seem odd at first, 
 but you find that it doesn't bother all too much, and it's usually fine.
  
  But playing Twilight Princess is typical for a Zelda game. You find the dungeon by talking to different 
 people - or finding an item - solve some puzzles, get the item in the dungeon, get the boss key, 
 fight the boss with the dungeon's item, then collect the heart piece and key item the boss left 
 behind and continue to the next dungeon. Sorry for the long sentence, but that's what 3D Zelda's 
 are all about. There's nothing wrong with that, and Nintendo can still pull it off with no downsides 
 to it, then kudos to them, because it works great in Twilight Princess. But in Twilight Princess, 
 you not only just go to dungeons, you also have to transverse in the Twilight Realm as a wolf from 
 time to time. These parts aren't just little things Nintendo put in there to make the game longer 
 - even though collecting those bugs can get a little tiresome - they're a big part of the game 
 and are very fun to accomplish. What you have to do is fill a vessel of light with these light 
 particles that you find from bugs, then once the vessel is full, the area turns to normal again, 
 and you turn back to human form. When playing as a wolf, Link plays almost exactly like his human 
 self. You use the item slots to use your senses - which can find things that would be invisible 
 to the naked eye - then you can use dig which can dig things up from the ground. When you flick 
 the Wii Remote, Link lunges forward as an attack, then if you shack the Nunchuck, Link does a 360 
 Degree spin attack. All of these play almost exactly like Human Link. While in auto aim, you can 
 also press the A button to do a bite attack.
  
  There are 8 dungeons in total, counting the last dungeon - which can seem very short - and it'll 
 talk the average gamer about 40 hours to plow through the main game. But if you really want your 
 money's worth - which the main quest is good enough - you can try to collect all of the heart piece's, 
 Poe Souls, and Golden Bugs. This brings me to a point that Twilight Princess has way, and I mean 
 WAY to much rupees - which are the currency in Zelda games. After you deliver a Golden Bug, you 
 get 50, then when you deliver it's mate, you get 100. Even in dungeons, there's chests everywhere 
 that give you rupees. Plus, killing enemies gives you rupees also. There's also chest hidden around 
 all of the Hyrule Field. Speaking of Hyrule Field, it was very exaggerated when people claimed 
 it took 40 minutes to cross all of Hyrule on Horseback. But it is true when people say that Hyrule 
 Field is massive. It's 10 times bigger than the next Hyrule Field before it (Ocarina of Time) , 
 and it makes Majora's Mask's look like a baby. It's giant in Twilight Princess, and it does take 
 a little while to cross it, but not 40 minutes, that's just ridiculous. Twilight Princess is a 
 beast. It's a 40 hour game at least, with tons of things to do. It looks great, sounds pretty good, 
 and has an unbelievable soundtrack, there's no reason not to pick this up if you have a Wii. The 
 Wii Remote controls add to game's overall depth, and makes it even easier to play. It doesn't take 
 long to understand, then learning curve is nothing, and it's the best Zelda game created to date. 
 Ocarina of Time, your time is up, Twilight Princess is here, and it's a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Review
  
  Launching alongside one of the most anticipated consoles of the next-generation hardware, The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess had a lot of expectations to meet.
  
  One of the pillars of the Nintendo franchise base, The Legend of Zelda games have always succeeded 
 in delivering the best gameplay experience, Twilight Princess is no different. Starting its life 
 as a final generation Gamecube game, Twilight Princess was pushed back to launch on the Wii (and 
 Gamecube) in November 2006. This delay allowed Nintendo to add more polish to the gameplay and 
 presentation and more importantly, Wiimote (and nunchuck) control scheme. By taking the proven 
 track record of The Legend of Zelda games as a vehicle to show what can be done with the Wii was 
 an excellent move by Nintendo.
  
  The game follows the standard sequence of events for a Legend of Zelda game in the beginning. An 
 innocent youth is swept up into a conflict that will determine the existence of the world he lives 
 in, he finds out that he is the chosen one to defeat the evil that threatens the world and then 
 undertakes a long and dangerous quest for the items and artifacts that will allow him to confront 
 this ultimate evil. A standard framework and time-proven, allowing the game designers to focus 
 all of their attention on the gameplay and presentation.
  
  Twilight Princess shines in the extraordinary design of its areas and dungeons and all of the 
 parts that are integral to that. Level design, puzzles and a wide variation of locals all add to 
 the great experience. From wide open grassy fields, deep lakes, vast deserts and more, the player 
 is treated to an ever changing environment. The dungeons all take on the attributes of where 
 they are found. For example, the dungeon located in the desert area feature numerous quicksand 
 traps and pockets of shifting sand. The water dungeon is a half flooded network of caves that require 
 various modes of transportation to navigate. This feature is carried over through each section 
 of the game.
  
  Another feature that makes Twilight Princess great is the Wiimote control. You use both the Wiimote 
 and nunchuck to manipulate Link around the environment and control the sword and shield in combat 
 as well as other weapons found through the game. There are fighting techniques to be discovered 
 through training sessions with an undead sword master. The techniques involve both the Wiimote 
 and the nunchuck and are all useful in the right situation. The Wiimote does have a bit of sensitivity 
 problem when it comes to the direction of the sword attack, it gets confused easily when you try 
 a vertical or horizontal slash, mostly resulting in you swinging the Wiimote crazily until your 
 enemy is defeated. Even with this draw back, it is a welcomed change of pace to button-mashing 
 of the past.
  
  The visual component of Twilight Princess ranks as the best looking Legend of Zelda game to date 
 but do show that the game was originally developed for the Gamecube. Most areas in the game are 
 relatively sparse with a few buildings and trees to accent the area. The colors are good and they 
 are generally kept within the theme for the area. The detail work, including the moss/vines that 
 grow on the walls are kept 2D and can disappoint at close ranges. The enemies are varied and are 
 animated well and the helpful characters are memorable if not strangely designed and presented.
 
  
  The sounds for Twilight Princess continue the trend of using the base sound effects found in the 
 early games and manipulating or simply leaving them alone. The music and ambient sounds effects 
 are good and fitting for the local. The boss music is rousing and conveys a feel of adventure and 
 danger. Some of the games basic sound effects are issued through the Wiimote. Finding a secret 
 area and shooting of the bow and arrow are examples of the low-fidelity sounds that the Wiimote 
 can handle. These sounds offer a sense of nostalgia to the game for those who experienced the original 
 Legend of Zelda adventures.
  
  The adventure clocks in around 25-40 hours depending on how much effort you put into locating each 
 treasure chest inside a dungeon or the various sidequests which present themselves through the 
 game. There is no online play whatsoever for those looking for add-ons or multiplayer modes but 
 with the overall gameplay time clocking in at 2-3 times longer then your typical adventure games, 
 you are not left with a just another used game after a week of playtime.
  
  The Legend of Zelda is a worthy successor to the Zelda franchise and a welcome start to the next-generation 
 offerings from Nintendo. A definite must have game for the Wii in the early stages of its lifecycle, 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an excellent game and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  When I first turned on my wii i went straight to Twilight princess and i played for 4 hours. in 
 those 4 hours I learned one thing, this game rocks!
  
  I had never played a Zelda game before but this game just has something special about it, whether 
 it's the engaging and legendary storyline, the massive dungeons, the unique bosses, the fantastic 
 graphics, the insane amount of stuff to do and collect or a mix of all of them, this game will 
 keep you playing and will not let you put it down.
  
  I spent a good 50 hours on the main game and I realized while I was watching the credits that had 
 only done about half of the whole game! A good game should have a good ending and this one didn't 
 fail at all with the sort of ending that has you saying I would of never guessed that .
  
  The mini-games are good as well, there is one where you have to ride down a river and avoid rocks 
 while shooting hanging jars with bomb arrows. another has you fishing, nothing else. but it is 
 so addictive that you have to come back and see if you can break you record or catch a legendary 
 Hyrule bass.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth your money and something everyone should have the joy of 
 experiencing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazingly fun game that was and still is highly underestimated. I 
 have been a Zelda fan since the very beginning and still am, and I would say that Twilight Princess 
 is second behind Ocarina Of Time. It takes good advantage of the Wii Remotes potential, and puts 
 it to very good use with the ability to slash someone with your sword by moving your Wii Remote 
 and pointing an arrow to kill someone from far away. It has all the puzzles you would expect from 
 Zelda and all the types of villians along with bosses you have to see to believe. It has a good 
 storyline matched with an amazing ending, This game is definitely worth the $50.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is a game that many people understimate, but the truth of the thigs, they are all wrong, this 
 game deserve a tripy.
  
  And after all, TLOZ: TP is not a game developed for the Wii console, in fact it was for de Game 
 Cube, but i'm glad that finally arrived to the Wii console.
  
  The history has the most part of the game's victory, because it's really deep and well elaborated. 
 The characters form part of the essence of the game, especially i really liked Midna, may be we 
 see har in a future, may be in other game (i wish she showed up in Smash Bros Brawl) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agustin155
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing the game and defeated Gonondorf. It is a beautiful game. Great graphics 
 and great game play. It is less harder than Ocarina of Time but still very challenging and mind 
 teasing.
  
  I encourage you to try playing this game. It is fun and has many other mini games and collecting 
 stuff and it is not as hard as Ocarina of Time without the all getting big and small stuff or Majora's 
 Mask with the time changing and you do not have to be memorizing any ocarina songs but you can 
 still blow some grass to call Epona. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  With Thanksgiving approaching, and the semester starting to enter a last stretch, me just getting 
 through 3 midterms, I've actually found some time to update my blogs and finish up San Andreas' 
 story mode. I knew I was right at the end. This is the first time in weeks that I really played 
 the game and I just beat it just now. I liked the way Vice City ended better but meh, oh well. 
 As this is a sandbox game, I'll still get playing around with it. But now its finally time to get 
 back to playing Pandora Tommorow. Thankfully, these next two weekends will likely provide me with 
 some more free time as well as the rest of the semester in general. I'll be happy when I get past 
 this semester as Christmas break will really be a breath of fresh air and i'm hoping for a less-demanding 
 schedule next semester. I'm extremely backed up on games to play but that'll just be what will 
 tide me over until I can afford a next-gen system.
  
  Unfortunately, my freakin' DS Lite's D-Pad is malfunctioning now after accidentally splattering 
 liquid on the system. Nintendo wants to charge 80+ bucks to fix it but I feel like i'd rather just 
 by a new one if i'm gonna pay that much. I was really getting into Tetris DS, too. Now i'm cut 
 off from playing it until probably next year.
  
  Oh well. Hopefully again, this semester will smooth out and i'll have a less demanding one next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zell1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  hello its me again im wondering how zelda tp gets a 8.8 and not a ten i admit it has no originallity 
 but it makes up for it with stunning gameplay and awesome new moves while u seacrh for poes and 
 fish in different seasons by soming in and out the fishing hole on same days makes it worty of 
 a ten with the kights aka iron knucklehard as the should be but no navi instead its midna you should 
 be happy but in the in its not about partners its bout link shigeru i Bow to you for keeping zelda 
 up as the legend it should be thank u for making my life fun with the legend of zelda......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azlar
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  A mediocre game at the very best. While the storyline is quite interesting, it lacks depth. The 
 graphics and digital effects in this game is not up to par in my honest opinion. The sounds in 
 this game, however, are decent, and the music quite enjoyable assisting with gameplay at times. 
 The controls are alright even if it feels awkward at times but overall, it's not bad since it does 
 improve gameplay by quite a margin. Zelda was made for the Wii! Perhaps this game is just not my 
 cup of tea, but I do believe this overly hyped game to be overrated. In conclusion, an okay game 
 but unfornately fails to create an extraordinary gaming experience for me. While I'm sure many 
 others will disagree with me, please keep in mind that this is my honest opinion coming from an 
 unbiased reviewer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjayd
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll get straight to the point here. I loved this game. From the moment I started playing 
 to the second time I finished, I always thoroughly enjoyed it. Now, the breakdown.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game makes excellent use of the Wii remote. It combines time tested Zelda 
 attributes with new features that could only be done on the Wii. I can't imagine playing the GameCube 
 version after this. Love the combination. Hampered by some unintuitive parts (firing the bow while 
 mounted was downright difficult) and the only semi-effective wolf controls.
  
  Graphics
  
  Nothing special compared to some of the games out there, but I enjoyed them, and they really 
 carried the theme well. Perfect for a Zelda game.
  
  Sound
  
  I like the background music for the most part, but the sound effects aren't all that great, and 
 the ones that come through the Wii remote are actually rather annoying. Still, the good outweighs 
 the bad for the most part.
  
  Value
  
  Has there ever been a Zelda game without awesome replay value? Expect to play this several times.
 
  
  Tilt
  
  What can I say? Loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Based off the general consumer reception, and Nintendo's own pre-release comments (mainly from 
 Reggie Fils-Aime) , I had a feeling that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess would be the one 
 to dethrone Ocarina of Time as my favorite Zelda game of all time. That feeling was strengthened 
 the moment I witnessed the game's opening screens and discovered first-hand just how mature and 
 well-directed/scored this game is. By the time I finished the game, I knew without a doubt in my 
 mind that this is the #1 game in the series for me.
  
  Like I said, the moment you first witness the game's opening scenes, you'll know just how drastically 
 mature this game is compared to Zelda's typical tone and this is especially noticeable in the direction 
 and score. The dialogue is no exception to this. Its no coincidence that this higher level of maturity 
 is accompanied by an overall darker tone, both in theme and storyline. I personally feel Twilight 
 Princess' storyline is by far the most interesting of any Zelda game i've played and really the 
 only one I took really seriously (again, the game's mature tone attributes to this) . The direction 
 of the cutscenes, interesting dialogue and beautiful (yet MIDI) score actually gives the game some 
 cinematic appeal, something I had yet to experience in the series. The story consistently gets 
 progressively deeper as you progress through the game and culminates into a very fine finale. Now 
 speaking of the finale (don't worry, there are no spoilers in this review) , there was something 
 I felt was missing from the game that I excused for most of the experience but became very apparent 
 at the end and I felt was necessary: Voice Acting. There is only one character in the game (that 
 I encountered) that has a voice , and by voice, I mean their dialogue is actually verbal beyond 
 sighs, grunts, etc. At one particular point in the game when this person speaks, the lip-syncing 
 is probably the best it was the entire game and gives you a strong feeling of a character actually 
 speaking with a voice. It honestly made that scene feel magical because all you typically get in 
 a Zelda game are dialogue boxes. The sense of someone speaking made the scene feel much more cinematic, 
 and given the overall quality of the dialogue in the game, I think quality voice acting would've 
 very much benefited the game.
  
  The gameplay and level design is by far the best and funnest i've played in the series. Just about 
 every weapon and item Link finds in the game is integrated very well into the gameplay and VERY 
 fun to use. It was very well worth it to hold off for the Wii version of this game instead of the 
 GCN version as the Wii controls do spice up the game in multiple ways, especially with it comes 
 the fishing rod, hookshot, bow&amp; arrow, spin attack.... mostly everything! If you're on the fence 
 about which version to pick up, let me say this to you: After playing through the Wii version and 
 controlling the game with the Wiimote + Nunchuk, there's no way i'd pick up a GCN controller to 
 play this game. The method of control alone makes this version superior. You'll be surprised how 
 much the Wiimote adds to this game's well-varied gameplay.
  
  The dungeon design in general is high quality as always and the puzzles uphold the series' reputation 
 for being clever. However, there is an issue with boss battles that I honestly don't know to attribute 
 to the game's design or just my skill: difficulty. I personally found the majority of the boss 
 battles a tad on the easy side. I'm not really complaining because high difficulty in action/adventure 
 games like this is of little importance to me. It really could just be that as a Zelda veteran 
 you know to to approach boss battles in terms of figuring out how to set the boss up to be striked. 
 Nevertheless, the battles are still fun and still present a challenge.
  
  Link's swordplay, like many aspects of this game again, is the hands down the best i've played 
 in this series. The range of techniques you learn and are required to apply in combat truly makes 
 it the deepest of any Zelda game to date. I found the techniques to be so cool that I had a real 
 desire to use them even if I didn't need to. It feels go to have a reason to not button mash all 
 the time (well in this version's case, mindlessly swing your arm all the time) .
  
  Link's alternate (beast) form is a welcome variation to the gameplay, providing unique ways are 
 getting around areas, dungeon puzzles and combat. And like Link in his human form, controlling 
 him in this form benefits from the Wiimote + Nunchuk. There are also some neat little touches to 
 make Link really seem like a Wolf such as panting while running, jumping and climbing, the ability 
 to pick up and follow scents, and he even growls at enemies when Z-targeting.
  
  Like I mentioned briefly above the game's score is another collection of fine work by Koji Kondo. 
 The only problem is that its MIDI music. Again, don't get me wrong, its still great music, but 
 given the already mature tone of this game, I think live-orchestrated music was definitely in order 
 for the game. The game, like voice acting really calls for it like a void in plain sight begging 
 to be filled. Both elements are things I hope Nintendo seriously considers for the next 3D Zelda 
 game as I truly think they could've made the game even better than it already is.
  
  Without a doubt, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is now my second favorite Zelda. This is 
 definitely the most superb effort on Nintendo's part that i've yet to witness with this series 
 and is definitely a permanently memorable one. Naturally as Ocarina of Time is one of my favorite 
 games of all time in addition to being my former favorite Zelda, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess now stands secure that area. If you have any interest in the Zelda series, do not hesitate 
 to play this game. And if you're deciding between the two versions, this is the one to get. The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is truly an outstanding game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlthecreator5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is nothing less that the most precisely crafted adventure game of the last several years. 
 Twilight Princess may be the finest adventure game ever made, for the simple reason than it encompasses 
 the entire possibility range that the genre offers. Every single gameplay element you could think 
 to see in an adventure game is here, and many novel and interesting new pieces besides. As you 
 move forward through the game you're constantly challenged with new ideas, new items, new puzzles, 
 new gameplay elements; what you are actually doing within the game never stands still. If boredom 
 can be defined as repetition, you will be hard pressed to point at any section of the title and 
 call it boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyfaze
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Like many other Zelda games, this one wasn't disappointing! Lengthy storyline and the game takes 
 many hours to beat and will keep you entertained for at least 50 hours worth of playtime!
  
  The graphics are great for the Wii so there are no complaints there. The sound is what you 
 would expect, can't love it or hate it, some things like Midna's laugh gets very repetitive after 
 awhile.
  
  Replay value isn't bad, even if you beat the entire game like me.. there's still this strange satisfaction 
 with making another profile and working to beat it again, maybe trying some things different here 
 or there. Whether you are an old school Zelda gamer or just getting into it, this game is great 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  This zelda comes second only to the masterpie ce that was Occarana of Time. Highly nostalgic, but 
 with enough new gameplay elements and environments to make it addictive, immersive, and fun. Great 
 side characters, great level design, and great battles make this title great. Still no voice acting, 
 which is certainly a shame, but after a while you no longer notice. The story, while rather predictable, 
 is solid and fast paced. Great dungeons, that get more origional and facinating the further you 
 progress. Lots of side quests to fill your time. Great boss fights that keep the action interesting 
 and origional. Lots of secrets and classic zelda flavor that makes the series so unique. Spectacular! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MermaidMurder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away. I havn't played a Zelda game since Majora's Mask on the N64 and i was really 
 excited to take a walk down memory lane. Twilight Princess takes Zelda to a different level. The 
 graphics were good (not great) but they fit the game just right. From the moment i picked up my 
 Wii-mote i was glued to my seat. I couldn't stop playing, i just had to know what happens next, 
 i had to get the next item. The length of this game itself makes it worth getting. I spent a good 
 45+ hours of time playing the game, doing the side quests and finding the heart and every minute 
 was fun. This game is worth getting if you like adventure games in general and you MUST get it 
 if you're a fan of the series. Besides the little annoyances here and there, this game was awesome.
 
  
  The only thing that made me sad was the game was too easy, the length made it last a long time 
 and the puzzle had me stumped for a bit, but after that the game was a breeze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperlink64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  So, the Wii has launched and Twilight Princess, which had been delayed for over a year and then 
 reworked for the new console, has also launched. The main questions: Does having motion-sensing 
 controls interfere with the classic Zelda gameplay? How about horseback battles? Is Wolf Link a 
 confusing new element of this particular Zelda game?
  
  For the motion-sensing controls, not exactly. Not to say it's completely perfect, but it works 
 rather well for this game. You have your usual cascade of items with some new twists to them and 
 all your equipment, all easily managed with the pointer functions of the Wii Remote. You assign 
 items with the D-pad, and use them with the B button. It's a bit confusing at first, but about 
 15 minutes or so, it'll be a breeze to manage. The pointing functions work wonders for projectile 
 weapons such as the Slingshot, providing pinpoint accuracy whenever needed. However, the Wii Remote 
 is very sensitive, so there will be those times when the pointer disappears, causing the game to 
 prompt you to point the Wii Remote on the screen again. Swordplay and fishing is done with the 
 Wii Remote's motion-sensing controls as well. The fishing is done well, you can pull hard on the 
 Wii Remote to grab a fish on the line, and with certain rods, you can use the Nunchuk as a reel 
 to reel in the fish. It's quite vigorous, so those who get tired easily need not apply.
  Bobber fishing is simple, once the bobber goes down about halfway, you simply hold the Wii Remote 
 up until you catch the fish. Sword fighting on the other hand is where the Wii controls feel tacked 
 on. You flick the Wii Remote in any direction in order to swing Link's sword. However, it doesn't 
 really feel like you're actually swing the sword, as a slice in any direction will only register 
 as a normal slice. Swinging the Wii Remote multiple times will result in combos, but it feels a 
 bit clunky and would've been done better if it were assigned to the B button or so. A nice touch 
 to the series is that you can now swing your sword on horseback and while moving, so you can protect 
 yourself on horseback and cut enemies and grass faster on the ground. There are also special sword 
 moves you can learn over the course of the game, most of them providing extra ways of defeating 
 foes, like the useful Ending Blow.
  
  Wolf Link isn't too different from Link's normal form, except you can dig in certain spots, sense 
 spirits or enemies, and use a major attack by pressing and holding the B button. Until the halfway 
 point of the game, Wolf Link is used in 3 fetch quests that require you to kill bugs to earn Tears 
 of Light. It's a bit tedious to keep looking for these tears, when Nintendo could've spent just 
 a bit more time designing more dungeons or a few side-quests. Later on, the wolf form can be used 
 for certain puzzles and warping around the massive land of Hyrule. Ultimately, it just seems to 
 be a different way of controlling Link by the end of the game. It's a nice touch to the game, but 
 it could've been fleshed out a little more than just being used to kill bugs and warp around Hyrule.
 
  
  Like any Zelda game, Twilight Princess has dungeons, 9 of them to be exact. They are massive dungeons, 
 certainly bigger than the dungeons seen in previous Zelda games like Ocarina of Time. All of them 
 follow a central theme and they are very well-developed and fleshed-out. The puzzles in each dungeon 
 can go from easy to solve, like in the first dungeon, to real brainteasers, (I'm looking at you, 
 Dungeon 7...) . The dungeons follow the typical Zelda formula: Explore the dungeon, find the map, 
 fight the mini-boss for the special dungeon item, use said item to solve other puzzles, find the 
 compass, find the big key, and then progress far enough into the dungeon to face the dungeon's 
 usually huge as hell boss. The main difference between these dungeons and previous Zelda dungeons, 
 is that these dungeons are massive in size, certainly much bigger than others in previous games. 
 You'll spend a good amount of time going through the dungeons, trust me, this is a good thing. 
 The only complaint I have against these dungeons is that some puzzles are far too easy and the 
 bosses/mini-bosses, which look imposing, are rather simple to finish off.
  
  The main overworld of Twilight Princess is absolutely massive, it would take quite some time going 
 through the field on foot. It's also packed with enemies, Twilight Princess ups the difficulty 
 from Wind Waker by stuffing in more tougher enemies and higher encounter rates. There are a fair 
 amount of items to collect throughout the game, so you'll be busy with this game for a long time. 
 Mini-games also play a role in the game at times, but mostly serve as addicting time sinks whenever 
 you get tired of the adventure. RollGoal (which is incredibly frustrating) , herding goats, fishing, 
 taking a row down the Zora's River while practicing with your arrows, sumo wrestling, and even 
 snowboarding are some of the mini-games scattered around Twilight Princess's world. Some are required 
 to progress through the game, but others are there simply to earn optional prizes or serve as time 
 sinks. Rest assured, you won't be blazing this game in less than a day.
  
  Twilight Princess is a beautiful game to look at.... on the GameCube. The Wii version is a direct 
 port of the GameCube version, but there are no graphical improvements in the game because of the 
 new hardware, so it does look a bit dated compared to other games available on Wii or other next-gen 
 consoles. Regardless, it does show off what the GameCube was capable of, and with the addition 
 of 480i support being on the Wii, this game certainly is a looker. Barring some frame rate issues 
 at certain areas, Twilight Princess runs very fluidly with almost no loading times at all. Some 
 details, such as the ground at certain areas, look a little blurry perhaps because this game was 
 originally being developed as a GameCube title before being ported over to the Wii. Other details, 
 such as enemy designs and environmental effects look incredible. This game is a graphical powerhouse, 
 but it doesn't use the Wii's power to full potential since it is a GameCube game at its core.
 
  
  What the Wii version lacks in comparison to the GameCube version, is the lack of camera control. 
 Some may think this is a bad thing, but Twilight Princess's camera is pretty well-designed so any 
 camera problems besides hordes of enemies crowding you is practically non-existent. There are times 
 that the camera may make things difficult, but that is solved with Z-targeting on the Nunchuk attachment. 
 Using the C button, also on the Nunchuk, gives you a first-person perspective to look around the 
 area. This works fine, but the pointer often interferes with the view of the camera, often causing 
 to move when you don't want it to. It's a bit of a headache to deal with, but this is a consequence 
 of having the pointer functions on the Wii. The game's soundtrack is a mix of classic tunes from 
 previous games and a slew of new tunes for the dungeons and new locales. They are pretty well-done, 
 with many of the songs heard throughout the game being references to other games in the series. 
 None of the music is orchestrated, but with the resources used, Nintendo did a pretty good job 
 with Twilight Princess's soundtrack. Hyrule Field gives way to a booming tune, while the Twilight 
 Realm has that strange and spooky mood with its music. Most of the dungeon themes are very quiet, 
 but it does fit the mood very well.
  
  This game is a classic, barring a few of its minor problems. The main game is quite long, you won't 
 be finishing this game in a day. As for replay value, it is a pretty lengthy quest, so after finishing 
 it the first time, you might want to put it down for a while. Those mini-games such as fishing 
 and RollGoal do manage to consume a lot of time though....
  
  So, is it better than the GameCube version? Not really, they're both the same game just with different 
 controls and mirrored maps and other minor differences. In all, it comes down to a matter of preference. 
 For those looking for a new experience, pick up the Wii version of Twilight Princess. Otherwise, 
 you can still purchase the GameCube version. Regardless of the system, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess is a fantastic game, and is a recommended buy for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trnuf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  In retrospective, it's easy to see how this game had more chances to disappoint than otherwise. 
 Somehow, Twilight Princess manages to exceed expectations. It's no revolution or major change in 
 the series, or not even the best Zelda game, but it's so well crafted that you quickly forgive 
 the problems.
  
  TP is a GameCube game without a doubt. Its graphics and sounds (midi) are definitively from an 
 other era but the game still looks and sounds great. The gameplay is fun -- althought the control 
 scheme is rather similar to the GC version after all -- as you would expect with any Zelda game.
 
  
  Twilight Princess is one of those games that astonish you, that you don't want to finish. Even 
 with all the good recent games, no game since TWW can compare remotely positively with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PecansAreNuts
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say, The Legend of Zelda has triumphed again! Twilight Princess is barely short 
 of a gaming nirvana. In this game, you will travel through Hyrule accompanied by Midna, an impish 
 creature who is a member of the Twili race. She uses you to help destroy Zant, the false king who 
 has turned the Twilight Realm into a monster-filled wasteland. In turn, she helps you rid the light 
 world of the shadows that have cursed you into a wolf. As the game progresses you learn that Zant 
 is not the game's main antagonist, but rather Ganondorf, the king of all evil. Now Link along with 
 Midna destroy Ganon once and for all.
  This plot is just one the many reasons that makes this game great. The sound combines a mix of 
 new and old Zelda music, but ran a bit stale, and is probably the only small problem I had with 
 this game. Graphics are excellent, and despite whatever an Okami director says, they are quite 
 an accomplishment for the series. The gameplay was my favorite aspect of the game, and works perfectly 
 with the Wii's motion sensors. The AI was also a stunning achievement with more enemy reactions 
 the I've ever seen in the series. And with a play time of 55+ hours, the game's value makes it 
 a game you'll be having sleepless nights over.
  So please, please buy this game. Twilight Princess is a must have for anyone with a Wii, period. 
 Twilight Princess will be rivaling games like another Zelda game, Ocarina of Time, God of War, 
 Perfect Dark, Gears of War, Super Mario 64, the list goes on! Once you start playing this game, 
 I undeniably, 100% promise you, you will be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess on the wii is an amazing game. Everything from the enemies, bosses, level design, 
 character design, right down to the little details are all very fresh and great additions to the 
 series. The main enemy of the game, Zant, is interesting an fresh. This game definitely takes a 
 page from Majora's Mask. Zant is actually representative of the entire feel of the game. The game 
 has a very kind and gentle soul, but it is intensely dark, and dripping with dark, ugly atmosphere. 
 Of course there are bright moments like in Hyrule field and Lake Hylia, but those moments are punctuated 
 by initial periods of intense, dark twilight that must be overcome if the area is to be restored. 
 There is always some darkness around...
  
  Link occupies a very non-commital tone in the game, which is in keeping with it's similarity to 
 Majora's Mask's tone. Link is on the side of the light, of course, but finds himself stuck between 
 both realm. His relationship with Midna, a creature of the twilight, speaks to Link's growing devotion 
 to the realm of twilight, as that relationship blossoms into something very mature and well developed. 
 Not only that, but the wolf form of Link shows that he himself can exist in twilight, showing him 
 to be even more between worlds . It is a great and dynamic space to occupy.
  
  The gameplay is great. I would have to say that mastering the motion sensing techniques is difficult 
 and unnecessary. I did it, but out of my own desire to master the game's nuances more than it actually 
 being practical. Also, the bosses are too easy. I have always said that the game should have rid 
 itself of those bottles and become more like the gameboy zeldas. The puzzles in the game are challenging 
 though, although Midna offen gives away too much. There should have been a difficulty level where 
 Midna is more quiet and pyschic and perhaps there less bottles. That is an easy thing to do, so 
 I hope the next game has an option like that. The cave of ordeals is a genuine challenge and real 
 pleasure though. It will test your abilities, if you can find it that is.
  
  All in all, superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the greatest Zelda and Wii game ever! But compared to the Ocarina of Time 
 it is not very long. But still fun. I highly recommend this game to anyone who owns a Wii or a 
 Game cube. (But the Wii version is way more fun!) The plot in this game was very good as well, 
 and so were the graphics. This is the best looking Zelda game that I have ever seen. I also think 
 that the side quests such as the Golden Bug collecting for Agatha, or Getting the sixty Poe Souls. 
 But I don't wan't to give to much away for anyone who doesn't own this game. But you should definitely 
 buy it, you won't be disappointed. I guarantee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camh91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  THois has to be one of the gretest Zel; da games to date especailly with the renovation of the Wii 
 remote being able to swing the sword. It is just one of hte most interactive desings with the Wii 
 remote being able to swing the Sword. Almost as if you actually wore link. lol. The puzzles in 
 the game were very fun and hallenging at the same time. i throughly enjoyed playing through the 
 entire game. The graphic were deffinitely improved from prevoius Zelda games. It also brings back 
 everyones favorite bad guy Gannaodorf. He is the last boss of course. The stroyline of the game 
 is absolutely Awesome also, with a great surprise ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMaster1991
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  This game was great. The graphics were not as great as they could have been but still they were 
 stunning. The Story was interesting and intransic i didn't want to sit the game down, i played 
 it almost everyday until i beat it, and i'm sure anyone else who plays it will find out why. I 
 would recommend this game to anyone in fact it is my personal belief that everyone needs to play 
 this game! If you have i promise you will love it! The only thing i can say about this game that 
 isn't great is the difficultly level, i mean throughout the game you learn all these really cool 
 sword skill, and i was always wishing for some big challanging monster to ucse it on... but unfortuity 
 there weren't really any. the toughest challange i had to face was probably the time i faced three 
 knights in the tomb area in the dessert other then that the game was to easy. Though the game has 
 atleast 40 hours of gameplay in the main storyline after it was over i wanted more! most likly 
 its just because i love Zelda and could keep playing for ever and ever. this game rivals OOT as 
 the greatest zelda game in the series!!!! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belowski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda games, as you all may know, follow the chronicles of Zelda usually getting 
 captured by a big enemy trying to sieze the three pieces of the Triforce. Although the story hasn't 
 changed much from The Ocarina of Time, the stands on its own with its excellent graphics, sound, 
 and gameplay. The game is easy to play, and dosen't take very long to grasp, but follows the same 
 formula as the other games (You get an item from some kind of miniboss, then use the item to solve 
 puzzles and eventually defeat the boss of the Temple) . The formula is a good one, but could have 
 used a little revising, such as having more than one option to solve one puzzle, not just using 
 one way. The Temples and maps are excellently designed. The Temples, for instance, are much bigger 
 and immersive than any other game I have ever seen or played, and the maps are better than previous, 
 because of the additions of Provinces (Eldin, Lanayru, etc.) . The game has many strong points, 
 but the most appealing of them all is probably the way the game handles. Using the Wii Remote to 
 swing your sword and gently shaking the Nunchuk to cause a spin attack; none of the Zelda games 
 have ever controlled this well. With the addition of using a point-and-fire mechanism to fire projectile 
 weapons, such as the Hero's Bow or the Slingshot, even the Ball-and-Chain. This brings us to the 
 next section, Weapons.
  
  Link's weapon collection has never been as diverse in any other Zelda game. You can use a sniping 
 scope for the bow called the Hawkeye, or use a Ball-and-Chain to break ice in the Snowpeak Mansion, 
 owned by two yetis. Yet, it feels like too much of a sequel to Ocarina of Time, but new weapons 
 should freshen up the experience for seasoned Zelda players.
  
  The Zelda games have always been about the the immersive feeling you get when you start to play. 
 Nothing helps you get that feeling more than swinging through Temples on Double Clawshots, or using 
 a bow to snipe a monster not within range of your sword. Perhaps one of the most interesting features 
 in this game is that you are able to transform into a wolf. Although the wolf's not as strong as 
 Link's human counterpart, it does have the ability to search out and dig items using your canine 
 senses. In the beginning of the game, though, when you can't choose when you want to transform, 
 due to the lack of special attacks or abilities, the levels tend to be tedious and bore you. I'm 
 not saying it's not cool or anything like that, it's just that the wolf form has no special attacks, 
 except an energy field attack and the ability to run much faster than Link.
  
  Over the course of Link's adventure, he bonds with a mysterious Twilit Creature, Midna, and, eventually, 
 forms a friendship with her, though, she does look kind of wierd with a hat that points the right 
 direction you are supposed to go. The game tends to get a little confusing at times, and you WILL 
 have to actually search for the next place to go at times, but most of the time, it is pretty straight-forward, 
 and for that reason and that reason alone, I gave Gameplay a nine.
  
  That wraps up my review; please tell me how I did by agreeing with my performance. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blehbeast1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Wow. That is the only thing that can describe this game. It's amazing. From the time you first 
 pick it up, you're immediately immersed in a beautiful world where anything is possible. (That 
 sounded really cheesy, btw.) Gameplay: 10/10 The gameplay is amazing and flawless. I have no problem 
 with it all. It flows so seamlessly and feels just right.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 Even though these graphics were created on GameCube hardware and were made for 
 the Wii, they still look excellent and I have no problem here either. The lighting, shading, anti-aliasing, 
 all of it looks good.
  
  Sound: 10/10 The music in this game is really good. Most of it are just remixes and better sounding 
 versions of the old songs we know from OoT and the other Legend of Zeldas. The music fits the game 
 perfectly.
  
  Value: 10/10 This game was worth the wait and the price. It's an excellent game that is worth a 
 whole lot.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10 Even though I've beaten the game, I still go back and run around on Epona 
 and hack and slash up a few enemies. I especially like using my bow with my 'ye olde snipe scope' 
 to bust open some heads with some arrows. It's still fun to this day.
  
  Overall this is a great game that you will regret if you don't pick up and play while all your 
 friends talk about how great of a game it was to play. HEHEH!
  Pe@ce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  This site was tough on the game, giving it the only score below a 9, I've seen to date, but Zelda 
 is a series committed to excellence and this title is no different.
  
  Originally slated for the Gamecube, when this game was first announced way back in 2004, some gamers 
 were literally in tears when the tailer was shown. Many fans were teased in 2000 at the tailer 
 Nintendo showed of Link and Ganon fighting. This trailer was just a demo for the graphical power 
 of the Gamecube and gamers were unpleasantly surprised when the following year we got the cartoony 
 Wind Waker. Not that Wind Waker wasn't excellent, it was still classic Zelda gameplay, but when 
 a system is assciated with kids games like Mario and Pokemon, you need to have a few franchises 
 that aren't afraid to be dark and gritty.
  
  Twighlight Princess was a game we all had been waiting for for years. It kept getting pushed back 
 and pushed back and a few worried it would turn into another Duke Nukem: Forever. But then Nintendo 
 announced it would come out in Christmas 2006 for both the Gamecube and as a launch title for the 
 Wii.
  
  This game seems to have no link between this and previous titles. Instead Link begins as a ranch 
 hand in the small village of Ordon and spends his days wrangling the strange looking goats with 
 his horse Epona and playing with the fugly children of the village. But the world of Hyrule is 
 being consumed by an evil darkness called the Twighlight which is bringing forth darkness and bizarre 
 shadow creatures. When Link's friends get kidnapped, he sets out to save them only be consumed 
 by the Twighlight and turned into a wolf. Luckily he is rescued by a strange imp named Midna who 
 becomes your faithful companion and you eventually learn of her mysertious orgins as well as the 
 origin of the Twighlight.
  
  Making this a launch game was the smartest thing Nintendo ever did. We worried that this game getting 
 shoveled to the Wii would lead to problems but the controls work great. you control Link with the 
 nunchuck and swing the remote to use your sword. Arrows and aiming items have been simplified to 
 a point and click feature though I had some problems with this at times, luckily there's still 
 the option to lock on if you're close enough. The Wii-mote controls actually aren't hard to get 
 used to and you get about a 2 hours worth of tutorial before hitting the first dungeon.
  
  This game remains true to the Zelda formula of exploring a vast world, heading into dungeons, collecting 
 various items, defeating bosses to gain the items to take on the final boss. Still the game has 
 enough new features to keep it fresh. First off is the wolf form. When Link transforms, he has 
 the ability to communicate with other animals like cats and chickens. Wolf Link can also leap across 
 great distances with Midna's help and use a scent ability to track down friends and hidden items. 
 Later on in the game, Link will be able to transform at will which opens up even more oppotunities. 
 This is also the first Zelda game that allows for sword fighting on horseback. This is simply awesome.
 
  
  Even if the Wii isn't known for graphical power, Twighlight Princess still looks awesome. After 
 having to endure the colorful, candy anime world of Wind Waker, it's nice to get back to a darker, 
 more relasitic setting. This game is rated T, so don't expect any brutal fatalities when slaying 
 bokoblins. I'm sure some of you wanted to see blood spewing, decapatation of monsters but we all 
 know Nintendo don't play that way. Plus remember, when a game is rated M, you risk the chance of 
 losing some of your audience.
  
  This game is the longest to date with the largest square miliage of any Zelda game. The land of 
 Hyrule is vast full of side quests and caves. If you want a real challenge, head out to the Geurdo 
 desert and take on the Cave of Ordeals. The dungeons are what you have come to expect. This is 
 game where you have to use your head and think about how you can continue on. The bosses could 
 rivial those in God of War or Shadow of the Colossus, though some battles felt short. One of my 
 favorites was a mid-air battle with a large dragon where I had to use my hookshot to swing through 
 to air to attack the weak spot on its back.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twighlight Princess is everything you've come to expect and more. It brings 
 a Lord of the Rings epicness to an already great series. If you have yet to play it, go out and 
 buy it right now. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  A great game with great graphics It's what I'd call the best game for the wii. With also a great 
 story like i said it's highly addictive. But I gave it 9.8 because the sound isn't as good as you'd 
 want it to be as they'll use the speaker on the Wii remote which makes the sound kind of scratchy 
 but they don't use the speaker a lot some parts of the game are confusing but you'll get through 
 them if you try with a twist ending a great storyline the BEST graphics this is really the best 
 game on wii 2nd best zelda. OH GOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eutropius
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  From the view of a Zelda fan, it depends whether or not you like this game better than Ocarina 
 of Time. It's a difficult question. However, I've played this series since A Link to the Past, 
 and I must say this one has impressed me the most of the series.
  
  It starts out slow, and it may take an hour or so to pick up, but it's a more fulfilling hour than 
 the hour spent looking around in the Kokiri Forest only to find out that the sword is in a hole 
 in the wall the whole time. Once you get going however, it will probably only take you a couple 
 weeks (40 hours) to finish, depending on whether you make it a rule to find all the collectibles 
 before beating it..
  
  Gameplay: The controls in this game may not utilize the wii controller to its full potential, but 
 it does so in a way that does not sacrifice ease of gameplay. Aiming the bow/boomerang/clawshot 
 with the wii-mote is both fun and more precise than the standard control technique. Being able 
 to swing the sword is also fun, and although it may not be as clean as standard control, you will 
 eventually be able to do far more with your sword than you were ever able to do in Ocarina. The 
 dungeons are as innovative as ever, with challenging puzzles that will test your creativity. However 
 none were quite as frustrating as the Water Temple from Ocarina of Time, that they make you want 
 to stop playing the game. Although I was impressed and challenged by the dungeons, I wished the 
 battles could have been a tad harder. Just like most Zelda games, I found that the easiness of 
 the battles did not do justice to the effort it took to get to them. Mostly, I wish I didn't only 
 lose a heart or a half of a heart when it seems like being crushed or sliced with a sword as big 
 as you should be a lot more painful. Defeating a boss doesn't seem quite so satisfying when you 
 only lost a few hearts the whole battle. Some boss battles were harder than others however. I particularly 
 enjoyed the one at the Arbiter's Grounds.
  
  If you bought this game hoping for quality mini-games or a multitude of collectibles, you won't 
 be let down. For instance, there are are over a hundred collectibles: 45 heart pieces, 60 Poe souls, 
 and 24 golden bugs.
  
  Graphics:
  I didn't use my microscope to find all the pixelation of the landscapes, or compare the graphics 
 to Oblivion. I looked at the big picture, and if you do so, Twilight Princess is one incredible 
 piece of art. Everything is much bigger than in Ocarina of Time, and much more beautiful. The dungeons 
 are by far the most beautiful dungeons I've seen from this series. The Twilight Palace and Hyrule 
 Castle are both gigantic and magnificent to look at. The artistry is far more impressive than Ocarina 
 of Time's, which was to be honest, nothing special for the most part. Twilight Princess is far 
 more cinematic than any other Zelda Adventure. The landscape is ever changing as day becomes night, 
 and as light becomes twilight (or the other way around) .
  
  Sound: The only real disappointment in Twilight Princess was the sound. It was probably the only 
 thing that wasn't a step up from past generations, which is bad considering the time it has been. 
 Certain songs I loved, such as the song that is played at night in Hyrule Field, the song that 
 plays in Castle Town's Malo Mart, and the Fruit-Balloon minigame song, but two of of those three 
 come in places you don't really care whether there is good music for. Also, it would have been 
 vastly improved if it included more orchestral elements. Don't get me wrong, the Soundtrack is 
 not bad, just immemorable.
  
  Value: As good as it gets. Nice and long, but not drawn out for no reason. What you would expect 
 from a game that was delayed so long. Have no doubts about value.
  
  Tilt: I know I loved it. I can't think of many ways to improve this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibsonGuy1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is this game is Amazing! Easy controls awesome graphics and a killer story. It sticks 
 well to that simple Zelda story. Wolf mode is OK but I still love normal Link. The puzzles are 
 fun and... well... puzzling. the only real downside is that some characters can get on you're nerves 
 (I. E. the little monkeys and the Imp that follows you) But still this game is definitly worth it. 
 It's the best Wii game around. If you love Zelda, action puzzle games, or are just looking for 
 a great Wii game, go to best Buy and get it... you will not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoldcow12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I got the game because I am a huge Zelda fan. It is a bit repetitive until you get past a certain 
 point in the game, then it speeds up and easily is one of the best games I have ever played. The 
 game is easily one of the best games on the Wii if not the best. The game play is defiantly there 
 every Zelda game has it, this one is like the others sometimes you will have to think long and 
 hard on what to do in certain situations. The only reason I would not say 10 is there are not many 
 side quests. Graphics are good for the Wii one of the best-looking games. Sound could be better, 
 not the best sounding Zelda game I have played. Overall the game when done is one of the bests. 
 Its a must have if you have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great title for The Legend of Zelda fans. The gameplay is great and just because he is 
 right handed in this adventure does not change anything. Well the whole game is flipped but oh 
 well. The controls take a little getting used to but you will have fun taking your sword and slicing 
 enimies in no time. The graphics are realistic again and they defintely work out. The sound that 
 comes out of the wii remote is great except sometimes there is a lag when you swing your sword 
 in sound. This game is easily a 50+ hour game. I never ieven found one slice of repetiveness in 
 this adventure. I reccomend you buy this since you will want to play it at least one time again. 
 Nintendo out did themselves with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brasilmichel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I think the graphics aren't that cool, even though, at most time is amazing. The history 
 has evolved very well, but it still have to evolve much more. The interactivity is the best thing 
 of TP: using the wiimote and Nunchuck as a sword and shield, or a bow, or a hookshot... The musics 
 are very nice too. When we take a look to the bosses we see that they weren't well developped, 
 comparing with the other Zelda series' games, they are waaaay too easy, we don't face any difficult, 
 this point is so annoying that angers you.
  Even though TP is prettier than OoT, it doesn't brings you such a intense feeling as the later: 
 the fields are way too big, but at most time they are completelly unuseful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanlol
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I had never really played Zelda games until this game came out. A friend of mine convinced me to 
 play it. I never expected it to be as good as people said it was, but to my surprise it turned 
 out great. The game keeps you interested from start to finish with its amusing story line and fun-filled 
 game-play. The graphics were pretty good. At some points they looked dated, but overall they got 
 the job done. The game really shines in its game-play: easy controls, action packed fighting sequences 
 and intense boss battles. The puzzles are difficult, but eventually solved. My only complaint is 
 the sound. The music is soothing, but there is not enough sound effects. The sound effects that 
 are in the game, however, are too repetitive. As my first Zelda game, it convinced me to try out 
 some of the other titles. Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an engaging and enjoyable 
 game that should be experienced by all Wii owners and Zelda fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Link's adventures don't get much better than this. The greatest legend of Hyrule has arrived. 
 
  
  Four long years have passed since we were given the last console Zelda title, 2003's The Wind Waker. 
 It has been a long, arduous wait, a rollercoaster ride of emotions. During that time, Twilight 
 Princess has had hype unlike any game prior, a game that had to succeed on numerous levels in order 
 to live up to the steep expectations laid out before it. Not only was it being billed as the greatest 
 Zelda ever -- serious shoes to fill, no doubt -- but also had to show that the Wii's new controller 
 was suited toward the hardcore games; against all odds, between all the criticisms and controversy 
 between their being two versions, Twilight Princess amazingly follows through on all of its promises. 
 Nintendo has done what one might consider the unthinkable -- achieved perfection.
  
  The most surprising part of Twilight Princess is how well this brand-new control scheme works. 
 The biggest changes from a regular control system including using the Wii Remote as Link's sword; 
 when you swing the controller, Link swings his sword. While it isn't 1:1 control (meaning that 
 Link doesn't mimic your swing) , it adds a layer of immersion that you wouldn't otherwise have. 
 I really found myself engaged with the game at multiple points. If I'm in the middle of a big battle, 
 I'll be swinging like crazy, despite how it's not at all necessary. Simple flicks of the wrist 
 are enough for the game to detect the motion -- and you won't get tired at any point in time.
 
  
  The other half of the new controls comes in the point-and-aim scheme that you use with weapons 
 like the Slingshot or Bow. You simply pull these items out and then use the Wii Remote to point 
 exactly where you want to shoot on the screen. There is a certain level of precision and quickness 
 to this that a normal analog controller just cannot match. It takes a little while to get used 
 to, but the game's clever tutorial in the beginning eases you into everything nicely. If there 
 were ever a point in which this Wii version proved it superiority, it's definitely here.
  
  The other less worrisome addition to the game was Link's transformation in a wolf. He's always 
 interested in getting into with his more... animalistic side. Once a bunny, now a wolf -- here, 
 however, Link is not completely useless. Similar to A Link to the Past, whenever Link enters into 
 the Twilight Realm, he'll transform into this beast. It is here that he'll first meet his companion 
 on the quest, Midna. She'll assist him in many ways, not the least of which is making otherwise 
 impossible jumps and allowing him to lock-on to multiple characters dealing one-hit kills, harder 
 said than done for sure.
  
  If there was one disadvantage to his transformation into a wolf, it is the inability to use any 
 of his equipment, everything from his sword to his bow. However, he gains numerous other abilities 
 that set him apart and make the wolf very refreshing and enjoyable to play as. The first of which 
 is the ability to Sense; sensing allows Link to go into a darkened state where the view is very 
 focused in front of him. He'll be able to see invisible objects or enemies or pick out certain 
 soft spots in the soil. Those soft spots lead to the second new ability, that being his ability 
 to dig. The most useful part of this is, for example, finding a locked gate and being able to open 
 it. If there happens to be a little break in the ground to either side of that gate, Link would 
 be able to dig and climb underneath to gain access to the other side. It sets up for a ton of unique 
 uses and really keeps the gameplay fresh on both sides when it comes to switching back and forth 
 between forms.
  
  What really manages to keep everything going and feeling great, though, is what you have to do 
 in between each dungeon in the game. Zelda games have always been about dungeon and puzzle solving. 
 You get your task; you go to the dungeon, then another and another. Here, this is particularly 
 because of the exceptional pacing in the game, you will do hours worth of stuff after completing 
 a dungeon. You'll spend more time outside of these dungeons than you will in them. That's not a 
 bad thing either because Whether that's running around the visually astonishing Twilight Realm 
 or getting to know certain characters or locales through various tasks to complete, you'll be doing 
 something and it'll be fun. This is also due to the fact that the storyline in Twilight Princess 
 is truly engaging and interesting. While the game starts off like any other typical Zelda fare, 
 what it evolves into over the course of the game is anything but. There are tons of twists and 
 turns that'll leave you begging for more. Keeping with that, Nintendo really worked hard on producing 
 some characters that you get attached to and enjoy. Hyrule feels like a living, breathing world 
 with its colorful characters and their drastically different personalities. They feel like characters, 
 not NPCs just standing around all day. Hyrule Castle Town, for instance, is a bustling town full 
 of people shopping, chatting, running around, and everything you might expect from a big city. 
 On the other hand, a place like Ordon Village -- Link's hometown -- is a quiet little town, home 
 to only a few people who you'll get to know well.
  
  These drastically different locales contribute greatly to the enjoyment of the game too. You visit 
 numerous places all over the land, be it the hot and dry Gerudo Desert or the chilly peaks of the 
 Snowpeak Ruins. There is a sort of natural progression from each of these different environments. 
 It's never an abrupt cut off that has you going from the lush green fields of Hyrule to the rain 
 ridden desert. Each of the dungeons also stick with this refined and polished world. None of them 
 feel like dungeons buried deep underground or completely out of the way. They're all naturally 
 apart of the world, filled with tons of puzzles that all have logical solutions to them.
  
  That is perhaps the best part about Twilight Princess's dungeons. They never have any puzzles that 
 have you running all over the dungeon or something that is stupidly frustrating. They're tough, 
 no doubt, but each has its own logical solution to it that'll give a Duh! feeling after you've 
 figured it out. Every dungeon also has its own unique way to solve puzzles, so you'll never feel 
 like you've already solved this same puzzle so many times before. It's a great way to keep the 
 game feeling new the entire way through.
  
  But, if there were ever a chink in the invincible armor of Twilight Princess it would be on the 
 more technical side of things. The game definitely isn't going to blow you away with its technical 
 visuals. Given the scope of the game, it's understandable that there would be some low-res textures 
 used, but even then it's not exactly a game that is always a lesser looking game, though there 
 are clear times when it has its low moments. But this is somewhat countered in the fact that it 
 has incredible art direction. This is one of the best designed games in the industry today, and 
 that really helps it to overcome its technical shortcomings. On the other side of the coin, the 
 music in the game serves a different purpose here than one might normally think. Instead of being 
 significant and in your face, it primarily works as sort of a way to set the mood by softly playing 
 in the background. Sometimes you'll notice it and others you won't, but it's always there to really 
 invoke some kind of emotion within you. That's not to say that there is no part where the music 
 doesn't shine, but it serves to be a little more atmospheric, and it does it really well. One instance 
 is riding along Hyrule Field at night, the music at times feels completely absent, but then you'll 
 hear the hum of this womanly voice and soft tune that really gives off that nightly -vibe. It's 
 enjoyable, but not precisely memorable.
  
  What could be the most astounding part of the entire game might just be the sheer enormity of Hyrule. 
 Never before has the land of Hyrule ever been so fully realized like it is in Twilight Princess. 
 From the first moment you step out onto the field and hear that familiar tune of day breaking, 
 you'll be hooked on exploring every nook and cranny -- and there are plenty of them. The promises 
 of a truly large Hyrule were delivered, but the best part about its size, exploration aside, is 
 that it never feels empty or mundane. Unlike its older brother, The Wind Waker, there is enjoyment 
 in simply running around and checking out the scenery. The addition of things to do and enemies 
 to fight is a huge bonus too.
  
  And that's just about the name of the game -- large. This is a product of four long years of development 
 from Nintendo's best minds. What you're going to get in Twilight Princess is not just another Zelda 
 game, but a truly unique experience that will leave you scratching for more, even after 50 long 
 hours of venturing. This is not simply the best Zelda game ever, but the best game ever. Everything 
 from the clever puzzles and unique dungeon designs to the engaging and well developed characters, 
 this is the best of the best, the magnum opus of Shigeru Miyamoto. If there were ever a reason 
 to hand over $300 to a cashier at your favorite retailer, this is that reason. Twilight Princess 
 is truly the definitive game of this industry; it's a work of art that Nintendo will be hard pressed 
 to top. This is the game to dethrone Ocarina. This is The Legend of Zelda.
  
  Final Score -- 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The new Legend of Zelda (princess one) was a pretty lame game in my mind. I only spent a little 
 time with it. But that little time was enough to make me stop playing the game. Here on GameSpot 
 I rated it a 6.7. I would of rated a 5.2 but gave it one more because it let me get on a horse 
 and hit it in the ass. After I got off the horse I did some boring crap then got on the horsey 
 again and hit it in the ass some more. The controls were also sometimes hard to control. Don't 
 ask me why Game Informer rated this game a 10. I hated talking to people half the frickin time 
 on that game. Overal this game is pretty cool if you like to blow a horn to make a bird come and 
 pick up a barrel out of the water, run aroud to snatch a letter from a cat that barely meens anything, 
 smash some vegies and pumpkins, or make the children happy by shooting some arrows out of your 
 bow which makes the kids jump up in joy saying how cool you are. If you like all that crap then 
 this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxey106
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  ok know i played the same game on gamcube at a friends and i liked it. When i got it for the wii 
 i was amazed. The game was so fun, but kinda confusing. Since link is left handed on previouse 
 games they had to turn everything around on the wii. since most people are right handed every thing 
 was liked mirrored. Yes it even has temples, they are a little hard but u feel so good after u 
 beat it. Know turning into a wolf is ok...... but after a while it gets kinda old. It looks great 
 for a wii game and is at a pretty good price for the next gen of zelda games. if your a fan of 
 the zeda series u must pick this up. it is hours of fun!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 61SCYALP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  First things first the controls are great! Fishing is easy and there no button mashing involved 
 which made me hate fishing in fable. The simple easy wriggling remote gently then raising when 
 you get a fish on works great. Spin attacks are easier to initiate than previous zeldas so i actually 
 used them :) . sword strikes are easy and you learn a bunch of new moves that make fighting great 
 fun. Another awesome thing is there isn't any unnecessary uses of the remote.
  
  Its too big, the map is enormous and while it looks great in some places i find others annoying 
 and an insult to oot. Kakaroki Village isn't as safe feeling and enjoyable to walk through as it 
 was in oot and the graveyard isn't even worth visiting, i really wanted this not to be a rip off 
 but well it pretty much is. hyrule field would have been a lot better if it was just one huge field 
 not multiple ones although the game would not work without this so i understand its purpose.
  
  Sound is disappointing, it doesn't have any tunes that make villages feel like viallages and 
 zora's domain feel like zora's domain. The battle music is boring and it really needs an instrument 
 like oot, mm (not wind waker the baton was annoying and boring) howling is great but being able 
 to do it anywere would make it a lot more fun, the tunes that you can howl are very basic because 
 you have only 3 pitches to howl with and are pretty much tunes from previous games
  
  The dungeons are great not quite the quality of the spirit temple or fire temple in oot. but there 
 all great fun and have good easy to follow layouts that stops you leaving from boredom to do sidequests, 
 on that note sidequests are hard to find and they are probaly what made oot so good..
  
  The items are too few and some are boring or don't have something that made them so great in oot, 
 NO MAGIC ARROWS ARGH *cries* NO MAGIC METER *howls tears* these were some of the funnest and greatest 
 things about zelda and they decide not to include it. HOWEVER attaching various items to the bow 
 or an arrow is somewhat exciting and thanks to the remote any ranged weapon is easy and fun to 
 use.
  
  Not enough npcs, talk about a waist of space in castle town with people who walk around but you 
 can't talk to them, it doesn't even add to atmosphere its just annoying that they didn't liven 
 up the rest of the game with interesting npcs that are memorable and likable.
  
  Your wolf form is great but i would have like to see different forms that each do different things 
 as well. but using the wolf is tremendously fun and definitely a highlight in the game.
  
  Main characters except for any of the children are great, fun and likable another positive thing 
 for any dev to enjoy. Some cutscenes are great and really add to storyline others i found to be 
 annoying even if they show the effect your char has on others
  
  overall this game is worth your time to a play through however don't expect hyrule to be what you 
 want it to because it definitely won't be. A map too large an awful sound track (as zelda games 
 go) good things and bad things mix together for a somewhat decent smoothie. If you love zelda expect 
 the worse and if u've never played zelda before then rent before u buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight princess has been the only zelda game I've actually... liked. If you've got a WII, 
 it's the best out there at the moment, seriously. It's a long and addicting adventure that has 
 its moments.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Most of the time you are free of doing whatever you want in Hyrule, collect golden bugs 
 for a nutter or give all your money to charity &not; &not;
  As well as the main adventure, of course. Many items let you do many things that you wouldn't be 
 able to do at the beginning, giving you more options during the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are impressive for a WII game. SOUND: The sound is the worse part of the 
 game. Little tunes that repeat over and over and over again, no voices, just texts... VALUE:
  The game is worth the money. Best out there for the WII. REVIEWER'S TILT: The game is addictive, 
 long, and fun. If you get the chance, play it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantashy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best Wii games so far. The best aspect is definitely the simple fact 
 that Hyrule is HUGE. It is really fun to explore the land and find cool secrets and items, but 
 once you gain the ability to teleport there is pretty much no reason to walk anywhere Before I 
 bought the game, I was a little skeptical about the controls Waving your wiimote around to make 
 Link hack and slash with his sword however, once I got to try them out, I can easily say that 
 I do not want to play a Zelda game the other way any more. That touch makes the experience much 
 more involving, and it makes you feel like you are holding the sword yourself! The aiming is also 
 much easier and precise than using the analog stick to move the crosshair around. The story is 
 interesting with lots of plot twists and epic fights, but it is the same basic idea as all other 
 Zelda games Link gets caught up in a mess which leads into something big, which requires him to 
 go through lots of dungeons to get the item at the end, which eventually leads into the final BIG 
 dungeon with the last boss. But dont think that its all you do, there are a lot of fun things 
 to do to distract you from the main story. A few examples being tasks like collecting heart pieces 
 to upgrade your life meter, or playing some mini-games to upgrade your items, and of course, fishing 
 These are not required but are fun for a change of pace. Once you finish the game, there is really 
 no reason to play it again. You gan get the whole experience with one play-through, but the main 
 story lasts very long so you will have plenty of gameplay in there. Overall, The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess makes for a great Wii experience, and I highly recommend it to anyone who has 
 one. 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, if for some reason you need more persuasion to buy The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, 
 i'll give it to you. This game is the perfect blend of anything a gamer wants, and shows that the 
 Wii is capable of graphics above the kiddie genre. The story starts out as a lot of people would 
 expect, a young farm-boy who is really nothing special goes on to save the world. It may seem that 
 we've heard this story before, but Twilight brings freshness to this age old tale. After the adventure 
 really starts off, you are thrown into an alternate world and transformed into a wolf. You must 
 escape with the help from a character named Midna. After returning light to the section Link is 
 from, you learn that you are the reincarnated (or something like that) form of a soul chosen by 
 the gods to banish the darkness. The game controlls with the nunchuk attachment on the Wiimote, 
 shaking the Remote to attack and using the analog stick to move. To aim at enemies with, let's 
 say a bow, you just point. The music in the game is fantasyic, with a fresh classical score that 
 includes a few past favorites. All in all, it is amust buy for any Wii or Gamcube owner (as it 
 is also on the Gamecube, with the only difference being the world is switched ie. Left in Wii is 
 Right on Cube) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Ah, The Legend of Zelda series we've all learned to love. I'm here to talk about their latest game, 
 The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. As the review deck states, as well as the classification, 
 I found this game quite short. The game itself is indeed fun, and time consuming, but it just is 
 a tiny bit too simple for The Legend of Zelda series. The dungeons seem too short, the battles 
 seem fairly simple, and figuring out a boss's weakness is WAY too easy. The items you get, on the 
 other hand, are very cool. Very cool indeed. From the *spoilers* Gale Boomerang, a sort of tornado 
 boomerang, to the Double Clawshots, the variety is great *end of spoilers.*
  Link has returned in his older look, and is still saving the world starting as an average villager. 
 His adventures take him from *spoilers again* a temple in the forest (The FOREST Temple) , to a 
 city in the sky (The CITY IN THE SKY) , and collect various upgrades and weapons in the process 
 *end of spoilers.* Strangely, however, the game has relatively little to do with Zelda, more focused 
 on the Twilight Princess, Midna. A neat new gimmick is the ability to transform into a wolf. And, 
 *spoilers YET AGAIN! &gt;: (* once you obtain the Master Sword, you can switch through the forms 
 at will, an option that is added to the Midna Menu. * (End of spoilers) .* The gameplay is very inviting 
 and interactive, plus easy to get used to. Each item has its own use, and control configuration. 
 The game does have a number of problems, though, like many other games. A life ruining glitch can 
 occur. To tell you without revealing much, there will come a point where a man named Shad will 
 help you find a cannon, and will wait to see you move it or something stupid like that. The glitch 
 occurs when you sve in that room. What happens is that Shad will be nowhere in sight, and Midna 
 will not warp the cannon because she thinks Shad is still watching. However, he's nowhere in sight, 
 and only appears when you try to leave the room and tells you to stay. To prevent this from happening, 
 talk to Shad until he leaves, warp the cannon, and THEN save. Now back on with the game! Each dungeon 
 has a mini boss, a major item (obtained by defeating the miniboss) and a boss. The dungeons aren't 
 neccesarily increasingly difficult, like the *spoilers* fourth dungeon, the Arbiter's Grounds, 
 *end of spoilers* and has the oh so annoying but fun Cave of Ordeals. Among the most difficult 
 puzzles you will encounter are outside of the dungeons. To explain my decisions on the attributes 
 of the game...
  
  _- GameplaY-_ *9*
  
  Face it. The gameplay is awesome. Very simple, very fun. This completely changes the way to play 
 The Legend of Zelda games.
  
  _-GraphicS-_ *10*
  
  As far as games go, the graphics for this game are spectacuar. Perfect lighting, no frustrating 
 camera, not many polygonic figures, and overall very impressive.
  
  _-SounD-_ *9*
  
  The sound is great. But not perfect. Just great. The sounds from the Wiimote are somewhat unmatching, 
 and are quite messy too. Turning Wiimote volume to mute and having the sound come from the TV is 
 much better. Had it not been for this and I may have given the Sound a 10...
  
  _-ValuE-_ *9*
  
  The game itself is worth plenty. But the time it'll take you to finish it 
 isn't as well worth it (don't take me wrong, the game is still great) . Paying $40-50
  is a great deal.
  
  _-Reviewer's TilT-_ *10*
  
  All that needs to be said for this has 
 already been said I guess.
  
  Well that concludes it. Overall great game. You should buy it for whatever system you have, considering 
 you DO have one. If you get this game, you will be satisfied, hopefully. Best wishes!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtJulien
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played. Great story, good musics, amazing game play, marvellous 
 graphics. This game is very long but never boring, you always want to know what will happen next. 
 There is a lot of side quests and mini games to keep you interested. Though the control are a little 
 confusing at first they are very fun to play with. The game is quite easy and you can't do a thing 
 about it... (this was the only bad point i was able to find) Fits to a great age range and the 
 amount of violence is just perfect : not too childish and not too violent (because it is a Zelda 
 game, it's not suppose to be too violent) . If you have a Wii and you are aged between 9 and 19, 
 boys and girls, this game is perfect for you! BUY IT ! Or rent it a couple of time to make sure 
 you had enough fun playing... and although you don't have a Wii you can still get it on the Game 
 cube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat734
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  to play the legen of zelda: Twilight prince. it requies a lot of pacience in order to get things 
 done even though is confuing most of the time. well, i dont know. but from point of view i find 
 hard to complete the task sometimes and i have to spend alot of hours playing the game all the 
 time. which is why i think that the game is not good enough because there is a lot of things to 
 do in orden to complete the level or however you might want call it. i still dont know how long 
 the game because i havent finish it as well but if i have to guess i will that the game is long. 
 very long and like i said before it rewuire a lot of pecience to play the game and compliting the 
 levels as well. i dont know if some of you guys might think like me but either way this is what 
 i think of the game. maybe the mayority of the gamers might have alreayd finish in a short time 
 because they know think fast in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdelima
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  To start off I love Zelda. Not so much the NES/ SNES ones, but more so the ones found on N64 and 
 GC. OoT, MM, and yes WW. To me these games were brilliant . I can honestly say I've spent 100+ 
 hours replaying OoT on different ports alone ( Go ahead and laugh) . So it's no mystery that I was 
 eager to play TP for the Wii. I played it. I beat it. I was disappointed by it? But how?? It had 
 superior graphics to the rest, and almost identical gameplay (even with the Wii-mote ) so how in 
 the world could I have this not satisfied pain in my stomach? TP was a good launch title and that's 
 it. It was missing something that the other Zelda's had and it's hard to explain what that is. 
 For any reader who played OoT, MM, or WW I believe you too will feel not as Sucked into the world 
 of Zelda this time around. Oh and the story wasn't great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The really good parts of this game is the use of the Nintendo wii-mote controls and the nunchuck, 
 because the controls are so simply sat-up, it's hard to have the wii-mote mess up. Also the new 
 area is very, very, very big, the hyrule field is about 3 times bigger than the hyrule field on 
 ocarina of time. The new dungeons are very cool with some really mind-bending puzzles, which make 
 a dungeon really cool and then the game challenging and fun. The new graphics are pretty-well detailed, 
 but could use just a bit more work. The new items are really cool and have a unique use to help 
 you through the game. The parts that make this game not that good. the bosses are really obvious 
 to beat because it's obvious to see where their weak spot is. About the first half (the first 3 
 dungeons) of the game feels a little repetitive because you do the same thing to get closer to 
 entering the dungeon (capture the 15 bugs) . There is still no complete talking with the people 
 and the dialog. Overall, this game is really good for a launch title for the wii and with a long 
 40 hours of gameplay, and lots of sidequests, you cant go wrong with getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  After the groundbreaking sucess of OOT it seems they have gone dark once again and i have to say 
 its one of the best games i've played in years. Gameplay: Runs just like all the other zelda games 
 (but to be fair why try and fix what isnt broke right?) you go around collecting special items 
 and weapons to progress the game in a free roam (ish) world. But the feel of the game is amazing 
 the targeting system is simple and easy to use horse riding battles are supurb and each weapon 
 or item feels different. You also get to turn into a wolf this time which is a totally diffrent 
 experience in itself. You can also unlock special moves from an actient worrior such as sword spin 
 and charge attack. All this keeps you busy for the huge 60 hour experience.
  
  Sound: While there is still no voice acting (which is a good thing in my opinion) they have gone 
 all out with the soundtrack and special effects. They have done it so that you not only get great 
 sound from your tv but u get some amazing sowrd effect for example coming out of your wii remote. 
 Top stuff.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, while it isnt 360 or PS3 standard it still manages to look stunning. Great lighting 
 and weather effects excellent character models. Not a fault to say about them.
  
  **** box: While being the wolf is a great experience it can be very repetative such as collecting 
 al them stupid light bugs.
  
  Overall: When i got my wii on the day i knew from day one this game was gonna be top of the pile 
 for quailty, fun and worth every penny. While it isnt as long lived as OOT it is still an amazing 
 experience. However i think wind waker is still the best zelda game to date :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilich
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well I finished playing this game a while back and let me just say that It was exciting from start 
 to finish. It held to the classic LoZ story/gameplay style that I have grown to love since OoT 
 and honestly it goes above and beyond that. The control scheme Of the Wii added extra depth and 
 made me enjoy it even more (I wish that there was a way to go back and play Oot and Wind Waker with 
 TP's control's) . I have tried to play Wind Waker since then (which has been a favorite of mine 
 for a very long time) and it just feels like something is missing while using just the GC controller.
 
  
  The level design of the different sections were done with great detail and definately helped with 
 its immersivness. One thing I will note is that the game looked a lot better on my TV after i installed 
 the Component video cables vs the RCA ones. The music (like always) adds so much to tug at the 
 emotions that draws you into a world of epic adventure and helps you care about the things that 
 are happening to the people/world you are helping. The main theme for Zelda games never cease to 
 amaze me.
  
  I really enjoyed the way they incorporated the usefulness of being human and a wolf and I found 
 myself Wolfing out all the time just to see how I could use this to my advantage. Most of the time 
 I found things easier in Wolf state, although there was nothing like grabbing hold of the master 
 sword and swinging away with my ' Wii-Mote'. The modifications to some of the weapons were done 
 very well i. e. really liked how with the boomerang, you could just toss it at something and it 
 would pick it up and bring it to you.
  
  The game could have been a little more challenging on a difficulty side of things but at least 
 there wasent anywhere that just took forever (*cough* the water dungeon in OoT) . I believe it took 
 me about 63 hours to complete the game but I am a stickler for finding everything and finishing 
 side quests. It definitely has been time well spent and I cannot wait for the next installment 
 of Zelda game to take things even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_ice_666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I love Zelda and this has to be one of the best. The controls were somewhat awkward, and it seemed 
 difficult to pull off some moves and they end up being something else. I can't complain too much 
 about the controls though because I usually ended up doing another move that did just as well. 
 The only other thing I didn't enjoy was that too many of the bosses where too easy. The water temple 
 at the beginning I could have given to my 3 year old to beat for me. Even with its few flaws I 
 loved this game and it did the series justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTUTCJ24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The best Zelda Game I have ever played is Twilight Princess. The length is perfect, not too short, 
 not too long. The gameplay is good, especially shooting arrows with the Wii-mote. But the sword 
 controls just feel tacked on from the gamecube version which is a little dissapointing. The story 
 is deep and interesting, sending you down many twists and turns. Some enemies are a bit difficult, 
 but the bosses can be easy. There are plenty of new items to use and new dungeons to explore. There 
 is really nothing bad to say about this game, it is just pure greatness. The only thing that could 
 have been improved was controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  After waiting decades Link finally made it onto the Nintendo Wii!
  And it was well worth the wait!
  This game is actally not a bad game!
  And for the very first 
 real game to come out for the Nintendo Wii It Rocks!
  Although the game is longer than what I had expected and was a hassle to beat!
  Thats why I say 
 thank you player's guide! Lol!!!
  If you are a fan of the past link games and have not gotten this game yet!
  GET THIS GAME!!!
 
  And if you don't have a nintendo Wii it is also avaliable for the Gamecube!
  This game can be challenging at some parts if you have not gotten the player's guide!
  Bottem 
 line this game Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  LOZ: TP is one of the must own games on the Wii simply because if you don't own it than what do 
 you have a wii for? At first the controls can be a bit confusing but once you learn the controls 
 the game plays very well. You swing the wii remote to swing your sword which is very simple just 
 like hitting the B button on the gamecube controller. Now a lot of people compliant about how the 
 wii version is mirrored but I think it's just fine because the graphics are a little better on 
 the wii version, but not by much. Some people think the aiming in the wii version was tacked on, 
 but I think the motion controls work a lot better that the gamecube's analog stick, I can't count 
 the number of times I missed hitting the final boss one the GC version when I hit him almost all 
 the time in the Wii version. To finish up if you don't get this game that your denying yourself 
 probably one of the better Wii games out there, so do yourself a favor and pick this gem of a title 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was the first game I owned for the Wii as it was for most people and playing 
 it for the first time was the most gaming fun I have had in a while. With a great story, some fun 
 characters, great fighting, and lots of extra stuff to do, Twilight Princess will have you captivated 
 for a long time. The graphics are beautiful, especially with the different atmospheres and places 
 in the game. The map is huge and very fun to run around in on your horse and killing enemies. The 
 dungeons aren't as challenging as in some previous games but they are still fun to go through and 
 the boss fights are simply amazing. The weapons that you find are pretty cool and you need to use 
 them throughout the game as is the same with every zelda game. I liked the controls a lot because 
 I found it very easy to get used to and it came off very natural. This game is a must-buy if you 
 have a Wii and I would recommend it to anyone who likes action/adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelion456
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Im guna try and keep this review short if you have a wii and dont have this game BUY IT NOW the 
 gameplay is so tight and responsive the story is one of the best of any zelda game, it lasted me 
 over 40 hours and i could of easily stetched it longer. the graphics arent top of the range but 
 they look fine and the frame rates solid. The music is very nice aswell no quite up to the standards 
 of ocarina of time or majoras mask but its not the sound or the graphics that matter its the gameplay 
 and you really cant go wrong with this. to finish this is and epic game and you shouldnt waste 
 time reading reviews you should go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8: The gameplay in Twilight Princess involves a lot of puzzle solving, slashing enemies 
 with a sword and a whole lot of dungeon crawling. While the combat is a lot of fun for a while 
 it mostly relies on swinging the wi mote back and forth to take out enemies. It is more fun than 
 button mashing, but it's still pretty much the same idea. Occasionally you will have to use the 
 boomerang, bow, and some other items to kill enmies, but most of this combat is pretty much usually 
 easy. Even the bosses only require you to wait until your fairy tells you how to kill the boss, 
 and while the bosses look really good, they aren't especially difficult or satysfying. Now I have 
 to admit. It is pretty cool waving the wi mote and have link do a spin move, and some of Z targeting 
 does work well in combat, but the combat is still pretty basic only requring you to wave the wi 
 mote, and occasionally shield. Thankfully the game's puzzles are expertly designed. They often 
 requrie you to think, and may take awhile to solve. The dungeons are also pretty long, and varied. 
 Overall the combat has it's flaws, but overall the gameplay still manages to be pretty fun. Graphics 
 9: While the graphics aren't mind blowing, or look especially next gen, the art and enviornments 
 in this game look absoluetly phenomanal. Sound 9: The music is very good, and the sound effects 
 are done very well as well. Although sometimes you'll just be walking through the field and hear 
 no sound which is pretty annyoing. Value 9: Twilight Princess's main story line takes at least 
 40 hours, and there is a lot to do after you finish that. Tilt 10: The story-line in this game 
 is the thing that really shines the most. I won't give anything away but I found the characters 
 and story in this game very complelling. And the moments where you play as the wolf add a little 
 bit of variety to the action and are pretty interesting moments. Overall 9.0/10 Overall Twilight 
 Princess is still a superb action game. There are some flaws with the combat being to easy and 
 just swinging the wi mote to kill endless amounts of enemies, but the puzzles and story are good 
 enough that they make up for any combat flaws. Overall if you own a wii you should get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playthehorn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  It has been an absolute pleasure to watch the Zelda franchise grow. Twilight Princess is a wonderful 
 addition to the series that keeps up and even expands the reputation built by the previous games. 
 The gameplay is probably the best available for the Wii, and Its a huge plus to see the graphics 
 come so far. The story line includes twists and turns that keep the game incredibly interesting. 
 It has kept up with its very high expectations insurpasibly well and is a must have for every Wii 
 or GameCube console.
  
  The great:
  Twilight Princess still carries on the puzzle like qualities of figuring out what to do next. They 
 provoke the perfect amount of frustration. Just enough to make the player think a little harder.
 
  
  The almost as good:
  The boss fights are a little too easy once the proper method is used, and this can be sometimes 
 obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanieiszelda
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  anyone who says this game was horrible is just plain stupid because they complain about majora's 
 mask being too different but when this follows a legend they complain too? the bosses were way 
 too easy but everything else, including the graphics, were flawless. did you even realize that 
 when link gets out of the water his hair's dark (wet) but then dries (blonde) ? did you even realize 
 how much detail went into this game? i didn't think so. the soundtrack is amazing and this game 
 makes me proud to be the biggest zelda fan ever- i love zelda! (and this is no exception) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimLad800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker make no mistake, but this is so blatently the better game.
 
  For me the only things that let it down are the music and to a lesser extent, the story. Perhaps 
 that's the difference, that I don't judge games so much on anything other than the GAMEplay.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, it exceeds all of its predacessors by simply adding on all the best mechanics 
 they had to offer. The difficulty isn't quite in the same league as anything pre-Majoras Mask, 
 but is still harder than anything post-Majoras Mask.
  
  The length is only bested by Ocarina of Time, but has more side quests and the fewer dungeons it 
 does have are longer and far more cleverly thought out.
  
  The controls for each version could be argued. I've haven't played the GCN version but assume it 
 plays the same way as Wind Waker. Regardless I prefer the Wii Remote and Nunchuck to any of the 
 previous control setups thus far. Having your hands free to move while swinging the sword or aiming 
 the bow is a fantastic feeling.
  
  The graphics are great for a Gamecube game, not so much for Wii capabilities, but what did you 
 expect from a port.
  
  The Story like I mentioned earlier was a bit of a let down. Better than Wind Waker or The Minish 
 Cap, but a little too familiar in the big picture.
  
  Music wasn't as good as OoT or Link to the Past, but was on the same sub-par level as everything 
 else in my opinion.
  
  That's it, in a nutshell.
  Just for the record, this isn't my favourite Zelda title, Ocarina is. But I do believe it is the 
 better game, underrated as it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph113
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing launch title I've ever played. From start to finish i loved every minute. 
 I cant say much more than amazing. Everything about this game was awesome. This is the best Zelda 
 I've played and i've played them all except Majoras mask. The only two problems were the fighting 
 which was a bit repetitive and tacked on due to motion controls which i really had no problem with 
 because fighting is the least of your worries in this game and the replay value once you've done 
 it i see no point in doing it again, but of course after youre done with the story you could always 
 complete all the side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetacuz007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  When the game begins, you are talking to Rusl, who is sort of like your tutor. The player must 
 complete some tasks in the village like herding goats for example, but then he enters the spring 
 and the real adventure begins. This is when you are kidnapped and you first become the wolf. This 
 can be one of the funnest aspects of the game. While you are the wolf the player can turn on his 
 senses and discover spirits and spots where you can dig which will sparkle. One of the biggest 
 mainstays of the series is the dungeons and their respective bosses. And as you might expect, the 
 graphics are rich and detailed , in fact, the graphics have never looked better in the Legend of 
 Zelda series. Once you really get into the gameplay, you won't want to stop playing. Some people 
 may argue with me on this subject, but I believe this is the best Zelda game to date. It sure live 
 up to its hype alright! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtraynor
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I think that the new Zelda has gone a little bit off course since The Minish Cap. (YEAH, THAT LONG 
 AGO!) It is a great game, but I think that Zelda is past it's sell by date. I am afraid, I can 
 only express my anger this far because I can't think of anything that has nothing with swaring. 
 Although I can say this. Zelda: Twilight Princess maybe the one and only thing that has drived 
 me insane. Now, I like penguins and food. I used to like Pok&eacute; mon and cool RPG games. I think 
 that you should really reconsider buying this game. Because of this, I samshed, trashed and absolutely 
 burned this game disc right to utter oblivion. MUWHAHAHAHA! If you found this review offending, 
 well then, thats your problem! MUWHAHAHAHAH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieisgoodman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game - plenty of fun. This is the story - you are young Link, then your life breaks apart. 
 You change into wolf form to conquer the kingdom and beat the game. There are many pros of this 
 game, and here there are. First of all, I would say the weapons are the greatest part of this game. 
 From using wind with the Gale Boomerang through grasping everything with your double clawshots, 
 they make the game fun. Secondly, the graphics are amazing. Third of all, the mere sword slashing 
 wiimote action is great. Targeting foes then slashing them from the back or stabbing them to finish 
 them off varies the game. I am being very general about the pros because I can't really find a 
 way to say it in general. But I can be specific with the minor cons. Firstly, the difficulty of 
 beating the game 100% without ever using a guide - barely possible. Very confusing of what to do. 
 Another one is the amount of items you need. You have to keep on taking out your Spinner, then 
 get out your Dominion Rod - it is SO annoying. But overall, this game is three thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KandPrCOOL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game on christmas day when i got my Wii and Beat it on December 28. I played 
 for almost 123 hrs getting alot of extras and all that Jazz but it was worth it. I usualy go through 
 games quick and east i just stick to the plot but this time there were so many thing to do i just 
 had to stop and look around.
  
  I absolutely have to get every zelda game that ever comes out. I am such a fan. And you bet when 
 phantom Hourglass is out i will be the first to buy it. I will sot down and play zelda games over 
 and over but this one i will say is only 2nd best. i have been playing since the first zelda and 
 i think that overall that Zelda Ocarina of time Master quest was the best because it had the best 
 plot. Not saying that TP diddnt but still...
  
  anyway if you are looking to buy a Wii or PS3 Go for the Wii not only is it cheap but it also has 
 the best game of this generation on it The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stagner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The game is really boring at first because you have nothing. Not even a freaking sword! Then you 
 get a wooden sword after that you turn into a dog. The dog parts are gay though because the hole 
 time you look for bugs. Also, the dungeons are to short and the bosses are really easy. If you 
 ask me the hole game is boring. If you want a good Zelda game buy Ocarina of Time or The Wind Waker. 
 But this game is only worth a rent but if you want to buy you can. I shouldn't be the one that 
 says you can't buy it. But seriously rent or buy those two games I mentioned they're a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb808
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda series is already known for its quality of excellence. With high expectations it's not 
 easy to make a new game and have critics call it overrated. This is defiantly not the case here. 
 The meat of Zelda is defiantly the very immersive story. Personally it took me about forty hours. 
 In starts off a little slow but once the game really starts to pick up it becomes like a snowball. 
 It gets bigger and better as the game goes on. Also the puzzle element is there and better then 
 ever. When I would figure out the way I felt a great sense of accomplishment. It was pretty ingenious 
 the different ways you would have to move though the map. It could even be said that the game was 
 a little too hard. But don't fret. With the gamespot game guide out there the problem should be 
 solved in no time. The different Wii specific elements work out great. Using the nunchuck attachment 
 really feels natural. There really is not fault with the set up. The only thing that could have 
 make it better, would to have the sword follow you exact movements. From a graphical stand point 
 it looks beautiful. Everybody knows the Wii is not the most powerful machine out there. So for 
 the capabilities of the system it defiantly succeeded. From an artistic view the graphics are awesome. 
 The look and feel of each different location, especially the twilight world, was remarkable. The 
 sound in the was average. However reading each and every line when it could of been said was kind 
 of an expected let down. And the sound of the swords clashing and clanging though the wii-mote 
 sounded a little fake. However everything else was on par. Their our so many positives that outweigh 
 the negative in this game. If I had to find the one thing that I hated in the game it would be 
 fishing. And you only do that twice. That's telling you how good this game is. So if you are looking 
 for a great game with a good tremendous story thats well worth your money. GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is an all around great game and is an instant classic. Not just because its a zelda game 
 but because it puts into meaning about what the wii is trying to accomplish. It has amazing graphics 
 for the wii, but are nowhere near the levels of the 360 and PS3. It does look better than the most 
 recent PS2 and Xbox games though. It has amazing sound effects with all of the classic zelda sounds. 
 The gameplay is where it really succeeds. Some say it is to easy, but i think it has the perfect 
 balance between being to hard and to easy. The arrow system really works well, just point and release. 
 This is a must have game for anyone with the wii. If you are looking for an excuse to buy the wii 
 this is the game to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDMUFFIN1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow all i can say is wow. Zelda is a revouloutinary game with tons of replay value because the poe 
 souls and heart pieces. When you play zelda your sucked in to the game by how amazingly amazing 
 the story is. I love collecting the stuff on it. The game puts you as link who is a goat herder 
 in ordon but once again the main villian is_________ im not spoiling it!. This game is basiccally 
 a reason to own a wii MUST BUY!! If you like long games with tons of replay value and a ground 
 breaking genre then its a must buy! but i have to have a hundred words so i hope this will do it
 
  ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXraven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Well u start out like any other Zelda game. You are just a little wimp with nothing haha. Eventually 
 u get a wooden sword and other boring crap. I just didn't see why everyone loved this game as much 
 as they did. Its just not the funnest thing on the Wii either. I mainly rate games for there fun 
 factor and this game just wasn't that fun. It is just a knock off of every other Zelda game and 
 the story is not even top knotch. Plus the sound is absoluetly horrible. I Liked Wondwaker way 
 better than this game, it was full of adventure and mystery and I loved that about it. But yeah 
 this game gets an average rating but not what i hoped to give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper_Hedgehog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  How to begin. Well I'll start of with saying this is THE game of 2006. If you own a Wii and don't 
 own this, GET IT NOW. Okay, now for the review.
  
  The game starts off in a small, secluded farming village. You are Link, a farm boy who is asked 
 to go to Hyrule Castle to deliver a package. However, things don't go as planned and you end up 
 being transformed into a wolf and thrown into jail. Not Good. You soon meet Midna, a small imp-like 
 creature with magical powers, who acts like Navi gameplay wise. She'll get you out of this place, 
 but you've got to help her in return. You are now Midna's servant...
  
  Eventually you are transformed back into a human, and it all kicks off. You travel around the land 
 trying to save Hyrule from a magical shroud of darkness known as 'The Twilight', fighting evil 
 and, eventually, saving the world.
  
  Alright, the Wiimote is basically your sword. You move with the analog stick on the Nunchuk. However, 
 once you gain access to more weaponry, the Wiimote is used to direct arrows, swing a giant ball 
 on a chain, and fish.
  As a wolf, combat is essentially the same, except you can't use items, you can use wolf senses 
 and gain access to higher places.
  
  The puzzles are logical, some easy, some not. They're cleverly designed, sons of guns, but not 
 so unbelievably difficult that you want to tear your hair out and throw the Wiimote at the TV.
 
  
  The music is nostalgic, atmospheric, and majestic. As you enter Hyrule Castle and hear that familiar 
 tune, shivers go down your spine. The major let down is a lack of orchestrated music. However, 
 MIDI will do for now.
  
  The graphics are impressive, considering this is a Gamecube port. It holds its own against 'next-gen' 
 titles, and they're the best the good ol' GC has to offer.
  
  Summing up, this is another masterpiece from the boys at Big N. An involving story, impressive 
 graphics and unbelievable gameplay make this Wii entry of Zelda one of the best games yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arry_ng3
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I've spent over 10 hours on this game already and i've not been stuck once (well once but not for 
 long) and i still havent completed... I'd say 30% yet!
  
  This is for all game type fans. Zelda fans won't agree but I MIGHT have to say this maby is the 
 best Zelda yet.
  
  The Wii-mote is'nt really pushed to its limits in this game, its used for a few things nothing 
 special, such as a swing with the sword or a push with the shield, or even for fishing... thats 
 mainly it.
  
  Pros: amazing story line, great graphics
  
  Cons: Toooo adictive, you have to travel alot, but not a biggy at all, The game was around &pound;50 
 to buy... not worth ANY game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda Twilight princess Pros: +best controls on the Wii. +Best game on the Wii Cons: 
 -prepare to lose your life all over again.
  
  The plot: The game begins with Link living in Ordon village, working as a ranch hand. This changes, 
 when Rusl, the villages blacksmith, asks him to visit the Hyrule Castle to deliver in his stead 
 the Ordon Sword and Shield they requested. Before he can begin his journey, however, Link, Ilia, 
 (the mayors daughter) , and Rusl's son Colin are ambushed by a group of monsters. Ilia and Colin 
 are kidnapped while Link is knocked unconscious. Upon awakening, he pursues and battles their leader 
 on horseback. After Link enters the Twilight Realm, which normally reduces people to spirit form, 
 he is transformed into a wolf instead. Then he is captured and imprisoned in a castle. With the 
 help of a strange creature named Midna, he escapes and they join forces
  
  Graphics: The graphics at first glance arent as good as what u would see on an Xbox 360 or something. 
 But over all it is gorgeous and even though this is only the GameCube's top performance it still 
 amazes me on how good it looks. Controls: The controls for TP are the best so far on the Wii. Allowing 
 you to jump side to side, swing your sword or even shoot with your bow. Although the spin attack 
 can be a bit buggy at times, its still great for a launch title.
  
  Sound: The sound in TP is amazing! You can hear each creature give out a yelp when you hit them 
 with your mighty sword or hear the bows string snap each time you pull it.
  
  Fun: The fun factor in TP is like no other game before it. It is so fun to play, even for just 
 a few seconds. I found my self not wanting to sleep because of it.
  
  Replay: The replay is like most Zelda games. You can restart the game and try to get a better time 
 along with items (more hearts or something) or you can keep playing until 100% completed and keep 
 fighting the last boss over and over again. But ether way its extremely fun. So if you have a 
 Wii WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugby1995
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best zelda game EVER. And I dont say that lightly. It was AMAZING!. IF 
 you dont like this game you should be shot. No, You will be shot. I Dont think that you want that 
 so belive me you will like it. The graphics were amazing, The sound superb, The gameplay was Proper 
 great and i cant think of any words to describe the plot. However, Nintendo have been quite Evil 
 with this game. Not only do you have to get 5 yes 5 pieces of heart to gain a new life but there 
 are now locked doors in Hyrule field!
  
  Still, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It's Link!, interesting story, great level design and puzzles, huge variety in enemies 
 and dungeons, wonderful boss fights, nice water effects, Wii controls feel just right, many different 
 weapons and key items to use, A good 40 hour adventure
  
  The Bad: Graphics aren't up to par and can look pretty bad in spots, story is stretched thin to 
 compensate for longer play time, Even though the overall story is interesting the small details 
 are easily forgotten, No jump button can make solving puzzles awkward, doesn't do anything revolutionary
 
  
  We waited an extra year for Nintendo to make the game longer... and you can tel what parts they 
 stuck in. The sore thumb of this game is the story is stretched very thin and you almost forget 
 what happened previously. My other gripe is the fact that the dungeons are so LOOONG and the puzzles 
 are almost impossible to solve sometimes and when you save and quit you start back at the very 
 beginning and this adds about 20-30 mins to get through the dungeon. My last gripe is the fact 
 that the graphics aren't up to par with what is expected. It looks like a 2004 game and with the 
 Wii it should look ALOT better. With all that aside this is a very charming and warming game! The 
 Wii controls are perfect and even though they don't utilize them to their full potential it makes 
 things simple quick and fun. The story is, of course, very original and uses all the Zelda trademarks 
 in it. The game is VERY long (I'm not even half way through yet) and it'll take you a good 40 hours 
 or so to beat this monster. There are many elements in the game, surprisingly, and not one dungeon 
 or area is the same. You are always finding new weapons and items to use and you use them all throughout 
 the whole game for fighting enemies or solving puzzles. What kind of kills all this is there being 
 NO jump button. You can really tell the developers kind of used this so they can cut development 
 time so they can avoid building bigger and more complicated levels. With no jump button it kind 
 of makes puzzle solving hard since you're used to thinking with a jump button in mind and no walking 
 off a cliff to catch onto a level or pulley... it makes things really odd. This also makes jumping 
 from platforms hard because sometimes Link will just jump off into thin air and it gets very annoying. 
 With all this added up though its the greatest experience you can have on the Wii and is worth 
 all the money you pay for this. Did I mention the neat sounds that come out of the Wiimote! For 
 example Midna's laugh will come out of the Wiimote when she needs to talk to you and when you shoot 
 a bow and arrow the sounds come out of the Wiimote and its very neat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 31, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  A new Zelda game that was supposed to be like ocirina of time. It seemed amazing. I played it and 
 it was nothing like it. The game was just not as great as the others. I mean i expected much more 
 for a next gen system. I mean though since it was on a next gen system i expected much more then 
 the other games but its still fun, but after a while its to boring its mostly like a game that 
 it feels like you have already played through. The graphics were ok but could have been better. 
 The gameplay is prettty much the same as any other zelda. The music is pretty good and it gives 
 you something to pass the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 30th_hokage
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I love this game wolf link is fun to play as when you can get close to people and scare them away 
 it is not fun when they try to kill you the use of the wii mote makes the game 10 times better 
 than the gamecube version. this game is also great because of indepth story lineand challenging 
 puzzles if you like legend of zelda games they dont get any better than this for now . Now for 
 some thing compleatly off topic. Super smash brothers brawl is going to be awesome and I cant wait 
 for it to come out but i dont want them to rush and screw it all up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a very good game, a great game, but as far as Zelda games go its a disapointment. 
 It follows the same formula thats been in place since A Link to the Past and even the original 
 game but where it deviates the game gets worse rather than better. The entire wolf part of the 
 game doesnt feel right and is somewhat annoying. Its not that its badly done but its not a good 
 feel for a Zelda game and not close to as much fun as when you play as Link. This is the only real 
 problem with the game but its a big one due to how common it is to be forced to turn into the wolf. 
 The sword play is well done though not as good as in Wind Waker. The use of wiimote and nunchaku 
 as sword and shield works though it would have been nice to have more direct control the gestures 
 actually are responsive and easy to pull off. The horseback combat and movement is very well done 
 and the game environment is quite massive which makes using the horse a necessity (especially early 
 on) . The world is massive and well detailed, the textures and such on a technical level may be 
 GameCube quality but thats to be expected and its more the artistic aspect that gets the graphics 
 their high score. The temples could be more plentiful but there are certainly more here than in 
 The Wind Waker and they are all unique enough to allow the lower quantity to be somewhat excused. 
 Puzzles are intuitive as ever and the game is lengthy enough to be satisfying. The story is predictable 
 but it has enough twists to distinguish it form the similar games in the series.
  
  Overall Twilight Princess is a very good game even if its not one of the best Zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess once again takes you to the land of Hyrule, where a farm boy finds himself thrust 
 into adventure, when his friends are kidnapped, and a strange twilight begins to take over Hyrule. 
 this game is trule superb! the games graphics are top-notch, and the gameplay, like most zelda 
 games, is extremely well done. the big thing in this game is the twilight of course! throughout 
 the game you will venture to and from the twilight infected areas of Hyrule. however when you venture 
 within the twilight, link will transform into a wolf. here is when twilight princess really shines, 
 as the parts you play as wolf link are fantastically designed and masterfully executed. the adventure 
 as with any zelda games is long and in-depth, with another massive number of temples to conquer, 
 secrets to uncover, items to collect, and a land to save! even if your not a massive zelda fan, 
 twilight princess will draw you into its world and adventure, and you will be able to come back 
 again and again. a must for anyone with a Wii, or even a gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthrevan09123
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 30, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just downright amazing. Not too many games being made these days can do for me what 
 Zelda TP did. It is just incredibly imaginative and is an instant classic. The immersive world 
 of Hyrule is enormous and fun to explore to the very end. Each cave will challenge you with good 
 puzzles and fun yet a little too easy bosses. But each cave is also very different and unique from 
 the last. The thing to me that lets you know that you beat an amazing game is when you get to the 
 end and are sad that it's over but very glad that you got what you did. This is an amazing game 
 and a true instant classic, so if you have a Wii and don't have it slap yourself and go pick it 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny that you pay 
 you know what i mean its so worth getting in the series you know what i mean in fact its the best 
 legend of zelda game to date you know what i mean its one of the best games of 2006 you know what 
 i mean its a must have wii game you know what i mean the graphics are superb in this game i mean 
 10 out of 10 you know what i mean gameplay is superb in this game to you know what i mean sound 
 is superb in this game you know what i mean its one of the most perfact games ever made you know 
 what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prgraff91
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is so good i think it should deseerve a ten for how
  great it is and if u dont have a wii get one and buy this game it is the best for the now but the 
 game that i am waiting for is metroid prime 3 and super mario galaxy but the game has alot of fax 
 to me and it was great but if you get this you wont be dissapointed trust me and i dont know what 
 to write sooooooo jehcduhli3uhrihdjb3e dhb3ih 3eybi3 34yhbf4knr f4hybrfk;4 rfb4; kf 4rfhb4rkfn 4rfhbv4rkfr4k 
 fr4bf 4rfkb4rf r4kfir4 fk4hrbvf 4rfkbvr4fi 4rkf 4yif kr4fkv 4fh 4rkvf 4irhf 4hkrf k4hrf hk4r fhrfhyrbfhrf 
 rfhybrf rfhrbfnr fryfbrjhfmfr rjbfufrbjrmf 4r fhjrbfhjrf dfchbrffbm ftrjrbfjnrgbjenleiv 3kcefye3kn 
 fcblwvkhebdvjkbsdfk vhkb asdkdvjbsfnv sfnv jbvkj kv chjbfjbbv san cv sakvbkjbfvkjb; kjvkjvn fv kjfjkv; kjasffv 
 j ;ksdf vjk ;kjfsdv fkv kjbdfln vlk dfjkvhb djfbv dfhv hdfv dfhv dhfv sdafnv dfhsbvsh fvh fvh sfvh 
 fvh fvh dfhv dfhv dhf vhsdf vhf vh fvh sdfvh fvh fvhfvhfv sdfhvhdfvhfvh fv fhvfv hfvhfv fvhfvkdfkbvjuhfj 
 vjfjgmsdfkgj jnfjnvmnfvnfjv fjghhjcdfngjfjnjvnf vjfjgjfnmdnvckjkfg fvnfnkngnv fngrhrn rggfirfrkn 
 rfnrfnr sls, dfvjngnf gjfgjfjg fjfjjfgldfkd fjkfnenfjnrfndjdfr dfjndfdnfdnflkdf dfjdnf dfjdnfdf 
 dfjndfjndf dfndfkdf dfkdnfkdfm dfkndfkndfm dfdkfnkdfdf jkdfndfjufnuf jjjfvdfj hf fjv fjvjnfv fvjbfvklnfsdllwerjgft 
 rfgbnwergfnevg fvjfnvjfvjfvjfvjfvjfvjfvjfvjfv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been an ongoing series since the 1980's. Enjoying both critical and commercial 
 success, it goes right up there with the greatest game series ever made. So every time a new sequel 
 comes about, the hype is always intense and mesmerizing. An example of this would be The Legend 
 of Zelda: Ocarina of Time for the N64. This was the biggest advancement of the series ever, as 
 it was the first to go fully 3D. The translation was almost perfect, retaining the same principles 
 from the 2D games and translating them into an immersive 3D world. That game is known by most circles 
 as the greatest game ever made. The game brought new players into the series and created a standard 
 for 3D adventures. This has both blessed and cursed the series. Every time a new installment comes 
 along, expectations go thru the roof. This game is no exception.
  
  Although this game was started in 2003, many fans believe it was created in Spaceworld 2000, as 
 a tech demo demonstrating the Nintendo Gamecube's capabilities. According to fans it was everything 
 they wanted from a Zelda game. However, the next year, The Wind Waker was born. Unlike the tech 
 demo, which featured realistic graphics with a dark tone, The Wind Waker featured cartooney graphics 
 with a light tone. This caused mass unrest over the game. However, when the game actually came 
 out, everybody was impressed how good looking the cartooney graphics were. Almost all of the hate 
 of the original art style were gone, and people grew to like it and accepted it as the permanent 
 art style of the series. Four Swords Adventures and The Minish Cap also featured this art style, 
 making people more at home with the graphics.
  
  However, at E3 2004, Nintendo shocked everyone when they unveiled the next installment in the series. 
 This game threw away the cartooney graphics and reverted to the Spaceworld 2000 theme. Reports 
 say that fans cried when seeing the trailer, not because they missed the original cartoon art style, 
 but that they remembered how Zelda used to be four years ago. The game was held with anticipation 
 for years. Well, that game is finally here, not just for the Gamecube, but also for Nintendo's 
 next gen system, Wii. Has the game lived up to all the hype? Yes. Has the game evolved a lot from 
 past installments? Yes. Is it fun to play? You bet. After numerous delays and changes, The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess is here.
  
  The game retains the same basic Zelda formula it had since Ocarina of Time. But is has been polished 
 in a lot of different ways. You can now swing your sword while walking, attack while on horse back, 
 and learn a bunch of new moves, stuff that you could not do in previous installments. The overworld 
 is many times bigger than previous games, and it will take almost 10 minutes to go around them 
 in horseback. It may take almost an hour, by walking! Also, the dungeons, which were a bit of a 
 pain in past installments, are now actually fun to play. You never feel frustrated, yet you always 
 feel challenged. At the end of these dungeons, you will meet a boss. Sounds normal right? Well, 
 these might be considered for the absolute best boss fights in the history of video games. They 
 are very fun to play and very cinematic and exciting. A bit on the easy side, but the difficulty 
 is getting to the boss, not the boss itself.
  
  The most apparent change is the control scheme. This does not apply for the Gamecube version, as 
 it is pretty much the same. But the controls had to be redesigned for the Wii, as it is a Wii launch 
 title. The controls work surprisingly well, and perhaps better than the Gamecube version. Unfortunately, 
 the controls still feel like they were on the Gamecube before. The game does not use the Wiimote 
 to it's full potential. In fact, it doesn't even scratch it. For example, the swordplay is done 
 not by actually swinging your remote 1:1 with your real life actions, but it works by just wagging 
 the remote. It feels better than a Gamecube controller in the end, but it's still just a fancy 
 button. However, the biggest improvement the Wiimote offers over the Gamecube is aiming. By just 
 pointing at the screen, you can accurately shoot an arrow straight into it's target. It's far better 
 than the Gamecube version, which works fine, but it's slow and clumsy compared to the Wii version.
 
  
  Those are not the only improvements. One of the biggest improvements from the lasts installments 
 are the various items that you find throughout your journey. There are a bunch of impressive new 
 items, such as the Magnetic Boots, the Spinner, and the Dominion Rod. The best one is the Spinner, 
 where it briefly transform the game into a Tony Hawk-like ride. The Spinner attaches to a line 
 on the wall and rides it at high speeds like a train, and it never gets old. The Magnetic Boots 
 allow you attach to magnetic surfaces, whether it be the ground, the wall, or even the ceiling, 
 giving a sense of freedom in dungeons. Another upgrade is the Boomerang, which is now called the 
 Gale Boomerang. It's not as fun as the Boomerang from Wind Waker, since it's not tactile, it can 
 lock on to any surface, making puzzles even trickier. However, the fighting is not as funny as 
 it was on Wind Waker. In Wind Waker, you could mess with your enemy, and have some funny moments 
 with the smart AI. But the AI is not as comical as it was back then, it is now more serious and 
 smarter. So it's not as fun. Another cool feature is to combine items. Combing a bomb with an arrow, 
 will create Bomb Arrows, and they will become very useful. Late in the game, you can combine two 
 Hookshots together, so now you can swing like Spider-Man thru the roof. Very impressive how much 
 things have advanced over the years.
  
  Now the graphics. A controversial issue with the graphics is that while the graphics are unchanged 
 between versions, is that the game came with two different versions, one for a current gen system 
 and one for a next-gen system. The graphics are exactly the same for both games. Well, on it's 
 own right, the graphics are phenomenal. Amazing lighting, character models, and special effects 
 make this game a treat for the eye. This is one of the best looking games for the Gamecube, pushing 
 the hardware to it's very limits. They clearly deserve a 10 by current gen standards. But I can't 
 say the same thing for the Wii version. The graphics are still amazing on Wii, but not as impressive, 
 because it's running in more advanced hardware. There were a few times were the framerate dropped 
 on the Gamecube, but it runs silky smooth on the Wii. It is not pushing the Wii hardware at all. 
 So I can't give it a 10 on Wii. But the graphics are still very good looking, no matter what platform 
 it is. Also the Wii version is in widescreen, while the Gamecube sticks with a standard aspect 
 ratio.
  
  Many may complain that Nintendo chose NOT to orchestrate their music for Twilight Princess. Yes, 
 all the music is in MIDI. Some people might complain about it, since the Wii has a bigger storage 
 disk capacity than the Gamecube does. But with music this good, I cannot complain. Master composer, 
 known in most circles as the John Williams of the game industry, Koji Kondo has written an amazing 
 score for this game. The music will stick to your head and you will never take it off. All the 
 tunes are catchy and memorable, especially the new overworld theme. And the MIDI quality is so 
 good, you almost can't tell it is not orchestrated, literally. MIDI also allows for far more flexibility 
 than MP3 files do. Because the music is generated in realtime, the music can change at will with 
 absolutely no loading times or pauses what so ever. This becomes apparent in boss battles. The 
 boss's theme creates a lot of suspense, but once you disable him, the music will change into a 
 the main theme of the game, showing it is time to strike the boss. The end result will give you 
 goosebumps. Nintendo sure knows their MIDI, and it would not be possible any other way.
  
  The story has also taken a more serious route. Although you still have to read... a lot in the game, 
 it's always exciting. It's like reading a very good book. The cutscenes have been improved immensely. 
 It always feels like a Peter Jacksonian epic, with movie quality animations and music, it always 
 impresses, even if nobody talks. They are also in a much darker tone than past games, some of them 
 are even frightening! It is always impressive. However, the game is not perfect. The game is long, 
 probably the longest adventure game ever. But it ends far too quickly. Even if you played it for 
 over 40 hours, you still want more. There isn't even a Master Quest version to play after you beat 
 the game. There is the Cave of Ordeals, which is very challenging, but the end reward is just like 
 the end reward after you beat Super Mario 64, useless. You get stuff that will aid you in the game, 
 but you already beated to game, so what is the point? There are lots of sidequests, but even they 
 have an end, and those sidequests were supposed to be done before you finish the game too, because 
 the reward is something that becomes useless after you finish the game.
  
  In the end, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the biggest improvement of the series since 
 it went 3D, and it's not because it's on Wii too. It's because it makes the series fun to play. 
 The last Zelda games were known for ridiculously hard challenges and frustrating dungeons, Twilight 
 Princess fixes all that. It's always fun, always exciting, and always impressive. If you had to 
 decide between the Gamecube version and the Wii version, the Wii version is better. But if you 
 don't have a Wii, and you probably don't, since it has been selling like the next Tickle-me-Elmo, 
 the Gamecube version is always an option. The Gamecube version is also the original version, so 
 if you are a purist, you can get the Gamecube one instead too. But the Wii version plays better 
 though. The point is don't miss this game, no matter what version you are gonna get. Just play 
 it for yourself. This game marks the grand finale for the Gamecube, and it also marks as a superb 
 launch title for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVmania619
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Zelda on the Wii works surprisingly well whether it be the motion sensor sword fighting or fishing, 
 this game is for everyone. Basically, the world of Hyrule in Twilight and Zelda in all depressed, 
 so it is up for you and you as a wolf. During the game you will see familiar faces and some new 
 characters such as Midna that helps you when you are in wolf form. When you go into the Twilight, 
 you turn into a wolf and you have got to get the Tears of Light. Also, the bosses on Zelda are 
 immense but kind of easy. Only snag in the game is that you cannot use items as a wolf and that 
 the bosses are a bit too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagetofu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a solid release title for the wii. I would have liked to see a bit more out 
 of it though.
  
  I love the Zelda series &amp; I loved playing this game.
  
  After reading countless reviews &amp; giving a few reveiws myself I have learned out of experience 
 that I don't review a game until i have beaten the entirety of the game. One of the reasons is 
 because most of the time when a player rates a game its either all good or all bad depending on 
 the players personal tilt. So i wait to give my reveiw until i beat the game as often i find my 
 personal tilt is more balanced then when i first play the game.
  
  My intial thoughts of the game was that it was a masterpeice. However after playing the game more 
 then 130 hours i think the game is just a solid pick.
  
  I do believe this game is a must buy for any wii owner!
  
  the pros:
  
  1) the Wiimote 
 &amp; nunchuk really make the controls for this game great .
  
  2) the story is interesting &amp; keeps you wanting to play. there is great character development 
 that makes you get involved in the story &amp; makes you actually care about the characters as 
 you progress.
  
  3) the game has a lot of fun side adventures such as ordeals, fishing, looking for bugs &amp; cataching 
 poes.
  
  4) there is a wealth of adventure in this game &amp; the game does take some time to beat. usually 
 50+ hours
  
  5) I would have loved to go back after i beat the game to see what everyone was up too &amp; what 
 everyone would have said. I was kind of dissapointed that it didn't let you. I didn't really want 
 the story to end.
  
  6) Overall the game is fun &amp; worth playing. Again I reccomend purchaseing this game.
  
 
  the cons: what i would have liked to have seen different!
  
  1) the game is too easy in many places &amp; leaves the desire for more challenge. I wish the game 
 was as difficult as the ordeals. I really wanted to fight more challenging foes! Even having a 
 room just chocked full of baddies lurking around every corner could have quenched my thirst. 2) 
 often the side adventures do not corelate much with the real game. For instance when catching the 
 poes to help jovani it would be nice if after you caught all them poes you would received a key 
 to a dungeon rather then 200 measly ruppees. It would have been nice if you would have had to catch 
 the biggest fish in the pond in order to get a certain item to beat a certain dungeon.
  
  3) ruppes mean nothing in this game. They also give out hearts like candy in a parade. Often I 
 found that my wallet was always full so most of the treasure i got i couldn't keep. I know that 
 the excess treasure was to abuse the magical suit. However you could just stock up on potion and 
 receive the same exent as the magic suit with a little more insurance. The whole magic suit i found 
 akward and unessacry.
  
  4) often the parts of the game that had the most diffculty were understanding what to do &amp; 
 how to appy the controls. This was really more frustrating then difficult. As once you figured 
 out the controls it was fairly simple to defeat the enemies. I liked the puzzles of the game &amp; 
 some of them do make you think. I would have liked more action though.
  
  5) i was a victim of the canon room gliche. If you end up in the canon room don't quit playing 
 if you save it in that room. Save it somewhere else. This is one of the reasons why i spend 130 
 hours playing this game. I had to start over after the gliche. 7) I really wanted more old school 
 zelda music. They really didn't give you much tell the credits!
  
  My final thoughts:
  
  This game is like a relationship. Now that i have beaten the game I feel kind of sad cuz i 
 didn't want it to end. I do hope for the next Zelda game that nintendo really steps it up &amp; 
 adds more difficulty esepcially in the area of fighting. I would have liked to have seen ruppes 
 be used more effecticely then just for a magicaly suit. It would also have been nice if they didn't 
 give so much life under every nook &amp; cranny. I would also liked to have seen the side adventures 
 pertain to the real story.
  
  I look forward to the sequel. I can guratnee you that I will be pre ordering the next adventure 
 of Zelda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_Enix_69
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series are well respected for it's great storylines, free roam capabilites, 
 huge worlds, mini-games and so much more. And Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess lives up to the 
 over-whelming expectations.
  
  Pros - Theres always something to do. Great storyline. Amazing graphics, State of the art technology. 
 Absolutely huge world and much more that every Zelda game follows..
  
  Cons - Extremely repetitive, Once again.. Link (or any of the other characters) don't talk. The 
 wolves attacks are rather limited.
  
  Difficulty - The combat system itself is of no difficulty. If you know how to use Link and his 
 wolf form to they're full potential nothing can get in your way.
  The only difficulty is the game itself is quite long and the dungeons can be rather confusing. 
 Knowledge is needed to be successful at this game.
  
  Learning Curve - The basics of the game are rather simple to learn but as you progress there are 
 so many new features available there is no exact learning curve. But there is nothing that is too 
 difficult to master.
  
  Graphics - The graphic detail shows there has been alot of hard work put into the making of the 
 game. And a very good job they have done.
  The graphics are very detailed down to every blade of grass to the relections off water. Just what 
 you'd expect from a next generation game.
  
  Freedom - The games open-end status gives it a world of oppertunities. If your feeling stressed 
 from all the confusing dungeons and storylines you can take a nice break at fishing, mini-games 
 or even just roaming around the never ending Hyrule. Theres just so much to do.
  
  Extra Features - There are many great features of this revolutionary game. Transformation into 
 a wolf. Learning new attacks. The amazing wiimote control system. Mini-games and just a never - 
 ending era of fun and excitement.
  
  Overall - I think this is a great game. I personally give it a 9.4 but would be a 10 if it wernt 
 for its repetitive gameplay (Save a town &gt; Work through the dungeon &gt; Fight miniboss &gt; 
 Fight boss &gt; Save a town etc..)
  
  ~ Thanks for reading ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revengeman2560
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess is the best game out there right now, it sports BEAUTIFUL graphics, an awesome 
 control style, which works well with the wii mote and nunchuck controllers, the camera unlike most 
 games will not leave you feeling frustrated and will not make you miserable. the graphics are some 
 of the BEST ones out there today, and the gameplay is just so amazing, that even after you beat 
 it, it'll leave you coming back for more and more. Links movements and facial expressions fit very 
 well in with the game, unlike wind waker, twilight princess actually works well with this concept 
 of expression, it makes the game feel so real that you'll think the game was happening right outside 
 your front door. The music of this game is also the best since Ocarina of time, it'll have you 
 humming the hyrule field theme, among others, for long after you complete the game. This game doesn't 
 stop with the final boss either, there are TONS of fun, rewarding side quests, and hidden underground 
 caves to find and treasures to be won, or found, the cave of ordeals will have you coming back 
 for more.
  In all, the twilight princess is an awesome game fill with fun, challenge, and a great storyline, 
 It is a must own for any zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luca7
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the best WII game out for any Zelda fan or even if you 
 never played a Zelda game this a great start. After The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time i really 
 wanted Nintendo to make a sequel and they did a excellent job with Twilight Princess. If you don't 
 know what WII game to get you should get The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. A great game with 
 great graphics. This is possibly the best Zelda game tied with Ocarina of Time. Worth the wait. 
 I hope they make another Zelda game for WII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmoreangel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  I will admit I normally don't like Legend of Zelda games but Twilight Princes is without a doubt 
 one of the best games I have played. The graphics are great, for the Gamecube, but you expect a 
 lot more from a next-gen title. There are no voice actors which is bad for whoever hates reading 
 but good when you consider how ridiculous the dialogue could be if spoken aloud. The Wii controller 
 works perfectly. No delays, no wrong signals etc. I have yet to finish the game but I can still 
 speak highly of the game. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a great Wii game and a definite 
 buy for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gccg
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is the first 3D zelda game I have ever played (I know, I'm a loser) , though 
 I have played Zelda: A Link to the Past. To tell you the truth, I HATED zelda games because of 
 ALTP. Heck, I almost stopped playing this game a third of the way through. But I must tell you, 
 that would have been a HUGE mistake because the game turned out to be in word AMAZING. Well maybe 
 one word isn't enough. It was AMAZINGLY EPIC. Never did I think I would feel satisfied that I played 
 and beat a Zelda game. It really changed my perspective on the franchise, so much so that I am 
 actually close to beating ALTP!!!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Lets get this out of the way first because it seems to be universally considered as a con. Well, 
 I wouldn't say so necessarily. The graphics were a bit grainy at times but the environments and 
 animations were still beautiful and well crafted. I couldn't help but to get completely consumed 
 and dazzled by the vast, wondrous and plain marvelous landscapes and evironments. Riding through 
 Hyrule field at sunset is truly a sight to behold. Sure, the graphics could have been a bit brighter 
 and crisper but I think that they accomplished what they attempted and more. Maybe this is my noob 
 status in 3D zeldas, that gives me such a rosy perception, but I truly believe the visuals were 
 excellent.
  
  Sound:
  
  Perhaps even more impressive than the graphics. Is it just me or does it seem as if every game 
 Nintendo releases has excellent soundtracks? I don't think its the former. Even though the soundrack 
 was supposedly not orchestrated, they had a way of capturing your imagination and your emotions. 
 The serenity of Lake Hylia, the amazing Hyrule field score and the nicely remade Hyrule castle 
 theme all grab you at your core and have a way of stirring you to feeling like a hero yourself! 
 I got goosebumbs and almost a tear (I said almost) , when I heard the ending medley. Maybe it had 
 something to do with the story, which as an aside was very well put together with twists and turns 
 to boot.
  
  Gamplay/Controls:
  
  Ahh, the ever-present category that is stressed in all Wii reviews. Truthfully, even though SOME, 
 people (Jeff Gerstmann, ahem) think that the controls were tacked on, I believe that they offered 
 a level of immersion that I hav never experienced in an action/adventure game. The point-at-the-screen 
 aiming mechanics truly made the game feel more immersive and offered a better sense of control. 
 As far as gameplay goes, anyone that has played the game will not be surprised by what they will 
 read int his review. The game sports several large dungeons, each with very clever, complicated 
 and sometimes difficult puzzes. At times I wondered how they came up with them, because it seemed 
 that everytime I tried something different, bam, the puzzle was solved. The transfer between light 
 and shadow really added a sense of depth and longevity to the game. Seeing Link for the first time 
 as a wolf gave me goosebumps (again) . The abilities and items that you gain as you progress through 
 the game really open up the world for you giving you wider ranges of exploration. The Dominion 
 Rod was my personal favorite, albeit it was only used for a small portion of the game. Overall, 
 the gameplay was as solid as one can expect from a truly masterful action-adventure game. Conclusion:
 
  
  All in all, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is truly a superb action/adventure experience. 
 Heck what else can you expect from Nintendo?
  I'm just a bit saddened that its over and for the first time I have to anxiously await the next 
 Zelda adventure. I am a true Zelda fan now. Please do yourself a favor and give this game, arguably 
 one of the best of all time, a chance and if you stick to it, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda series just gets better and better with every game. This installment of the Zelda is 
 by far the best though. The graphics are amazing and the story line is fun and exciting. The new 
 Wii style of fighting makes this game even more fun to play. You seem to get more and more involved 
 with every swing. You get to be Link in a way that you only wished before. As soon as I heard that 
 lovely Zelda theme song I got chills. It was great! I can't wait for more to come from the Link 
 and all his friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  The first Zelda game on the wii is certainly the best Zelda game for a long time. I'll start with 
 the graphics, in game they are superb and I only noticed one problem in a cutscene and that was 
 more to do with the physics than the graphics. Moving onto the sound now which is absolutely magnificent. 
 From the sound of Epona's hooves to the sound of Ganondorf clenching his fist every sound is exactly 
 right and perfectly detailed. The main story follows the adventures of your character (you name 
 them yourselves) and midna a creature from the twilight realm as they attempt to dispel the evil 
 that is taking over Hyrule as it seeps out of the twilight realm. You gain more and more items 
 as the game goes on and these range from a lantern to a boomerang to even a clawshot. There are 
 9 dungeons in total and perhaps the only problem with the game is that the last 3 come more or 
 less consecutively. The game can last anywhere from 35 hours upwards depending on how good you 
 are and that's just the story. There are also quite a few sidequests to complete throughout the 
 game. The map is also vast and hyrule field is absolutely massive. Overall the game is superb with 
 no real flaws to speak of and it's just an out and out masterpiece that should be enjoyed by gamers 
 for years to come. It's going to be hard to find a better action/adventure game on the wii or indeed 
 on any console for some time. Maybe not even untill the next Zelda....
  
  Score=97% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannweed
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Every Legend Of Zelda Game I've played has been good, I must admit. I havent seen one bad one yet. 
 And this is no acception, but is it more then just another good Zelda game?
  I'm thinking... yes.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is in traditional Zelda fasion, with plenty 
 of enemies, a vast open landscape and many puzzling dungeons. However, many new and clever tweaks 
 have been added to the gameplay to make things a little more interesting. The most obvious of which, 
 is the use of the Nintendo Wii control. Swinging your sword, aiming weapons and unleashing special 
 attacks are all controled by the motion of the Wiimote and the Nunchuck. Whilest this is a very 
 clever touch it can be slightly annoying when you get down to the seriousness of the adventure. 
 This makes no difference to the overall high standard of the game though, and will often make things 
 better. Other changes include the transformation between wolf and human. Most of the time you'll 
 want to be human as items and weapons cannot be wielded in wolf form. But puzzles and special areas 
 covered in Twilight will require the wolf form. It brings a new breath of fresh air to the series 
 and is a rather good idea. The dungeons are slightly less chalenging then other Zelda's (or is 
 that because were used to it by now?) but still fun and occasionaly puzzling.
  Overall the gameplay is almost perfect, and will keep you entertained throughout the whole adventure. 
 For me there was just one flaw. The main quest was too short. It was lengthy, but you want to keep 
 on playing even when its done!
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Twilight Princess are very good ,but still very good. The landscapes 
 and scenery are well done, and the Twilight Realm is quite effective. The new, darker feel of the 
 game is cool and I hope that it continues as it makes things seem more... grown up. Yes, the Zelda 
 games no longer seem kiddy, and the new style is welcomed by me with open arms.
  
  Sound: A mixture of different styles of music all played by orchestra make the sound in this game 
 almost breathtaking, the songs are basically what you would come to expect in a Zelda game with 
 many classic tunes still being used. Overall, good
  
  Value: In my opinion, and possibly the opinion of many other Wii owners, I would call Twilight 
 Princess the best game currently out for the Wii. (and mabey the best game ever) I must say, it 
 is epic. It is one of a kind and would take nothing but a sequal to match. Best Zelda game yet? 
 I'm not sure. But it is deffinatly one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffy912
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is such a good game that i am still playing the game after i finished it! I'm still trying 
 to figure out why gamespot gave the gamecube version a higher score than the wii version... anyway 
 this is the best zelda in the series and i love the huge world! Sometimes i just love to ride out 
 into hyrule field and kill everyone who attacks me, there is so much stuff to do in this game that'll 
 you'll porbally like to do over and over again. i just can't say how much i love this game, you 
 probally already got that. Overall great game lot's of bonuses great story, and you should play 
 if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonHUL
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I bought for the Wii. I had to. All of my friends were talking about it, 
 so is everyone on the internet, and I'm a Zelda fan.
  Anyways, this is just a good game to have, for many reasons. Any fans of the previous titles will 
 certainly enjoy this. It's got the typical Zelda dungeons and battles, with some other new stuff. 
 It's got tons of new items and new controls.
  The Wii version takes use of the Wii Remote, and it will be used often. Instead of scrolling the 
 camera to use an object somewhere, you will point at the screen to where it needs to be located 
 it. It get's frustrating if the Wii Remote is not already pointed at the screen, and you can't 
 rush anything you do, otherwise you'll miss. The Gamecube version does not require pointing, but 
 I'm not sure how to use objects like that because I only have the Wii version.
  To be honest, this is a pretty hard game. Ocarina of Time was also a bit challenging, but Twilight 
 Princess is just a difficult game. Anyone who is not a Zelda fan will have fun playing this game 
 but it will certainly be difficult. It's got amazing graphics. Of course, compared to the Xbox 
 360 and PS3, it's not good, but its just simply amazing. This is the kind of stuff you would want 
 to see in a Wii game. The Gamecube version is about the same thing beside motion sense controls. 
 It's about the best look Gamecube game there is. Even the Wii version is something to look at. 
 The visuals and detailed and brisk. Everything is so realistic.
  The sound effects are about the same as always. Good enough, though not paid attention to. The 
 music is good, too. Some is recycled from previous games, others remixed from them, but there is 
 a lot of originals. Suprisingly, there's not much orchestra, just composed music. But it's good. 
 Every tune suits the location or moment in time perfectly. Heavy and fast paced for the boss battles, 
 and easy and relaxed for the villages. It's just nice to listen to.
  Once you have beaten the game, you will more than likely try to beat it again. It's a very fun 
 game, and there's a lot of sidequests and stuff for the bored ones.
  Although I enjoy this game a lot, there are reasons why I don't like it in certain ways. The gameplay 
 mostly revolves around talking to people and beating 2 hour long temples. Yes, the temples are 
 long and confusing, but worth it once they are completed. It's just that completing them is a huge 
 pain. It gets long and boring if you don't listen to the story or don't do anything related to 
 the story, such as go fishing.
  Any Zelda fan or video game fan in general should pick up this game if they have a Nintendo Gamecube 
 or Nintendo Wii. It's a brilliant game, although there a lot of better ones out there. Besides 
 Ocarina of Time, it is probably the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milton7874
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome . the only thing bad about it are the boss fights they were to easy but the 
 graphics were great. Its pretty deep in its story . The game soundtrack is great, especially the 
 ones from the twilight world. the mini movies are very cinematic . the monster designs are great 
 especialy the bosses. The world is simply amazing. The puzzels in the game were a nice touch. Like 
 the one were you have to open a gate to get the master sword. Although zelda games always uses 
 the same weapons (normal sword ,master sword) its still fun and unic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5hagu
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is really cool. It has very nice dungeons 
 with pretty cool bosses; there are also a lot of weapons, many of them new. It's also nice that 
 you have to play as a wolf too. The few bad things are: that I really miss the ocarina; that Epona 
 is not usefull at all, you can warp everywhere you want; that in most parts of the game you get 
 too much exact indications, what makes the game a bit easy. But it's worth playing, really. I love 
 this game. If you have a Wii, you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingshy
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Today, I'll be reviewing Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Nintendo Wii. It begins with our young 
 hero, living life as a goat herder. He is called to deliver a ceremonial sword to Hyrule Castle, 
 and he sets off to do so. But he and his friends are attacked by monsters, and he is pulled into 
 the Twilight Realm, which is engulfing the world. You meet Midna, your sort-of Navi, and she tags 
 along with you throughout the game. TP has amazing graphics, but are nothing short of top-of -the-line 
 Gamecube graphics, sort of like RE4. The storyline is awesome, and, for those of you who have been 
 trying to chronologically list the Zelda games, this game fills the gap between OoT and WW. Gameplaywise, 
 you'll be swinging the Wii Remote back and forth to swing your sword, and move with the Nunchuck's 
 control stick. Koji Kondo truly outdid himself with the musical score, such as the remixed Hyrule 
 Castle theme. You could go through all the side quests a little later in the game, but that does 
 not harm the value of the game. My thoughts of the game are good ones, and, if you're just getting 
 into video games, this title will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb1983
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Zelda games of all time. There is so much to do in this game you could easily put 
 in 100 hours just wondering around Hyrule and playing the side games. The wii mote makes the game 
 fun to play. The dungeons are bigger and better that ever. The story line is a master piece. Although 
 this game is excellent i would still have to rand link to the past and ocarina of time ahead of 
 this one. Thats not taking away from this game it just shows that its going to take a once in a 
 lifetime game to surpass those other two titles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  ok, so i finally got my butt off to write my first review, and i choose LotZ: TP because this game 
 really did motivate me to write one. first of all, the gameplay is nothing new from the previous 
 installments, yet, not because it needs to change, since the predecessors are pretty great already. 
 so if you like the previous Zelda, chances are, you'll like the gameplay of this one also.
  
  second, i want to talk about the control. at first, the new control of Wiimote made me felt 
 like i need some time to get used to. but once you're in the game for an hour or so, the control 
 just became natural. but like some people had said, the quality of the Wiimote speaker really not 
 that good. it gets annoying sometime.
  
  and the last thing i want to talk about is the graphics. well, its originally a GC game, so you 
 won't see a full demonstration of Wii's power. the graphics is beautiful and clean, and the art 
 style is just fantastic. so it sort of made up for the lack of horsepower.
  
  well, hope you'll find my review useful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N64rox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the reasons gaming is so fun for me. Though it doesn't have the best flashy 
 next-gen graphics, it's addictive and highly enjoyable, and that's what really matters. The weapons 
 are back from most Zelda games, each one refined and enhanced, and the Wii controller gives the 
 feel of handling them like the master swordsman himself. Using the nunchuk as a shield was a genius 
 move, immersing you even more in the game. Though wolf form can sometimes get tiring, it's never 
 really going to be boring. Things like sense and digging were very nice touches to the wolf, and 
 the attack system is very creative, having a wolf attack equivalent to each human attack. The sound 
 is good, especially the realistic sounds coming from the Wii remote. Overall, just a game any wii 
 owner should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123kemps123
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 21, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I agree this is a alright game but the game is just way to hard to be zelda...
  
  
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  The Graphics for this game are exceptional the best i've seen on the 
 wii
  10/10
  
  
  Sound
  -------------
  The sounds in this game are some of the best I've heard in any game!
  10/10
  
  
  
  Gameplay
 
  --------------
  The gameplay in this game is very cool to slash your sword you swing the wiimote but aiming the 
 arrows can get quiet frusturating....
  8/10
  
  Hardness
  ---------------
  The hardness of this game is extreme (I'm not a hardcore gamer and need to beat the game) but this 
 game does get repetitive...
  7/10
  
  all in all its a good game but could have made it a little easier.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my Wii I put in Wii sports and played it for, what, 15 minutes before I ran over 
 to the other game that came with it when I pre-ordered: The Legend of Zelda: Twighlight Princess. 
 This game is Breath-taking. The first 2 hours of it is probably the game at it's best. The first 
 time you turn into a wolf is very cool, and you'll want to stay that way, unless you want to use 
 items.
  
  The game plays really well, with well done graphics. The only problem I ever had with it is that 
 Links sword sort of sticks out of his shelid when it's stuck behind him. The only real place for 
 improvement is the Water temple. When can Nintendo get it through their thick skulls that water 
 doesn't go with temples.
  
  The game is also very long. If you suck it dry and get every peice of heart and poe soul to be 
 found, you'll nearly get 80 hours out of it.
  
  Gamespot was wrong this game is one of the best you can buy for any system, and the Wii version 
 is much better than the Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweMysterio
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome, very chllenging, needs a gameguide and is a classic. Like i said 
 its one of the best games ever and the best for the WII. The best challenger (even though nintendo 
 made both) is Super Paper Mario. When I got my WII the first game I was looking for was this game. I 
 have no clue how its bad in anyway and how anybody can think its dissapointing or terrible cuz 
 then there just on crack. Its just plain fun. The very next game im planning to get is super paper 
 mario that Smackodwn! vs raw 2008. I wanna know what you guys around the world think about zelda 
 and what its greatest challenger even if its from the same company. Do you guys like: Twilight Princess, super 
 paper mario or wario smooth wear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjaminjoel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  After four years in the development cooker, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has finally 
 arrived. (Yes, I know it's been five months, but I still wanted to write a review.) It was released 
 for its original intended platform, the GameCube, but it was also ported to Nintendo's next-gen 
 console, Wii. Surely that should result in a hasty, half-hearted port, right?
  
  WRONG.
  
  This is hands down the best game for either GameCube or Wii right now, though I prefer the 
 Wii version. The reason is that Twilight Princess for Wii predictably puts the Wii Remote and Nunchuck 
 to use in unique ways. The Wii Remote can be used as a sword, a slingshot, and yes, even a fishing 
 rod. The controls really put you right into the game experience. However, I also have to give the 
 GameCube version credit for still providing an awe-inspiring experience.
  
  Graphically, this isn't the most advanced next-gen title. However, the graphics are still manageable- 
 especially on Wii. The Wii version runs with crisp, clean precision. The GameCube version still 
 looks good, but not awe-inspiring.
  
  This is the first Zelda game to sometimes run orchestra tracks instead of the traditional MIDI. 
 This change definitely makes for a better soundtrack. The sound effects also satisfy- especially 
 when you hear them coming out of the Wii Remote's built-in speaker.
  
  However, I do have one minor quibble. Nintendo has decided again to not use voice-acting, opting 
 for the traditional subtitles instead. Because of this the characters don't really come to life. 
 Link's always been the silent hero and that's fine with me (remember Link: The Faces of Evil for 
 CD-i?) but the characters have a lot to say and frankly, I don't want to read it.
  
  Still, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess provides an extremely engaging adventure that's well 
 worth your time. Since it was released for GameCube and Wii, it can be seen as ending one era while 
 beginning another.
  
  Now if Nintendo could just finish that DS port... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Best_yet22
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game on thanksgiving day for my Wii I knew that I was going to be in for something 
 good. It's no OoT but it sure is next in my book.
  
  Let me start by saying, great story line, gameplay and characters. The new grown up design is incredible, 
 the land is vast and you want to jump on epona and just ride around the whole place. The trasition 
 from the Normal Hyrule and the Twilight realm is wonderous and you want to play more. I had to 
 warm up to wolf like though.
  
  The graphics are amazing for what it's worth, it's no MGS4 but its on the level, if not pass RE4.
 
  
  The Wiimote controll's well, it is the first LOZ game were you can actually run and swipe your 
 sword all at the same time and making the game faster.
  It uses the pointer fuctions and motion functins well. Mission when your told to detach the Nunchuk 
 and use just the Wiimote to guide a flying beast through a canyon, fushing and uses it as if they 
 were your weapons right in your hands.
  
  The bosses are fun, but they arent the biggest ever, the dungeons are just as huge as ever.
  
 
  Some favorite characters return (some in new incarnations) along with new ones. Quest galore, land 
 is plentiful............... pick this game up its better on Wii. A Wii must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Good: Amazing adventure, Wii Remote &amp; Nunchuk controls works brilliantly, superbly designed 
 game, difficulty is fair, great sound, long game (Around 50 hours it took me) , although despite 
 the long length of the game your left wanting more, whether this is good or bad Im not too sure
 
  
  Bad: Its graphics are superb for Nintendo's standards, only it stills lacks behind the power of 
 the 360 &amp; PS3 graphics, frequent annoying puzzles at times which really do make you paranoid, 
 confusing storyline at times
  
  Twilight Princess has matched what Ocarina of Time did on the N64. It provides a magical experience, 
 which you get your money worth from. As soon as you switch on the game and notice Link and his 
 horse, Epona, you know it will be a great game. Its definitely the best Zelda game since Ocarina, 
 and to me probably the best ever.
  
  The scenery is breathtaking, thanks somewhat to the Wii's graphics. When your racing across Hyrule 
 Field you can't help but notice the hills and canyons in the distance. However if Nintendo say 
 this is the most beautiful graphical game ever released by them , then i would worry. There good, 
 but really don't match the 360 &amp; PS3 graphical performance. Its worrying, but Nintendo always 
 come up with something, so Im sure the Wii's graphics will improve over time.
  
  The sound is just super. Like Metroid Prime series it really makes the game feel atmospheric, maybe 
 not as much because in Metorid youre never too sure what planet your on. But of course you know 
 that youre in a magical world in Hyrule. But the sound still helps the game. And in most places 
 while in the game you can hear some sort of sound, Zelda theme or quiet melody.
  
  The Wii controls work better than I thought. How Gamespot gave Twilight Princess on the GC more 
 than the Wii version defies belief. Theres nothing more fun than the feeling that your Link and 
 that you've just nailed an enemy with a arrow from your bow, thanks to your Wii remote. There are 
 mini-games too, which enhance the Wii remotes and Nunchuk capabilities. But the mini-games seem 
 a bit pointless because your here to play a Zelda adventure, there good, but a little pointless, 
 because it feels theres not much room for them in the game.
  
  The difficulty level is completely fair and gives most Zelda players the chance to complete the 
 game. It annoys that certain players moan about games being too easy. Well if all games were hard, 
 then nobody would buy them, and there would be no gaming market. Its only common sense.
  
  There are some annoying puzzles and challenges which do your head in. I've had to resort to walkthroughs, 
 around 10 times Id say. So don't get the game if you have a hard job, otherwise if you come home 
 wanting to play a fun easy game which does not have too much logic and annoyance, don't get Twilight 
 Princess (And many other Zelda's too in fact) . The storyline is confusing at certain times, for 
 example whos made Hyrule plunge into darkness etc. It took me a while to piece the games story 
 together after I completed the game.
  
  Some say, that some Twilight Princess features are stuck in the past, almost like they've been 
 copied from previous Zelda games, especially Ocarina of Time. Well game series learn from the past, 
 if a previous game was a massive success then your going to of course keep the same formula for 
 the next game. Simple as in my view, games learn from their consequences, almost like what people 
 do.
  
  Overall, you can't really go wrong in Twilight Princess, i think its the best Zelda game, hopefully 
 so far. The only real slight downfall is its confusing storyline and annoying challenges and puzzles, 
 there typical in Zelda games, maybe too difficult this time round though. A magical game overall 
 which totally deserves its praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I must say I am not a huge Zelda Fan, but when I purchased my Wii, I knew I had to get this game. 
 Overall a great game, has some parts that could have used some work. Theres a few moments, in the 
 game, that keep you on your feet. Graphics are very well presented, some parts could have used 
 some more polish, but very good otherwise. Gameplay, once you try it you'll never play Zelda another 
 way again. Loved the sound, could have used some voices this time around, but oh well. Overall 
 Great again A+ all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: converse97
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  good game nice graphics and game play i like how they utilize the Wii mote to it's playing advantage. 
 the missions arn't too hard or too easy there just right congratulations Nintendo for making a 
 great game i know its selling well im looking forward to hourglass for the DS. i hope that game 
 sells well also but good game all the other games are good too good job with the series can't wait 
 for more installments to the series. if anyone knows any mail me or something great add to the series 
 can wait to get it for the wii when i buy it in about a month it's got good graphics nice game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geetarz451
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  after spending many hours beating the game and collecting everything, i have to say, i have never 
 played a more satisfying game. the environment is huge, the graphics are tastefully done, the gameplay 
 with the wii remote is really fun, fantastic story.. you could spend 85 hours playing this game 
 the right way and collecting everything, which i am going back to do right now... gamespot says 
 more of the same, but thats why zelda is so great.. one of my favorites of all time. i'd say that 
 the next zelda on wii will be even better, but for now, this game is the KING on wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess may seem a bit odd at first, but once you get your green tunic, sword and 
 shield the fun really starts. Unlike previous Zelda games, you don't attack by mashing buttons, 
 but rather use the Wii's revolutionary motion sensing. While it is rather basic, it can still be 
 a fun way of slicing your enemies. Alot of the shield moves can be tricky to pull off if you aren't 
 in the right position, it's especially hard for those of us who like to lean in an almost laying 
 position. The best part of the motion sensing though is not the sword play, but rather the aiming 
 system. You point your remote at the screen to aim your slingshot, arrows, clawshot and a whole 
 variety of different equipment. Overall, it works well and I prefer it over regular controls - 
 it could just use some tweaking.
  
  The dungeons are well designed but are a bit more straightforward then previous Zelda games with 
 little to no puzzle solving required. The bosses on the other hand are much, much funner then in 
 any Zelda game to date required a little more stratergy then usual. You will obviously need a special 
 item to defeat them, one of which can be found in each dungeon including the Clawshot, arrows and 
 ofcourse a new additon, a spinning top you can ride along walls. Some of the previous items have 
 gotten beefed up to, for example you can now use Bomb Arrows, Water Bombs and your Boomerang has 
 a wind like ability and can lock onto multiple targets.
  
  The graphics in this game are nice, although not really up to standards. There is also the lack 
 of voice acting which may be a little offputting at first but it works well for the Zelda series. 
 Would you want to hear, say, Marios voice in his games? It would sound a bit odd, huh?
  
  Overall it was a nice game but could have used a polish, but seeing as it was originally made for 
 the GameCube and not the Wii it is understandable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oakfront
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a MASSIVE fan of Zelda and have played every Zelda game to date.
  I knew before i brought this game that it would be Top-Class due to the return of the Zoras , Gorons 
 , Deku People and all the old favorites from Ocarina Of Time. Yet when i brought the game i never 
 expected it to be THIS GOOD.
  The gameplay is quality and really shows and uses the true ability of the Wiimote. Graphics and 
 sound again is great and the value for money is spot on!
  
  Overall , Zelda (as usual) won't let you down and will at the end leave you pulling your hair wanting 
 to know ''What happens next?!'' in this Life-changing gaming experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultima67890
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, really worth waiting for it on the wii. C'mon come out with the next Zelda already. 
 Would be awesome if they added the wooden sword as the first sword slot and the Ordon clothing 
 to the clothing options. Just add a weakness or something like they did to the third clothing option. 
 I was hoping for it to have like REALLY hard fights or something. maybe they could add a duel arena 
 in the new one hmm? it could happen... But at any rate i recommend buying it on the wii because 
 the options that use aiming are much more comfortable using a pointer on the wii-mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Well, it took a long time but Zelda finally came back. In my opinion this is the best Zelda game 
 to date. Aside from the graphics not being up to par with the Wii hardware and the enemies being 
 fairly easy this time around, I really can't find anything negative to say about this game. The 
 control scheme works great, the open ended environments are vast and look great, the horse-back 
 riding is fun, and turning into a wolf is even pretty cool. I love being able to swing the Wii-Remote 
 like a sword, or aiming a bow and arrow. This adds a great appeal to the game. If you own a Wii 
 and are one of the few that do not own this game, I highly recommend you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyClaw
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a really fun game with lots of bonus quests. If you are a fan of the 
 Zelda series then it is a must have. It is quite hard at some points like all Zelda games but some 
 parts of it can be quite easy. The story line is alright but it gets better because of the twists 
 in the plot which I will not reveal to you. (If you want to know buy the game) It has alot of items 
 and you can combine items with other items. There is a fair bit of game play and there is quite 
 a few mini-games some are compulsory but some are bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Ever since its conception on the NES, Zelda has gone through many changes in each installment of 
 the series. From Zelda II to Majora's Mask to Wind Waker, the Zelda formula just couldn't stay 
 still. For a lot of fans it was torment that they could not ever get a true sequel to arguably 
 the greatest game ever made, Ocarina of Time. So after all these years, Nintendo has finally done 
 a service to all those patient fans who have been waiting for that true sequel with Twilight Princess.
 
  
  How do you review a game that's meant to be a service to longtime fans of Zelda? By comparing it 
 to Ocarina of Time of course! Twilight Princess starts out slowly, and is actually kind of boring 
 for the first hour or so, but as soon as you set foot the first dungeon you know you're in for 
 one heck of an adventure. This game draws you in quickly and effectively, once you really start 
 playing it you just can't stop until you beat the game.
  
  The game plays in the exact same way as Ocarina of Time and basically every other Zelda to be played 
 in 3D, only this time you have a Wii remote at your disposal. You use the Wii remote by slashing 
 (or just flicking) it around. Most of the time the sword movements have nothing to do with what 
 you're doing with the Wii remote, and it's basically the same as pressing a button in functionality. 
 When you hold the Z button you can do various kinds of special swings, but there really isn't much 
 variety to your sword moves, the variety comes with the different weapons you get from completing 
 dungeons throughout the game. Some of them are familiar, but most of them aren't, as you'll find 
 yourself using weapons like swinging around a giant chain ball and controlling statues with a staff 
 as you get deep into the game. The formula certainly hasn't changed from Ocarina of Time, and that's 
 probably a good thing since there wasn't ever anything really wrong with the Zelda formula in the 
 first place. There aren't any real surprises in the game, sure, but if you just wanted Ocarina 
 of Time to be 40 hours longer, this is your game.
  
  In the graphics department, there really isn't much to say. It looks great in spots, looks just 
 okay in some places, it really isn't the best-looking Gamecube game in my opinion, since I thought 
 Resident Evil 4 and Metroid Prime were both far better looking games. The art style is great, but 
 again, thought Metroid had a much more interesting art style.
  
  Sound-wise it's a disappointment. At this point I expect there to be a bit more immersion in your 
 surroundings by having less generic, midi-sounding music and sound effects, but it gets the job 
 done I suppose. The sounds that come out of your wii remote don't sound very good and they're not 
 even a consistent quality. Sometimes they sound especially crappy and make you think, uh-oh, the 
 batteries on my remote must be dying, when it actually is probably just a connection problem between 
 the Wii and the controller.
  
  The value in this game is very good for a launch game, because this was essentially an early port 
 of a Gamecube game long in development. Without doing any side quests this game will take you a 
 good 35 to 40 hours to complete, and if you do try some of them, you can add about 15 hours to 
 that too. I found the side quests to be too uninteresting and unrewarding to really bother with, 
 all I wanted to do was complete the game and there wasn't a big goron sword quest that could help 
 you get through the game more easily but still, they are there if you want to try them and get 
 the most out of your $50. The adventure alone makes it worth every penny.
  
  How much you like this game depends entirely on what kind of Zelda fan you are. If you're welcome 
 to more changes in the franchise and want to see the franchise progress more than anything, then 
 Twilight Princess might be a bit of a disappointment. If you're fine with everything being the 
 same and appreciate the fact that this is just a longer and more epic Ocarina of Time, then you'll 
 probably be very satisfied by the end of it. With that in mind, no matter who you are, this is 
 still a great installment of the Zelda franchise. Even if you're not a Zelda fan, and especially 
 if you've never played a Zelda game before (seriously...?) , there's nothing you can really hate 
 about a lengthy, satisfying quest with lots of things to see and do along the way. Zelda has always 
 been about exploring through a grand adventure, and in that respect, Twilight Princess does not 
 disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12yon
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  All i can say is wow ... this game has it all .. its very fun and very long .. i myself havent 
 beaten the game yet but so far its awesome .. it uses great work of the Wiimote and Nunchuck .. 
 u wil swing the Wiimote to swing your sword .. and use the Nunchuck to guard with the Shield .. 
 it all comes in a great package .. the story itself is VERY lengthy .. and i mean lengthy .. its 
 a 50 hour story .. i am only about 15 hours into the story .. the game is hard at sum points but 
 easy most of the time .. all i can say for now is that its an Awesome game and no doubt the best 
 Wii game out so far .. its very fun and replay value is high .. so at my end point .. BUY IT if 
 u have a Wii .. its a MUST .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surviver101play
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best wii games you can get. The story in this game is very well done. There 
 are so many temples in this game. The graphics are really well done. The grahics could be better 
 tho. Best in the zelda series. A problem i have with this game is if you do not have a game guide 
 you will get lost and confused. Other than that this is a very fun game. If you have a wii you should 
 have this game. You should go buy zelda twilight princess. Very fun game. The wii verson is alot 
 better than the gamecube one. Controls are very easy to learn and very fun to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 12, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. If it didn't have OoT, I would definitely rate it a 10. But , unfortunatly, OoT 
 did come out, and I don't think any game could follow that up. The dungeons aren't that challenging, 
 especially if you've played OoT, but it's alot more fun. Things like shooting the arrows, shooting 
 the arrows on your horse (insanely fun) , Swinging your sword, and everything about being a wolf 
 makes this game awesome. The story isn't that bad, either. There are some very creative ideas put 
 into the story mode, just as there is in the puzzles, which are okay, just not that difficult, 
 which is a letdown. One thing i really like is riding on the horse. There is a lance battle against 
 this one guy, and it is so amazing! Though it was hard, it was alot of fun, and i saved just before 
 that part so i can play it over and over again, which i do. One thing that could make this more 
 difficult is if midna didn't tell you how to do everything. All you have to do is press up, and 
 she'll give you directions on exactly how to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connell66
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Zelda fanboy for as long as I can remember. When I was only three or four, I owned 
 a SNES, my first gaming console. And do you know what my favourite game for that system was? You 
 guessed it! The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past. It certainly was an awesome game, and I still 
 have memories of days gone past, beating the whole darn game in a day, or so I remember. Heck, 
 I can still remember using the magic cape to defeat the boss of the sixth dungeon in the dark world 
 by running into the middle of the pool of eyes and slashing at the big one.
  
  One day, I had gotten game over on Super Mario World (LttP wasn't the only title I had, after all) 
 and, in a fit of rage, threw my controller at the machine, which froze the screen and we assumed 
 it was broken (we learned later it wasn't) . That's when my parents got me a Nintendo 64. Over time, 
 my N64 library grew. While there were many outstanding games for the system, the one that will 
 always be my overall favourite is The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. To be fair, I had always 
 loved Super Mario 64, Donkey Kong 64, and Perfect Dark very much, and I have many fond memories 
 of playing Mario Kart 64 with my family. Star Fox 64 is the title that got me into the N64 when 
 I was only four when I first played it at my cousins house, and I still hold it in high regard 
 for that. But nothing, to this very day, will ever compare to the feeling of riding Epona through 
 the massive field or the beautiful background music of Kakariko Village that brought thoughts of 
 tranquility and peacefulness to mind. To this day, nothing feels as climactic as that final battle 
 with Ganon, or as amazing as the first time you enter Hyrule Field. I can still remember beating 
 the first dungeon in an hour or so the first time I played it, and I was only six or seven at the 
 time. Later on, I got Majora's Mask, and while I did like it, it was way too short and didn't have 
 the balance that OoT had. I was a bit dissapointed, though that's not to say that I didn't like 
 it, because I did.
  
  Then when I was nine I got The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker for my birthday. I really loved 
 it, with its endless number of time consuming side-quests, its cel-shaded graphics, and its ocean 
 feel. Yes, it was another Zelda game, and an easy one. You could beat the game in fifteen hours 
 if you're a veteran of the series. However, that's not so say that that's the only amount of time 
 you'll spend. In fact, you might beat it many times just for the heck of beating it. It truly is 
 an awesome game in every respect.
  
  With that kind of track record, my expectations for The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess were 
 very, very high, especially after I saw the trailers and screenshots. Even though it was delayed 
 a couple times, I still waited patiently for it to come out and blow me away more than any other 
 Zelda game before it has.
  
  Well, for Christmas 2006 I got a Wii and Twilight Princess. At first, I hated TP. It seemed like 
 just another Zelda game, but with nothing new or bold. And it was. The sound of the Wii mote slashing 
 is annoying, the music was sort of Wind Waker meets Resident Evil-esque and synthesized (which 
 means it doesn't sound modern enough) , the story is subpar, the gameplay was linear compared to 
 the rest of the series, wolf Link kinda sucked, the controls were sometimes tedious, and the graphics 
 were clearly developed for the Gamecube. There was also no voice-acting, and at this time in game 
 development, that is borderline unacceptable. Even things like Kakaiko Village were out of place, 
 as I was hoping for a peaceful town, not a mostly-abandoned ghost town that feels like the perfect 
 place for a western shoot-out. The field was HUGE, but there just feels like something is missing 
 about it, particularly the fact that Nintendo was probably trying to recreate Ocarina of Time for 
 another generation of gamers, which made what could have been an brand new epic feeling feel more 
 like a recycled feeling that's stretched to the point where the tension is making it loose its 
 epic feel and gain a been there, done that feel at times. In short, it doesn't feel as breathtaking 
 as OoT did in its day.
  
  That's not to say that the game didn't give me a tremendous amount of enjoyment though, because 
 it absolutely did. One thing I unabashedly loved about the game was its length. Without going through 
 the sidequests the game has to offer, the game can take up to forty hours to complete. The dungeons 
 easily rank among the best in the series, bringing many intricate puzzles and exciting action, 
 all in one package, despite the easy boss fights. The artistic direction is outstanding, with many 
 of the monsters in the game looking really cool, like the skulltula. Something about that game 
 just feels totally awesome, and it is a must-own title for the Wii if you have one.
  
  But one thing that really leaves a bad taste in my mouth is the way some players call this THE 
 BEST GAME IN THE SERIES!!! AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!! and probably haven't played all the games in the 
 series. In fact, it sounds as if this is your introduction to the series. Or maybe you just played 
 The Wind Waker before. Let me tell you this: you can't just say that a certain game is the best 
 in the series if you haven't played all of them. Otherwise, you would know what the best in the 
 series is. Ocarina of Time, A Link to the Past, The Wind Waker, the FIRST Legend of Zelda- have 
 you played them? If so, you may think that this game is a bit of a disappointment, like me. It's 
 an excellent game that I really love, but not quite up to the standards of OoT or LTTP. Or if you 
 HAVE played the rest of the series, and you're saying it's the best, maybe you're just not playing 
 it the same way I do, and enjoying it the same way I am. The fact that reviewers and gamers call 
 this the BEST GAME EVER is really overrating it, to the point where overrated is a tremendous understatement.
 
  
  To sum it all up, TP is an amazing game that often feels, as Jeff said, Stuck in the past. If you've 
 been playing the series for as long as you've been playing video games, you'll probably feel somewhat 
 disappointed in the fact it didn't do anything to help the series grow as a series in terms of 
 gameplay and technical polish, but all the same you will grow to love what TP has to offer gameplay-wise. 
 And if you remember when I said I was a fanboy, I actually meant tremendously obsessed fan. This 
 is a guy who has attempted to play through OoT in one sitting, and actually finished. This is a 
 guy who has actually worn a large, green shirt and tights just to be more like Link. I love TP, 
 but not in the way I love other Zelda games. This is not my favorite game in the series, obviously. 
 It probably comes in fourth, being beaten by Ocarina, Link to the Past, and The Wind Waker. However, 
 that doesn't change the fact that TP is an excellent game that truly is worth the long delayment 
 it took, and if you have a Wii or still have a Gamecube, this is a game that is worthy of attention. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to start this review by saying that Twilight Princess is the first Zelda game 
 I have played, and being this my first entry to the series I can say it is a totally awesome game 
 and I am thinking of playing Ocarina of Time in the Virtual Console.
  
  I have heard from a lot of people that this is the same game as OoT but with better graphics, but 
 still, since when OoT had Link turned into a Wolf? Or had a being from another dimension riding 
 on your back. Yes, there is an iddentity problem here, but it isnt too big. It is just nostalgic.
 
  
  The gameplay is very similar from those other Zelda games (I have not owned one but I have played 
 them) , and the Wii remote make battles more refreshing and less button smashing. You still have 
 the lock-on which is pretty useful and weapons you find in other Zelda games.
  There is a huge improvement on long-ranged weapons thanks to the Wii remote because its accuracy 
 and response time cannot be done with an analog or just feel archaic. Talking about weapons, there 
 are a lot of weapons here that you have used in previous Zelda games, but there are new weapons 
 too like the Spinner, the Ball &amp; Chain and some magic wand. These are cool but arent used a 
 lot outside the dungeons you found them.
  The other part of the gameplay is being a Wolf during your stance in the Twilight Realm. Being 
 a wolf isnt as different as being normal Link, but you are faster, stronger and can use your senses 
 to see hidden spirits or track people through your senses. You also have a especial attack in which 
 Midna makes a force field around you and after it is charged you unleash a mortal attack on the 
 enemies inside it which is pretty cool.
  Link also have 7 hidden skills which are the coolest ways or the most useful ways you can kill 
 enemies fast.
  Twilight Princess dungeons are hard and require a lot of skill and thinking, some of the dungeons 
 have clever puzzles that leave you thinking until you solve them, but there is a downside in this 
 dungeons, some of them are small and most boss fights are way to easy, which is a letdown.
  
  Graphically Twilight Princess looks like a great Gamecube game, looks fantastic in widescreen 
 but it has some blurry textures that you can see from miles away. It is pretty detailed and the 
 character models are well made.
  
  I see in the forums many people complaining about the lack of voice-acting, and I can agree on 
 that to an extent, for example, I am not a native english speaker, but I can read English fast 
 so it is Ok for me, but it wouldnt be bad if I can hear the voices while reading. And for Link, 
 ithe silent heroic fits him very well becuase it makes the game more immersive and you feel more 
 like your character. The background sound is very good because it blends with whats happening in 
 the game without having to stop or anything.
  
  I finish this game in around 45 hours and I am making all the sidequests which are somehow fun 
 too. It doesnt have multiplayer but..... I really dont care about it, this game rocks as it is.
 
  
  Well thank you for reading my review and I hope you reccomend it:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porphyrous
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I just finished The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and I am in awe. Never have I seen a game 
 with such scope, depth, and elegance, in the 25-plus years I've played video games. With only a 
 handful of minor shortcomings, Twilight Princess proves once again why Shigeru Miyamoto is the 
 best game designer in the world.
  
  You know the story by now.... a country boy named Link is living his slow-paced life in a small 
 village in the far south of the land of Hyrule, which is ruled by benevolent and god-kissed Princess 
 Zelda. Little does he know that a palace coup of sorts has occurred. The denizens of the Twilight 
 Realm, led by a self-proclaimed king named Zant, has imposed twilight on the realm of light, transformed 
 Hyrule's citizens into spectres, and imprisoned Zelda in her own castle.
  
  Link gets involved when the twilight comes to his native Ordon province. While having an argument 
 with his childhood friend, Ilia, dark monsters appear and abduct her and Colin, a village boy who 
 idolizes Link. After being knocked cold and coming to, Link give chase, only to be sucked into 
 the twilight and transformed. After being knocked cold (again) , he wakes up in a dungeon cell and 
 he's not feeling himself -- he's a wolf! While in the cell, he meets Midna, a twlight denizen whose 
 situation is somewhat vague, but you get the impression she's on the lam and no friend of Zant's. 
 She appears to be one of the good guys, but not consistently so, and has a bit of an attitude to 
 boot. You're going to spend the next while stuck in wolf form, figuring out how to get out of the 
 twilight, so get used to it. In the midst of this, he meets the imprisoned Zelda, who clarifies 
 Link's mission, which is to free Hyrule from the grip of twilight. Not an easy task, as it turns 
 out.
  
  One of the things to get used to is a lack of opposable thumbs, and thus a dearth of tools and 
 weapons. Fortunately, being a wolf is a pretty nifty weapon in itself, and an enemy has to be pretty 
 big and mean to give Wolf Link a run for his rupees. Also, Midna will occasionally help you jump 
 into otherwise inaccessible places. Thus begins this epic, which can easily span 30 to 80 hours 
 of gameplay, depending on your gaming experience. Originally envisioned as a late-era GameCube 
 title, Nintendo held it off and made it a Wii launch title. And man, what a difference a few months 
 make. The Wii controls work spendidly. The Wii remote handles aiming of tools and weapons, as well 
 as activating them and assigning them to buttons for easy access. Believe me, you'll need it. The 
 Nunchuk handles movement, with the joystick for macroscopic movement, and the buttons for locking 
 on to targets and observing your surroundings in almost every direction. The control scheme is 
 such that you can run at something, lock onto it, and whack it several times, and it all seems 
 totally natural. The only bit I couldn't get the hang of was that with many tools, you need to 
 be already aiming at the screen when you activate it. Otherwise you waste a shot in some random 
 direction.
  
  You have a screen cursor -- a tiny blue fairy, it turns out -- but much of the time it only serves 
 as a reference point for the remote. Whenever you're using a tool it turns into crosshairs. Makes 
 sense. The remote buttons can accommodate easy access to four tools or weapons at once, assigned 
 to 3 D-pad directions and the A button, although you can only use one at a time (the iron boots 
 being the sole exception I found) . The up D-pad button is reserved for summoning Midna. Your screen 
 view also typically has a remote button diagram, a mini-map of your surroundings, your life energy 
 (indicated by hearts -- zero hearts means zero life, i. e. game over ) , and your money. Hyrule's 
 monetary unit is the Rupee, represented by a colored, vaguely Marquise-cut gem, and they turn up 
 nearly everywhere. Rummaging around weeds and rocks in a typical outdoor area turns up lots of 
 green 1-rupee gems. The more challenging the area you're in, the greater the value of rupees you'll 
 find. blue 5-rupee, yellow 10-rupee, red 20-rupee, and the occasional purple 50-rupee gems will 
 turn up inside vanquished foes, in boxes and barrels, and in treasure chests. You can also sometimes 
 receive rupees as gifts or prizes for certain tasks.
  
  You'll need them to buy equipment. As the game progresses, you can buy replacement shields (the 
 stock ones are wooden and tend to catch fire) , arrows, bombs, health potions, lamp oil, and other 
 items that will come in handy. Some tasks require you to pay before you can begin them.
  
  The game map is huge, eventually revealed in all its spendor over the course of the game. The early 
 game is dominated by vanquishing the twilight over Hyrule's provinces. When Link is in wolf form, 
 Midna is firmly in charge, directing your tasks and giving you advice that is usually helpful, 
 and frequently cryptic. Clearly she knows more than she's letting on. When in the light as Link, 
 Midna hangs out in his shadow as a wraith-like emanation, and she can be called on for advice but 
 not much else.
  
  You can view the map of Hyrule by pressing the 2 remote button. When in temples and dungeons, if 
 you've found its map, it's assigned to the 1 button. The minus button displays your toolbox, and 
 the plus button displays your wardrobe and other odds and ends. It also includes links to save 
 your game -- there are 3 quest logs available -- and configurable gameplay options. The handiest 
 is a tool for tweaking the aim of your remote, since on a big TV sometimes the sensor bar makes 
 you aim higher or lower than you might expect.
  
  The whole game flows very nice, alternating between live action parts where you're playing the 
 game, and frequent cut scenes (mini-movies that propel the plot, for you semi-gamers) that provide 
 most of the background, history, and crucial information you need to survive. I'd say there's a 
 good 3-plus hours of cut scenes all told.
  
  It would take forever to catalog all of the gameplay features, and ultimately pointless since much 
 of the fun and charm of this game is in the discovery of new tools, locales, and challenges. While 
 many of the scenes in the game are challenging puzzles, they all make logical sense, and when you 
 figure out a tough one, you're just as likely to say Doh! as Eureka! since you can sometimes overthink 
 a problem. They range from relatively easy to total stumpers to pedal to the floor endurance tests 
 (I have particularly bad memories of rescuing Colin from the trolls on the pigbeasts, and getting 
 Telma and Ilia's wagon to Kakuriko Village) . Some require practice. At least a couple, like the 
 ones I just mentioned, will cause you to die many times over before you nail them.
  
  Being a wolf has advantages and disadvantages, and one of the keys to success in the game is getting 
 used to your wolf skills. The one unique tool you have is your wolf senses , which appear in the 
 game in a fashion not unlike looking through night-vision glasses. In that state you can see the 
 human form of spectres, sense places to dig, and even do scent tracking. There are also a couple 
 enemies that only reveal themselves when using wolf sense. But getting injured knocks you back 
 to reality , and your field of vision isn't very wide or deep, so you'll be switching back and 
 forth a lot anyway. Eventually, Link will gain the ability to switch back and forth between human 
 and wolf form at will, a development pivotal to the successful completion of much of the latter 
 part of the game.
  
  There are a total of nine full-sized temples, dungeons, and palaces that figure directly in the 
 plot. There are additional caves, temples, and side quests that are sometimes necessary, sometimes 
 not, but not on the same scope as the nine main venues. Referred to generically as dungeons , most 
 of them have a theme, a particular element or force of nature involved, a midpoint opponent that 
 yields a tool or weapon crucial to the completion of that dungeon, and an endpoint opponent, or 
 boss , whose defeat ends that portion of the game and yields some type of milestone device. They 
 also all have a map and compass hidden somewhere within. The map shows you the entire dungeon structure, 
 which are usually multiple floors and levels, and the compass indicates on the map where treasure 
 chests are, as well as the location of the boss's lair. In addition to the target artifact, you 
 also gain a heart container , an additional unit of life force.
  
  You begin the game with 3 hearts' capacity of life force. Being bitten or whacked by something, 
 or falling into a bottomless pit, or drowning, or (there are a lot of ways to get hurt and/or killed 
 in this game) will cost you anywhere from 1/4 to 1 full heart, so gaining them extends your durability 
 in the game. There are also heart pieces scattered around the kingdom, in hidey-holes, as prizes 
 for side quests, and in treasure chests in dungeons. If you collect 5 heart pieces, you get an 
 additional full heart. I finished my game with 13 hearts. It sounds like a lot. Against the final 
 foes, it's not as much as it sounds. :-) When you get down below 2 hearts, Link starts to wilt 
 and breathe heavy. Fortunately, you can usually net a few loose replacement hearts from the same 
 places you scavenge rupees.
  
  Many puzzles require the use of multiple tools or weapons in both intuitive and abstruse ways. 
 For example, how can you use a bow and arrow as a tool? Shoot through ropes! There are many novel 
 tools and weapons. Each one is usually pivotal in the dungeons where they're acquired, both to 
 finish the dungeon and to defeat its boss. Most usually have uses later on in the story as well.
 
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen on the Wii. The artwork is stunning, the vistas grand, and 
 being a launch title, it sets the graphics bar quite high for subsequent Wii releases. You can 
 still find some low-res textures here and there, and some geometry in the scenery that seems a 
 bit strange (can't anything be *round* in a 3-D game?) but mostly that applies just to backgrounds 
 and scenery. The game is exquisitely detailed where it needs to be. The frame rate is never anything 
 less than rock solid. Otherwise, I really am not sure how to rate the graphics since the Wii is 
 in its infancy and there's no way to know for sure what its top end graphic performance is capable 
 of. But color me blown away.
  
  The sound in Twilight Princess is adequate, if not engrossing. The background music is usually 
 appropriate for the setting and ranges from subtle and ambient to sturm und drang. Many of the 
 areas of the map, such as Hyrule Field, have their own theme songs, and in some cases, different 
 ones for day and night. The sound effects all fit nicely, though the sound through the Wii remote 
 speaker is frequently distorted (the fault of the speaker, not the game) . Much has been made of 
 the lack of voice acting in this game. Given how hard it is to do good voice acting, and how much 
 it would have inflated the game's budget (given that they'd be obligated to do both Japanese and 
 English) , I don't blame Nintendo for going with text augmented with semi-verbal exclamations. They 
 work. The lack of voice acting scarcely detracts from the plot, which is always engaging, frequently 
 dramatic, and occasionally riveting. It's a stunning story arc that will keep you engrossed right 
 through the end credits. (And when you finally win the game, don't skip the end credits or you'll 
 miss a couple of very important and dramatic plot points which wrap up the story.)
  
  Just by playing the primary adventure, this game will take you a few dozen hours to complete. This 
 is a game that rewards exploration. The side quests and mini-games (many of which I skipped and 
 will go back and play later just so I can say I did them) add to the value. Exploring all of the 
 aspects of the game with the side quests and mini-games, without replaying the adventure itself 
 at all, you could log up to 100 hours with this game.
  
  Ultimately, I have to say that this will eventually be considered one of the greatest games of 
 all time. Though some folks will continue to pick Zelda's N64 installment, The Ocarina of Time, 
 as the all time best game, I can't help but feel that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess had 
 its GameSpot score knocked down a bit by the author's overexposure to the game's elements, overly 
 high expectation compared to other games (which in itself is absurd... how could anyone's expectations 
 NOT be met by this game?) , and perhaps even tweak Nintendo a bit for not being immortal. (C'mon, 
 guys, Wario Ware Smooth Moves is better than this game?!?) Since every other game site put the 
 game all the way at the top, I gotta figure there's something a bit off about the GameSpot review.
 
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess will be spoken about in the future in the same reverent 
 tones as any top game you can name on any platform. If you own a Wii, you must buy this game, and 
 you will not be disappointed. If you are, then you've lost your sense of wonder.
  
  David V
  porphyrous
  
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falconsfan60
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  There is no question that Twilight Princess is ranked to be one of the top video games ever made. 
 When i first picked up this game, i was so excited to play it. It was as if I accomplished a great 
 acheivement of video games. Just the thought of buying this game, and playing it for a while makes 
 it well worth the money. Whether your a zelda fan or not, you can still love this game no matter 
 where you are. The graphics are great, especially for wii. Gameplay is the best in business. The 
 value is well worth it. I love the classic sounds it had from the regular zeldas, which makes it 
 seem like a peaceful, enjoyable game. So for all you gamers looking for a Great game , zelda twilight 
 princess certainly lives up to the expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evoo989
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess is an amazing game with vast lands to be explored and dungeons 
 to be conquered. The Game also brings back the feeling you get whilst playing the classics from 
 the Nintendo 64 and many memories. The Game also witness's the return of classic characters such 
 as the Goron's and Zora's and also many new additions to the character base.
  Zelda Twilight Princess is very polished and very well put together the plot will have you crying 
 for more with great twists and quests.
  There are also plenty of sub quests to complete so even when you have completed the main story 
 line there is still more to do such as fishing or bug hunting.
  In all Zelda Twilight Princess is a great addition to the Zelda Universe and is a game that anyone 
 would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9CHS
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda franchise has, for years, been one of Nintendos big games. Who didn't love A Link To 
 The Past or the best game ever: Ocarina Of Time. After Ocarina however, the series took a strange 
 turn. I got Majora's Mask on release. It was a good game but was very different from previous games 
 with a very high difficulty level and an extremely dark tale. It was a welcome change at the time 
 as i had previously been spending ages at Ocarina. Then Wind Waker came. It wasn't just different, 
 it was a completly different. Anything I had liked about previous games had been taken away. I 
 was now thirsting for the proper sequel to Ocarina. I wanted the old formula back.
  
  When Nintendo showed the video of a new game at E3 I was delighted with what appeared to be the 
 proper sequel. Christmas came and alongside my Wii was Twilight Princess (TP) . TP from the moment 
 i tuned it on reminded me of Ocarina. The begining screen shows Link on Epona, riding through Hyrule 
 Field. The graphics are excellant except for the muddy, awful looking grass. Link wears the classic 
 green suit and epona looks like a real horse. The story, like most Zelda games, is pretty basic. 
 A dark shadow realm is covering Hyrule and when Link enters it he is turned into a wolf. The wolf 
 seems like a pretty good addition. Despite chasing bugs, the fighting system for the wolf works 
 great. Fights are enjoyable and the sense ability is unique. However, when you finally become normal 
 Link again you feel properly in control. The control system for human Link is excellant. Aiming 
 arrows feels so effortless as you simply aim at the screen. The horseback sections are also greatly 
 improved with Epona being able to travel at high speeds. There are anumber of brilliant horseback 
 battles and the sense of speed is amazing. Reaching your required destination never takes long 
 despite the huge game world. Also, despite the vastness of the land there are no noticable loadings 
 times.
  
  Zelda games have always consisted of dungeons with boss battles at the end. This game is no different. 
 The dungeons are brilliantly designed and make you think. One complaint is despite looking fantastic, 
 the boss battles can be a little too easy. New sounds also don't add much to the game. The gameplay 
 is outstanding, and despite being a little too easy, has a brilliant control system. The Wii controllers 
 really add to the game. It doesn't take to long to get used to them either and the main adventure 
 itself is quite long. There are also a number of fun sidequests. This game is brilliant. Every 
 person needs to play this game. All Wii owners should definately own it. My Playstation supporting 
 friend got hooked to the game. He was amazed by it. This shows that the Zelda formula has always 
 and will always work. This game may not be as good as Ocarina or A Link To The Past but it proudly 
 sits alongside them as one of the top titles. This game will never be forgotten and finally, after 
 so long, I can say, Ocarina has gotten its true sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerchick74
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything you need on the Wii -- easy controls, long game play time, plenty of extras 
 to go look for afterwards. Plus, the graphics are very good -- who's the guy that said the Wii can't 
 compete in the graphics wars? The storyline isn't exactly perfectly original (I actually found 
 that it reminded me a lot of Kingdom Hearts II, somehow) , but it is innovative and pretty engaging. 
 I did have a bit of a hard time with the controls at first, and it took me a little bit to get 
 all of the swordplay down, but once you've got it, you actually feel like you're in the game, which 
 is exactly what I wanted my first game to give to me. This game was a great choice as a launch 
 title, and it proves that Nintendo still has its touch, even after all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo-Evil
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The first game I bought with my Wii was The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. I didnt play anything 
 else, or leave my room, for over 70 hours, when I finally finished it 100%. What can I say, I love 
 Zelda. Before this game came out in Australia, I was told that it was repetitive of Ocarina of 
 Time, and that is true. I, however, loved Ocarina of Time, and found this so engaging that I didnt 
 care if it was slightly recycled. The graphics are superb, even on my dodgy TV. The only bad thing 
 about my experience, was that once I had finished it 100%, I was bored of it. I tried starting 
 a new game, but I got a third of the way through and stopped. First time through however, I couldnt 
 stop. This is my first review, so please dont be too harsh on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a good game, hands down. The graphics are not great from a smoothness standpoint, 
 but very beautiful and artistic. You can tell Wii cared about this game, to make it a good one. 
 The sound is okay, it could be better but you don't really notice it much. The best part is; it 
 is a new game! For once a new game emerges, where it is not the exact same as its predecessors. 
 New, fun missions keep you involved through the whole game. For one of the few times this has happened 
 to me with a game, I actually felt I needed to save the kingdom :p. They use the Wii controller 
 well, and they don't overdo it; you don't feel like some things are there only because it is on 
 Wii. A must buy for any gamer, and though it was my first Zelda game I can tell it was one of the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!! Twilight Princess, ah where to begin. Graphics were amazing, great plot line, 
 long play times, and so many side quests it can keep you playing for hours on end. Lets start with 
 the dungeons. They were very challenging (when aren't they) with many little puzzles that could 
 take a couple minutes or a half-hour! One of the things I found lacking was the bosses. Trust me, 
 they are still big and intimidating, just to make you believe they are hard. They are quite easy, 
 just your attach to him and hit him with your sword a couple times. but I still think the bosses 
 are fun and cool looking. I liked how they added new weapons to the arsenal. They added the spinner 
 (top-like thing that you can spin on) , dominion rod (controls statues) , and ball and chain (heavy 
 but hits people really hard) ! They were really fun to use. One of the new parts of this series 
 that I thought was a cool addition was the choice to turn into a wolf. It really opened your options 
 such as jumping high with Midna (impish thing on your back) and senses (blocks out everything around 
 you and enhances your smell, good for twilight bugs) . But it was somewhat dumb because in the beginning 
 you have to be a wolf until you collect the twilight bugs but later you get to swap between them 
 at will. Along with these things is the amazing map, Hyrule Field is emense, with multiple sections 
 and little secret underground caves with goodies inside. One of the things I liked better in this 
 game is the graphics. It really makes an impression after The Wind Waker. They really put a lot 
 more effort into the trees, ground, water, houses, shacks, and people and monsters especially. 
 When you go up to a person and look in there eyes, you can almost see the emotion in there eyes. 
 It is really cool. As for the monsters, there is so much effort put into them, they have so many 
 features you have to stop and stare at them for a long time to take it all in. The sound is great, 
 with many little jingles and melodies that have originated in previous zelda games. But they should 
 have given the game its own orchestra, because the music is good but could be better. Also, some 
 sounds come out of the Wiimote speaker, such as the sword slashes, grapple hook noises and the 
 classic jingle when you solve a puzzle (du du du du du du du du du dun) . But that speaker isn't 
 the best speaker so most sounds come out raspy an dinny. Another thing is the way they tell the 
 story, they use text blurbs during cut-scenes instead of voices, it's one thing to stop Link from 
 talking but to keep the characters from talking makes the game seem older than it is. One completely 
 random thing I like about this game is that when you hit a Cucoo, you get to be the Cucoo, not 
 get attacked by it. With the story mode alone you can rack up about 35 to 40 hours, much longer 
 than most RPG games, not even including side quests. With side quests you can easily double that 
 number. Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game and if you have a Wii (or GC) you should definately 
 get it or at least look into it because it will define gaming for a long while!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is clearly one of the best Zelda games to date. The same challenges, minigames, and z-targeting 
 are all in there. The graphics is probably the best of the wii so far, and best graphics of any 
 zelda game. You can get secret skills such as the mortal draw, backslice, helmsplitter, and great 
 spin. Wallet size can be increased from 300 to 600 and to 1000 by catching 24 types of bugs. There 
 are 4 bottles, 3 bomb bags, 2 swords, and 3 types of armor. There are also 60 poes that u gotta 
 catch in order free a man from his chair.
  
  The story line is great, the bosses are cool, and the dungeons are sweet. this is a must have game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess feels like the most complete Zelda game to date. It blends the best elements 
 from some of the best games in the series. It has the basic look and feel of Ocarina of Time; the 
 shapeshifting elements of Majora's Mask; and the 'light world / dark world' structure of A Link 
 To The Past. Everything in TP seems to be bigger and better. Its environments, for example. Remember 
 how Hyrule Field was this big empty field in the middle of the world map in 'Ocarina'? In TP, Hyrule 
 Field is so big, it's actually divided in many sections, each one as big, if not bigger than the 
 original Hyrule Field. The story is a lot more fleshed out now. There's more cutscenes now to move 
 it forward. This time, Link tries to save Hyrule from a creeping, alternate world, known as the 
 Twilight realm. Early in his quest, he meets a mysterious creature, Midna, who is so funny and 
 charming, and has so much personality, that she may very well be the best secondary character the 
 series has ever had. Link also has the ability to transform into a wolf when he's in the Twilight 
 realm. And this adds a lot of depth to the game, as some puzzles will require your shapeshifting 
 abilities. There's also a lot more gameplay variety in TP. There some really cool segments where 
 Link joins the Tony Hawk generation and does the Hyrule equivalent of extreme sports. Horseback 
 riding is also back. And this time, you can swing your sword while riding. Boss fights remain as 
 spectacular as ever. The dungeons, eraly in the game, seem very characteristic and reminiscent 
 of previous Zelda games, but later on, you will visit some breathtaking dungeons, which are very 
 original by design. And yes, the visuals are gorgeous. . . well, by GameCube/Wii standards, of 
 course. And how does it feel on Wii? The remote and nunchuck do a really good job. Nothing felt 
 awkward or unintuitive to me. It's yet another Zelda masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game on the Wii so far and everybody who is lucky enough to own a Wii should own 
 this game. The graphics have shown that all people who blagged off the Wii about it graphics where 
 WRONG. The sound is great with classic tunes throughout the game. I myself thought the controls 
 would be tricky and take long to master but they weren't they are really easy and don't get old. 
 It takes around 60 hours to complete the main game and 80 or more hours to complete the main game 
 and all the side quest. Overall a masterpiece and the best game since Ocarina of Time. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FGFX
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Enough small talk, lets get on to the review, shall we?
  
  Graphics - The graphics are beautiful, there are no slow-downs, and if you have the correct TV, 
 there is also NO jagged edges which is also nice. While there are some noticeable bad graphics 
 during cut-scenes (in a VERY VERY small amount) , it still comes out as one of the best looking 
 games I've ever played.
  
  Sound - The sound from the Wii-mote is good but still a bit rough occasionally. The sound track 
 is excellent although i was expecting a fully orchestrated sound track, this 1 is just as good 
 though. There is no voice acting, which is kinda sucky. They may not voice Link, but maybe the 
 other characters? This is a mere scratch, though, nothing big.
  
  Controls - Not much to say really, they are perfect. No glitches, no camera issues, no unnecessary 
 complications, just perfect.
  
  GAMEPLAY - It sticks to its 3D roots, and delivers a great action-adventure puzzle game. The story 
 has one of the best twists ever. It keeps you guessing throughout the story, and although is basically 
 LoZ: OoT in its gameplay mechanics (get these 3 things, then get 8 of those and then kill last 
 boss) . And of course with the ever persistant Master Sword it makes this a true Zelda game.
  
  Closing Thoughts - Truly amazing. A must buy for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasingu
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Well lets say this. Link is living the perfect life in orden as a farmer. One day lila sees the 
 your horse is injured. She gets mad and takes the horse down to the orden spring. Link finds his 
 way in and talks to lila. Then all of a sudden orcs come out of no where and hits link with a club 
 and kidnaps lila and a kid named (i forgot the name) and takes them away. Link gets up an stumbles 
 in to a twilight wall. He becomes a wolf and get locked away. Would tell you more but buy the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bob_The_Horse
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Wow... One of the best game I have EVER played... The graphics are way better than OoT, and I'm 
 glad that Nintendo went back to this kind of graphics after TWW. The sounds are greatly nostalgic, 
 but the speaker on the Wii-mote is just too weak. The puzzles are hard, the bosses look amazing, 
 but are a bit to easy. Probably the only bad thing I can say about this game is that one you've 
 completed it and started it again, the puzzles don't change so the game becomes so much easier. 
 I will definatly say to anyone who is thinking of buying this game, buy it. Now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a solid game, don't get me wrong. Were this the first game in a franchise, 
 this would be a 9.5 or above. The problem is that Twilight Princess feels almost no different than 
 Ocarina of Time, which was a better game.
  
  The graphics and sound are both solid for a Wii game, and I particularly love the art style. No 
 more Wind Waker BS.
  
  The gameplay, however, is only so-so. For a newcomer, it will be a lot of fun, but a guy can only 
 save the Princess from the forces of evil so many times before he gets bored. Seriously, even the 
 wolf can't make this game stand out from all the other Zelda games.
  
  While there is a lot of content in this game, Ocarina of Time is a better buy even to this day. 
 It's still a great game, but it doesn't have the magic of the older Zelda games or the wow factor 
 of a game like Counter Strike: Source. Jaded gamers will not be impressed, but fanboys and newcomers 
 certainly will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunner404
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  What a game! The whole game play for me was spread out between four months, but what a four months 
 of gaming it was. Firstly, as far as Zelda games go, this has to be my favourite so far. It brings 
 back all of the magical elements that Ocarina of Time gave us in its day, but with improve sound, 
 graphics, and a bigger stage to play it on. With that alone this game was always destined for greatness, 
 but along with the Wii controls this game blew my mind, and enabled me to get rid of all that frustration 
 I've always wanted to do with a sword-wielding RPG. I haven't played the version on the Gamecube, 
 and I'm sure it's still an excellent game, but my advice to anyone wanting it on the Gamecube is 
 to go and spend an extra &pound;180 on a Wii, because trust me, it be worth it!
  
  The sword slashing action was so much fun, and while you can give the Wii remote a simple shuffle 
 movement to get the job done, I feel to get the proper experience you need to clear out the room, 
 get up out of your chair and use you remote like it is a sword and your fighting your way through 
 to Castle Town! Only then can you get to real feeling that 'you' are Link! Combined with the sword-wielding 
 action is the very comfortable controls of the Wii, both with the nunchuck to making Link move, 
 giving you the freedom to have you hands where ever you want, and every button to be exactly where 
 you want it. and then the freedom of being able to point at the screen to fire your arrows and 
 over classic Zelda weaponry, while isn't perfect, brings the arcade still of the first-person shooter 
 to Zelda in its best form, and is so much more fun than just moving a cursor!
  
  It's funny because at the moment this game has been the only decent single-player game on the Wii 
 so far (after the disappointment of Red Steel) , which is to be expected as the Wii promotion is 
 all about interaction, and getting as many non-gamers playing as possible, and while this is an 
 amazing game, it's not one Grandma will be joining you to play any time soon.
  
  This game has been a success in both the game it self, but as well as Nintendo showing us how good 
 single-player RPG games can be on the Wii, which has left many gamers mouth watering with the prospect 
 of Mario in the summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin1689
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  When I bought The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, I was a little skeptical at first. Mainly 
 because, I never owned a Zelda game in my life. Sure, I might of rented Ocarina of Time and Wind 
 Waker once or twice at Blockbuster, but I never actually owned a real Zelda game. Well, when I 
 got my Wii and played Wii Sports to death, I decided it was time to get a REAL game. So I bought 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. And do I regret it? Hell NO! When I popped the disc into 
 my Wii and saw the fabulous intro of Link riding on Epona, I knew this was going to be one hell 
 of a game! But enough of me ranting, time to get down to the nitty gritty. Let me start with the 
 graphics. The graphics are amazing! It may look a little blurry when you're in wolf form in the 
 Twilight area's, but most areas look outstanding, like Hyrule Field for example. The Gameplay couldn't 
 be anymore better. Using the Wiimote works great, especially when using the bow, which makes aiming 
 precise and smooth, thanks to the wiimote. The sound is really good too. Hearing the chimes, sword-clanks, 
 and many other sounds through the wiimote speaker is awesome. And the music is well done too. May 
 not be orchestrated, but keyboards will do. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a loooooong 
 game. I've spent 17 hours and i'm not even halfway through the game yet. Which is good because, 
 I hate... HATE it when games last like a day or two. (Phew) I could type so much more about what's 
 so great about this game, but since i'm lazy. I'll keep it brief. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is a game everybody and their mother should own. If you have a Wii and you don't want to play this 
 game, there's obviously something wrong with your head. Play it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spymaster2301
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo&amp;#8217; s &amp;#8220; The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess&amp;#8221; is one of the 
 greatest Zelda games I have ever played in years. I got the Wii version and I put it in my console, 
 played it, and passed it. Even though the graphics are not HD, it is still looks very good. The 
 Wii makes the Zelda experience more interactive with the Wiimote and Nun-chuck controller and there 
 motion sensing and pointing technology. Its storyline is great and keeps me on the edge of my seat 
 and my adrenaline pumping through my body. If you have a Wii, you must buy this game, it will be 
 the best 50 bucks you can spend on that console. I have been a fan of the Legend of Zelda series 
 for 7 years, and I must say that this one that rivals the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  This was my first wii game i bought, and is proberbly one of my if not my best wii game (i have 
 a VERY large selection of games, so its had tough competition)
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are beautiful, there are no slow downs, and if you have the correct scart, there is 
 also NO jagged edges which is also nice. Whilst there is some noticeable bad graphics during cut 
 scenes in a VERY VERY small amount of cut scenes, it still comes out as one of the best looking 
 games iv ever played (GoW generic graphiced games are no match for little ninties style of graphics) .
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound from the Wii mote is gd but still a bit rough occasionally. The sound track is excellent 
 although i was expecting a fully orchestrated sound track, this 1 is just as gd tho imo. There 
 is no voice acting!!! Which is a BRILLIANT THING!!! I mean who the hell wants link to sound like 
 some retarded american? or have a japanese accent? It makes you use your imagination, it also keeps 
 some mystery to the series.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Not much to say really, they are perfect. No glitches, no cmera isues, no unesesary complictaions, 
 just perfect.
  
  GAMEPLAY Its sticks to its 3D roots, and delivers a great action adventure puzzle game. The story 
 has one of the best twists in a game iv ever played (KotoR has the best twist imo) . It keeps you 
 guessing thoughout the story, and although is basically LoZ: OoT in its gameplay mechanics (get 
 these 3 things , then get 8 of those and then kill last boss) . And of course with the ever persistant 
 MASTER SWORD it makes this a true Zelda game.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Trule amazing. A MUST BUY for the Wii. Nuff said.
  
  P. S. one of the only games i have EVER 
 rated 10 btw... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEHRUNRESDAGON
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I thought it would be an average game but it is awesome. At first it 
 may be hard to figure out but once you past the first level it will be easy. Or a bit to easy. 
 The biggest problem with this game is the bosses. They are way too easy. But the other thing is 
 that trying to find hidden items like heart pieces and things like that. Although if you don't 
 like game where there are two controllers then get the gc version. The last problem is that after 
 plaing it for like 100 hours or more it will die down and you may not play it for a long time. 
 So this game is awsome but has it's downs. But is awesome and a typical zelda game. So this game 
 makes worth getting a WiI. So I hope my review helped you all all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Zelda games have been around since old school NES, back in the day I was just a wii lad (joke) , 
 and they have graced many other consoles for the Nintendo franchise as well as hand-held units. 
 Sometimes the story is different, sometimes pretty much the same but told a bit differently. The 
 ORIGINAL Zelda set's the pace, the stage, the characters, and the back story. All other games are 
 just a spin off from that. I've played.... quite a few of them. My favorites? The original, A Link 
 the the Past, Ocarina of Time, and now Twilight Princess. This is just what you would expect it 
 to be and more. I bought the Wii on impulse, I mean, I always knew I was going to get one and I 
 was going to get one pretty much just for this game (and Mario and Metroid and Smash Brothers...) 
 but really I wasn't planning on getting the system until summer. Whatever. Bought it and jumped 
 right into this game and I couldn't have been more pleased.
  
  Four collective major and minor things bother me though, and I'll get them out of the way right 
 now.
  
  1. The Boss Fights - WAY TOO EASY. Never dropped to half a heart container of life when fighting 
 them as I did in games past. My health &gt; than the damage done by A LOT. It's easy to figure 
 these fights out, easy to finish them with the last amount of effort. See in Ocarina of time, which 
 I played with another person, I would finish boss battles and unclentch my ass from the stress. 
 Not the same in Twilight Princess. 2. The Presence of N64 - Yeah, this is Twilight Princess, not 
 Ocarina of time. Why does it feel like Ocarina? The flutes, the music, the singing, Ganondorf, 
 and one particular boss fight that involves you deflecting magic with your sword... makes this 
 game feel like a re-visit to Ocarina and not a completely original game. 3. Those Freaking Chicken 
 Things - You know the ones I mean. I'm too lazy right now to look up the proper name for them, 
 but I hate them. Freaking... chicken body with boobies, retarded human head..... what the hell 
 is that??????? At every turn I made an effort not to use them and to throw them into bottomless 
 pits because they FREAK ME OUT.
  
  4. Magic Armor - What the hell? Worst thing I ever spent 600 rupees on.
  
  Now there's a lot 
 of flack that Wii takes because of it's lower end graphics but honestly Zelda looks amazing! The 
 facial expressions, the detailed shading and colors and WAY good enough for me. This game needed 
 a delicate balance between detailed realism and a cartoon, and it had it. Much of them time I was 
 actually reminded of the JAK series and the characters that were in there. The expressions and 
 creation of those characters are pretty similar, and something I like a lot.
  
  Also, there's all this mammer-jammer about how there's no voice overs for the dialog. Just learn 
 to read, people! Zelda isn't something for the high school drop outs and FPS junkies. It takes 
 brain power to solve some of these puzzles, and the universe is one like a story book anyway so... 
 read and don't be an idiot. Add onto that, the game puts in these little subtle sounds of gasps, 
 laughing, shouting, crying, sighing, or in Minda's case babberish, which puts two halves of the 
 whole together in your head and the words you read take on a voice of their own NATURALLY in your 
 head. The problem I see with people who want voices all the time is simply that you've been spoiled 
 with all this next-gen crap that basically spells everything out for you, and you should get over 
 it. Try playing a game boy sometime.
  
  The thing this website complains about, mainly, is the addition of unnatural Wii elements to the 
 game. hey listen, just because you're bad at controlling a Wii doesn't make it a bad addition to 
 the games. You just go ahead and stick to your boring traditional controller (fat ass) . Overall 
 I'm very impressed with this game. I'm happy to have dropped the money for the system and I am 
 looking toward to the next Zelda game to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  ok so heres the laydown...
  most people say this game is underappreciated but i say that this score on gamespot is about right...
 
  
  formost this is the best action adventure game so far for the wii.
  it has mindboggling puzzles, fun boss fights/challenging, awsome upgrades, and a fast travel sort 
 of thing.
  
  gameplay - 10 great use of the wii mote
  
  graphics- 8
  not all impressed but im not expecting great graphics out of the wii (especially on the release 
 date of the wii) Sound- 9 great sound. classic zelda music with some twists and awsome sword/weapon 
 sound.
  
  Value- 9 totally worth $49.99
  
  tilt- 8 er... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Hello all!
  
  Misses some graphical appeal Hmm, it that the only negative thing I can come up with? The truth 
 is... yeah... well, maybe the sound from the controller is a little cheap, but it works. The rest 
 of this games doesn't really have flaws in my opinion.
  
  So, my review huh? I started with the negative points stated above, so I could spend the rest of 
 this review writing how great this game is.
  
  Ok, I'm a complete Zelda nuub. I never played ANY zelda game (start laughing, I was to busy playing 
 RTS games on my PC back then, and the gamecube version of zelda didnt appeal to me) &gt;
  So, I bought this game, because I wanted to buy a new console with new possibilities, instead of 
 better graphics only. Zelda was a good choice since the Wii doenst have that much and good launch 
 games imo.
  
  So, I was all new to the game, I wasn't a complete retard I knew some story stuff from zelda so:) 
 I started playing and ennjoyed the style of gaming alot! Some combat, some platforming, some puzzels, 
 a cool boss battle, and all that mixed into a nice setting. Yep, it's the last game of zelda that 
 got me into zelda. Ironic isnt it?:)
  
  The whole control thing with the wiimote and nun-chuck where new, but it didnt took me very long 
 to master it, and once I did, I loved it! All the people that complain about getting numb arms.... go 
 out more and train some muscles you wussies: D
  
  So, a bit of a conclusion;
  
  Pros;
  -Atmosphere
  -Setting
  -Gameplay
  -Controls
  -Story
  
  Cons;
  -The graphics need 
 polishing, alot of it.
  -The sound in the Wiimote is really cheap, but it works...
  
  So, this is what I think of this game:) Hope you had a good read and I hope this was a bit usefull 
 in your possible purchace of the game.
  
  Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Nintendo knows what they're doing most of the time and this is just one of those times when they 
 hit the nail on the head. If you have a Wii or are planning to grab one, there should be no reason 
 that you shouldn't get this new Legend of Zelda game. Twilight Princess is absolutely the best 
 single-player Wii title out right now and will be for quite some time since Nintendo is taking 
 their jolly-old time in making new games. The graphics are not what you would call amazing or mind-blowing, 
 actually they're mediocre at best, but that's of course not why you buy a Wii. You buy a Wii to 
 get that modern art of video-gaming, the kind that every person, no matter how experienced in gaming, 
 can play. The gameplay in Twilight Princess is awesome and should be experienced by everyone who 
 has a Wii, whether it's shooting arrows, swinging your sword, or thrusting your shield into enemies, 
 this game has it and much more. Not only is the gameplay great, the game takes over 40 hours to 
 beat, yeah it's really long and that's a good thing by the way. Just think, your buying a game 
 for fifty smackers and your getting to enjoy it for a long time. The storyline is classic when 
 compared to its previous titles such as Ocarina of Time and resembles it very much. When it comes 
 to deciding on this game, get it for the gameplay and long storyline which will keep you interested 
 for a very long time, unless you play for 2 days straight without sleeping.
  
  Thanks for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilootin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  i got this n00b pwning game along with my Wii on launch day and oh boy was i havin fuN! this game 
 is so awesome that anyone can enjoy it, even emo kids o. O i love the old link look it's much more... hmmm 
 mature? i think that justifies my point good enough. the controls are great and very responsive 
 just plain n3wb pwn@g3. i r3c0mm3nd u g0 @nd p1ck th1$ g@m3 up. the levels are long and will keep 
 u busy for a long time so if ur complaining all the time about how ur bored stop ur whining and 
 go to ur local vg store and pick up this uber game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying that this is just my opinion and It mite not be true for everybody. 
 So I will start off. I rarely give games a 10 but I just realy loved everything aboutthis game 
 and realy Gave me something special. Graphics: They just look absolutely butifull. I love the charecter 
 models and faces as well as the sun setting over the castle in the distance not to mention the 
 twilight realm. I realy think that the graphics look just as good as they should. Sound: the music 
 might not be Orchestrated but it still sounds amazing, Howener nintendo did say that it would be 
 orchestrated but I am not realy very dissapointed about it. Gameplay: The gameplay plays out very 
 well and it is more exciting than pressing a button I think and the aiming with the boomerang and 
 bow and other first pirson items/ weapons also feels realy good and is simple to figure out and 
 fun to use. Value: I think that this game is worth more than it costs. It realy is a bargain. I 
 would highly recomend giving this game a try or even buying it. I realy think this is the best 
 game that I have played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The combat system of the game is pretty entertaining, and it feels good when Link swings his sword 
 as you swing your wiimote. This game makes good use of the Wiimote, but you notice that it's a 
 GameCube game at heart. The dungeons' puzzles are more challenging that ever, and I found myself 
 reading the GameSpot game guide quite a few times. The bosses, on the other hand, tend to disappoint, 
 as most of them are far too easy. The wolf form is an interesting new feature, but it doesn't really 
 improve or change during the course of the game, which makes it just another of your many utilities. 
 The item design is pretty good, though I miss a few Zelda classics. I only have one complaint about 
 an item, and that is the last armor set, the Magic Armour, which is obviously a work of haste, 
 and the idea of armor constantly tapping your gp is pretty lame.
  
  Graphics:
  Several reviewers are pretty unfair when they give this game a low score, because this game has 
 breathtaking environements. From an artistic viewpoints the graphics are truly perfect. You cannot 
 compare the technical graphics to games like Oblivion, because that's on an entirely different 
 platform, with different priorities. The only reason I'm not giving it a 10 is because of the poor 
 character design.
  
  Sound:
  The music in game is pretty decent, though it's nothing I'd look up and download on my PC. The 
 sound effects are very good, and I'm especially fond of the fact that your Wiimote makes sounds 
 too.
  
  Value:
  The game takes quite a while to complete (somewhere around 50 hours for me) which is pretty good 
 for this type of game. It never drags out, and the dungeon design stays fresh during the entire 
 game. In fact, I'd say the game just keeps getting better as you proceed. Alas, there's not much 
 to do once you're finished. You can have fun collecting all the bugs and pieces of heart, but that's 
 pretty useless except for collection purposes. Who needs 20 hearts when 8 hearts will get you trough 
 the game perfectly?
  
  Tilt:
  This game is definitively the best game for the Wii at the moment, and it provides a pretty satisfactory 
 story. But I'd wish they had included some more stuff from the previous games, like the magic system. 
 The only thing that really ruins the 9, is the lousy character design. You're stuck with the most 
 annoying creature ever to be made in a video game from beginning to end, namely Midna, which really 
 takes out a lot of fun. Link, Zelda, Ganondorf and several other characters looks better than ever 
 though.
  
  All in all, I'd recommend every Wii owner to play trough this game, although it cannot be compared 
 to it's perfect predeccesor, Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathjunior6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of zelda is an amazing series but none of them have been better then this.
  
  The graphics are nice in dungeons but some times there just not that good and are flat.
  
  
 The controls are simple and very easy to learn but it doesnt se the wii's controller much to slash 
 you flick your wrist and to aim aim the wii mote thats all the wii mote is used for but maybe it 
 was for the best
  
  The story is kinda short if you dont do the side quest but if you do every thing and get every 
 thing in the game it will take you hours
  
  All in all its a very good game get it if you have a wii its a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPplayer04
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and at the beggining its boring and confusing because you need a guide 
 or help from someone who has played it before to know what to do and you need that person or guide 
 threw the whole game.
  
  The controls are great though, so are the sound and graphics.
  
  I say this game is worth about 30 ( US ) dollars
  If your a die hard Zelda fan, buy this 
 game you will love it but if your kinda of a Zelda fan or not one at all ... buy something else
 
  
  Overall I say this game is good if you know what to do and like RPG's this should be a good game 
 for you
  
  My favorite part of the game is the controls I love the motion sensing sword fights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best Wii games. Its story is long and immersive, the fighting is good, 
 and the puzzles are challenging. Its many worlds and dungeons are very creative with a distinct 
 theme and cool enemies. The items and weapons are pretty cool and are used for its own unique ability 
 to get you through the game. Though, you can get stuck in the game quite a bit, it's still fun. 
 If you're looking for a game that will be long and challenging throughout, this is it. (I got about 
 50 hours worth of gameplay within this game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefstubbies
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The excitement before playing Twilight Princess, was overwhelming... and when my lovely wife surprised 
 me with the Wii and Zelda for christmas I was overflowing with glee. And when I picked it up, I 
 was instantly in love. Link becoming a wolf adds something new into the Zelda mix, preventing the 
 series from becoming stale. The dungeon layouts are surprisingly well done and large, which was 
 expected from me though considering the epic production presented in Ocarina of Time. Length and 
 balance are both excellelnt and replay value is large, and in my opinion, replay value in a game 
 is a huge reflection of the games true worth. My one beef though with Twilight Princess is the 
 camera. Why does Ocarina of Time for the N64 have a more interactive camera than a new Twilight 
 Princess for the Wii? What's up with that? Anyways, Zelda Twilight Princess is one of the crown 
 jems in my collection, and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys immersive adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinc28
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  if you liked legend of zelda oot then youll definly like this first of all it has a great story 
 line wwith lots of twists and turns tthat will keep you entertained for hours second the graphics 
 are really good and at times seemes like your actually wilding a sword and last the number one 
 thing i love about this game is the gameplay is like legend of zelda oot but the really cool level 
 desings and the fact that you can into a wolf makes it that much better in conclusion this is a 
 really great game and recamend this game for anyone who has a wii or gamecube 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troglodyte100
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  When the first mentions of Twilight Princess came to be, I was fresh off the absolutely dazzling 
 Ocarina of Time, and had very high hopes for the next true Zelda successor. (I really loved Majora's 
 Mask and Wind Waker, but they were Zeldas of a different color, as I was to learn.) Well, Twilight 
 Princess is not the best Zelda, nor as great as even Majora's Mask, but it exceeded my expectations. 
 Nintendo triumphed, and I will attempt to tell you why.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (herein referred to as ZTP) offered to be the greatest Zelda, 
 graphically, and in that, it succeeded. From the eerily oversaturated Twilight Realm, to Hena's 
 beautiful fishing hole, to Ganondorf's shockingly seamless character model, everything pushes the 
 absolute limit of the Gamecube's graphics (the game WAS developed for the GC.) It looks even better 
 on the Wii, though admittedly, crunchy textures were more visible. Also, I thought the fairy ZTP 
 used as the standard Wii pointer was a bit out of place and annoying. What was the fairy doing 
 there?
  
  Combat has been refined down to the last detail, with huge steps not only from Ocarina of Time, 
 but even Wind Waker. Mounted battles are great fun, and possibilities are all but unrestricted. 
 Riding across Hyrule Field, an army of mounted Bullbos behind you, whilst chasing King Bulblin 
 himself... 'tis not another feeling like it. But moving on, every tool is intuitive to use, and 
 all are great fun. The massive Ball and Chain is particularly fun to use, though I found it very 
 cool to fight with the Wii-controlled Bow and Arrows. Zipping along with the Double Clawshots is 
 also an awesome little gimmick, so I don't really have a favorite. Wolf battle is also great, though 
 I wish the fierce canine grew more powerful as Link did; I felt that late in the game, Wolf Link 
 was more a burden than anything else. I could go on, especially about wolf form... but I'm feeling 
 a bit tired.
  
  Puzzles are greatly challenging in ZTP, with some genuinely mind-boggling teasers. After 7 million 
 tries trying to open the Sacred Grove, I finally had to look up the correct pattern on Gamespot's 
 guide. However, the challenge is not incredibly frustrating, provided you are willing to look up 
 the answers now and then. Now is also a good time to discuss the sound, I suppose. Though the sound 
 coming through the TV speakers is very crisp and cool, I must agree with the Gamespot reviewer; 
 the Wiimote speaker is a little crackly and poor. Still, I suppose Nintendo did the best they could. 
 And it is cool to hear the classic Zelda puzzle chime ring from your hands. A final note: Though 
 the music is perfectly serviceable, it's nothing special for the most part.
  
  Now, we come to ZTP's weakest aspect: story and characters. I don't know what happened, but somebody 
 took a ginormous step backward when they wrote ZTP. The characters ranged from no opinion , to 
 downright awkward , at least until the story expanded out of Kakariko Village. But even then, we 
 have to suffer through such intolerable cutscenes as the painful and awkward romance between Link 
 and Ilia. It makes me a little sad that Nintendo could sink so low. Characters are surely not a 
 lost cause, however, Hena the flirtatious fisherwoman and Fyer the depressed clown are but a few 
 of the highlights. Still, no one is as memorable as the characters from Ocarina of Time. Well, 
 maybe Hena.
  
  In story, there is less to balk about, at least once you step away from the poor characters. Nevertheless, 
 writing just seems less magnificent and deep as that in Ocarina. Moments that should come over 
 as shocking or poignant fall flat, usually with a piece of flat dialog. As usual, that old Zelda 
 magic fills in the gaps, though. When Link returns to the Temple of Time, or crosses the vast Gerudo 
 desert: flawless.
  
  As I said earlier, I could go on, but I have already spent a half hour writing this review! I hope 
 you managed to pick up my gist: ZTP is a game that cannot be missed. True, it has its failings, 
 some mightier than any Zelda before it. But look on the bright side. Compulsive, super-fun dungeons? 
 A huge, gorgeous overworld? Tons of quirky sidequests and hidden treasures? With all this and more, 
 Twilight Princess is hardly an average game! It is worth buying a Wii just to play this complete 
 work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BxPunisher103
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the latest game in the Zelda franchise and the first 
 one since Wind Waker was released on the GC and its without a doubt, the best one yet. You play 
 as Link who is on a quest to drive back the Twilight before it completely covers his land of Hyrule. 
 The gameplay of this game is a modified version of the one seen in the Zelda games starting with 
 Ocarina of Time and on. Its simple and allows you to lock on and target enemies and with just 
 a swish of the Wii Remote, you swing your sword to attack. The Wii remote is also used for aiming 
 by simply pointing at the screen but you can also lock on to your enemy if you need to. One of 
 the major changes in this game was the ability to turn into a wolf. As a wolf, youre able to sense 
 things, dig up things and attack things that you couldnt when you were in normal form as Link. 
 The gameplay is great and does enough to make something that was already good better.
  
  The graphics for this game arent bad. The world is well detailed and goes back to a graphical 
 style found in Ocarina of Time and Majoras Mask rather than the cel-shaded style used in Wind 
 Waker. The world has beautiful scenery and a great feel to it, it makes you feel as if youre on 
 a great adventure riding across the land on Epona or traveling through the night as a lone wolf.
 
  
  The sound is solid. The music is decent and fits well with the game although no piece really stands 
 out but it provides enough to give you the adventure feel.
  
  Value-wise, this game is great. There are some pretty good side quests that can occupy your time 
 and just exploring the beautiful world is fun. Overall, this game is stunning. If you werent expecting 
 the be all and end all of video games then this game shouldnt have disappointed you. It combined 
 all elements of the great Zelda franchise and put it into one allowing for the ultimate Zelda experience. 
 A true masterpiece and best in series, thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroomario
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda twilight princess is a must buy if you have a nintendo wii, or if you do feel 
 like waiting around for one you must get it for gamecube. It is one of the most exciting games 
 I have ever played. When you first start you are link in your little village and you do your little 
 chores around it. Until your girl friend gets taken away by some orcs. You go into this world of 
 twilight and you turn into a dog. You meet this little imp creature that will help you along your 
 quest. As usally there are temples you must beat in order the game and save your village and bonnie 
 lass. The graphics in this game are great and the sound is good even though that fat guy jeff that 
 did the review for this game didnt think so. This game is an instant classic in which I will never 
 forget about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Best Zelda game ever? Sounds like an exaggeration but I think so. Graphically the game is very 
 artistic, portraying not only the regular environment in an expressive light well but also the 
 twilight realms environment with the games somewhat pleasing lighting effects and detail. The new 
 look also helps bring across a sort of epic feel to the game as well as getting across the feel 
 of each area, all of them varied in their environments. Some have complained that the graphical 
 quality was lost in the Gamecube- Wii transfer but I cannot see any major loss, this may possibly 
 affect those of you playing on HD TVs though. Gameplay is better than ever in Twilight Princess, 
 the game is quite nostalgic in its gameplay reminding Zelda veterans of Ocarina of Time and the 
 series since but the game also offers enough original items, situations and content to make it 
 an excellent game in its own right. You will find that youll still have the same dungeon style 
 adventure filled with cleverly designed puzzles and rooms with a whole new world of possibilities 
 opened up once new items are acquired and the game doesnt slow down too much in between dungeons 
 either. Twilight Princess can also be noted as one of the largest adventure games around and the 
 largest and longest Zelda game in the series even surpassing the original, the total average time 
 for 100% completion of the game is about 45 hours but with portals scattered across the game world 
 and Epona to help you out for the most part travelling wont be too tiring. The sound effects in 
 the game are not the best of the best but they are still good well from the TV anyway, Nintendo 
 have commendably tried to use the sound effects from the Wiimote speaker to give a greater sense 
 of immersion in the game but these sound effects are the first sign that the speaker sound quality 
 is some of the worse you may ever find in video gaming, your much better off without the sound 
 effects and saving a little power. Most of the games music isnt taken from previous Zelda games 
 but rather the tracks are original music with a Zelda feel to them and they have managed to pull 
 this off quite well although there arent as many memorable tracks as in previous Zelda adventures. 
 The sound of the game is also used to really bring across the strange, eerie feel of the twilight 
 realm. As for story this Zelda game is darker than previous games but it also provides a more serious 
 and slightly more complex storyline, something that most should find enjoyable to follow and the 
 characters are all well imagined and their situations play out in an excellent manner. So from 
 Zelda we see the very odd thing here or there but all in all an outstanding adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsj0806
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  It has a great story line. It is a very fun game to play and there are some levels that will require 
 a lot of patience and thinking. The problem is that it doesnt quite live up to the wii remote's 
 functionality. You can tell it came from a Gamecube game. The controls are very simple move the 
 remote=swing. It doesnt use the nunchuck much at all (except for some of the special moves, which 
 i think are the only ways the game takes advantage of the controls) . I think it could have been 
 made much better by doing things like an actual bow and arrow movements, more precise sword movements, 
 etc. Overall i still think its the best Wii game out there to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpico007
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  We rented this game to test out since it costs $60 new up here in Canada. My brother played it 
 for a couple of days first and handed it over to me. He really couldn't get into and I was taken 
 back. It's Zelda! But after I played it I knew what he was talking about. It reminded me a bit 
 of Oblivion on the 360, walking around a forest and talking to other characters. But the 'PRESS 
 A' button intro really got to me. When was the game going to start?! This wasn't the game I remembered 
 playing long ago. I haven't owned a Nintendo system since the SNES days and maybe that's it, I'm 
 not a Nintendo fanboy. I do own the Wii and DS Lite now, slowly getting back into the games of 
 Nintendo. I didn't expect a lot out of this game coming from gaming on other consoles for years. 
 But it was very boring and hard to get into. Without a walkthrough guide, you can get lost trying 
 to figure out what to do next. I tried to play longer but just couldn't. I'm sure it's good but 
 I think you need to be a huge Zelda fan to fully appreciate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yusukrox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  yea its very fun.
  The first time i played it seemed different but then i beat it like 4 more times and loved it. 
 The moment i played on it, it seemed so much different because there wasnt a 3d zelda game like 
 Twilight Princess until now so it took a while to get used to. The gameplay was awsome period. 
 the graphics were pretty good because it was originally a gamecube only game. the sound was cool, 
 it had a little bit of the old themes. Overall its an outstaning game and anyone who has a wii or 
 a gamecube should get it. If you have a cube or a wii and DONT have it then.... your retarded. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geno182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The game starts (as most Zelda games do) with link as a normal dude with a normal life. In this 
 game, he is a goat herder. The plot line follows the regular zelda plot line with a bad guy ruining 
 links life and he has to interfer and safe Hyrule. The bad guy is only a puppet to the big cheese, 
 Ganondorf. However the plot has more twists and secrets revealed in the Zelda game. There are many 
 new different tunes being played in throughtout the game that dont get annoying. The game does 
 a really good job of not being too loud in parts when people dont wanna hear the sound. For example, 
 when you kill Ganon, and finish him, it shows him screaming, but you hardly hear anything. Theres 
 not much to say for the Graphics, they are just fantastic. The Animation is beautiful too, espacially 
 when you fall from city in the sky to lake hylia. Great Animation there. I thought the value was 
 a bit too much, the GC game was 30$ and wii was 50$ and the wii game isnt that much different. 
 However it matters about the system not the game. Overall a great game. The game uses the wii features 
 such as the remote as a bow, slingshot, and to control a bird climbing up Zora's River. PEOPLE 
 BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  the next gen zelda game needed to live up to expectations and it did. after ocarina of time on 
 the n64 which had a great story and graphics for its time the next zelda game would want to be 
 great to be as good or better and in my opinion twilight princess is better. the game is a little 
 slow to start and it takes a few hours before you start to enjoy it because the forest isnt much 
 fun to be in.
  
  the motion controls could have been used for more than just sword fighting and aiming. nintendo 
 could have gone a lot further with this by making more use of the motion sensitive controls. weapons 
 like boomerang, bombs and the bow. boomerang should be thrown with the nunchuck and the bombs thrown 
 with the 2. the bow should have been shot by pressing a button (like c) and pulling the nunchuck 
 back from the wiimote like a bow then letting go. the graphics were some of the best on the wii 
 so far but i found the colours to be a bit... strange at times, the background in forest areas blend 
 in with link's clothing making it a little hard to see and gets a little annoying. apart from that 
 the rest of the game which was quite large looked great and was planned out very well.
  
  although the story was no legacy of kain that kept you playing to see what happens next it was 
 still good. its suprising to see how nintendo can keep using gannon as the main boss and make a 
 new story with almost all the same places and people from ocarina of time. some the puzzles in 
 the dungeons were very interesting as usual but twilight princess has way more than any other zelda 
 game has had.
  
  apart from the controls, what makes this zelda game different from the others is along with the 
 usuals like bow and bombs link can get a load of new weapons to use which are real handy and fun 
 to use even when you dont realy need to use them. with twilight princess being the first proper 
 dvd game the developers has a lot more space and they used it well. the game is very big and the 
 story lasts longer than most with link having extra moves and loads of other features and abilitys. 
 collecting the bugs is something fun to do when youre stuck and the poe souls...... well you need 
 patience for them because they are so hard to find.
  
  this is the best i have ever played and has some real enjoyable parts. its a huge step up from 
 the windwaker which was a total disappointment and waste of game, it really is a next gen zelda 
 game and is so much fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalcyrax
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  well its kinda easy but it is fun the ending kinda sucked though you should play it its really 
 fun thats umm all i got lol sry1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, normally i don't care about Zelda games 'cause it was always so dull (Yes, 
 i said it: DULL. D-U-L-L DULL, DULL!!!) but i like this one for the great gameplay, graphics, but 
 not the sound the sound is crappy (it is for every game on the Nintendo Wii) . I like the wolf part, 
 it was cool doing that, and jumping is good, but i hate the stupid animal thing that is usually 
 on your back. Its laugh is stupid and sounds like crap writing a poem. But once you get pass the 
 sound (I try and try to get passed it it is so bad) this is a very good game and is the best Zelda 
 Game (Orcarina didn't impress me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codgin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Personaly wind waker on the Gamecube was a little of a let down, though the game was an intresting 
 twist that worked in the majority it dragged when coming to exploration (Theres only so much sailing 
 you can do before the ocean looks plain and boring) . Hearing Zelda was going back to its Ocarnia 
 Of Time look, left me in much anticapation, was my wait worth it?
  
  Story. You play a goat herder in a small town in a forest and after finding yourself in this strange 
 dark place as a wolf, you set off on a quest with a curse hanging over your shoulder with a strange 
 imp guiding you. No big award for guessing every thing you need has been scattered across Hyrule. 
 Grab your sword and shield its time to do what the sereis does best, battle through dungeons with 
 both mind and strength and defeat big bosses. Ok not much in story, as always is the way with Zelda, 
 but theres still some twists and exciting momments to be found along the way. In a nutshell a strang 
 darkness (The Twilight Realm) is covering hyrule and you must restore light and defeat the evil 
 villian behind it all
  
  Gameplay. Obvisuley the two unquie features are you can play as a wolf and the wii remote controls. 
 This game feels like the wii remote has just been tagged on last minute, which may seem like a 
 bad thing, but sword play and just basic handling of the nun chuk and remote are a far more rewarding 
 way to play. The only real complaint is the fishing, it almost ruined the game for me, but I didnt 
 let it beat me and neither should you. Secondly playing as a wolf, is exctaly as it says, minus 
 a few special moves, nothing really too complain about, for the majority it works well and adds 
 a new twist in the gameplay. The weapons you pick up along the way, range from classic Zelda to 
 pleasing newbies, the majority focus on using the wii remote, again no complaints with this. Lastly 
 the curse of the 3d games, Camera Angles, there are a few momments (Mostly in boss battles) the 
 camera may be a problem, but its nothing serious, and won't ruin the experince but it just needs 
 to be noted
  
  Will It Last? You can get 30 to 50 hours out of this game, which is more than some other recent 
 titles
  
  Graphics. Minor improvements, nothing we haven't seen before, and have seen greater on other games
 
  
  Sound. Similar to the graphics, the sound hasnt changed much minus a few tweeks ;sounds almost 
 similar to previous games almost ten years ago
  
  Conculsion. A great game which will last its worth, with plenty of sidequests to explore across 
 the world, exciting and sometimes challenging dungeons, big bosses, fun time tested gameplay with 
 some new twsits, a pleasing experince nearly all around with little quibbles with graphics and 
 sound. Highly recomended for old school gamers and newcomers alike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Just Too Perfect - The Best Words To describe this game.
  So Here We are, another game in the zelda series. But 1 things different, this is a extraordinary 
 game where you can turn into a wolf and other new story.
  
  Yes it is basically the same basic storyline so what, Blah blah blah, zelda gets captured by ganon. 
 But theres more in this adventure parts your human (normal form) and parts your wolf (animal form) .
 
  
  Everything is perfect about this game, the gameplay, the sound, the value and the graphics.
  
 
  Its A Game Well Thought About Buying for anyone thats not got it yet and has a wii. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdK
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game made me play two days in a row this is the best game sure the game starts off boring 
 like all Zelda Games but after this story goes much deep than ocarina of time that is why i thought 
 you have to go and do temples but than theres a twist and than you restart the item upgrades is 
 the best and than the ending i luv this game its the game of the year to me and nothing is gonna 
 change that so if all you haters out there that want to hate and try to make fun of my man link 
 so what thats why you broke and he rich he brush it off any one that dont have this game for the 
 wii is the feminime ones this game is bringing nintendo back by sure and sony and microsoft better 
 quit now they better go back to HDTV's and CPU's cause nothing is ganna take nintendo down from 
 the top spot sony may have them europeans but is nothing to the world of NINTENDO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioactiveApeX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Ever since footage of the Wind Waker was first shown fans of the Zelda series have been waiting 
 for a return to the dark, realistic style games introduced in the N64 era and Twilight Princess 
 gives us just that. With well over 40 hours of rock-solid dungeon-crawling, horse riding, wiimote 
 swinging gameplay, not even including all of the sidequests and bonus material, Twilight Princess 
 truly lives up to the lofty standards set by it's predecessors.
  
  Twilight Princess makes great use of the wiimote and nunchaku attachment, especially for a launch 
 title. All of Link's movements, shield control, and Z-targeting is controlled by the nunchaku, 
 while swinging the sword and aiming are controlled by the the wiimote with other things like opening 
 doors are controlled by the A button and items are now set to the B button for usage and accessed 
 through the D-pad, which is also used to consult your little guide, Midna. The controls are easy 
 to adjust to for any fans of the Zelda series and become second nature after a couple hours of 
 gameplay. My only complaints are that it can be hard to aim the bow and arrow while on horseback 
 (a common flaw I find in shooting games where you have to shoot from a car) and that many sword 
 and shield movements are controlled by shaking the wiimote and nunchaku in different ways, so sometimes 
 you'll be trying to do one attack, but the controller will pick up the movement in a different 
 way and do something else. I'm sure most of these flaws are simply because this game is technically 
 a port of a Gamecube game and a Wii launch title, so there are still some kinks to work out. Overall 
 though, I found sword combat highly enjoyable, especially when sword-fighting with later enemies 
 like knights, who I found much more difficult to kill in this game than in Wind Waker.
  
  I found the graphics in this game to be stunning at moments and great the rest of the time. The 
 Wii doesn't have the same graphical power as the 360 or the PS3, so it really is senseless to compare 
 Twilight Princess to any games on those consoles in the realm of graphics, because Wii games are 
 just never going to compare. That being said, at some of it's best moments Twilight Princess was 
 on part with HD 360 games and looks better than most higher end Gamecube/Xbox games most of the 
 time. I also like the artistic style choices a lot. It's sort of like a dark, realistic fairy tale; 
 it almost reminds me of the style that the movie 300 had. This particular style works great as 
 this game is a transition between Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker, so is the art and feel of the 
 game.
  
  The music in this game sounds great and a lot of it is taken from Ocarina of Time, which fits because 
 this game occurs only slightly after Ocarina of Time in the Zelda timeline and has a lot of the 
 same locations. The only problem that I have with the sound is that several sounds are played through 
 the wiimote speakers, which can give off a bad sound quality.
  
  I spent almost 60 hours playing through this game the first time and I still have sidequests that 
 I want to go back to. Despite the lack of any multiplayer, this game's world is big enough to be 
 explored for hours upon hours.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an outstanding edition to the Wii library and 
 should be picked up by any fan of either Nintendo or Zelda. If this is any sign of what the Wii 
 has to offer, then I am VERY excited for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azsoonerfan1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  the legend of zelda twilight princess is an awesome game! after playing the wii version of zelda 
 with the great controls you will never want to go back to anything that involves mashing buttons 
 to swing your sword! this game (if you do all the side quests) can be atleast a 50 hour game. Im 
 warning you though if you hated ocarina of time this game is not for you. This game is so similar 
 to OoT but it is still a great lenghty game! I reccommend this game to any nintendo fan boy or 
 if you just love a good adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Superb, tried-and-true gameplay, which plays even better with Wii controls; great music; 
 dark and theatrical story combined with excellent script; really well-designed; main quest is very 
 lengthy; great art style, especially in Twilight Realm; well-designed puzzles and epic boss fights; 
 massive in scope.
  
  The Bad: Wiimote speaker sounds tinny; no voice acting; score is not done by orchestra; ultimately 
 a Gamecube port and not built ground-up for Wii; too easy for the hardcore.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess still stands as the best game to get on the Nintendo Wii. 
 It is a great new installment of a long-lasting series, and is probably the best installment as 
 well.
  
  Twilight Princess's strength doesn't come in innovation, even though it's on the Wii. Instead, 
 it's a fairly conservative game, except it does everything spectacularly well. While there are 
 a few new additions, in the relative scope of the game, they're fairly minor, nevertheless, this 
 game is basically everything cool about Zelda jam-packed into a 40-hour quest.
  
  The gameplay will be familiar for Zelda fans, with a similar mix of puzzles and action, all the 
 while using various items you pick up along the way. Perhaps the biggest concern was how well it 
 would translate to the Wii. In a word, it's great. The Wii shows it's ability to do traditional 
 style gaming with Zelda, and I would argue that it's in fact a little better than the Gamecube 
 version in terms of controls. That said, the game wasn't built ground-up for the Wii, and it's 
 easy to get a sense of lost potential with Twilight Princess in terms of the possibilities inherent 
 in the system. The Wiimote might be used as your sword, but it's more analagous to an interactive 
 button press since it doesn't map the movement. Nevertheless, it's more precise to aim the bow, 
 boomerang, grappling hook etc. with the Wii and more fun, and in addition, even if the sword control 
 isn't one-to-one (or even vaguely motion-mapped) it's still more fun than just pressing a button 
 and is still just as precise.
  
  The visuals when you're not in the Twilight Realm hearken back to the well-loved look of Ocarina 
 of time. This Link is far older than the Link in the previous Zelda installment, the Wind Waker, 
 and the more realistic style is accomplished excellently within the Wii's (really the Gamecube's) 
 capabilities. That said, it's not without it's blemishes when compared to true next-gen visuals, 
 but the art style helps to distract. This is particularly evident in the Twilight Realm, where 
 Link turns into a wolf. As a wolf you play quite similarly as you do as a human, except you do 
 have a couple of added abilities, but you can't use items. The real difference is in the art style. 
 The Twilight Realm is stunningly beautiful and stylized, and extremely tough to describe. It's 
 best to just look at screenshots and let your jaw drop.
  
  While in the Twilight Realm, an impish Twilight dweller named Midna will ride you, and she will 
 also later accompany you into the light realm (though not visibly) . While she adds some abilities 
 to your wolf form, and later on allows you to teleport around the map, her chief function is for 
 the story. The story is perhaps the biggest break in Twilight Princess from any other Zelda, it 
 is dark and theatrical, and extremely well done, with Midna at the center of it. Cinematic is generally 
 a good term to describe Twilight Princess, in the game, they strive (and succeed) to achieve a 
 scope of which there has never been in a Zelda before. This translates to the gameplay itself as 
 well: the map is massive (the size of Hyrule Field is often cited as an example) and the main quest 
 is quite lengthy as well, spanning at least forty hours. This number can balloon if you are obsessed 
 about finding every secret, however, there's not much incentive to do so, you'll typically have 
 plenty of rupees and enough hearts to survive as well. In fact, though some of the puzzles are 
 deviously clever, in terms of combat the game will be disappointingly easy for the hardcore crowd, 
 and even some of the less ardent. The boss fights in particular are this way, though they are often 
 epic in their size they tend to be somewhat easy.
  
  The meat of the game is really in the puzzles in the various dungeons, which is good since they 
 are extremely well-designed. No puzzle is unfair, they're just clever. You always have all your 
 devices available to you that are necessary to complete the task. So even if you're lost or confused, 
 it's just because you haven't made some sort of logic connection. This means that the game will 
 probably make everybody playing it feel incredibly dumb at least a couple of times, but there's 
 a lot of satisfaction in figuring out these puzzles, as they're both well-designed without being 
 illogical in their methods.
  
  Most of the caveats about the game will come with the sound. The Wiimote speaker is used frequently, 
 but it occasionally sounds tinny and tends to annoy in these cases. It's a crime that the well-written 
 script isn't voiced, it doesn't particularly matter for Link, who doesn't talk (as usual) , but 
 the rest of the characters and the script in general would benefit from the additional characterization. 
 Another big complaint is that the typically superb score isn't performed by an orchestra, instead 
 trying to recreate the sound with what sounds like MIDI keyboards. The latter two are most annoying, 
 particularly since they seem to clash with the kind of majesty this game attempts to achieve.
 
  
  Sound problems aside, Twilight Princess is just a class act from start to finish. It might be very 
 long for an action-adventure, but the bigger shocker is that there is no filler - it's extremely 
 well-paced, with little backtracking in the forty-plus hours of gameplay inside. It's like I said 
 earlier - everything cool about Zelda in the previous games, jam-packed into one great package. 
 Plus more - you'll fight while on horseback, you'll sumo wrestle, herd goats, etc. The new cinematic 
 flair to the game and the gorgeously realized new realm only add to the impressive achievement. 
 While it's not enough to make you buy a Wii if you own a Gamecube (the Wii version is only slightly 
 better) , if you do buy a Wii, then this is the first game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  There are a few disappointments surrounding The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, but all of 
 the stem from it ultimately being a GameCube game. And as a GameCube game, it tops them all. As 
 a Wii game, though, there is a little to be desired, mostly on the graphics and sound end.
  
  Still, Twilight Princess makes up for it in almost every other aspect. The story is tons better. 
 The adventure is just the right length. The game keeps you busy without being a pain in the behind. 
 It's just damn good.
  
  On the graphics end, the one thing that would make it a great-looking Wii game would be improving 
 the textures. I don't know that the Wii could handle many more polygons being that the world in 
 Twilight Princess incredibly large. But better textures, it could handle.
  
  On the sound end, I found Wind Waker more entertaining, but it's definitely well-composed nonetheless. 
 The music has to grow on you a bit more than his other works, and orchestration could take the 
 game over the top. It's a soundtrack well worth owning, and it sounds great outside the game.
 
  
  But everything else about the game is so great that complaining about anything at all seems sinful. 
 The story is wonderful, moving, and different while still being true to Zelda. The gameplay is 
 excellent, and the Wii makes it just that extra bit better.
  
  This is truly my favorite game ever, despite its few and easily overlooked flaws. But really, they're 
 only flaws by Zelda standards; there really isn't anything remotely bad about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Totodile
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is about a boy on journey to rid the world of Hyrule from the 
 ever-growing blankets of twilight. You are the chosen one, as when in the twilight, you transform 
 into a blue-eyed wolf - a prophecy set by the Gods of Light. The final mission is to save the Zelda 
 the Princess from Ganon, the most evil enemy in the world of Hyrule.
  This game uses relatively good use of the Wii's controls, with the swing of the sword mapped to 
 the movement of the remote, the pointer used for aiming and shaking the nunchuk used for a spin 
 attack and more.
  Graphics are good enough. Some parts of the game (eg: Lake Hyrule) are absolutely spectacular. 
 It's no Gears of War, but it is sufficient. For a Gamecube game (which is effectively what it is) , 
 it is astounding, especially considering the sheer size of the world.
  Gameplay is as good as ever in the Zelda series.
  Sound is great. When a secret is discovered, 
 the classic sound comes out of the speaker in the remote, as well as the twang from an arrow etc. 
 You may have heard people complaining about midi sounds being used in the soundtrack of many dungeons. 
 This is no big issue, it sounds perfectly fine - and there is some orchestrated music (the original 
 Zelda theme tune) that goes on when travelling from place to place.
  Length is astounding. To finish the whole game (including all secrets etc) it took me 90 hours, 
 and I was relatively fast. This game is DEFINATELY worth your money.
  
  Notes on Gamespot score: This game getting an 8.8 on this site is a joke. Out of all the game review 
 sites, this is definately one the lowest scores. Jeff (the reviewer) doesn't know what he's talking 
 about. If you look at the vital stats of this game, you can see that the average score out of all 
 the other review sites is 9.5 - a AAA star rating. Also, this game got quite a few 10 out of 10's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathias89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is a name of prestige; especially since the legendary Ocarina of Time. That 
 is why ever since the unveiling of Twilight Princess, expectations have been high, and more so 
 after it was delayed at least two times until it was finally announced as a Wii launch title. Now 
 it has finally arrived and it does not disappoint. Its engrossing story maintains you attached 
 to the game at all times, the massiveness of Hyrule completely fills you with awe and the dungeons 
 all have a fine mix of action game play and puzzle gaming. Although it does not reinvent the genre, 
 nor is it revolutionary like Ocarina of Time due to the differences of eras; it definitely breathes 
 complete new life into the series that allows it to challenge OoT as one of the best Zelda games 
 ever.
  For the sake of simplicity and spoilers, I will spare the details of the story, but I will briefly 
 introduce the setting, as it is one of the most important details in making this such an enjoyable 
 game. You are Link (surprise!) , however, this is a new Link to those other ones, one which lives 
 in a small village as a farmer with his beloved Epona. You start as the farthest thing from an 
 adventurer, and you do not even get the green tunic for a while; which really gives the game a 
 feel that it is a completely different story allowing you to approach it with a new mentality, 
 and that is perfect, considering it enters one of the most revolutionary aspects to ever be introduced 
 to a Zelda game since its entrance into the 3D world; the wolf Link. Sure, the masks of Majoras 
 Mask allowed you to do this, but this is different because it becomes a central piece to the whole 
 entire game, and most importantly, the plot. A plot which is interesting, original and most importantly, 
 introduces you to a new aspect of the legend of Hyrule; the Twilight, something which definitely 
 gives the game a new vitality, allowing you to delve a little deeper into the huge history of Hyrule.
 
  The presentation of the game is for the most part excellent, mostly due to the fact that Hyrule 
 has never been so big, and most importantly, so detailed. The new lighting used gives the land 
 a bigger sense of medieval existence and not only that; it as well gives the game a slightly more 
 serious tone that goes well with the overall mood. The dungeons are expansive and creative, but 
 at the same time they contain a sense of nostalgia that makes you think My, does this bring me 
 good memories. Some may criticize the dungeons as remakes or copies from Ocarina of Time, but 
 the truth is, that Twilight Princess does a beautiful job in mixing the old with the new, as the 
 old game play and known style of dungeons meet a new Link and most importantly, a new variety of 
 weapons, abilities and characteristics. Unfortunately for the players, Twilight Princess lacks 
 in its graphical and sound departments. Dont get me wrong, the game looks beautiful for the most 
 part and the huge bosses (and I mean HUGE) are a testament of its graphic prowess, however, the 
 over world seems like it could have been more detailed and it is more then noticeable, that this 
 was originally a Gamecube game, because it does not take the Wii to its limits. The sound uses 
 a nice mix of old tracks and new ones, especially the over world, which you will soon find yourself 
 to be humming but I ask myself why? Why did they not use orchestrated music?! The sound tracks 
 had the clear potential to be one of the best ever in video gaming history, but MIDI tracks are 
 simply too outdated, and rather then feel nostalgic; they feel stuck in the past. Please, do not 
 think this is meant to speak bad of the game, in fact, the overall presentation is excellent, however 
 it is noticeable that it was not a next gen game from the crib.
  For the last aspects to cover are the game play and the content. You might have heard me say that 
 you can become a wolf, which is by far a very enjoyable experience. Not only that, swinging the 
 sword with Link is still fun as always, especially thanks to the new sword skills, which are passed 
 down to you by a mysterious skeleton warrior who appears in the shape of a white wolf (Link from 
 OoT maybe?... ill leave it to you to think of it) . This gives the game a vitality that I personally 
 found extremely important, as it gives depth to the combat system that did not exist before, as 
 you have a broader set of attacks. Importantly as well are the items and weapons you collect in 
 the dungeons, and in my opinion this is one of the most important strengths of Twilight Princess 
 as the items are finally departing from the usual set. Although the bow and arrow and boomerang 
 will come back, you will notice some new items and some others that come in very VERY awesome new 
 forms (Megaton hammer equivalent) . As for the puzzles, the originality and new variety are excellent; 
 however they manage to retain enough of older games so that Zelda fans will not feel left out. 
 Last thing that must be said is that the variety of dungeons is outstanding, recalling the fond 
 memories of OoT which was expansive, and surpassing that, since Twilight Princess will take you 
 easily 35  40 hours to complete if you play it at a decent rate. Unlike Majoras Mask and Wind 
 Waker, which both lacked in the department of dungeons, TP manages to bring Zelda to its full glory 
 with extensive dungeons, new enemies and most importantly, huge boss fights that will have you 
 pitted against monsters bigger then ever, but unfortunately, not tougher then ever. Overall, the 
 game is a masterpiece, simply one of the best launch titles in a console since ages. Although it 
 does not reach all its technical potential, and at points may seem a little to reliant on nostalgia, 
 it manages to give the Zelda series a darker tone, but most importantly a new direction, as it 
 gives it bigger bosses, bigger worlds and most importantly more fun, as you are bound to encounter 
 yourself going from dungeon to dungeon to find out what is going on. However, if I must say so, 
 the most important thing Zelda Twilight Princess brings to the series, is a plot which finally 
 departs a little from the tried and true the Triforce is in danger! plots. Zelda Twilight Princess 
 is easily as good or better then Ocarina of Time, as it gives players the opportunity to play a 
 reinvented Hyrule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLH2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess... One Zelda to rule them all. Or at least thats what they 
 wanted you to think with all the months of pulse pounding trailers, delays, and hype. But Twilight 
 Princess is just your average Zelda with slightly higher standards. Thats not to say TP is a bad 
 game. No, not at all a bad game. It just didn't meet the hype in my book. Let me explain, starting 
 from the beginning to the end without any major spoilers. The start many of you already know; you 
 are a simple farmboy in a simple little village leading a simple, little life. If Link's everyday 
 life is anything like the games prolouge, he would probably have killed himself by now. I put the 
 difficulty at easy only because I progressed through the game at a relatively smooth pace with 
 few difficulties; if I could, I would put easy and hard. The village was one of those few, hard 
 difficulties. doing chores for all the folk of the town would be nice and all if they didn't leave 
 the keystone to completing everything so well hidden; the fact that you can get on top of the purple-roofed 
 building AKA the shop, was to obscure for me to notice. on top of all that, I get everything done, 
 finally get my sword (even if it is wooden) only to find out that attacking with the wii-mote is 
 crude and stupid. it really hurt when I was watching a friend play, only to see that he simply 
 shook the wii-mote like he was waving his finger at someone for doing something wrong. and winning. 
 even piled ON TOP OF THAT, those rude, and disrespectful little kids demand MY SWORD from me in 
 order to continue with the game. that hurt to. yatta yatta yatta story line yatta yatta wake up 
 in a dank dark cell yatta I'm now some imp's b! tch. Looking back, Link is a wuss in this game. 
 he's ordered around by kids half his age, he's an underling to the village idiot, his girlfriend 
 steals his horse from him on occasion, and now he's got some freaky chick a third his size, chasting 
 him for his stupidity and glimmers of intelligence with sarcasm. all the while not telling him 
 anything important or substantial about why they are pursuing what she wants. that just makes the 
 dungeons feel less important to me. this time around the have almost enough dungeons to satisfy 
 me (majora's mask had way to few) , but they stil passed without any real signifigant effort. they 
 were still challenging, I just didn't feel that special when I conquered the dungeon. the water 
 temple is hard and did actually put a strain on me, but, ah I can't describe it. it wasn't a breeze, 
 but it usually wasn't obscenly difficult, and calling it just right wouldn't suffice either. to 
 be honest, the most challenge I got was trying to beat gannon. and even then, once I figured out 
 what I was missing, he became a breeze. I could go on and on all night about my various dislikes 
 about this version, but your eyes probably hurt by now anyways. the conclusion? yes, its fun. yes, 
 you will scratch your head at some puzzles. no, completing them just dosen't feel rewarding. and 
 most importantly, do not believe that this is or ever will be the greatest zelda; just have a good 
 time with it and maybe pop it in evey once in a while. I only mentioned the bad things because 
 thats probably what you were looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_eM_s
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  One word can sum up my experience with Twilight Princess. WOW. This game has it all from gameplay 
 to graphics this game does not disappoint. The art direction in this game is amazing. When you 
 see Hyrule Castle for the first time and hear a classic Zelda tune playing in the back your jaw 
 will drop. The controls are spot on though I do wish you were able to control the sword swipes 
 with more... for lack of a better word, choice. All you do is swing and Link automatically swings 
 his sword in whatever direction he wishes. Also this game is really easy. I can say with all my 
 heart that 95+% of the time I fought enemies I wish the battles would last longer because I really 
 loved the combat in this game! Also, this game is really long. And most of the time you'll love 
 it. Personally I didn't enjoy the Sky Temple but that's just because I made a huge mistake 3 times 
 that literally added hours to my play time. But after each temple you'll come face to face with 
 some amazing bosses but once again like all the other enemies in the game their a tad easy. And 
 after seeing Shadow of the Colossus I really want Nintendo to make it's next Zelda have the biggest 
 most epic boss fights ever. And they better be tough NINTENDO! THEY BETTER! Anyways back to Twilight 
 Princess. After you complete the game you'll find there is still much to do, from fishing, to kayaking, 
 to just wondering around to find random collectibles a person will easily be able to lose themselves 
 in Hyrule for hours on end. And to top it all off the story is great and epic too! Really reminiscent 
 of the Lord of the Rings. If I could change anything it would be the technical side of the game. 
 The graphics are somewhat dated considering what the Wii can do and I'd love to hear fully orchestrated 
 versions of classic Zelda themes. But I do hope the next Zelda doesn't stay too true to it's roots. 
 I don't want Nintendo to do a save the princess game again and I hope they introduce some new musical 
 themes to the world of Zelda but I'll probably blog about what I'd like to see in the next Zelda 
 one of these days. Anyways, go get this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4nintendo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best zelda games or maybe just the best game of all time . this game is the 
 best game on nintendo wii today . if your a big nintendo fan like me than i am telling you to buy 
 this game even if you never play the other old zelda game if you havnet than download them e. g. 
 the legend of zelda ocarina of time and majora's mask to of the best zelda games i know the best 
 moments of ocarina and majoras are ( in the ocarin is when you first see the sexy zelda and when 
 you get the sword out of the temple of time and in majoras mask is on the 3rd day when you see 
 the moon go down on you and you must play to song of time to stop the moon going down in you start 
 back to the 1st day . and in wind waker when you ganondorf. I think that zelda is the best game 
 and the best series of games giveeee meee aaa hellll yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I was twelve years old the day I picked up a copy of Electronic Gaming Monthly (EGM) at a grocery 
 store in Seattle, Washington. Except, that wasnt any EGM. It was the way I found out about The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. I had been on vacation so I didnt hear about it on the internet 
 or anywhere else, but that magazine showed images, and I was amazed. I am a massive fan of Zelda 
 games. Ive played every single one except for the CD-I games, which I do not plan on playing. 
 You can see I had extremely high expectations for this game, and those expectations were met. I 
 am not disappointed with Twilight Princess, in fact, Im going to call it the best game Ive played 
 in five years. And thats true.
  
  Im sure most people reading this review have played a Zelda game, and Im positive youve at least 
 heard of one unless you are blind and deaf but Ill go through the basics just incase you dont 
 pay attention to Zelda games. You are playing as Link, and you need to save Zelda. Yeah, sounds 
 like every other Zelda game right? Well no, because in Twilight Princess, an evil king named Zant 
 invades and attempts to take over, and do more than that. (If I dig deeper into the story, Ill 
 let out some major spoilers.) Well, he brings realms of twilight into Hyrule and when Link is exposed, 
 he transforms into a wolf. Almost instantly, he is introduced to Midna who directs him as he tracks 
 down Zant. Well, Zant isnt just any ordinary evil king. He is the Twilight King. When he invades 
 the land of Hyrule, he and his troops of twilight monsters spread twilight throughout the lands. 
 It gets sort of confusing here though. There is a light world and a twilight world. Both are really 
 going on at the same time, its just that when your in the Twilight World, you become a wolf and 
 everyone else appears as small light orbs in which you need to put on your senses by tapping left 
 on the D-Pad to see them. What does appear in the Twilight world are the monsters and a few select 
 characters in the game. Think of the Twilight World as one big shadow to the normal world. Ill 
 get back to the wolf and the atmosphere soon.
  
  The game controls great, even with the Wii remote. There are a few select flaws but those are really 
 only with the Nunchuck. Sometimes, especially when climbing up stuff, you will be pushing the analog 
 stick up but Link will tilt left or right. That can get annoying. Also, sometimes it does that 
 in combat which can get really annoying. Apart from that, the game controls great. Analog stick 
 is used for movement, while the Z trigger on the back of the Nunchuck is used for Z-Targeting and 
 the C-Stick is used to enter camera mode. You can lightly shake the Nunchuck to perform a spin 
 attack also.
  
  On the Wii remote, buttons 1 and 2 are used for the maps. They will take you into the map subscreen, 
 or show a mini map on screen at the bottom corner of the screen. The A button is the action button 
 in the game. If youre locked on, you can use it for a jump thrust. Otherwise, it is used for talking, 
 getting on your horse, somersaulting, dashing, etc. The D-Pad is used to assign items too, while 
 the B button is what you use to use the items. The Wii remote sensors are used for swinging the 
 blade, aiming, etc. and it works very nicely. The plus button takes you to your equipment subscreen 
 while the minus button takes you to your item subscreen. When you are on Epona, your horse, analog 
 stick controls movement. The Z button is used to Z Target and C for camera. You can swing the remote 
 to attack with your sword or to aim your bow on the horse. You can hit A to go faster until you 
 run out of stamina. Then you will have to wait a few seconds to recharge. Wolf Link has about the 
 same controls as human Link. You control his movement with the analog stick, Z Target with Z and 
 control the camera with C. You can also do an attack by shaking the Nunchuck. A button is the action 
 button, left/right on the D-pad is to use your senses and up on the D-pad is to talk to Midna. 
 You can shake the Wiimote to attack. When you are a wolf, Midna will ride on your back. That is 
 about all for the controls.
  
  There is a lot of both familiar and unfamiliar territory and items of Twilight Princess. For example, 
 the magic meter is no where to be seen, but somehow, Nintendo made it not so much missed. The addition 
 of the wolf can get repetitive, until about a third of the way through the game when you have the 
 ability to switch between human Link and wolf Link anytime. Trust me, most of the time youll stick 
 to Link. Also, the Twilight world is a big addition. Its only for about a third of the game, but 
 you will spend a few hours there. When you are in the Twilight World you will have to collect things 
 called Tears of Light in this item called Vessel of Light. To capture the tears, you must eliminate 
 bugs marked on your map in the twilight and they will leave the tears once you kill them. Once 
 you are finished getting all of the Tears you will turn back into a human and can enter the dungeon. 
 You do this for the first three dungeons of the game.
  
  With all the changes, losses, and additions, Twilight Princess is still incredibly fun to play. 
 In fact, it is probably the most fun game in the series. But at the same time, it is not the best 
 game. Some parts of the story feel unfinished and it the world and its characters dont have as 
 much personality or arent as memorable as the characters in Ocarina of Time and some of the other 
 games. Even though it lacks slightly there, it still plays awesome and has a great storyline and 
 is still very deep even though at sometimes youll want more. To be honest, this game is extremely 
 fun. Swinging the Wii Remote around may make you look like an idiot, but its just a lot more fun 
 for me than playing with a standard controller. Any way you play the game, its going to be absolutely 
 fantastic, but Id give the Wii version the edge because its really fun with its different controls. 
 The dungeons in this game are probably the best yet. They have amazing designs that look really 
 well thought out. This game also has some clever puzzles that arent overly hard, but do require 
 some thinking to overcome them. The design is just downright fantastic and Im amazed at how well 
 Nintendo pulled it off. I seriously thought it was nearly impossible to do better dungeon designs 
 than Ocarina of Time, but Twilight Princess just very well may have better dungeon designs, and 
 that is saying a lot! Plus, the dungeons are all long, especially for a Zelda game. Each dungeon 
 may take you a number of hours to beat, not just one hour. Heck, this whole game is extremely long.
 
  
  In addition to the fantastic dungeons, expect to see some fantastic new allies and enemies that 
 inhabit Hyrule. There are some really cool new memorable characters, some with a great sense of 
 humor, that will make you really like this game. While Midna can get annoying, she can be funny 
 and witty and times too, along with some of the characters in the towns and various areas. The 
 enemies, however, can be quite brutal. The bosses are all huge, but surprisingly, theyre not too 
 hard until later in the game. Some of the enemies youll encounter can sure pack a punch, but there 
 is always a clever method to defeat even the smartest enemy with the many items this game has.
 
  
  Speaking of items, expect to see the return of favorites such as the Master Sword, Bow, Hookshot, 
 and many more along with a lot more new ones such as a disk that you stand on that takes you on 
 certain paths that only it can go on, and even double Hookshots. The new items are all really cool 
 and Id really like to see them in future Zelda installments. At the same time, the Fire, Ice, 
 and Light arrows are absent along with items such as the Lens of Truth. That is somewhat disappointing, 
 but youll soon get over it with the really cool new items to use. And just like before, expect 
 to see a new item in each dungeon along with others you can find all over the world map. Also, 
 just like before, you can enhance some of them by getting bomb and arrow upgrades which require 
 you to do challenging minigames to unlock them. Expect to see little losses, and a lot new in Twilight 
 Princess.
  
  The graphics in Twilight Princess may not be comparable to graphics found on an Xbox 360 game or 
 a Playstation 3 game, but for Gamecube/Wii graphics, it looks amazing. While the textures dont 
 look too great, the character models and design of all the characters and enemies look awesome, 
 and the bosses look amazing as well. As I pointed out earlier, the design of the whole game is 
 fantastic and it has great backgrounds and moves at a fluent frame rate with little slowdown. The 
 game is also incredibly detailed making it possibly the best looking game on both the Gamecube 
 and the Wii. If not the best looking on those consoles, then right up there. The water graphics 
 look downright amazing and so does almost everything else, I especially like classic areas like 
 the Market and Hyrule Castle and how they have been redone completely with new paths and designs, 
 and they look amazing. The graphics in this game look fantastic.
  
  Ive been hearing quite a bit of complaints about the sound in this game because the music is all 
 midis, its not orchestrated like many other video game soundtracks are. To be honest, I however 
 loved the music in this game and it really does have some of the best music in any Nintendo video 
 game. I got past the fact that it was not orchestrated, and its not really all that noticeable 
 either. There are a few recycled tracks, but bits and pieces have been added on, and there are 
 a whole bunch of new songs added too. There is still no voice acting which will definitely disappoint 
 quite a bit of people, but you hear the occasional grunts and noises from Link and other characters. 
 The sound effects are great, everything sounds even better than in past Zelda games and there is 
 a lot of detail there such as footsteps and the horses sounds, rolling, walking through grass, 
 etc. The lack of voice acting is a bummer, but other than that, its a good sounding game.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is also easily the longest game in the series. If you 
 rush through the game it will probably take you anywhere from 35 to 50 hours depending on what 
 kind of Zelda player you are. If youre good and fast, it will probably take you 35 hours or less, 
 and if you take your time then it will take you a good 45 hours or more. Keep in mind, that is 
 just the main quest, there are a lot of extras such as a challenging side dungeon and countless 
 other side quests that will keep you coming back for more. And, like every Zelda game before it, 
 you are going to want to play this game more than once. This game never got old for me, I still 
 love playing it. Of course, its the most fresh the first time through, but there are always new 
 sights to see that will keep you playing it for a long time. Its the longest Zelda game to date 
 and probably the one that youll spend the most time with next to Ocarina of Time.
  
  Twilight Princess definitely lives up to its hype. I waited years since I heard about it until 
 its release date, I had been following it since I was in sixth grade. This was the most excitement 
 I had ever had for a video game in my life and it lived up. It may not be the best Zelda game, 
 but it is one of them, and it is the most fun Zelda game either way. I dont care what other people 
 have to say about Twilight Princess, or my views on the game, because in my mind, it is one of 
 the greatest video games to have ever been created, and I cannot thank Nintendo and everyone who 
 works there enough for this wonderful and extremely impressive video game they have made for us 
 gamers to enjoy. Play this game as soon as you can, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gavin2232
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a good solid adventure game on the wii. It uses the control system well without feeling 
 like it's tacked on in any way. The nun-chuck contols movement while the wii-mote controls attack 
 and aiming. This system works very well for either a left or right handed player. The game follows 
 a linear story but feels like the player has a level of freedom to explore. The games well sized 
 map isn't overwhelming and can be traveled in reasonable time with the use of a teleport function. 
 Having both the Zelda and the Wolf character add a great deal of depth to the game and players 
 will have to us a combination of both in order to beat the game. There are also various attacks 
 that can be learned during the game but are not essential. The game offers a huge amount of variety 
 and over the 40 hours I have spent completing it I hardly saw the same thing twice. All the dungeons 
 are unique with there own different types of puzzles based on the item you find there. Having said 
 that some of the bosses look impressive but arn't very hard to defeat while others will require 
 a grat deal of trail and error to figure out how you defeat them. The story ties up nicely after 
 a large boss battle with goes through many stages to round of this very well made game. Zelda TP 
 is a very enjoyable game and a must have for any wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  So another Zelda Game..
  Has It finally fallen after all these years?
  No not really
  As usual zelda again is a fantastic game. From an artistic point of view the graphics are brilliant, 
 thanks to the Wiimote the gameplay is twice as good and the music in the game is great.
  
  This is a massive game with some fun mini games and great bosses.
  The only problem is that there 
 is a big chance of getting lost so its possible some people might start using a walkthrough.
  But overall this is an excellent game
  A must have for all wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_40
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Its easy to underestimate just how much gamers have been looking forward to The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess. As beautiful and enjoyable as Links last home console outing was, The Wind 
 Waker never quite captured the imagination of gamers in the same way as the iconic clash between 
 Link and Ganondorf that Nintendo revealed in a tech demo for the Gamecube back in 2000. Cel-shading, 
 boating and that **** Tingle can only go so far towards sating the desires of gamers who have joyous 
 memories of Ocarina of Time and Majoras Mask. Twilight Princess is the Zelda game that Zelda fans 
 have always wanted: darker, more intense and staggeringly beautiful.
  
  Link, our pointy-eared hero, begins the game as a farmhand in the tiny village of Ordon, herding 
 goats and riding around on his trusty steed Epona. Before long, however, hes thrust headfirst 
 into a battle to save the world from the Twilight Realm, whose leader is trying to fuse the land 
 of Hyrule with his own to create a single land of darkness. Its Links job to venture forth into 
 the dark alternate reality of the Twilight Realm, save the two worlds from each other and rescue 
 Princess Zelda along the way.
  
  However things are not quite so clear-cut, as when he ventures into the Twilight Realm, poor old 
 Link finds himself transformed into a wolf. Hes also not alone in his quest, as he meets up with 
 the imp-like Midna. Shes no giggling version of Ocarinas Navi, however, as she provides hints 
 and other help (such as complicated jumping routes) from the back of Links lycanthropic form, 
 and eventually she will aid you with her ability to warp around the world map with ease.
  
  Whether youve played a previous Zelda game before or not, its no great shakes getting used to 
 the new Wii-mote control system. Slashing the remote to attack as either Link or the wolf and swinging 
 the nunchuck to do a spin attack is brilliantly intuitive, while movement and camera are all handled 
 easily through the nunchuck. That said, the button layout on the remote is somewhat unwieldy, but 
 its easy to forgive the problems when youre using the remote to slice through bad guys, aim your 
 arrows with the bow or enjoy a nice spot of fishing down at the old fishin hole. Even the Wii-motes 
 built-in speaker is put to fantastic use, emulating the slashing sounds of Links sword, Midnas 
 laugh when she wants your attention and even the trademark Zelda chime when you collect special 
 items. This said, the Gamecube version is every bit as enjoyable to control, retaining Links trademark 
 left-handed combat stance and saving you from working your way through a colossal amount of batteries.
 
  
  In terms of structure, Twilight Princess is every bit as perfectly balanced as the rest of the 
 series, opening up after the first few big dungeons into a huge world where exploration can take 
 precedence over the main storyline. The lands of Hyrule and the Twilight Realm are jam-packed full 
 of so much to do, see and discover that youd be hard pressed to uncover everything on your first 
 play through, pushing the games length way over the fifty hour mark. Its also refreshing that 
 the game doesnt resort to an overuse of backtracking or The Wind Wakers overdose of sailing  
 not that travelling around the gorgeous land of Hyrule and the dark, twisted Twilight realm could 
 be classed as a bad thing: while the Wii might not have the graphical oomph of Microsoft and Sonys 
 next-gen machines, it more than makes up for its lack of power by being designed scrupulously by 
 artists and designers with more talent in each finger than most development studios have in their 
 entire offices; visually, Twilight Princess is every bit the sequel to Ocarina of Time that fans 
 have been waiting for.
  
  Twilight Princess is also more story-based than previous instalments in the series, packed full 
 of slick cut-scenes and a wide array of supporting characters, each fleshed out and unique. While 
 Link himself rarely exhibits more than the odd bout of emotional reaction and the odd grunting 
 noise, characters like Midna make up for his speechless state. A constant companion throughout 
 the game, her personality is far deeper and intricate than any seen in a Legend of Zelda game before. 
 Even the characters from Links home village of Ordon are well-crafted, with their fates, like 
 Links, linked into the main storyline.
  
  As for the game world itself, Twilight Princess sticks rather rigidly to the usual formula for 
 dungeons. While for many the tried and tested nature of the game is an inch-perfect example of 
 something being unbroken and not in need of fixing, its also the case that for others the same 
 old formula is getting quite tired after all these years. Its a double-edged sword for Nintendo 
  if they had changed too much or not enough they would risk alienating fans. Instead, the old 
 formula has been stuck to, but adjusted just enough to keep it from feeling stale.
  
  If its any consolation for gamers who were expecting something new and innovative in this Hyrulian 
 adventure, the classic environments and dungeons never venture anywhere near the realms of predictable 
 and boring. In fact, the further you go into the game, the fresher it begins to feel, the classic 
 staples of the series shining through. The puzzles are perfectly weighted, neither too hard nor 
 too easy, and its nigh-on impossible to find yourself lost and wondering what to do next.
  
  To go into too much detail about the game and its features would spoil the experience for those 
 still holding out on picking up a Wii with Links latest adventure. Twilight Princess is no revolution 
 for The Legend of Zelda, but it is a wonderful evolution for a series whose only slip-ups have 
 been laserdisc-related and long forgotten. The game is packed full of fantastic characters, an 
 epic and intoxicating story, perfect pitched combat, puzzles and dungeons, and a massive world 
 to explore. What could have been an adventure game series getting a little long in the tooth, awkwardly 
 shoe-horned onto Nintendos latest console, has instead managed to be familiar, fresh and fantastic 
 at the same time. Its an absolute must-have for self-respecting gamers everywhere, and easily 
 one of the finest launch titles a new console has ever had.
  
  Of course, the debate will forever rage on about which game in the series is the greatest, and 
 to claim that Twilight Princess is a new pinnacle for the series would be as pointless as it is 
 hard to justify. Its not perfect and theres no real reason to prefer the Wii version over the 
 Gamecubes, but The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is every bit the masterpiece gamers have 
 been craving for, and proves theres life in the old wolf yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NacresErut
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I just have to say that after I've played this... wow. I mean alot of people have felt that when 
 they played Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time (which gamespot gave by the way a perfect score) and 
 I think this gives off the same feeling. The famous puzzle system is back and they actually managed 
 to add a whole new set of puzzles rather than rework around old puzzles. They added a bunch of 
 new items like the spin-top which despite how it sounds you will see its an ingenious idea and 
 instead of just the normal array of sword moves and the spin attack they actually add about 7 new 
 moves which you have to unlock all of which are awesome. The story line is awesome definetly rivals 
 LoZ: OoT but I won't tell you how cause that would just be a spoiler. The Gamespot reviewer said 
 the sound was nostalgic which when I played the game I noticed alot of edited OoT songs and themes 
 but I dont think that lowered the quality of the game as OoT music is just plain great compared 
 to the other games. To does people who say Wii graphics suck, they haven't seen this game in 480p, 
 which like the Gamespot reviewer I agree the art style was superb. It doesn't matter if it doesn't 
 have raw polygons like some games, the style they made the game in more than offsets that badside. 
 If you compare some XBOX360 games and PS3 games to it I'm sure that you will even find that this 
 game has better graphics. And to those people that say Wii has a bad graphics processing unit and 
 has the worse graphics, tell them that graphics does not only mean the most realistic looking game 
 or the one that has so much detail you can see pores, it's also based on art style as this game 
 proved (even got a 9 in graphics in the Gamespot review!) . So if you were thinking about getting 
 this game - don't. I'm going to tell you to get it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Wii game that I ever played. It's both for the GC and the Wii. The graphics, gameplay, 
 and the storyline was great too. Some of the mini-games and new areas and dungeons seems too be 
 a lot more challenging than the other Zelda games that I played. Another interesting thing is that 
 Link is able to turn into a wolf and is able to use its senses to find different places to fight 
 Poes and a place to dig. The bosses seems to be okay, but they did seem a lot easier than the other 
 Zelda games. Anyways, this is a good game and I would give it two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I loved this game since I bought both versions of it (Gamecube, Wii) . Its like the continuation 
 from Ocarina of Time because Ganondorf is banished into the Evil Relm and now Link is still an 
 adult. When I played the Wii version I got a little confused with the directions because I played 
 the Gamecube version a lot but I got used to it now and I'm loving every bit of it. I'm happy that 
 you can fight on horseback with your sword and its so easy, just wave the Wii remote to perform 
 a sword attack and wave the Nunchuk to perform a spin attack. My favorite is when you use your 
 bow, clawshot, boomerang, ball and chain and Dominain Rod, just point the remote at the screen, 
 hold down the B button and let go and fire and the sound built on the Remote is great but the only 
 problem sometimes is that the sound doesn't syncronise a bit because it is adapted from a Gamecube 
 title. The graphics are beautiful and landscape is excellent and the character design is brilliant 
 especially Link, Zelda and Ganondorf because they have the same apperance from Ocarina of Time. 
 Its good that you a fairy as the cursor and in the adventure, Link is befriended with a shadow 
 girl Midna not Navi the fairy anymore. Overall its the best Zelda game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has been around for nearly as long as the industry itself. Every time 
 the industry radically changes Zelda is there, moving to 3D with Ocarina of Time, and moving into 
 the next generation with Twilight Princess. As usual you play a young man named Link (though can 
 you choose a different name) who is supposed to deliver a gift from your small village to Castle 
 Hyrule. As always your dragged into an epic adventure where you save the world. The world is covered 
 in twilight and you must restore it to the light. Obviously the game functions very differently 
 on the Wii than the GameCube. Using the Nanchuck you move Link around, and with the Wiimote you 
 can attack, access your menus, assign buttons, and aim. The controls are very intuitive, the way 
 you would expect it to handle, it does, plus there are a variety of extra attacks you learn along 
 the way which make more use of the Wii control scheme. Graphically the game is one of the best 
 on the system so far. Link is heavily detailed while many of the lesser characters are not detailed 
 as much. Sound is pretty decent, many of the sounds you've already heard from other Zelda games, 
 and the Wiimote speaker is fairly low quality. As a Zelda game it has an incredible length, offering 
 hours upon hours of exploration, the game definitley has the power to bring back players long after 
 beating the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursedspirit33
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Now, I started playing Zelda with Ocarina of Time. I thought it was good, but overrated. Then I 
 played Majora's Mask, which wasn't great, and then the Wind Waker, which I couldn't get into. But 
 Twilight Princess just had me in shock. It had all the aspects of a classic. Fun, challenging but 
 not frustrating, and plenty of side quests. I've heard people complain about graphics, here's my 
 response: So what? Camera angles can affect gameplay, but the graphics don't stop it from being 
 a fantastic game. Anyone buying a wii must get this game.
  
  Also, Link looks like a total badass. This game gives him the edge he was missing in the past. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Zelda a series I was never really interested in until Ocarina of time. This is the only other Zelda 
 game I like and its pretty amazing, but it's not better than Ocarina. The story is typical Zelda 
 but I'm not gonna get into it because everyone has beaten it by now. Anyway the game uses the Wii 
 remote pretty great and it never is unresponsive. 1 thing I didn't really like about it is that 
 it's more fun to use human Link than using wolf Link. I mean wolf Link was supposed to be the best 
 part about it but I was a little disappointed. Anyway this is an amazing game and one of the two 
 good zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Zelda fans waited a very long time for Twilight Princess, the latest installment of the Legend 
 of Zelda series. Now that the game is here, what should fans expect?
  
  Let me say that I am a huge fan of the Zelda series. Having played through the last three Zelda 
 games many times, I eagerly anticipated this game. When I finially got it for christmas along with 
 my Wii, I was not disappointed. Twilight Princess is all that fans had hoped and more.
  
  First off is the gameplay. The basic gameplay formula will be familiar to everybody who has ever 
 played a Zelda game before. You must go through dungeons, getting an item about halfway through 
 the dungeon, and then using that item to kill the boss. However, in Twilight Princess, the world 
 is considerably larger than that of any other Zelda to date. Dungeons in this game are huge, and 
 the overworld is gigantic. Also, unlike past Zelda games, this one has a very deep story. Not to 
 say that the past Zeldas have had bad stories, but this one is much deeper. Also, the Wii version 
 has special Wii functionality that really enhances the gameplay experience. To swing your sword, 
 you swing the Wii Remote. There are many other features that take full advantage of the Wii functionality, 
 which gives this game an immersion factor that few games are able to achieve.
  
  The graphics in the game are great, and are some of the best on the Wii to date. While it's a bit 
 of a letdown to see that this series is still using MIDIS, the music is beautiful and well composed 
 to the point where you don't mind it at all. The game has a lot of value, as it will probably take 
 you about 30-40 hours on your first play-through. There are also many sidequests plus a secret 
 dungeon, although you can easily beat the game without taking on any of these.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is one of the best Zelda games to date, and it matches the greatness 
 of Ocarina of Time. This game justifies the purchase of a Wii, and if you already have a Wii, buy 
 this immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight princess mixes classic gameplay with new ways to play. Using the Wii Remote Link 
 can perform various attacks when you use your arm movements in motion. Although the remote isn't 
 fine tuned to Links movements, it is easy to control and simple wrist flicks respond well.
  
  The story line is immersive, bringing a new light to the Zelda world, and the darkest world 
 yet. Both figuratively and literally, as you are set out to help save Hyrule from the Twilight. 
 During the game you will encounter the dark world, and will be forced to be turned into a wolf. 
 Later on as the story advances, you will get the power to freely transform between human and wolf 
 form. This helps because while a wolf you can warp to different areas of the large world. Making 
 it easier to traverse and less painful.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, from every dungeon's detail to Link and the NPC's themselves, the detail 
 is wonderful. Not one dungeon or room looks alike, the nature is spontaneous, and a lot of hours 
 went into the views that it may be under-appreciated unless you stop to take a look at the detail. 
 All in all, the visuals in the game are awesome. The music is wonderful, the classic themes of 
 Zelda come back to you, the only issue is the Wii remote speaker. One would expect the sound to 
 flow well with the game, it has for many other Wii games, but its loud and abrupt, although turning 
 down the sound a few notches helps make it less jarring.
  
  Well I got to reviewing this game about 4 months late, but all in all, if you own a Wii. Buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elguino3
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Im not much of a Nintendo fan (Playstation all the way) but i got a Wii and i heard how great Zelda 
 was so i bought it. At first I was running around a village being the town lackey with no sword 
 but i kept telling myself it would get better... it didn't. The graphics on this game are very good 
 for the Wii, there not up to Playstation 3 standards but they're pretty good. Besides the graphics 
 the rest of the game was just boring. Even the main character looks like a girl. The first conflict 
 is that monkeys are annoying the towns people... who cares. The sword fighting is not what i thought 
 either, it's the same attack unless you press a different button combo every time you swing the 
 controller. Wii fans you need to play some real games if this feminine elf can entertain you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPTK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This is hands down the best Zelda game, its vast size and multitude of side-quests rivals that 
 of Ocarina of time. Yet i think like everyone, the most innovative and fun part was the integration 
 of the wii controller. Using the point and shoot method, swinging the remote, it can't get better. 
 Now although the boss battles are extremely easy, it still requires that you figure out the boss's 
 weakness, which at times took me a little while. It just happens to be that in this game, it takes 
 less time to figure out the boss's weakness than in previous games. Other than that this is a solid 
 game from a solid developer and I cannot wait for the next installment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  My first console Zelda game and i can see why its such a great series. I was complaining about 
 how games lately have been too short, but Zelda lasted pretty long for me. Using the word epic 
 to describe this game is going too easy as this game expands into two different worlds. The characters 
 were great, and i finally got a chance to meet Ganondorf. He alone for me was worth the experience, 
 as you have seen/will see. The controls are great, but not perfect, as i find myself aiming straight, 
 but the sensor reads tilt, which was frustrating. It gives me some concern for future wii games. 
 Anyway, Zelda is comprised of going through huge caves or temples to find an important item, with 
 the help of a map, compass, and a boss' key. These three will lead you to a miniboss which protects 
 a key item that will help you navigate through puzzles that are designed for that item. The dungeons 
 get ridiculously long sometimes, and if you make a mistake, backtracking is a huge pain. Good thing 
 there is variety, as it isnt all caves and tunnels. Enemies look wicked cool in the Twilight and 
 the design made me want to travel in that world all game. Midna was key, as i loved her from the 
 beginning, especially with her evil grin. And to see Link convert to a wolf.... was weird, but led 
 to more puzzles that can only be unlocked with the senses of a wolf. Besides some several annoyances, 
 this game was great, especially the last couple of battles which incorporates everything you have 
 learned in the game so far. The game is really easy though as the challenge doesnt come until the 
 end, and as long as you stay calm and remember the moves, you're good. Great game, and there's 
 no need for me to recommend it, b/c you've already beat it by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloZeldaman199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The most anticipated game for the WIi, so how good is it really?
  
  Graphics: stunning, put all other Zelda's to shame, great emotions and great water effects.
  
 
  Gameplay: similar to Wind waker (so thats good) , but with added move (even better) , horse fights 
 are really good, its a shame there isn't more of it, and the fight with Ganon is just fantastic 
 (but too easy) .
  
  Difficulty: the temples are dissapointingly simple and uninspired (except the temple of time &amp; 
 sky temple) , easy bosses, (ruined by the finish off move which shortens fights dramaticly) , the 
 hardest boss has to be Zant probably.
  
  Controls: absoloutley perfect, the Wii remote is used for the sword (which works great) and the 
 nunchuck for spin attacks &amp; shield hitting (which also works well) .
  
  Length: quite long, a bit bigger than Oot, with 7 temples (plus Twilight world &amp; Ganons castle) 
 makes this the longest Zelda game yet, it has some re-playability (it depends if you want to suffer 
 the annoying Twilight world parts where you collect stupid light orb things) .
  
  Story: quite good, start out as a farmers employee, then turn into proper Link and go out into 
 Hyrule, save the Gods of light, collect the fused shadows and the mirror shards, defeat Ganon and 
 bring back light to Hyrule.
  
  quick good points: Link looks better thn ever, enemies do too, Ganon looks more evil, Hyrule is 
 actually big, lots of temples, epona is back.
  
  quick bad points: too easy, Navi doesnt even do anything, Ganons too easy, hard to get round Hyrule, 
 Snowpeak was disappointing, not enough towns, no cows.
  
  that wraps up my review for Twilight princess and I highly recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the first wii games out and it has stunned me, 
 usually the first games to come out on a new console haven't shown the full detail on what that 
 console is able to do, but this game is outstanding, lituraly my jaw hit the floor when i saw this 
 game for the first time. The game makers have come up with the best story-line on a Zelda game 
 ever! Gameplay, the game play is beyond excellence! The game starts off slow, you get a few jobs 
 to do, this helps you to get used to the game! but when the quest starts it doesn't end, this game 
 is the longest game i have played, 60-70 hours of game play! thats alot :) Graphics, to be honest 
 there pretty good for a Wii game, sometimes things look a bit weird but once your playing this 
 game you wouldn't careless
  
  Sounds, i love the sounds, the theme for ordon village is cool, the sound effects are neat!
  
 
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game. the only problem is that theres no talking 
 in the game, if it wasn't for that then the game would be perfect. Do yourself a favour and pop 
 into your local games store and buy this game! honestly its worth every penny :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santore43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  one of the things i hate about this game is that it is so confusing. if you get lost in this game, 
 you will need to get someone to help u get past that part. this game is supposed to take over 48 
 hrs straight to complete. this game is way to complicated for anyone under the age of 15. this 
 is my first wii game and i am still trying to get by the forest temple. i have had this game for 
 about 3 months. if u are looking to buy a game that is a lengthy, fun, and adventurous, buy the 
 legend of zelda: Twilight princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdragonsword
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Ok I know that when Legend of Zelda comes to mind you always think of great game play, awesome 
 weapons, great sound, and that nostalgic jingle that we have all come to know and love. Zelda Twilight 
 Princess took all the elements that make the legend great and kicked up about 100 notches. The 
 graphics are beautiful with light gleaming off of water and houses gives the game a realistic look 
 to the game along with the new Hyrule and new character look these are just some of the best points. 
 Then we have sound everything you would expect in a Zelda game a mixture of orcastrated music along 
 with melodies of past games (Zelda's lulliby, song of time, Sarah's song, and Epona's song) and new 
 melodies all together to make an awesome experience. Now to game play, it was simply amazing I 
 loved everything from gathering the goats, to becoming the wolf, to the ending fight with ganon 
 along with the puzzles that tease you, it all blew me away . This game is a must buy for any Wii 
 owner if you are to be called a true gamer if you own a wii and you dont have this game get off 
 your butt and get this game (well after you finish reading my review) So ya Twilight princess is 
 an AWESOME game I would recomend it in any situation so please go buy this game and enjoy the nostalgic. 
 PS I know I mispelled a lot of words but hay what are you my English teach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom_Metroid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's brought gamers many great games and some bad games, yet there are some games that rise 
 above all games and this game is one of them We've waited along time, but the wait was worth it.
 
  You play as a young farm boy but after an unfortunate encounter with some enemies you learn that 
 you are to save Hyrule by a small creature named Midna. The graphics in twilight princess will 
 amaze you. Though technology has advanced in the past years Twilight princess has amazing graphics. 
 You'll be amazed at the lighting effects.
  In the beginning of the game you will start to really hate being a wolf. Later in the game the 
 wolf is a great new future but sometimes I just wanted to become a human. In the game you will 
 also encounter many awesome bosses, and many great new features such as a double claw shot and 
 walking on walls. Overall this game is amazing go out and buy it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is perhaps the greatest Zelda title since Ocarina of Time. 
 With intuitive controls, amazing plot, and unforgettable characters, Twilight Princess has it all!
 
  
  We meet Link as a young herder in the southern Hyrule Province of Ordona. Link lives a normal life, 
 doing usual farm-hand work, spending time with the village's youth, etc. When signs of darkness 
 start looming over Hyrule, Link is suddenly swept off his feet into an adventure that will change 
 his life. Link finds himself turned into a wolf, and he soon meets Midna, a citizen of the TWILIGHT 
 REALM. When Midna convinces Link that she will help him return to human form, Link is left in her 
 debt, and so a partnership is born. Fighting baddies, recovering treasures, and saving the day, 
 Link and Midna's journey over Hyrule is action-packed, dramatic, intense, and breath-taking all 
 the way to the ultimate climax of Good vs Evil.
  
  Taking advantage of the Wii Controls, the Nintendo Wii version of the game makes the adventure 
 more intuitive, realistic, and interesting. If you're not all for the sword-slashing, arrow shooting, 
 claw-shotting excitement that the Wii Remote has to offer, than you can simply sit back and enjoy 
 a good round of fishing. One way or another, Twilight Princess' controls will make the game more 
 exciting for you in some way.
  
  Amazing nostalgic moments from Ocarina of Time can be found in the game, such as music, areas, 
 styles, puzzles, etc. This game is perfect for those who've played Ocarina of Time, or those who 
 are playing a Zelda game for the first time.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the perfect game to get any gamer going. It's marvelous, 
 beautiful, dramatic, fantastic, adventurous, and more all wrapped into one game! Any Wii Owner 
 should not miss out on this legend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a review with two different things in mind. The first is, obviously, the game itself and 
 the second is comparing the Gamecube version with the Wii version, since I have both and played 
 through both.
  
  First, the game itself. Anyone who's ever played a Zelda game before will definately feel at home 
 right away. Nintendo isn't trying to reinvent anything at all, this might seem as a really good 
 thing to the purist's, but as a really bad thing to those who want things to evolve. My opinion 
 is somewhere in between.
  I think that the Zelda-esque type of gameplay is almost perfected to begin with, so I can't really 
 complain, BUT I would have liked to see some new elements of gameplay to broaden the experience. 
 Nonetheless, it's extremely hard to get bored by this game unless you are one of those guys who 
 thinks that games aren't real games unless you can do headshots and get a bodycount. Zelda is almost 
 perfect to begin with, so don't mess with it and I'm pretty certain that most other Zelda fans 
 would agree with me.
  
  Now, to the comparison between the GC and the Wii version. Most have already played Wind Waker 
 and if you have, the GC version will feel perfect right away. The controls are identical, which 
 isn't surprising, since TP was a GC-only game to begin with, but turned Wii with all the delays. 
 So, some might say that the GC version is the only true way to play a Zelda game, but I would like 
 to say that it's wrong. The Wii controls felt really awkward at first, but they really grew one 
 me when I played the Wii version. Aiming your bow, slingshot, etc. with the Wii-mote feels aboslutely 
 awesome, even though it takes some time getting used to. Slashing your sword with the Wii-mote 
 also feels weird at first, but after a while it feels a lot better than just pushing a button. 
 The only difference between the GC and Wii version are that the world is mirrored, this is also 
 a minor, but really good detail. I played it on the GC first, but the when I played it on the Wii 
 it felt fresh again, I had to think when I got into a temple, because it was essentially the same, 
 but as everything was mirrored, I had to think even the second time through the game. There's only 
 one thing that annoy me with the Wii version and that is the Wii-motes in-built speaker. The sound 
 in it is REALLY bad and if you (as I) have a surround system, it doesn't fit in at all. The noice 
 it makes sounds as if someone is talking into a can.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess is one of the greatest games I've ever played. Those 
 who haven't played it should find a way to play it right away, and to those of you who have played 
 it, CONGRATULATIONS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjb1919
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Attention Wii Owners - The next generation is here, and who celebrates without princess Zelda and 
 link? This Nelda game reminds me greatly of ocarina back from the days of N64. This game is excellent. 
 A must buy for any person who has ever played a Zelda game and liked it. Zelda is one of Nintendo's 
 biggest franchises, and it seems as though they can do nothing wrong when Zelda is involved. Never 
 before have I played a game as good as this one, it is definately the best game out for the wii 
 at the current time.
  
  The few problems i saw in this game involved a few minor glitches. Also, the graphics weren't HD 
 but is that really to be expected? Graphics are not needed if gameplay is good. Also, the sounds 
 were like they were stolen right from ocarina... original? I think not.
  
  Overall however, it comes out as a nice and neat 9.3. This is an amazing hit, showcasing the power 
 of the wii and the functionality of the wii-mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POkemonfreak101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  As a nintendo fan I obvioulsy had my eye on Twilight Princess since 1st anounced for gamecube back 
 in 2004. I was so psyched for the release of it, but unfortunately, as you all know, got pushed 
 back and pushed back and then eventually made for the wii. Now I went out and bought the wii and 
 this and I couldn't be happier. I have played since launch day about 63 hours and I still haven't 
 beaten it 100%. But thats because I get caught up in the fun battling and excellent control scheme; 
 the controls are very simple: walk with the analog stick, attack by swinging the wiimote, and using 
 the D-pad and B button for other accessories. The graphics absolutely wowed me and thought, why 
 the heck do people say the graphics suck? and if that was on a standard def television, I want 
 to try it out on an EDTV. The sound is pretty good not the best and the soundtrack is average. 
 The only thing that creeped me out was Midna's voice coming from the remote lol. The storyline 
 is incredible; I'm in a hurry so the point of the game is to pretty much get the fused shadows 
 and the pieces of the twilight mirror. Nintendo really knew what they were doing with this game. 
 Keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Here's the breakdown:
  Gameplay: hmm... wow!, all the controls work perfectly, the fishing actually is pretty realistic, 
 at some points you will be challenged.
  
  Graphics: so what if they are Gamecube graphics? they're still kick a$$, and I'm not a graphics 
 maniac! the only problem is when you do close ups with the C button for looking around because 
 they get really pixelated.
  
  Sound: allthough it's MIDI music, it still sounds good to me. some of the songs were weird to listen 
 to, as they weren't really songs at all, but they still fit the tone. the effects also were.... crazy 
 awesome!
  
  Value: the reason I gave the value a nine is simply because the game is not using all the power 
 the system can offer (besides graphics) and because it's not a perfect game. everything is fine 
 except for the bosses are no challenge AT ALL, and the next to last boss fight is a joke. if you 
 can get over having too easy boss fights (I know you will) then buy this game, it's worth all your 
 $50 down to the last penny. you will have fun and the game will last you at least 80 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-samurai
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess brings an adventure game in a whole new way. In any other Zelda game you 
 normaly start off as a child, but in Twilight Princ-
  ess you now start off as a teenager. The weapons and puzzels you see in the game are familiar in 
 a Zelda game. Like the Bow and arrow, slingshot,
  sword, boomerang and so on. In the game to do an objective you must do other objectives which makes 
 the game more chalenging. In the game twilight darkens all of Hyrule and takes all of the children 
 of Ordon Villiage and you are the chosen one to save the children and Hyrule. When you enter the 
 Twilight realm you will transform into a wolf, afterwords a creature named Midna will help you 
 throught the game. The graphics are pretty good but the monsters are the best I've ever seen in 
 any game. The gameplay is very uniqe, by just swinging the wii remote down you will slash with your 
 sword which is good for the wii remotes capabilities. But for wii remote capabilities long-rangeing 
 weapons are the best in this game orcherstru has upgraded into clean beutiful music, but at this 
 late date they should at least have voiceovers. But everything else overall is outstanding and 
 well played. If your planning to get this game then I suggest you get it for the Wii
  I dont see why not get this game even if your not a fan of the series because
  this is game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has always been a truly amazing series of games, but with the addition 
 of Twilight Princess, we see the series being taken to a whole new playing field. What truly sets 
 it apart is the wonderful user of the Wiimote. I dont see how anybody can play it on the gamecube 
 after completing it on the Wii.
  
  * Story
  The story is a truly wonderful one that will keep you wondering what the heck is going on in many 
 occasions. You start off as a ranch-hand who soon finds himself caught up in an adventure through 
 light and dark (shadow) and eventually become the Hero of Legend. You find Midna, a being from 
 the Shadow Relm, and she tags along with you on your journey and lends a lot of help.
  
  The story is so jammed full of different aspects, its unbelievable. TP will give you a good 40+ 
 hours of play time.
  
  * Graphics
  The graphics are simply astounding. The power of the Wii brings the world of Hyrule (and shadow) 
 to life with incredible levels and worlds and very fast load times. In fact, you can circumnavigate 
 the entire massive world of Hyrule with NO loading at all (as long as you stay away from the Hyrule 
 Castle section) .
  
  The facial animations are unlike anything else before. You can truly see the emotion in the characters 
 when they laugh, smile or talk. Like I said, the graphics are simply astounding.
  
  * Sound
  The Legend of Zelda series has always had a beautifully orchestrated soundtrack, and 
 Twilight Princess is no different. The vast majority of the music is newly written for the game, 
 but there are several areas where you hear the themes from previous games redone. The Sacred Forest 
 area still has Sarias theme (Ocarina of Time) and the Kakariko Village still has its theme as 
 well. Zoras domain also has the same theme from Ocarina of Time, plus many others. Beautifully 
 done.
  
  * Gameplay
  The gameplay cant be beaten, especially with the Wiimote. You use the nunchuck to move around 
 and if you shake it side-to-side, you do the spin attack. The actual Wiimote is swung from side-to-side 
 to swing the sword. But what really sets the game apart is the Hidden Skills you can obtain throughout 
 the game. I dont want to spoil anything, but lets just say they put the capabilities of the Wii 
 controller to good use and link is performing more moves than ever before.
  
  Many of the traditional weapons are back too, many with new upgrades which make them even better. 
 My personal favorite is the Claw Shots upgrade. Once you have its upgrade, youre in for 
 some fun and challenging puzzles, and one heck of a boss fight!
  
  Epona also returns and there are several battles that must be fought on horseback. The controls 
 for her are well done and its not as difficult as one might think to ride horseback and shoot 
 a target with your bow, swing your sword, or just simply run over an enemy :P. * Overall
  Twilight Princess is hands down the best game Ive played so far for the Nintendo Wii. There isnt 
 much more to say except if you havent given it a try yet, do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is actually and excellent game, but not an excellent Zelda. The magic 
 there was in OoT and MM and gone to me, maybe because I am older, but past that, the game seems 
 too much like older ones.
  
  Gameplay : the wiimote feels really good. Kinda sucks though that it doesn't exactly reproduces 
 your moves and actually is a pre-determined move
  
  Graphics : they're ok, looks good when you wake up, looks bad after you play GoW
  
  Sound : 
 Best part of the game for me. Having played OoT, the music in there makes me nostalgic
  
  Value : not as long as other zeldas but still ok
  
  Best Wii games to date, still 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Great starter game for the Wii, but seems a little overated at times, but thats expected from a 
 seris as legendary as this one.
  
  Of couse every Wii owner should give this game a try, even though the game really dosn't take the 
 Wii controls too seriously. Also the game was far to easy, but the part about being long is true. 
 The game took me a week to beat, but that was over 40 hours of game play, and I knew what I was 
 doing.
  
  The game has a huge land, but when I want to go to the desert, I get blasted there with a cannon. 
 WTF? Thats it for the spoilers, but this is a Wii game every oe must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Playing a new Zelda game is always something that comes with great expectations, and TP delivers 
 well as a whole new experience.
  Graphically the game look amazing, beautiful locations, great ambience, and the twilight areas 
 look especially nice.
  The sound I think is the worst part, since it has no voice acting and the music is kind of old 
 style synth... still its very nice, the sound effects in the wii remote are a nice addition, and 
 the familiar tunes of the Zelda franchise sound pretty good.
  AS for the game play, the story is pretty much the basic one (young hero save the world from Ganon, 
 with the help of Princess Zelda) , with a few twists, but its such a great story that playing it 
 again is one of the fun parts. You find a lot of similarities with old Zelda games. The twilight 
 kind of reminds me of the dark world of Zelda: A Link to the Past. It has also a lot in common 
 with Ocarina of Time, especially in the Hyrule map, the howling, and of course the look and feel 
 of the game overall.
  On the game play part, the use of the wii control its pretty good, the response is good and is 
 easy to understand. The only thing is that the sword does not react to the way you swing the wii 
 remote. In the end TP is a great addition to an already amazing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandeep1295
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Twilgith princess is a great, long, puzzling game thats reeeely worth buying if u have a wii.
 
  
  Gameplay: This game take easil 50hrs to complete and afta u finish theres a lot of exploration 
 to be done. Great puzzles but their could be better bossfights.
  Graphics: Realy good. Amzing water effectgs and great artistry.
  Sound: Excellent music with 
 great depth. Sound from Wiimote is ok but it sometimes is abit crackly.
  Value: Definatley worth it with tones of minigames to be found and hours and hours and hours and 
 hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours 
 and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hoursand hours 
 and hours and hours and hoursand hours and hours and hours and hoursand hours and hours and hours 
 and hoursand hours and hours and hours and hoursand hours and hours and hours and hoursand hours 
 and hours and hours and hoursand hours and hours and hours and hours of gameplay. Oh yh.
  Tilt: Dunno what it is// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_spark
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the main problems many people have been experiencing or commenting on is its similarity 
 to Ocarina of Time. Arguably Nintendo did the fans service by making a game that was so similar 
 as a result to how the Windwaker was received.
  
  From my perspective I think that TP on its own merits stands up and offers enough diverse gameplay 
 to be considered different than OoT.
  
  Gameplay-
  8. The new weapons make for some interesting gameplay and some of the best boss battles to date 
 in any Zelda game. The world is vast with lot's to do but getting around is made easy by teleporting/horse 
 back riding. Unfortunately the item to call your horse is given so late in the game and teleporting 
 is given so early that you won't find yourself horseback riding much.
  
  Aside from the great boss battles are great temples and I think some of the best temples yet. The 
 intuitive system of using all your weapons at least once in a dungeon combined with the wolf's 
 abilities can make for some great puzzles. The greatest part to TP is the diversity of these dungeons, 
 not every one is a temple, and getting to these dungeons can be a ride in itself.
  
  One thing I want to make a quick note of was the 6 moves Link can learn throughout the game. These 
 techniques were great to try and find and then pull off. It added a new level of fighting to the 
 game that I hope is brought back in future installments.
  
  What lacked was side missions. I was hoping for side missions in large in scope as the ones found 
 in TWW and Majora's Mask.
  
  Graphics
  10. Aside from some blurry ground and a few wall textures, the graphics are great. The art direction 
 is fantastic, the level of detail is high, and the variety of areas as well as the difference between 
 twilight and light worlds are amazing. Essentially, for a Gamecube game this looks arguably even 
 better than Resident Evil 4 overall.
  
  Sound
  8. The music was great, tracks were memorable but the lack of orchestrated music was disheartening. 
 Now, I don't blame it on the fact that because it got ported there should've been orchestrations 
 added in like Jeff said. I think that from the ground up orchestrated music should've been put 
 in. Also, Link being silent I agree with, but I think this game needed voice work considering the 
 amount of text.
  
  Value
  10. For Wii owners this is a must have. The motion controls aren't 1:1 but after playing through 
 you'll realize the controls are great and going back to the regular controller will feel awkward. 
 Pointing at the screen to headshot with your bow, swinging your sword, fishing etc. Everything 
 feels great. I wish they were 1:1 but considering its a port, the controls work great.
  
  Tilt
  10. This is the best Zelda yet. There's a lot to do, the bosses and temples were memorable, 
 the characters were memorable and the controls seem to be a step in the right direction.
  
  The one thing that I did not like was the lack of cutscenes to keep the story moving forward. The 
 Windwaker had a lot of these that really helped the story move forward, unfortunately this time 
 around there is lack of this. Although the story is pretty good considering the shift in timeline, 
 I would've liked to see more cutscenes.
  
  Another matter was the difficulty. It was probably on par with that of Windwaker which can be categorized 
 as easy. Aside from a few battles that really tested some skill as well as some thought provoking 
 puzzles the game felt just about right, to more or less on the easier scale for experienced Zelda 
 players.
  
  The length can range from about 35-40 hours to go straight through. If you were to try and do a 
 few side missions the game's hours increase drastically topping 60 hours.
  
  The game is great, maybe it was too similar to what has been done thus far in Zelda, but at the 
 same time the forumla itself is flawless and this game has a level of polish that isn't seen much 
 in games nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Link vs. Ganondorf, the best battle of 2 video game characters ever. It all started in the mid 
 80's with The Legend of Zelda, a game I own but never beat it because i'm pritty sure somethings 
 wrong with the cardridge. But Ocerina of Time is my favorite game ever. And I didnt really like 
 majoras mask or windwaker so much so once i beat this game chills ran down my spine because i finnaly 
 fell in love with a game like I did with OOT. This game offers pritty hard puzzels and awsome gameplay. 
 I do feel bad that I used a straitgy guide a little to help me beat it but its only because my 
 brother printed them out and i was stuck for like 2days on something and i used it. Oh well i didnt 
 use it too much, but the point is that this is a great game and don't use stratigy guides because 
 then you didnt really beat the game. This is the 3rd or 2nd best Zelda in the series i cant decide 
 between this or A Link To the Past for number 2 (number 1 is obviously OOT) . So I reacomend this 
 game to anyone because its fun and a great game. May The Legend of Zelda series to continue on 
 forever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  When Ocarina of Time was announced for the Nintendo 64, people were amazed at the leap forward 
 it took from the previous generation's game. Similarly, people saw Twilight Princess as a huge 
 leap in the right direction from the critically acclaimed yet user mocked Wind Waker. This installment 
 in the series was far more important that any other game in the series for Nintendo. It was the 
 first time that a Zelda game was to be released with the launch of a new console. The new Nintendo 
 console, the Wii, was under intense scrutiny because of the name and the new control scheme. The 
 game puts the player in the familiar position of playing as the hero of the ages, Link. It brings 
 the familiar elements of the series while combining it with the new controls and a twist, in the 
 form of a wolf, to create a memorable experience. The game follows a similar path as the other 
 games in the franchise with Link trying to save the world from the forces of darkness. The game 
 uses an interesting guide to help the player get acquainted with the new controls and elements 
 in the game. Overall, the controls work very well. You swing the wiimote back and forth to do sword 
 swipes while twisting the nunchuck to do Link's effective spin attack. However, it would have been 
 nice to see some variation between that game and past games. I believe that the addition of a jump 
 button would have made the game significantly more energetic. The three real complaints I have 
 about the game have to do with the sound in the game. Traditionally, the franchise has included 
 some of the most powerful music in the industry. But in recent years, the games have fallen behind 
 due to lack of voice acting and non-orchesteral music. It is dissapointing that this game does 
 not have any voice acting and continues to use the MIDI music file format and that Nintendo does 
 not use a full orchestra to record the music. The lack does not allow the game to be labeled superb 
 . By far the worst element of the game is the sound from the wiimote speaker. I personally elected 
 to mute my sound on the controller. Everytime you swing the sword, a sound would come out. Everytime 
 you shoot an arrow, a sound would come out. Everytime you recieved an item, a sound would come 
 out. This sound, although different every time, would always sound abysmal. To compare it to something, 
 it sounds like a sound from the five dollar toy sword that you recieved after going to the doctor 
 when you were five. Without muting the controller, it really does take you out of a game that overall 
 is entrenching. It is worth noting that this game is significantly longer than any other of the 
 games in the series. It took me almost 40 hours to complete, yet does not get bland or repetitive 
 at any point. Zelda was a title that all owners of the new console had to play, and a reason for 
 many to even by the console in the first place. For the most part, the game is an amazing rendition 
 of the classic series. It blends amazing art direction with a compelling story and a unique control 
 scheme for an enthralling experience and one which no Wii owner should miss.
  
  -Douglas Buffone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4n6science
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the greatest, if not the greatest, in the Zelda serious. But what 
 really adds to this game is the use of the motion sensor control as the sword. It has a great plot 
 and your run in with the usual bad guys and monsters, but the interactive aspect of the wii puts 
 this game on a whole new level. I love the control of the game and the beauty of the layout is 
 just unbelievable! If you can only buy one game for your wii this should be the game you buy. I 
 highly recommened it! And if you're new to Zelda this game isn't to advanced nor do you need too 
 much knowledge of the past games to enjoy and understand the story line. All in all the best game 
 so far for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modsaf
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  LOZ: TP is one of the greatest games ever created. Why? well once you start playing you'll find out. 
 It is extremely fun, has a great story, awesome music, and great controls. Although the camera 
 can get annoying, if u have a wii or even gc you must play this game. It is long ( 39 hours of gameplay 
 for me) but always fresh. One prloblem is that the bosses are to easy. However getting to the bosses 
 will test your smarts because the dungeon design is the best level designs i have ever seen in 
 a game ( especially the lakebed temple) You dont even have to know about zelda games to enjoy this. 
 however the hyrule map is almost the sme in ocarina of time. You'll visit death mountain, kakariko 
 villiage, and zora's domain to name a few. Anyway this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
  
  Twilight Princess was my first Wii game and I loved every minute of it. This game was also my first 
 ever Legend of Zelda game and I thought it was superb. If they were to make another Legend of Zelda 
 game for the Wii, then I would definitely buy it. The fighting is cool, being on horseback is terrific 
 and I like solving the puzzles in between the game.
  
  Another good point I would say is the boss battles. The boss battles are fun and exciting. The 
 other thing I would like to praise Legend of Zelda for is the soundtrack. The soundtrack is very 
 good and entertaining. So basically what I am trying to say is that Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bratzcry
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This in my opinion is the best Legend of Zelda game in nintendo history. I think this game has 
 just the right ammount of gameplay and the graphics are better then any other game ive ever tryed. 
 This game has a skill level thats just right and the sound quality is just right. This game is 
 sweet when it comes to everything you have to do in the game. No game on any other console could 
 compare. Nntendo has a real winner right here! Playstation or Xbox couldnt make a better game if 
 they tryed. I give this game two thumbs up for everything about it because this game is quiet the 
 peak of Zelda perfection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oscar_Dolphin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I believe this is a great game it has more things to do even after you finish it.
  Such as fishing or getting the Magic Armor and the Money to fuel it. There is alsobug catching which 
 gts you tons of money and a new wallet. The puzzles aren't too hard and the gameplay is pretty 
 simple. I really think its worth the buy and a a good investment you will be playing it for hours 
 on and and probably will want to play over and over again until you get every single possible obtainable 
 item. So i really hope you people and nintendo fans really enjoy this super-super-super-super-super- 
 awesome. don't forget to thank the folks at Nintendo and Mr. Shigeru Miyamoto for bringing us this 
 awesome game and all the others like Mario, Donkey Kong, and many other Nintendo Faves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagedesire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a fun addition to Nintendo's collection of everyone's favorite Hylian. With 
 a new look at the usual locations, such as Hyrule Castle, Death Mountain, Lake Hyla, and Kakariko 
 Village, this new story has Wii owners picking up a copy everywhere. I definitely enjoyed this 
 game all the way through. The story was intricate and multi-level which kept you strapped to your 
 wii-mote for some time. Also the addition of horse-back fighting makes for an interesting little 
 distraction at times. Dungeons go from very easy to high difficulty making for a gradual learning 
 curve, which is nice considering sword fighting takes some time to get used to. The main problem 
 with the dungeons is the lack of innovation, we have seen all of these before. There are the classic 
 8 dungeons, forest, fire, water etc. The puzzles are the same old move boxes on switches type of 
 challenge, easily solved with a guide when frustrated. My only other complaint is that the graphics, 
 though shiny and polished, still have the gamecube appeal to them. All in all this is a definite 
 buy, and for people who are upset with this game, have no fear, this is a fair indicator of what 
 is to come. We can expect the next Zelda to be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fennecus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  1. This game by far is the most fun game on the Wii to date. Game play was good, controls were 
 good, used the Wii abilities in an easy manner.
  
  2. The one thing which I found a bit annoying was trying to find all the bugs to get bigger wallet. 
 Thank goodness for online cheats.
  
  3. Again the game was a lot of fun, slashing with the wiimote. Mostly I found the game really easy. 
 A few boss fights were more tricky but beaten within a extra try or two. I love the bow and arrow 
 so much fun on the Wii. Story line kept us interested untill the end
  
  4. Buy this game, doubt you will find it in any cheap bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated wait for the originally released 2005 sequel in the Legend Of Zelda series 
 finally arrived in mid November. Was it worth the wait? YES! The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 easily was the best game of 2006. Bringing back some of its classic qualities and introducing new 
 features, it is a guarantee satisfaction for everyone, even if you are vaguely into the series.
 
  
  Being the first game I used the new controller system for Wii, I don't think I will ever be this 
 pleased again. Waving of the controler as if swiping a sword will do the same as Link. Using it 
 to aim with arrows or the hookshot (s) , it is a fun ride with sugar on top.
  
  Story-wise, Twilight Princess has it made. A new face is added to the faces of evil, but the classic 
 Ganondorf still remains true to the series. It also uses a new method for your little helper. Fairies 
 do not exist in this game, but you are guided by a mysterious creature who ends up knowing more 
 than you could imagine about the plot. There are new enimies, items, friends, and there are old 
 friends such as the Zoras and the Gorons.
  
  Graphically, the game succeeded. The visual effects in this game are perfect for its fantasy-like 
 atmosphere. The use of polished change in facial expressions was blessed in Twilight Princess, 
 along with much smoother polygonal edges and features. Sound was the same way. It still had the 
 feel of the famous N64 Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, and it gave forward to new music and 
 temple themes.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a must buy to all Wii owners and GameCube owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4r3th
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  It is a really good game, though it does seem a bit... easy. I dunno i might have missed the difficulty 
 select screen, that why i give it a 9, a GREAT game has to be challenging, thats what makes it 
 more satisfying when you complete it.
  
  i agree it being ranked number 4 on the Wii. not the best but nearly there. still good game ;)
 
  
  (about the learning curve i say about another 10-15 mins for the 'hidden skills')
  
  now about the game.
  the equipment you get is GREAT (with a capital GREAT) , such things from 
 the 'sling shot' to the 'iron boots' or 'bombs' to 'grapling hook'.
  the main ingredients to a great game let down by its easyness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterSwordXXX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is my most recent addition to my wii collection and I have ot say that is is probably by far 
 my most favorite. This game is really long. I spent around 40 hours on it by the time I started 
 to get bored of it after I explored a bit and beat the game. There are a lot of things to do and 
 they never get boring. Like there are mini-games to get some items that upgrade your current ones ( 
 i. e upgrading your wallet size so you can hold more rupees) . Some people complain about clunky 
 controls, but I dont really know what they are talking about. I can paly this game perfectly without 
 any motion-sensing problems or clunky controls.
  
  The graphics for this game too are really really good. Sure the graphics on most of the wii's games 
 may not be as good as for the ps3 or the 360, but the graphics are still very well done. I bought 
 this game for under $40 and I have to tell you that it is definetly for sure worth the money. I 
 would spend the full retail of $50 on this game if I had to. So if you've been a fan of the zelda 
 series, you should really think about buying this game now. I would have to say this is the best 
 game on the wii so far and if u got a wii, and dont got this, ur stupid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This is my most recent addition to my wii collection and I have ot say that is is probably by far 
 my most favorite. This game is really long. I spent around 40 hours on it by the time I started 
 to get bored of it after I explored a bit and beat the game. There are a lot of things to do and 
 they never get boring. Like there are mini-games to get some items that upgrade your current ones ( 
 i. e upgrading your wallet size so you can hold more rupees) . Some people complain about clunky 
 controls, but I dont really know what they are talking about. I can paly this game perfectly without 
 any motion-sensing problems or clunky controls.
  
  The graphics for this game too are really really good. Sure the graphics on most of the wii's games 
 may not be as good as for the ps3 or the 360, but the graphics are still very well done. I bought 
 this game for under $40 and I have to tell you that it is definetly for sure worth the money. I 
 would spend the full retail of $50 on this game if I had to. So if you've been a fan of the zelda 
 series, you should really think about buying this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSan00
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The good: great use of the wii's controller, the bow rules. Immersive storyline and beautiful (yet, 
 dated) graphics, epic bosses, cool puzzles, new weapons for the franchise, and of course, it's 
 a Zelda game. Widescreen
  
  The bad: swordplay takes a little time to get used to, and it might be imprecise at times, a little 
 bit easier than other Zelda titles, roll goal sucks. Mirror of the cube version. The speaker sucks. 
 No flood at the end.
  
  Well, I had already made a review for the gameucbe version. It was an awesome game, and some months 
 after I finished the cube version, I got my wii, so I decided to play twilight princess. Now, the 
 first thing I noticed was that link was right handed, which made sense because most of the people 
 are right handed, unlike link in the cube version and all other zelda games. Now, I noticed after 
 that, that everything mas mirrored, which was a bit confusing since I had already finished the 
 cube version 100%. Still, it was a fun game, and as it progressed, it got better, and better, and 
 better because of the wii's controls. Now, instead of holding B for using the spin attack, or spinning 
 the stick and pressing be, you just have to shake the nunchuck, which is cool, fast, and adds some 
 strategy to using the thing. But, what really amazed me in the wii version of twilight princess, 
 was using the bow. You can hit an enemy in it's head easily, despite the fact that it doesn't affect 
 where you hit it. What I didn't completely like was that the cube version didn't have an orchestral 
 theme throughout the whole game, some songs were orquestral, but like 4 of them, and the rest were 
 midi's. It kind of makes sense, because they didn't want to put the whole game in 2 discs for the 
 cube version, but in the wii version it would have been better.
  
  One of the greatest things about twilight princess on the wii, is wide screen. I personally love 
 wide screen, and so I put my tv in wide screen despite the fact that I must have black bars up 
 and down. I can see more things I couldn't in the cube version. Ocarina of time is one of the greatest 
 games of all time, and it still is my favorite, but twilight princess is a great change from zelda. 
 It's not a mayor leap, but it surely is awesome. Nintendo has been trying to reach everyone with 
 the wii, with games for your grandma like wii sports. If wii sports is a game for everyone, Zelda, 
 twilight princess is a game for everyone who likes games, no matter what genre you like, I assure 
 you that you will love twilight princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 789shadow
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  And there is one good reason why :you can snowboard with a Yeti. Okay, so that is not the real reason 
 its better. In fact, there is no one reason its better. It just is. Let's see now........ Is it worth 
 the wait? Yes. What's more, it proves that a long delay can be a good thing. After playing this, I expect 
 good things out of delayed games. Another question: is it worth your time?? Yes. Its worth a lot of 
 your time, because the game contains so much content that its likely you will be playing for more 
 than 60 hours, even if you don't try to unlock everything it has to offer. The gameplay is terrific. After 
 playing on Wii, any other control scheme for a Zelda game just won't feel right. The graphics definetely 
 exceed expectations. I know OoT was the first Zelda in 3D, and this is the 4th, but until we get games 
 in 4D, this is the best Zelda title yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknightmario9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  in zelda twilight princes the new insatalment too the zeda series, is the kinda game u wanna play 
 again and again with its ace control scheme very great story line good looking graphics and artsistic 
 dungen design it makes the best wii games so far its an epic story line about a boy named linkwho 
 starts out as a farm boy when one day he gets a pakege with a sword that he was expectingfrom the 
 towns hero now it nuthing much its a woodensword unti his little tike freinds start chasing after 
 a primate which leads em to a temple after they get out of the temple some mystereis ogres take 
 him to the twilight and discover an evil figure known as zant who is trying to take over the world 
 with the help of the evil god ganondorf yes he makes an aprince here to
  
  controlls are easy to figure out u use the joy stick on the nunchuck to move the z button to lock 
 on and the'c' button to look at youre surrondings an with the wiimote you use the 'b' button too 
 equip or use any thing you have equiped to that button the d pad is used for changing and combining 
 equipment and swinging the nunchuck graphics are great but could be better with some graphic blemishes 
 like when links hood goes into his shield and little stuff like that the sound in this game is 
 good with music from dungens
  
  game play wise is where it shows off i mean you cant beat the feeling when youre swiming in the 
 zoras river or horse back riding thrugh hyrule field and the when you swing youre wii mote is easy 
 to execute along with other stuff like fishing
  
  bottum line you must buy this long lasting game and i garuntee you will injoy it for years to come 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is as close to perfection as it possibly can in the world of 
 video games. With an incredible amount of replay value and awesome game mechanics, this game is 
 worth owning. What's cool about this Zelda is that you can move the wii controller to slash with 
 the sword. The controller functions well and that serves as a huge plus in this game's great success. 
 Besides the revolutionary controls, its other attributes are worthy to take in account:
  
  Gameplay: This definately nails a perfect 10, in fact, even 11. Who wouldn't travel the world as 
 a sword-wielding elf slashing enemies into oblivion? Other than the sword, the bow and arrow works 
 like it should, and I can say the same of all the other items. What's cool is that there are so 
 many items throughout the game that each might aid in a certain strategy depending on the situation.
 
  
  Graphics: Sure they may not be the fancy-shmancy PS3 graphics, but they are just enough to enjoy. 
 The backgrounds and the characters were rendered well. Besides, the graphics don't make the video 
 game, the gameplay is what counts.
  
  Sound: The music is too perfect! I still keep this enchanting sound track in my head from time 
 to time. Anybody can enjoy the music that this game has to offer.
  
  Value: I spent around 50 hours trying to complete the game. A pretty long time and each hour was 
 worth playing. How can you say no to the value?
  
  Tilt: With every other attribute flawless, the tilt might as well be a perfect 10. A game that 
 was flawless from beginning to end.
  
  To make a long story short, Twilight Princess is worth the buy. It should be one of the bullet-point 
 reasons of why people buy the wii in the first place. Want a long game? The Twilight Princess will 
 be sure to raise her hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  How to explain or discrive one of the best game ever? I'm actually surprised that GameSpot gave 
 this game 8.8... This game has such amazingly crazy graphic! I mean, how many GameCube game has 
 stencil shadow, post-processing, dynamic lightning, days and night outdoor setting... And on top, 
 the cloud cast shadow on the ground as they pass over you. Not to forget that there is rain, snow 
 and sand blizzard. This game, visually, just has it all. And it was developped for the GameCube. 
 Put side to side the Wii and the GC version, and you see that they are both the same. I've seen 
 plenty of 360 game much uglier then this one. The particuls, the lights, the textures, the meshes, 
 everything is right on.
  
  Sure, the dongeon are a bit repeatitive after so many Zelda game... But even then, they are pretty 
 original. The gameplay is always there. Sure, the boss fight are easy, but they are always HUGE 
 and original. It's the game that make your check your watch just to find that you have 3 more hours 
 before you should get up to go to work. Then... You just decide to go on playing.
  
  The control on the wii were just easy to catch. Aiming your bow with the wiimote is just what it 
 should have ever been. Plain easy. Swinging the wiimote to swing your sword just feel right.
  
  But what is really fun, is the story. Rare are the game that actually trigger any emotion in 
 a gamer these days, and this one manage to do just that. You get to like that little black and 
 white brat on your back when you're in wolf form.
  
  The sound are good. Great even... But sometime, some music are just plain old. Only one music really 
 got on my nerve, and it's the sky temple one. Some of that music background sound sound like a 
 Mario Bros jump... And I wondered for like 30 mins why my sister was playing some old Mario Bros, 
 to find out it was in the music. But aside from that one, the music is right on most of the time. 
 Maybe more original tune next time!
  
  But after passing over 40 hours to pass this game (40 hours of complete gameplay!! Can't imagine 
 how you design so long gameplay) I just discovered or completed roughly 70-75% of the content. 
 There is so many hidden thing and side quest, as well as peices of heart to collect.
  
  I wasn't a Zelda fan before... But I'm one now. This is the best game I got on the Wii or the 360 
 so far. Just sad it's over... But it delivered 40 hours of real fun, and it worth every pennies 
 I put into it. Not like many other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link334
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  In this game you take the roll of Link, a teenage farm-boy. You start with no weapons or equipment 
 but as you progress through the game you will find many different weapons and items. The Wiis motion 
 capability also adds fun to this game because it puts you right in the game. An example of this 
 is when you swing the Wii remote link will swing his sword. You will go through many temples to 
 get all of the armor tp give to Midna, another one of the games main characters, so that she can 
 help you stop Gandorf once and for all. You will go into the Twilight and be transformed into a 
 wolf but this will not be the form you are in the whole game. This is a very addicting game and 
 it is a great pleasure to give you all this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight7896
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games ever, worth way more than a 8.8, more like a 11.0, but i can't give 
 more than ten. Some of the boss battles are better than ocarina, like the dragon in the city in 
 the sky, Zant, and the sword fight with gannondorf. The clawshots are the coolest, even better 
 than the long shot, and it is 1 on the wii, and probably in the top 10 of all time, only beaten 
 by ocarina Halo, Halo 2, and the GTA trilogy. It took me over i week of playing time to beat it, 
 and i dont even have all of the heart pieces, poes, and golden bugs yet. It sure is on the top 
 of my playing list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiggymaster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Zelda game I've played, and I am amazed. It has everything you could want from 
 a game: great storyline, good graphics, quite hard and takes a long time to complete. It is very 
 hard to fault. The only complaint I would have is that there is no character voices, which is why 
 it only gets 9.9.
  When I first started playing, it was slightly boring, but as soon as the action starts, I couldn't 
 put the wiimote down! I love the items, especially the double clawshots, and also the dungeons 
 and bosses. As soon as I completed it, I had to go back and complete it again. There are loads 
 of minigames and sidequests to keep you entertained for hours on end.
  In conclusion, if you have a wii then buy this game. If you don't have a wii then buy one so you 
 can play this game! You will not be disappointed! It is an amazing game for everyone, new and old!
 
  
  9.9 / 10 SUPERB
  
  P. S. Gamespot, why did only give this game 8.8? I am shocked, you need to change that!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphonse405
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  fenomenal, cannot be described as less. waiting outside a store is nothing compared to what i'd 
 be willing to do to get my hands on this game. Right when you start of this game delivers in a 
 quick and nice way. By that i mean it teaches you all you need to know in a snap. (drags the help 
 just a little) . Ok, once you start playing you can't just stop, it's literally imposibble. If you're 
 played other zelda games, then you know you can't just stop because you can't figure it out, because 
 in all zelda games, the answer is in front of ya, all you need to do is look at it closer.
  
  Ok, i have to admit that the puzzels in this game aren't as good as some were in other zelda 
 games, however they're a high above the descent range. Controls, are literally perfect, this game 
 manages to incorporate a gamecube game's mechanics into a wii hardware. I can tell you they really 
 worked hard, cuase it's really intuitive. although i do have to say that if link mimiqued what 
 you do, then this would desserved a porfect 10, aside from that, i think the way the controls are 
 built are just fine.
  
  Graphics don't just mean having the most pixels. Graphics means having an artistic varety, shwing 
 what the console can do. i would have loved to see a graphical improvement in the wii version, 
 yet i'm happy with the way it is. this game offers such a variety of art you won't get dissapointed. 
 The houses looking different, people wearing little details (pendants, etc) , it's just amazing 
 how diverse this game is.
  
  I thought this game incorporated in the zelda series pretty well. Although at the beginning it's 
 kind of unclear (to me) how the ranch, etc related to zelda, this game still connects to the series. 
 it has the characters, the music, and the OMFG reaction you get out of most zelda games.
  
  overall if you do n't own this game, i gotta go find you an literally slap you. right now, you 
 cannot find a better game out there. (this is for any console) . it's just amazing how they managed 
 to got all those 60+ hours in there (it took me 21) . Oddly enough my fav zelda is still ocarina 
 of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_darwich_hayes
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  4 years ago, when I saw the trailer of this Zelda which didn't even had a name at that time, I 
 got very excited: I screamed, I cried, and I began to re-play my other Zelda games so I could get 
 invaded with the Zelda fever again... well not invaded again because I have always been invaded, 
 but let's say I could feel that vibe that only Zelda games give me. However, the long wait made 
 me more anxious about it and I began to wonder how good would it be after the great love I got 
 for Ocarina of Time and how familiarised I got with The Wind Waker, and when I could finally put 
 my hands upon it, I began to fear that it wouldn't fulfill my expectations. And I was mistaken, 
 it definitely didn't fulfill it, but it did exceed them!! The graphics were stunning, you could 
 see a more detailed Link, with more facial expressions as well as beautiful textures in the backgrounds 
 and clothes... what to say about the sound! It has a great soundtrack (still not as good as The 
 Wind Waker's) and the fabulous gameplay is suberb! It lets you get in deep relation with the history 
 and Link's quests, making you not the gamer, but the protagonist in the history. Twilight Princess, 
 along with Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker are fighting in my personal top to see which is the best 
 Zelda game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxMcCloudDS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is more than just another new Zelda game. Its particularly 
 the game that people from around the world have been waiting for a good 3 years for. The wait was 
 long and strenuous, but with Zelda: Twilight Princess, you will notice it was well worth the wait. 
 With the incorporation of all new characters, a brand new Hyrule, and particularly a new transforming 
 more mature link, many will find themselves very satisfied. Twilight Princess starts out on a 
 usual Zelda-type basis. Youre a young farm boy who works on a ranch. Very early in your life long 
 journey to save the world from twilight, you will incorporate a few nifty gadgets. A fishing pole, 
 a slingshot, and the classic sword and shield are all put to use within the first two hours of 
 your 50 some odd hour adventure.
  
  You will soon notice that a mysterious dark power called the twilight starts to shroud over Hyrule. 
 In the twilight new enemies form and you cannot control yourself, thus leading link into a wolf-type 
 form. In wolf form you are not able to carry your sword and shield, or any other items in fact. 
 You will have a new ability called wolf senses. You can track the trail of missing people, invisible 
 enemies and also track down some various items buried in the ground. Once you are in wolf form, 
 you meet a little imp called Midna. Midna will help you throughout your journey and give you helpful 
 little hints along the way. Midna will soon become a lifelong companion for link, and help you 
 on your way.
  
  Legend of Zelda has always had a very good reputation of incorporating mind-juggling, puzzle packed 
 dungeons. Twilight Princess is absolutely no exception. Twilight Princess raises the bar to a whole 
 new level of temple quality and the size of the dungeons are so huge that it truly is mind boggling 
 how they could have put so many into the game. Each and every dungeon is packed literally sky high 
 with puzzles, enemies, doors, and keys. Not to mention that every boss fight is magnificent. As 
 with all other Zelda games you have many side quests and mini games. Im positive everyone will 
 easily be able to play lure fishing for hours on end.
  
  Its easy for me to say that this game truly surpasses any other Wii launch title, but may the 
 great question of time still arise, dose this Zelda surpass the great Ocarina of Time? My answer 
 to this incomparable question is yes, but let me explain. Every Zelda has dungeons, enemies, mini 
 games, and lots of space to explore; Twilight Princess simply has a lot more. More space, more 
 dungeons, more enemies, it simply just sets a new bar for more games to surpass.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is so fresh, so new and so big, that you will easily be 
 able to sit for a good forty to fifty hours beating the game. Twilight Princess deserves to be 
 called the greatest game of all time, and truly dose set that bar even higher then Ocarina of Time 
 did back in 1998. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is officially the best game I have ever played. The new innovative 
 way of playing the game gets you involved and makes the game much more different from the Gamecube 
 version. The plot is fantastic, a book could be made out of it and the characters are great if 
 weird occasionally! Nintendo got the control system just right with the d-pad to change weapon 
 or item. Plus the game has some great mini-games like fishing, the small puzzle game there, canooing 
 and chicken riding! It really is a fun game that has a lot of detail and you will play it again 
 and again! Twilight Princess is the perfect launch game for the Nintendo Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game for the Wii. Everything about the game is superb 
 except for Midna's voice. Read my review if you would like to know what I think of TP
  
  Gameplay: I give gameplay 10 because I think its very well done. Using the Wiimote to slice and 
 attack enemies is actually quite fun and enjoyable. The adventure is really nice. The first dungeon 
 took me a few hours to complete so I expect the game to be a nice, long game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent. The cutscenes look really nice and life like. The dungeons 
 look great as well. The towns are alright although they look a bit the same to me. I give Graphics 
 a 9
  
  Sound: Sound is really nice, The sound of the sword on the Wiimote when you start the game is a 
 nice touch. The music is slightly different but in a good way. The only problem I have with sound 
 is Midna. She can be annoying at times even though shes a bit helpful in the game. Sound gets 8
 
  
  Value: For me, I think its great value for this game. I think every Wii owner should think about 
 getting this game because its one of the best games out there for the Wii. Value gets 10
  
  Tilt: I really enjoyed this game. I play this game a lot and I love it. It's one of the best games 
 for the Wii at this moment and it seems quite lengthy. I give it a 10
  
  I recommend this game to everyone who owns a Wii. This game is well done and deserves to be looked 
 at. I'm sure those who will buy the game will love it as much as I did. Really great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxXIchi_goXxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game indeed , The graphics are great but not 
 perfect , because the game was originally intended for the Gamecube , and when they ported it to 
 the Wii , they didn't make any graphical changes .
  
  The gameplay is awesome , but it feels a little tacked on .. , but still , its great .
  
  The 
 music in the game is so nice ! , Just like other Zelda games, Koji Kondo did a great job in this 
 Zelda too ! , I just love it.
  
  The game is also very long ! , I just love how long it is , to beat the game , after getting all 
 the extras and hearts and stuff , it will take around 70 Hours !
  
  What I see is kinda missing in the game is difficulty ... , Its so easy ... too easy , the bosses 
 are just a piece of cake , its no big challenge , but at least the puzzles cover this flaw by being 
 kinda challenging .
  
  Thats about it , The game is almost perfect and all Wii owners MUST have it xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seperioth929
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This was a very nice game but it refers back to the orarina of time quite a bit.
  The gameplay is very fluint very smooth. It keeps the goodness going in the zelda series. The game 
 looks great esspacially for a nintendo console. The music is nice at first but after an hour of 
 the clanging on your wii-mote and the same background music again and again it gets rather annoying. 
 Also im all for tradition but with being a next gen console game they could have added voices to 
 at least balance out the reading. The somewhat fair price of $50 that about equals this games nice 
 value.
  
  Overall its not a bad game ive enjoyed playing it im sure others will too.
  
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcombabe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is the BEST Zelda game EVER!!!!!!!!! They say that there is 40 hours of game play, but 
 I think it took me i little bit longer for me to sock it all in because it took me 67 hours and 
 2 minutes for me to beat the game:) but I ain't complaining. The story board is awesome and I loved 
 the mysterious felling throughout the game........... this is a little off subject but the Great 
 Fairy in this game is like the most prettiest one ever (the wings are so beautiful.... u have to 
 see for your self) It is pretty much easy but there is a lot of places that you just want to through 
 you Wii remote at the TV ( Thats why i got a game guided: D ) ......... you guy's say 8.8 but I say 
 10 ALL THE WAY BABY:) If you want to try this game and just not sure if you really want to spend 
 our money on it I say BUY BUY BUY and see for your self, trust me your money wont be waste!!!!!! 
 (also come for the Game Cube :D: D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenszulu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  First thing is first, do I agree with the GameSpot review of this game? No I do not and there are 
 a number of reasons why I dont, and these are the reasons I feel they were too harsh on the game 
 when reviewing it. Lets start off by saying that this is a GCN game really in all but controls 
 and a few slight graphical differences mainly it supports wide-screen and everything is flipped 
 from left to right in order to make Link right handed for the first time, saying that as far as 
 the graphics go it still stands up to most other next-gen games, although I am sure a Wii specific 
 Zelda game will look better in the future. Sound wise its a typical Zelda game really everything 
 you would expect, although again I seem to think saying that there is no voice acting in this being 
 a bad this is slightly off the mark, first off since this was being designed as a GCN game as well 
 there is very limited space on one of those discs and Nintendo have yet to make a game that uses 
 more than one disc, and I couldnt see them taking the time to make the Wii version radically different, 
 plus I am sure it would have took a lot longer to make the game and would probably not been a Wii 
 launch game if that were the case. Lets also not forget the fact that its a Zelda game and voice 
 acting in a way could have ruined it, and it also helps you use your imagination on what they sound 
 like, so its no great loss in my opinion. I will slightly agree with them on the puzzle aspect 
 of the game as nothing really came up that has stumped me for too long, although I put that down 
 to having played all the previous Zelda games, and just like any series like this the same puzzles 
 seem to be used in each game in some form or another, never found it a problem anyway since I found 
 it helped the game flow a bit better and kept the story going. The exploring was the same since 
 I knew the sort of thing to look out for, everything was pretty much easy to find, although I put 
 this down to the fact that I now search every corner of the game and A Link to the Past really 
 got me started on doing that, so since then I know to look in the oddest paces for secrets.
  
  Ok lets stop waffling on about what GameSpot said and what I think of this game, I would say 
 it is certainly one of those games that must be played if you are a fan of Zelda games, but chances 
 are you already know that and have played it, on either system. The game plays like any other Zelda 
 game, despite the fact that it is using a new controller, so you real should know what to expect 
 for the most part. The new motion sensitive controls work very well, but they arent really any 
 different from using a normal control pad, with the exception of aiming, which is so much better, 
 faster and easier to aim for what you want, after aiming like this I tried aiming using the analog 
 stick in an older Zelda game at the difference was quite noticeable, so as far as controls go its 
 the only major improvement, not that its a bad thing since changing the controls would change 
 the core gameplay.
  
  The game its self is pretty much as epic as any of the previous games, just on a larger scale, 
 that includes the bosses not that they werent large before, everything in this game is just bigger 
 than anything that was done before. If this is what can be done for a game design for the GCN in 
 mind then how big will one be designed with the Wii in mind? Only time can really tell on that 
 one.
  
  Really I am finding it hard to go on since I am sure me telling you much else, will be what you 
 already know, as far as games go this is fantastic, and a great way to show you what the Wii can 
 do despite the fact that it was originally designed for the GCN, its only the fourth console I 
 can think of that has launched with a game as good as this and a great standard for others to try 
 and match get this you really wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The development of Twilight Princess was a bit of a wild ride. Thanks to the gradual decline in 
 game sales in the Japanese market and the poor acceptance of the art style in the Western markets, 
 Wind Waker was a relatively weak showing the series. That is, if three million sold could be called 
 weak. Nintendo decided to try to breathe new life into the series by utilizing an older Link and 
 a realistic art design. Originally delayed to improve the content, then delayed to make a Wii version 
 for the console launch, then waiting for the console to launch itself, its constant delays were 
 the talk of 2006. Finally the game was released, with the flagship Wii version sporting entirely 
 new control schemes. The end result is an experience that, while familiar, managed to introduce 
 a lot of new elements and some great dungeon designs.
  
  As with any other Zelda game, the story is very familiar. You are Link, a boy with a penchant for 
 green living in a peaceful village. Fortunately the village doesn't remain peaceful; otherwise 
 there wouldn't be much of a game to play, unless you're a big fan of herding goats. It turns out 
 that the power of twilight is creeping upon Hyrule, which turns normal people into unsuspecting 
 spirits. Link, however, is not normal. When he enters an area cursed with twilight, he turns into 
 a wolf. Why? Because the developers really wanted to add a wolf into the battle system, that's 
 why. If a game with a playable wolf using a Zelda-like battle system makes Okami a Zelda rip-off, 
 does that mean that a Zelda game using a playable wolf makes it an Okami rip-off? Either way, Link 
 meets up with the mysterious impish Midna, whom seems to have ulterior motives of her own, and 
 they are forced to team up to set things straight. Along the way they travel through just about 
 every landmark that would be expected of a Zelda game - Hyrule Castle, Death Mountain, Lake Hylia, 
 a lava dungeon, a water dungeon, and so forth.
  
  The Zelda battle system, for the most part, is essentially unchanged since its 3D debut in Ocarina 
 of Time a decade ago. After all, if a system is so beloved, it's hard to justify tinkering with 
 it too much. The big change in how the game plays, of course, is the new controls themselves. While 
 it is the flagship launch title for the Wii, the game itself is essentially a GameCube port, and 
 thus the control scheme was not created with the new controller in mind. In the end, the transition 
 was largely successful. Sword slashes are accomplished by swinging the remote. Most battles do 
 not last more than a few slashes, and just about all of the slashes register correctly. However, 
 on some specific boss battles, the sheer number of slashes can certainly tire out the arm, particularly 
 the final battle. Moving the nunchuk forward performs a shield bash, which is very intuitive. However, 
 sometimes it leads to the spin attack instead, which is accomplished by shaking the nunchuk. However, 
 since the spin attack is rather powerful, perhaps even too powerful, such a mistake often works 
 in your advantage. Aiming the slingshot and bow are both used by a pointer on the screen, which 
 is very responsive with the remote. One of the minor issues is with the lack of direct camera control. 
 Locking onto a target or centering the camera behind Link can get the job done, but sometimes you 
 just want to scan the area without dropping to first-person mode, which immobilizes you.
  
  Some of the biggest leaps in the gameplay itself come from the various items you collect in dungeons. 
 From iron boots that let you walk on magnetic walls and ceilings, double hookshots that let you 
 continuously swing from one grapple point to the next, and a boomerang that summons up a cyclone 
 in its path, even old items get some new tricks. The spinner, which on the surface just appears 
 to be a random hoverboard tacked on line in other franchises, is actually a great tool in certain 
 rooms designed for its use. The maze of spinner grooves in certain rooms of its native dungeon 
 were simply unique and a sight to behold. The ball and chain, while unwieldy, can smash through 
 some obstacles and really smack around certain enemies. A magical wand brings certain statues to 
 life, following your command. While some items can quickly lose their usefulness outside of the 
 dungeon they were found in, especially the wand, the ways they are used in their dungeons at the 
 very least are creative and unforgettable.
  
  The world of Hyrule, while very familiar in names and themes, still is presented in some very new 
 ways. All the old landmarks are back, but many have enough new aspects about them to keep them 
 fresh. The dungeons particularly fall into this category. What would a Zelda game be without a 
 fire dungeon, a water dungeon, a ice dungeon, and a sky dungeon? They are all back, but yet they 
 are back in theme only. The puzzles and the entire layout of the dungeons are totally fresh and 
 ingenious. From grappling between small ledges in the sky, moving cannonballs around a dungeon 
 to fire them at certain targets, climbing a tall tower just to bring a statue to life and bringing 
 it back to the entrance, and carrying an object to a specific room before enemy forces can reclaim 
 it, there's always something new in each dungeon. At the end of it all, there's always a creative 
 boss fight, which often demands that you use your new item to its fullest. The designs are so great 
 that you cannot help but to want to dive into the next once you complete each one. Actually getting 
 to the next dungeon, however, can take multiple hours. While many other games use this opportunity 
 to toss in some filler to expand the game's length, Zelda manages to keep the action in the outer 
 world itself just as interesting as in the dungeons. Searching for light-stealing bugs as a wolf, 
 jousting enemy soldiers on horseback, unfreezing the source of a river to refill an empty Lake 
 Hylia, and hunting bandits in a ghost town Wild West-style can all be as attention-grabbing as 
 the dungeon content itself.
  
  Graphically, the game is a marvel to look at, even with it being just a GameCube port. The misty 
 forests, lush grasslands, and sparkling springs are all very atmospheric. Even the dungeons are 
 designed in such a way that they aren't just underground passageways all the time. In Death Mountain 
 there are some open areas with a strip mine operation, sunlight breaks into the forest temple, 
 and the sky temple has plenty of outdoor areas. True caverns can be a little boring, and some areas 
 have rather low textures (a gorge near your home village is a particularly obvious offender) , but 
 the vast majority of the game is just a beauty to look at, both technically and artistically. The 
 two-dimensional black squares that float upwards in the twilight-infested areas are simple yet 
 look great. Unfortunately the developers overused light bloom a bit too much. One of Link's first 
 items is a lantern, which is ironic since Link is practically his own light source.
  
  The audio itself is the worst part of the game, and even then it is rather decent. Most of the 
 music is very atmospheric and upbeat. Some, however, is a little too noticeably synthesized, and 
 some music is a little drab and repetitive, particularly the ice dungeon's. While a fully orchestral 
 score would have been great, it would likely have lost the special touch on the boss fights. The 
 music there can become more upbeat and change a bit when you expose an enemy's weak point, and 
 go back to normal when it recovers. The sound effects are all good, except for the ones that use 
 the remote's speakers. The speaker in the remote is simply of such low quality that they would 
 have been best to leave almost all the sound effects from the standard speakers. The tune that 
 plays from the remote when you find an item or a new passageway occasionally skips in and out, 
 as if the data stream to the remote cannot hold itself constant. The voice acting debate still 
 rages on with Twilight Princess. Almost all characters have their own unique exclamation sounds 
 when they talk, be it giggles or gasps or yelp. Midna, however, mumbles her own indecipherable 
 language whenever she speaks. On the other hand, Zelda is entirely quiet, which just stands out 
 against standard unimportant characters, and against Midna in particular. Yes, the style of such 
 a system is great in its own right, but it's rather uneven, plus the random sounds the characters 
 make already shows that Nintendo had certain voices in mind when they made the characters.
  
  Twilight Princess is relatively long for a game of its genre, potentially taking upwards of 
 40 hours to finish. Most of this will be the true playtime, as it's very unlikely you'll die the 
 entire game. If you make it through the first introduction dungeon without dying, which you may 
 due to your low starting health and getting used to the new controls, then you'll probably be fine 
 all the way up to the end of the game. In an entire game I was rarely below full health, and literally 
 never once used a restorative potion. Quite simply, either holding out your shield or just continuously 
 moving will rarely result in any damage to you. Shields block just about everything, while enemies 
 find you very hard to hit while moving. The occasional damage will often be restored with dropped 
 hearts easily. However, in addition to the main quest, there's always a collection quest or a minigame 
 to pass the time. There are 24 bugs scattered throughout the world that you can collect for a bigger 
 wallet and more money. There are also 60 ghosts to hunt, though they offer very little reward past 
 the 20th ghost. There are pieces of heart scattered throughout the world, a snowboarding section, 
 a whitewater rafting game, and a rather well developed fishing minigame. There is a rather difficult 
 optional 50-floor dungeon for you to tackle, which are essentially 50 rooms of scripted fights.
 
  
  Despite a few control quirks in the translation and the rather easy difficulty, Twilight Princess 
 is still a Zelda game. If you love the series, you'll love this game. The developers attempted 
 to recreate Ocarina of Time instead of fiddling with some new sweeping concepts like in recent 
 entries, and it more or less delivered. As such, those that were somewhat turned off by the recent 
 Zelda games will probably end up loving Twilight Princess. If by chance you have never played a 
 Zelda game, then this is a perfect opportunity to jump in. If like action games and you do not 
 mind the relative lack of difficulty, Twilight Princess is almost certain to please and leave you 
 wanting more. The game easily ranks among the top few launch titles of all time, and not only is 
 the best action game available on the Wii, but will be for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelnda144
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is epic. The land and characters look great and have a lot of detail. It 
 is better on the Wii because of it's Numchuck capabalites and after you learn the curves Zelda 
 is fun as ever. The game has nine dungeons and they all fun and different from each other. The 
 soundertrack is great and has not changed but that what we fanboys like. The adventure is 50 plus 
 hours. Hybrid is fun to explore and there is so much variety in the game. The game is the best 
 Zelda game and it should be the first game you should get for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriphilewill
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game was good, I would even go out on a limb and say that I enjoyed it as much as Ocarina of 
 Time. The game was invoilved from the start; It had a stable story line, and since it is one of 
 the first games for the Wii system, it made good use of the new motion controls. In fact it is 
 one of the only games I find enjoyable with the new motion style controls (aside from warioware) . 
 I've played and beaten every zelda game when they were first released. You remember those gold 
 NES cartridges?
  
  What I liked in this game compared to other zelda games:
  
  I found the dungeons much harder than any zelda released in the last 10 years. Each dungeon was 
 different and various puzzles required backtracking, and constantly looking around to see if there 
 is something in the room your inventory can take care of. The weapon selection was good, and I 
 liked the combo ideas with different bomb types, and items. It didn't allow the limited number 
 of weapons in the game to get old. I liked the idea of link changing into a dog. This brings some 
 freshness to an old formula of game making. What was weak:
  
  The game's dungeons were in essence, a repeat of ocarina of time. The horse, the dungeons, locations, 
 the weapons.. It all gets a bit old after awhile. I know this is supposed to be hyrule, but the 
 game just felt like a revamped Ocarina of Time, or maybe a sequel.
  The twilight thing was annoying. Walking around killing insects was boring. The cheesy twilight 
 characters and villian weren't that interesting to me. Overall I enjoyed the difficulty increase 
 and nostalgia, but when it comes down to it I want to play fresh zelda games, and not just have 
 a nostalgic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olie440
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  ok as a zelda game awesome as a normal game
  the first thing you realse in thgis game the grathics the gob sackingly awesome grathics very good 
 use of the wiimote like aiming and swinging a sword it grabs you in to the story and you feel for 
 link and the charticters it has 3 first tembles as in all zelda games then 4 (includeing boss battle) 
 after that colecting the twight mirror you start off as a villager 16 years old you work at a ranch 
 and are a hero to 3 young kids your first task is to gater the sheep then you have to learn to 
 fish on tje next day then something happens and you suddenly become a wolve and midia saves you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Preamble Note: This review was revised.
  Zelda: The Twilight Princess puts us in the setting of Ocarina's Hyrule, though it is expanded 
 upon greatly. Infact, that's pretty much Twilight Princess summed up. The locales, the amount of 
 people, items and dungeons are more numerous than ever before. It's viewing Hyrule in a cleaner 
 and more creatively constructed way. Of course, you play a young man named Link, who eventually 
 ends up thwarting evil that is begining to blanket the land. The only problem is, the evil is never 
 fully illustrated.
  The STORY of Twilight Princess is lacking in form and function. It's largely an excuse for you 
 to be on your adventure, not a purpose. For a large part of the game ( 3/4) , the main villain is 
 Zant. A crazy king who is trying to cover the land in darkness by combining the shadow world with 
 the light world.
  
  STORYLINE AND CONNECTIONS
  All told, the whole game lacks originality is almost every single aspect, and it's storyline is 
 no exception. The shadow and light dimension aspect has been used countless times in video game 
 history. Metriod Prime 2, Zelda: Link to the Past to name a few. Not only is it unoriginal, but 
 it's uninteresting. The story will have you collecting quest items so you can get more power or 
 open up an area. There's no real depth to any of it. This game however, unlike previous Zeldas, 
 doesn't bother to explain much about Ganondorf. The game never sets itself apart or explains why 
 it's important. Quite simply, it's just another Zelda game. You get the impression you didn't do 
 anything that mattered. Infact, Link is used throughout the game by Midna and Zelda; he's not really 
 a hero at all.
  The game is definetly tied to the timeline of Ocarina of Time/ Majora's Mask, but it never actually 
 says it, and it never defines it's place in this timeline. So Ganon was imprisioned. When and why? 
 He was locked away by Zelda in OOT. How did he get out? If he dies in the end, how is Ganon alive 
 in Wind Waker? Apparently we, as f***ing always, are left to deduce the loose affiliation between 
 games. Yet the sad thing is, is that there are strong connections to OOT (the fisherman photo from 
 OOT in the fishing hole) . So it is the same world, and it's maybe only 100 years after. BUT WHY 
 DOESN'T THE GAME FIT? What's the point of this whole game dammit?! It's incredibly annoying to 
 play through the entire game and feel like you've gotten no where. Ganondorf, which happens to 
 be the REAL villain, is shown once before you fight him. ONCE. This is a flashback, not an encounter. 
 Unlike in Ocarina of Time or Wind Waker, Ganondorf has done nothing to you personally. Zant did, 
 and you got rid of him. Job done. BUT WAIT!!! Ganondorf must be in every Zelda! So there he is. 
 To sum up all this without the dramatic capitalization; this story makes you feel like a whore. 
 All the characters you meet along the way, interesting and not, aren't explained well enough for 
 you to become involved. Basically, Nintendo gave us the bare minimum of vague legends and story 
 seqences.
  
  Everything that they promised was a half-truth. Story twists? Hardly. If you call finally knowing 
 a truth that doesn't change a damn thing ( or even have any meaning at all) a twist, then I pray 
 you don't ever become a screenplay writer. As for my tidbit with Ganondorf, quote, We have more 
 planned for Ganondorf then you can imagine, players will be blown away. yea.... well, ganondorf 
 being a demi-god and controling all evil is the same thing you've been doing forever. Maybe Ganondorf 
 should win, like it said he did in Wind Waker. Stop making Zelda a big loop.
  Honestly people, everyone is saying that it's the best story, but it really isn't. It's just down 
 right pathetic. I can't say much more about it.
  
  A sad thing in this game is that characters just aren't developed at all. Well, only Midna anyway, 
 because evidentially the game is all about her. Everyone else is used to fill up empty space.
 
  For instance, take the young Zoran Prince. He's morning his mother. He makes friends. Great. Then, 
 you bring peace to Zora's Domain and he takes up the throne. How exciting! Lets go see what happens! 
 ... nothing? He doesn't have side quests or mini-games or new stores? You mean to tell me all he 
 will EVER say throughout the rest of the game is you're welcome here anytime, I hope I do well 
 as a ruler (paraphrased) ???!
  Yes. That's all. And it's largely the same with just about every other unique character. The characters 
 only exist to push the story along, and they don't really do that well. The doctor for instance, 
 takes place in only one part of the story. And it's a very stupid part. The only doctor in the 
 game has about 10 minutes of story interaction. Need I go on with this?
  Of course, there's no voice acting, because people have their own idea of how Link sounds. **** 
 No one cares! Nintendo doesn't want to spend the money! Why have voices at all? Link has yells 
 and gasps, which don't vary much, and are extremely annoying to listen to during cinematics. It's 
 like watching anime. They try to compensate for Link's inability to have a conversation by showing 
 a various range of emotions. This Link is particularly stupid-looking. His face doesn't look right 
 without him showing basic human emotions. If I had a nickel for everytime Link gasped unneccessarily 
 and exaggeratedly in Twilight Princess, I would own a 360.
  
  Instead of bringing us into the land of Hyrule, the characters make us feel like nomads. We use 
 them, then move on and find new ones. In the end, you won't feel anything for them, not one of 
 them is remarkable.
  
  NOTE ABOUT ITEMS
  The items in the game, though there is a great many, are used just as characters. After you complete 
 the dungeon, you'll rarely ever use the item you found there.
  The Wiimote does help to a great extent on aiming (though I do miss the time when there were no 
 crosshairs) . It does go crazy if you move it off screen, but it increases the quality of the game.
 
  
  COMBAT
  The same can not be said for normal sword attacks. Link swings the sword laggedly, and it feels 
 clumsy and inaccurate. It could have been much better if A and swing-motion functions were replaced, 
 making the A for attack and swing-motion for reading, talking, puting away actions.
  Infact, why aren't there different control options? Unlike many Wii Games out, you are forced to 
 stick with a default control layout. This is a mistake considering the unfamiliarity with the Wii 
 mote people had when playing the game for the first time. Now you can turn off the pointer and 
 change things like inverted view, but there should be more options.
  
  Horseback combat, which I was excited for, is a big let down. Many factors play apart of the near 
 complete failure of this feature which include;
  1. Epona is just too big. Looks and controls like a tank. Ass gets in the way.
  2. No free camera
 
  3. Enemies are stupid, unfairly stupid, just horrible.
  4. Swinging your sword looks pathetic and isn't enjoyable.
  5. Running over enemies barely hurts 
 them.
  6. The variety of enemies to kill on horseback is... well there isn't any
  
  Simply attacking foes on your horse is silly. When they're chasing you, you have to get near them 
 by stopping, catching up. And killing enemies isn't satisfying this way, seeing as how they don't 
 usually die after you knock them off, you have to go kill them on the ground.
  Killing them while they're on foot is even more annoying and silly. They will often fall on the 
 ground, and you will have to sit and wait till they get up, because you can't hurt them when they're 
 lying down.
  There's no Horseback combat minigame, no real fun way to do anything on horseback.
  Riding Epona 
 is stupid in general. It doesn't look good at all when you dash, and most of the time you can only 
 make out Epona's butt. Trotting is the only pleasing way to ride her, because it's the only time 
 you feel like you're on a horse. Epona's movements in general when running look fake and distract 
 the player. I can't have enough complaints.
  
  The greatest problem with the game's combat is it's difficulty. It's incredibly easy. The enemies 
 will stand there while you're killing their buddies, because their backs are turned. What happened 
 to hearing? Archers will miss when you're standing still, the arrows won't come anywhere near you. 
 The only time the game may be challenging is when you try the Cave of Ordeals, which has you going 
 through 50 levels of fighting without healing. I noticed that archers are more accurate here and 
 enemies more alert. But if you're properly prepared, it won't phase you.
  Bosses, which borrow heavily from Shadow of the Collosus style of play (too bad they didn't use 
 the horse script) , are very fun to fight. None of them are hard, or challenging. I found myself 
 shaking my head when the corny music kicked in as the Arachnid boss's eye was hopping around. The 
 sound in the game is made up of MIDI files. Just about all of the tracks are rehashes of Ocarina 
 of Time's music. The rehashes are nostalgic at first, but a Jeff said, they then turn to outdated. 
 Most sound fine enough, but it takes away from the Twilight Princess experience. The original tracks 
 are often annoying or feel out of place. The night MIDI for instance, has a women's voice hiting 
 a few solemn notes, and begins to sound like a ghost story album. The constant replaying of this 
 becomes irritating and you are distracted from gameplay to ask yourself: Couldn't they have come 
 up with something better than a women howling? 
  Speaking of howling, the wolf version of the ocarina is terrible. I had to mute my T. V everytime. 
 It's done in MIDI and is so obnoxious you just wanna punch link in the mouth.
  The wiimote speaker has low quality, and for the most part is a distraction. Only simple sounds 
 like reeling a fishing line have any positive effect. Others such as swinging your sword, sound 
 cheesy and broken.
  
  The graphics are top notch for Gamecube graphical power. They're not RE4, but plain textures aside, 
 the make due. The water mechanic is a great artistic and graphical achievement. However, inconsistencies 
 like large barriers or unclimbable surfaces for the sake of keeping you from advancing are present. 
 This isn't a big deal, but I can't go back to lake Hylia from the Gerudo Desert because there happens 
 to be a perfectly cut wall of stone and sand in my way.
  
  The game was actually delayed a year so they could create more depth . That's a load of bull. They 
 made poes and bugs so you can collect them to get money. Because money is a factor in Twilight 
 Princess (sarcasam) . I'd trade 60 poes and 20 bugs any day for voice acting.. The most likely reason 
 though, was that Miyamoto wouldn't accept the original product, so he made them delay it for a 
 year so he could polish it up personally. You have a short list of equipment, not items, equipment. 
 Two swords, Two Shields, 3 armor. Why couldn't I get a Poe Sword or Bug shield? I would have been 
 much more motivated.
  
  Zelda: Twlight Princess is worth buying, but it is probably the worst Zelda of all time considering 
 the amount of money and expertise that went into making it. Full of cop-outs, cliches, and remixed 
 themes it isn't special. It did provide a more engaging story, but then it turned out to not giving 
 any back story and clarifcation about it. Nintendo needs to stop bringing characters back when 
 they can't explain their purpose for being there. This is next-generation, not game boy advanced. 
 Largely failing at all new aspects of gameplay, this Zelda is only good when you see pure Zelda 
 gameplay elements. I've played 90 hours, playing and replaying. There's no excuse anymore for Nintendo 
 to hide behind. Shape up, stop reusing, stop abusing. This Zelda was supposed to be unlike anything 
 we've ever seen, but what we got was a sloppy remake, which existed to sell consoles. This game 
 is no masterpiece and has too many flaws to be considered Zelda worthy. The game leaves us with 
 too many whys. Why is the story unfullfilling, the characters forgettable, and why am I not scorning 
 the villian? Why do I feel like I'm in a world I could care less about, why are there countless 
 ways to make this game better, and WHY is Epona's ass so HUGE?! -Phel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has done it again. They have made yet another Zelda game that once I finished the story, 
 I was upset. I was upset because I didn't want it to end. Like Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker, and 
 Majora's Mask before it, Twilight Princess grabbed your attention until the very end. Zelda Fans, 
 this was Nintendo's ultimate love letter to us for buying the Nintendo Wii:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Gameplay, the only category to take a hit compared to the others. The reason? 
 the funky new Wii remote. This controller takes some getting used to, especially for this game. 
 For me, the learning curve was up a bit because I am a left handed playing a right-handed man's 
 game. However, after you have finally figured out everything, the game becomes natural, even sometimes 
 making you wonder how you played Zeldas before! The Wii controls are definitely not tacked on as 
 some would claim. The game feels great, the controls are standard 3D Zelda, and I must say that 
 its a great way to enter the Next Generation. BTW, pointer for bow and hookshot = awesomeness.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  This game took my breathe away. The artistic style of this game literally is amazing. The lighting 
 is definitely a nice touch, adding to the dark and light atmosphere. One thing I want to point 
 out is the Twilight world. The way the lighting works in that area is amazing. Nintendo really 
 took that year delay and glossed up this game.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  In my sheer opinion, the sound in this game is amazing. The from the combat to the level songs 
 to the epic boss battles, This game screams Zelda. I feel that this is the last Zelda to use midi, 
 but boy did Nintendo say good bye to that old format with a bang. This is basically the MIDI music 
 you will ever hear EVER. I was also happy to see that no voice acting was placed into the game. 
 I really like the weird gestures that characters make for text, but I also don't listen to voice 
 acting.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is fully worth the price of admission, whether it be on 
 the GC or Wii. Nintendo literally packed the game with almost 40-60 hours of games content that 
 you may actually want to do again by getting the other version of it. Why? because the other version 
 actually flips the entire game around. It would be like seeing Twilight Princess at a whole new 
 view.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I love the Legend of Zelda series. I have been playing Zelda since Ocarina of time, but I have 
 heard of the series since the original, when my brother used to play it on his NES. I even loved 
 it back then. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess reminded me why I love the series so when 
 I finished the game and I was upset. That was the moment I knew this was purely Zelda. Sure the 
 questing and combat also made feel like this is Zelda. Butvery rarely does a game make me think 
 ok, then what happens in the story? I am not afraid to admit I want a Twilight Princess 2, but 
 I also want a something to continue Zelda: Majora's Mask. It is games that we will probably never 
 see. Thats why this is a legend... a Legend of Zelda.
  
  Overall: 9.7/10.0
  
  Bravo, Nintendo, you have swiped me off my feet again. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is 
 a Zelda that should be in everyone's collection. Definitely Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashBrosLegend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The story is the best of any of the Zelda games. I won't spoil anything, but this game definitely 
 keeps you interested. There is so much to do in this game that it is impossible to get bored
  
  The game looks awesome. There are some minor texture issues here and there, but the character 
 models are good and the art style is superb. The game looks especially pretty in 480p and 16x9.
 
  
  The sound is good, but orchestrated music would have made it perfect. The best familiar Zelda tunes 
 are present, and there are some new ones that you will be singing to yourself for years to come. 
 While some criticize the game for a lack of voice-acting, I am happy that it is absent. The Zelda 
 games are first and foremost about story-telling, and some of that would be lost if the characters 
 actually spoke.
  
  The controls are great. They set the game apart from the Gamecube version in a good way. There 
 is really no feeling quite like feeling like you are controlling Link's sword. 1:1 movement would 
 have been ideal, but we have to make due seeing as this is a Gamecube port. The aiming with the 
 bow, hooks, slingshot, and boomerangs are conveniant and reliable, providing you have a steady 
 hand.
  
  The only real problem in this game lies in the dungeon items. They are basically useless after 
 you leave the dungeon you found them in, and that troubles me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsdeparting
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is one of the best games i have ever played. This game is extremely deep and 
 interesting. I could not have asked for a better experience as the first game to buy for y wii, 
 and it definitely sets the standards for what a great game from now on will be. The story is very 
 good, it isnt too different from any previous zelda: an evil character (name withheld so i dont 
 spoil too much) is trying to take over the world, and a hero Link must save it. The addition of 
 Midna and her own storyline that you learn more and more about as you play is definitely a great 
 thing, one of the best to happen to the series.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. I love the different sword combos and fighting skills you learn as you 
 play. and the wiimote is perfect for aiming link's bow. this game should not be played on the gamecube 
 if you can help it. The only thing i didnt like was the short (very short) delay between when you 
 move the wiimote and when link swings his sword, and also that sometimes, for me, the shield attack 
 and spin attack (both mapped to the nunchuk) were ether unresponsive or link did the wrong one, 
 but i guess that could be my fault not the games.
  
  The sound is as good as you can expect for this game, nto top-notch, but definitely as realistic 
 as you need it to be.
  
  The graphics do seem a little dated, a little blurry, and some things tend to look the same, due 
 to textures being the exact same. but hey, its technically a gc game ported onto the wii (and better 
 on the wii) so im not complaining.
  IT definitely doesnt show off the wii's potential though.
  
  there are hours of sidequests, 
 which i still need to go through and beat, and unlike most games, i actually want to do all the 
 sidequests in thisone, and amazing feat, i usually never do these. Simply put, zelda is a must-have 
 for any wii owner. i can understand why it was on e of the best games of the year last year, but 
 due to a few flaws, i can see why gamespot chose gears of war. either way, i lov this game with 
 all my heart, and you should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Now I've played Zelda since the first one on NES, been an off and on fan of the series since. This 
 latest version of the franchise dosn't have what it takes to consider itself truely next-gen . 
 On one point you have solid tried and true gameplay that we'd expect from a Zelda/Nintendo game. 
 On the flip side (and dark side) we have very tired gameplay, stuff we saw back on N64. Sure we 
 have magnetic boots, and tons of neat iteams to spice it up, but in the end its just the same old 
 gameplay.
  
  What hurts this game even more is the fact that it has very dated graphics. I like the Wii, but 
 I feel it was a mistake to make it a Turbo Gamecube . Zelda screams GC all over it, it has nice 
 graphics but compare it to anything on X360 or PS3 and even PC and its just behind the curve. It 
 would have been nice if Nintendo had wated on this one and given it some more development on the 
 Wii.
  
  Now on the upside the controls are great, Wii has realy done great things with controls and things 
 can only get better as they go. Zelda though an old experiance has plenty of gameplay to keep you 
 busy which also helps it. The game starts a bit slow but after you get through the first dungeon 
 it starts to realy pickup, and as always you can go anywhere but your held back by not having a 
 tool to go further.
  
  Expect the same old Zelda, with some new features to spice it up, be it from magnetic boots to 
 running about as a wolf. Zelda is worth the money, but go in understanding its nothing extreamly 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealYoFace
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  fun factor of the average Zelda game plus beautiful graphics, easily the best graphics out of any 
 game of the Zelda series. The controls on the Wii are very nice although the sounds that come out 
 of the Wiimote are somewhat distorted. Boss battles are fun and don't usually get boring. TP is 
 also a good game because you'll be playing it for a long time and don't really run out of things 
 to do very fast if you do all the minigames. Well anyways if you are a fan of the Zelda series 
 or can't decide on a good game to get for the Wii I would HIGHLY recommend LOZ: TP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  A world without the zelda series would be a world without bread or sausages. Twilight princess 
 is no exeption to this, a truely magnificent game that players will just have to finish. First 
 off its huge and i mean massive. hyrule is a joy to explore and it would take years to see everything. 
 The cut scenes and graphics although inferrior compared to some games is still fantastic. The layout 
 and art direction makes for a truley beautiful game. The twilight world full of fantasticaly designed 
 enemies is again erie and superb. the dungons are challengeing but not too hard. Then the dungeon 
 baddies.... outstanding huge beasts. None of these bosses are particularly hard but the fear factor 
 in link being so small and the enemies being so big adds to the difficulty. The wepons are great 
 and some really unique ideas have come into play while designing the wepons. It should take the 
 player around 45 hours to complete and that includes looking around... for stuff
  The controls are alright but somtimes let you down. The swining of the wii remote feels a bit more 
 epilectic than percise but still is new so its cool.
  The snowpeak dungeon is very hard compared to the others and it feels out of place in the game. 
 And as for moving blocks on ice forget it . So is it better than ocarina of time? well no its not. 
 Cast your mind back to the first time you played ocarina.... special wasn't it. Everything was exiting 
 and new it had so much depth and character. With twilight princess you've really seen it all before, 
 the puzzles the dungons weapons and the same characters. Really not much has changed. This aspect 
 of the game really annoys me. I mean nintendo and myamoto are always going forward looking at new 
 ways to play. Windwaker was fresh and exiting and completly different. In twilight princess you've 
 seen it all before. Its like ok im going into the goron mines what will i find?.... oh a volcano 
 thing iv'e done this before ..... Not a lot is new and unfortunately im of the persuasion if it 
 aint broke make a new one. Don't get me wrong its a great game and if you have never played ocarina 
 (for some strange unknown reason) you my friend are in for a treat.
  So when i saw gamespots review and they didnt give it over nine i was outraged its a zelda game 
 for god sake how? but after finishing it i realise why. Think of it as ocarina part two bcause 
 although unorignal it still takes its basis from the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallb0y
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This review may not be a knock on the game itself but rather on the range of the Wiimote. If I 
 play this game in my family room or anywhere for that matter where I'm over 5 feet away from the 
 screen i have to stand up. Playing Zelda whilst standing gets old. I feel like I should be able 
 to use buttons on the controller to swing my sword or aim my bow if I want to hang out on the couch. 
 Either that or I should have a shield and sword strapped to my arm while I Link-out. By the time 
 I finish the game I would probably be in tri-athalon shape.
  
  Ok so there's that and there's also the lame-o graphics. I know I know but it's hard when I go 
 from the 360 and the PS3 then hop on this... I feel like I need Lasik with the blur factor and weaksauce 
 textures.
  
  So the game's pretty fun all in all though... if you have a Wii its like the short dude at EB Games 
 with all the facial piercings says, It's a no brainer. But could they have done a little better? 
 I mean when it boils down to it it is a GAMECUBE port... seriously... a game cube port? you couldn't 
 dream up a Zelda Wii exclusive Miyamoto? You're slacking dude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzoku
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard Twilight Princess was heading to Wii it seemed a no-brainer to chose thos port 
 over the Gamecube one, but when I started playing it doubts arised...
  
  Ok, this game wasn't planned initially to include Wiimote functionality so we can be completely 
 rude with it. but talking frankly, sometimes the motion sensitive features get in the way of gameplay. 
 - Don't take me wrong - I really like the way you can aim with the bow, or the way you can fish 
 with your rod, but having to swing the controller to attack with your sword can be really frustrating 
 sometimes.
  
  The Wiimote is not as responsive as a simple button touch, so when you are in situations where 
 you have to draw your sword quickly to dispatch an enemy chances are you'll be losing some hearts 
 before the job is done. In my humble opinion Nintendo should included:
  
  a) A way to disable the attack with the sword to switch to the old button method
  b) Use the 
 Wiimote to aim at the screen.
  
  Now moving to the graphics, artistically talking they're good. You've got a nice amount of variety 
 of landscapes to explore and some effects like the light casting in the twilight is very well accomplished... 
 but talking technically: Textures suck. They're low res and sometimes remind me of the blurry graphics 
 of OOT. Really a pity since even if the Wii is not a monster like X360 or the PS3 it has more potential 
 to show than Twilight Princess is showing us. Oh well, its our fault because we buyed the game.
 
  
  Sound: As you can expect, there are no voices. Some characters like Midna growl , but no voices 
 at all. Right after playing FFXII this seems pretty awkward for me, but ah... Nintendo and his 
 methods to make the players feel identified with Link. With time that will be an obstacle.
  
  The musical score features classical Zelda tunes, and some of them got weir remixes like Kakariko 
 village them, but I'm glad they sound as good as ever now with some vocals on it. Nothing more 
 to say about it.
  
  For the gameplay I mentioned before that the Wiimote gets in your way, but the boss fights are 
 really amazing since you have to use various game mechanics in order to beat them.
  
  For example, in the second dungeon (Death Mountain) you have to shoot an arrow at the boss only 
 eye, then activate the iron boots and pull from the chains attached to the boss' extremities in 
 order to take him down and attack with your sword. Cool.
  
  In fact this is a very good game, and all the flaws I mentioned are related to the Wii port, so 
 I now understand why the GC port got a better qualification. If you like Zelda you'll like this 
 game, but do not expect something impressive as OOT was for his time. This is just a make-in-a-hurry 
 port. I rather prefer to wait for a full fledged Wii Zelda game than having Twilight Princess for 
 Wii. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonarioink14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! It may not be the hardest game around but there's that one puzzle that's different 
 for everybody that brings back the horrific memories of the Water Temple in OOT. Now it will take 
 awhile for you to get used to that brand-new Wiimote of yours! But 30 minutes in and you'll be 
 opening treasure chests and killing bad guys like a real Hyrulian elf! The graphics are good but 
 look like an out-dated Gamecube game. The game's music is also composed of MIDI. So you may experience 
 some bad sound quality. The game is not that difficult either. But listen to me rant on about the 
 bad! The game is great! It's fun, It's intuitive, and most important of all, it feels like a Zelda 
 game. You'll enjoy yourself from beginning, to end. I guarantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  The story is different than most Zelda games, however the new story has a plot to it, however the 
 thing about Zelda stories is that they have a simple background but go into a bit more detail later 
 on. This story starts off with a detailed background and goes into much further detail later on. 
 I didn't understand the story till after the game. The controls are implemented well for basic 
 attacks, you swing your wiimote, Link swings his sword but not exaactly how you swing your wiimote, 
 which wasn't meant to happen. Also there are new attacks in this game, these new attacks are poorly 
 implemented. Attacks which use the nunchuck often get mixed up e. g. shield attack and swing attack. 
 However the reason i gave the gameplay eight and not ten was because of the wolf feature, at first 
 i was all exited about being a wolf and talking to animals for clues and stuff, but sadly, playing 
 as a wolf is a rushed and poorly implemented feature, they could have improved the wolf play by 
 adding different senses, more exploration, more information from animals not just stupid remarks. 
 Overall i would say the gameplay is very good as human Link with a few control drawbacks, but playing 
 as a wolf is just a basic add on to the game which is poorly implemented. Also the dongeons were 
 much longer the Ocarina of time however it wasn't challenging.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  For a gamecube game these graphics are amazing. I seriously don't need playstation 3 graphics to 
 play this game. the sun rises beautifully and sets even better. The desert looks amazing and the 
 forest is dazzling, the water is blue and pure and Hyrule is once again beautiful. The characters 
 look real, Characters are clearly shown, their expressions and emotions. Trust me these graphics 
 are high class
  
  Sound: 
  
  Zelda = Best sound there ever is. However even though this game lacks the ocarina and lacks the 
 melodies which played vital roles in Ocarina of Time, Majoras Mask and Wind Waker. The music of 
 the over field and the temple of time, still remains. So the overfield still sounds the same which 
 means that the sound is amazing. The temple of time even sounds better in this game it some how 
 seems "smoother" if you get my drift.
  
  Value: 
  
  It's Zelda, it's Wii. Worth the price, hell yea it is. It's a zelda, a 60 hour adventure. Zelda 
 means action, adventure, sword fighting, fairies and of course solving puzzles. This game is definately 
 worth the price. Go down and buy this game immediately.
  
  Lifespan: 
  
  It will last you a while, it may lack in sidequests but it's still a long main adventure. Dongeons 
 are very long in this game however they arn't as challenging as Ocarina Of Time. Each dongeon is 
 about 2 hours long. This game wil-l last you a long time as Nintendo said its a 60 hour to 70 hour 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the greatest game of all time. Awesome puzzles, boss fights, just really unique 
 use of environments. The graphics aren't technically impressive, but the artistic direction of 
 the environments is really more beautiful than anything I've ever seen in a game. Sometimes, I 
 just looked at the dungeons and was amazed at the scope. It makes the game that much more immersive 
 without having to be technically state of the art. Doesn't feel quite as revolutionary as Ocarina 
 of Time and therefore a little more formulaic than Wind Waker, but it's hard to bash formula like 
 Gamespot has when the formula's so awesome. If this is indeed the final Zelda as we know it (as 
 has been suggested) , it's a pretty awesome way to go out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timpaniman10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth every penny, there is a few flaws but nothing so bad so you don't want to play 
 it. lets start off with the bad, the wii motes microphone is in use but it sounds horrible, and 
 the bad part is its used allot. Also like allot of other Zelda games its just to easy, the only 
 times you will die is in the beginning when you have three hearts, or when you fall of a cliff. 
 But we did not get to the good yet and there is alot of good, first of all the game is long and 
 I like long games, you have nine levels to go through and they all are long, plus tuns of mini 
 games along the way. Even with games like Gears Of War and Resistance, I still love the way the 
 graphics look. To sum it up if you have a wii buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedikenobi1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  To make things a little snappy, Twilight Princess should be viewed as a game that completley revolutionized 
 the Zelda genre. Its intricate combat system, and fluid storyline will constanlty keep the gamer 
 on his/her feet. ( Besides the fact that you have to stand up to use the Wii-mote) . Any how, any 
 gamer who owns a Wii or gamecube should buy this game, though there may be a few flaws such as 
 EXTEREME PUZZLE TEDIOUSNES! In addition, the game could use a little story tweaking, but only for 
 a minor part of it . Needless to say, besides those minor flaws, Zelda will leave gamers with a 
 feeling that they've, well, actually spent 50 bucks on a worthwhile game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best nintendo wii games i have ever played and is the first nintendo wii 
 game i got for the nintendo wii. anybody that has a wii and does'nt know what game to get for it, i 
 say that they should get this game. i fell sorry for anybody that has this game for the gamecube 
 because if you have this game for the gamecube, then you are not going to have as much fun with 
 the game. if you have this game for the wii, then the game will be twice a fun because you have to 
 interact with the game. when i got this game on x-mas, i had so much fun with this game so much that 
 my nose started to bleed. that is how much fun this game was to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamizureyx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Every Legend Of Zelda Game I've played has been good, I must admit. I havent seen one bad one yet. 
 And this is no acception, but is it more then just another good Zelda game?
  I'm thinking... yes.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is in traditional Zelda fasion, with plenty 
 of enemies, a vast open landscape and many puzzling dungeons. However, many new and clever tweaks 
 have been added to the gameplay to make things a little more interesting. The most obvious of which, 
 is the use of the Nintendo Wii control. Swinging your sword, aiming weapons and unleashing special 
 attacks are all controled by the motion of the Wiimote and the Nunchuck. Whilest this is a very 
 clever touch it can be slightly annoying when you get down to the seriousness of the adventure. 
 This makes no difference to the overall high standard of the game though, and will often make things 
 better. Other changes include the transformation between wolf and human. Most of the time you'll 
 want to be human as items and weapons cannot be wielded in wolf form. But puzzles and special areas 
 covered in Twilight will require the wolf form. It brings a new breath of fresh air to the series 
 and is a rather good idea. The dungeons are slightly less chalenging then other Zelda's (or is 
 that because were used to it by now?) but still fun and occasionaly puzzling.
  Overall the gameplay is almost perfect, and will keep you entertained throughout the whole adventure. 
 For me there was just one flaw. The main quest was too short. It was lengthy, but you want to keep 
 on playing even when its done!
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Twilight Princess are very good, nothing hugely impressive, but still 
 very good. The landscapes and scenery are well done, and the Twilight Realm is quite effective. 
 The new, darker feel of the game is cool and I hope that it continues as it makes things seem more... 
 grown up. Yes, the Zelda games no longer seem kiddy, and the new style is welcomed by me with open 
 arms.
  
  Sound: A mixture of different styles of music all played by orchestra make the sound in this game 
 almost breathtaking, the songs are basically what you would come to expect in a Zelda game with 
 many classic tunes still being used. Overall, good, but lacks originality.
  
  Value: In my opinion, and possibly the opinion of many other Wii owners, I would call Twilight 
 Princess the best game currently out for the Wii.
  I must say, it is epic. It is one of a kind and would take nothing but a sequal to match. Best 
 Zelda game yet? I'm not sure. But it is deffinatly one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda is the game for the Wii that EVERYONE has. It is the only game released with the 
 Wii that is critically accepted, mature and sold a lot of units. The game is popular because it 
 is Legend of Zelda. The game is renowned and was sold out at launch. The game features excellent 
 puzzles and an explorable map.
  
  In this game you play a character named Link. You start off in a small peaceful village where you 
 are a polite young boy who everyone likes. To get you used to the controls you have to complete 
 a number of mini adventures involving riding your horse to shepard away goats to fighting a scarecrow 
 to learn how to use your sword. The story line in this game is fantastic. This game demonstrates 
 that consoles are still a very viable media for telling a story.
  
  The graphics have a very artistic style. So although they are not beautifully rendered, they look 
 cool and some elements of the game have been sharpened and when you kill a boss, it does look good. 
 There aren't any graphical errors were something impossible happens. Also, the draw distance is 
 fairly impressive. Rocks and core grass aren't very impressive but the grass that you can cut down 
 is nicely animated. The design in to the enemies is excellent, each type is unique.
  
  I would go in to detail about the story line but what makes it so good is the twists and turns 
 that makes it good. It is suffice to say that it is very good and even if this game had absolutely 
 terrible game play, the story line could almost single handedly save it.
  
  The use of the Wiimotes capabilities is a little more suspect. All the different sword moves are 
 controlled by holding down different combinations of buttons and simply waving the Wiimote. How 
 you wave the Wiimote has no effect on the move. A couple of moves make use of the Numchuq , but 
 once again it isn't intuitive or logical. This element of the game could be improved if say, you 
 wanted to do a jump attack, you brought the Wiimote down in front of you. Or a spin attack was 
 done by swinging the Wiimote round you, even if the stab was you stabbing rather than swinging 
 the game would be better. In credit to the game, the aiming for bow and arrow is well done and 
 there are nice touches like when you are fishing or flying a bird. Both of these use the Wiimote 
 well.
  
  The gameplay in the game is both good and bad. The good, the puzzles are integrated seamlessly 
 in to the environment and are compelling and tricky. The majority of the time they can be solved 
 without going completely insane. The map works well and there are virtually no load times at any 
 point. Nor is there any lag. The combat is quite repetitive but simple and fun. The bosses are 
 too easy to kill but are fairly rewarding as you have to work out how to use you new piece of equipment 
 to kill them. The problem lies mainly in the temple, sometimes there are a few puzzles that require 
 you to run around the temple. Now, because all the temples have to fit in to the style all the 
 rooms look quite similar and so at first it is quite confusing. On top of this, the second you 
 leave a room, all the enemies re spawn. This is both good and bad. It is good because it means 
 that if you get stuck you can go back and kill some creatures. It is bad because in combat you 
 can get quite disorientated and so you end up going to wrong way. This feels more annoying than 
 challenging. The length of the game is good and there are plenty of minigames littered around the 
 game. On top of this there are a large number of collectables that will keep you entertained for 
 much longer. Over all the gameplay is good despite some of the problems.
  
  The music deserves a special mention as it is very good. You will find yourself humming the tunes 
 for where you are at the moment. They do not distract from the game and react to what's happening 
 so builds a sense tension. Also, character design needs recognition too. Some of the characters 
 will make you crack up with laughter, others will make you cry and they all work and develop well 
 in the story. There is no multi-player but that is not surprising and it does not feel like it 
 is a missing element.
  
  In conclusion this is a very good game, with good graphics, fantastic puzzles and a great length. 
 The problem lies with the lack of use of the Wiimote. I think that if you have a Wii and a GC controller, 
 if you can get the GC version cheaper, get that as the Wiimote is not used well enough. The story 
 line has gripped me as I am dieing to find out how some of the characters develop, this is a credit 
 to NIntendo. If you have a Wii, this is a game to get. So much so, it was sold out long after the 
 console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartWii
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda TP is an absolutely amazingly immersive game. It lets you fall into a large 
 story which is epic and memorable. The levels are perfectly designed and the actual puzzles can 
 get really hard but not more than 30 minutes of thinking. The games fighting physics aren't bad 
 but they could have been more into the game However, its still great fun to slash and clash through 
 enemies as they run in. This game blows my mind with its actual longitude. This is probably one 
 of the longest adventure type games. (Not counting MMORPG) If you find this game at a bargain, 
 or are just looking for a way to start your Wii collection..... Definately no thinking about it 
 BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jons271
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Cuando sali&oacute; Ocarina of Time para el Nintendo 64, Nintendo encontr&oacute; una mina de oro, 
 de esta mina de oro han salido todos los juegos de Zelda que siguieron al Ocarina. Y es que &iquest; para 
 que cambiar la f&oacute; rmula que tan buenos resultados da? Y esta f&oacute; rmula es la que se 
 utiliza para Twilight Princess, que aunque no le llega al Ocarina, es de lo mejor que puedes jugar.
 
  
  &iquest; La Leyenda de Zelda? O &iquest; La Leyenda de Midna?
  La historia comienza b&aacute; sicamente como cualquier otra de un juego de aventuras. Link vive 
 tranquilamente en su pueblo hasta que un d&iacute; a lo mandan a un env&iacute; o al castillo de 
 Hyrule, pero antes de que pueda salir de su pueblo, es atacado por unas extra&ntilde; as criaturas 
 que secuestran a los ni&ntilde; os del pueblo y a la ni&ntilde; a de la que Link parece estar enamorado. 
 Al buscar a los culpables Link es convertido en un lobo y ahora se encuentra en una dimensi&oacute; n 
 alterna a la suya. Conforme va pasando la historia conocer&aacute; s a Zelda y Ganon (que en esta 
 ocasi&oacute; n su participaci&oacute; n se ve reducida notablemente) . La acompa&ntilde; ante principal 
 de Link es Midna una extra&ntilde; a criatura  sombra, que es bastante carism&aacute; tica (no como 
 la molesta Navi) . La historia es bastante buena pero un tanto corta como para un juego tan largo. 
 De hecho pasas varios templos sin que haya un avance significativo en la trama y la mayor parte 
 del argumento se desarrolla al final del juego.
  
  La Gracia de Convertirte en Lobo
  Durante lo largo del juego har&aacute; s lo mismo que has hecho en los dem&aacute; s Zeldas, investigar&aacute; s 
 a largo de Hyrule a donde debes ir, entrar&aacute; s al templo en turno, solucionar&aacute; s unos 
 puzzles y derrotar&aacute; s al jefe de la escena y volver&aacute; s a empezar de nuevo. Esto suena 
 un poco mon&oacute; tono pero recuerda est&aacute; s jugando un Zelda as&iacute; que aunque suene 
 mon&oacute; tono no lo es, los puzzles son entretenidos, cuando est&aacute; s fuera de los templos 
 tendr&aacute; s varias cosas que hacer bastante divertidas (aunque no tantas como en otras ocasiones) 
 y los jefes son excelentes (pero un poco f&aacute; ciles) . La nueva atracci&oacute; n son las escenas 
 con Wolf Link que dan un toque novedoso a la serie.
  
  Encuentra Todo lo que Hyrule Tiene por Ofrecer
  La interacci&oacute; n con los non playable characters 
 es menor que en otros juegos de Zelda pero es bastante divertida. Los puzzles como siempre ser&aacute; n 
 resueltos casi en su totalidad por el item del calabozo en cuesti&oacute; n. Y los jefes de proporciones 
 &eacute; picas ser&aacute; n tambi&eacute; n siempre vulnerables a dichos &iacute; tems y al filo de 
 tu espada. Las sidequests siguen presentes, la t&iacute; pica b&uacute; squeda de las piezas de coraz&oacute; n, 
 encontrar unos insectos perdidos por el amplio mundo de Hyrule. Y de nuevo habr&aacute; que encontrar 
 a los Poe. Adem&aacute; s de coleccionar todos los &iacute; tems.
  
  Desenvaina tu Wiimote
  El control es muy bueno aunque pudo haber quedado mejor. Al agitar el Wiimote, Link atacar&aacute; 
 con su espada pero no como t&uacute; muevas el control, es decir t&uacute; puedes hacer mil movimientos 
 distintos pero Link siempre har&aacute; los movimientos ya predeterminados. El Wiimote sirve para 
 controlar la espada y dem&aacute; s &iacute; tems como el arco, el gancho, el boomerang, etc. Mientras 
 el nunchuck sirve para mover el escudo y hacer spin attacks. La c&aacute; mara es impecable y jam&aacute; s 
 tendr&aacute; s la excusa de perder por culpa de ella.
  
  Una Obra de Arte
  Las gr&aacute; ficas est&aacute; n muy bien logradas pero no son nada espectacular para una consola 
 de nueva generaci&oacute; n pero lo que si es extraordinario es el dise&ntilde; o de los personajes 
 y escenarios. Todos los enemigos se ve que fueron muy bien concebidos y esto se nota m&aacute; s 
 a la hora de enfrentar un jefe. Mientras que los personajes no se quedan atr&aacute; s, est&aacute; n 
 muy bien hechos y se ve que pusieron un gran esfuerzo. Los escenarios son impactantes y el nivel 
 de detalle es muy bueno.
  
  Soundtrack &Eacute; pico
  En cuanto a la m&uacute; sica sigue manteniendo la l&iacute; nea que se ha manejado a lo largo de 
 la saga. Las canciones son muy buenas pero en cuanto a la calidad de audio falla un poco. Los efectos 
 sonoros tambi&eacute; n son los tradicionales de la serie. Y como que ya va siendo hora que los 
 personajes hablen en vez de hacer ruiditos.
  
  En conclusi&oacute; n pienso que es excelente t&eacute; cnicamente hablando pero como que le hace 
 falta ese toque de magia que tienen el Ocarina y hasta el Wind Waker, pero es un juego que no debe 
 faltar en la colecci&oacute; n de los videojugadores y menos de los fans de Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of those few game series that gamers will buy no matter the circumstances. 
 Whether the latest game strays off the beaten path or follows the previous title almost exact, 
 gamers will still shell out the dough to get the latest version. The series has that kind of magic, 
 that kind of grandeur, and that kind of hype power. Even with Wind Waker when series creator Shigeru 
 Miyamoto revealed the cel-shahed look, the game became a million seller quickly despite all the 
 criticism and negative feedback. Needless to say, when Twilight Princess was revealed as the first 
 ever mature Zelda the highest expectation were already set into motion, and thankfully the game 
 lives up to the hype and deliver one of the most innovative and engaging titles of 2006.
  
  Originally revealed as a GameCube title, Twilight Princess was constantly delayed to allow more 
 time to fix things, but also allow Nintendo to make a new version for the Wii and launch the game 
 with the new system. This move has made Twilight Princess one of the highest selling launch games 
 in history. Probably the biggest reason as to why Zelda has long been a successful series is the 
 gripping and moving storyline. Although the stories stay relatively the same throughout (Ganon 
 gains control of the Triforce and tries to take over Hyrule) , each title has its own special area 
 of expertise and finesse to offer.
  
  Every game has something new to bring to the table and every new adventure is different from the 
 last. In Twilight Princess case, the story follows young Link as he must deliver goods to Hyrule 
 while working at his home in Ordon. Things soon to go terribly wrong as dark creatures emerge from 
 the ground and start attacking the once peaceful world. Link soon learns of an alternate world 
 known as the Twilight, which an evil sorcerer named Zant is trying to take control of. In doing 
 do, he will than have access to all parts of Hyrule including its people. Link isnt the kind of 
 person to just stand around and watch so of course he steps right into the action and begins his 
 quest.
  
  However, once Link steps into the Twilight world he will take on the attributes of a wolf. His 
 attacks and thoughts remain the same but his physical appearance reflects that of a beast. To 
 help Link in his quest and throughout the Twilight, a young ambitious character named Midna will 
 offer insight and clues on where to go and what to do at any specific moment. While Midna is a 
 funny and welcome change to the dry dialogue, she will get extremely annoying. Similar to Navi 
 from the previous Zelda games, she will just not stop talking and will always interrupt with her 
 annoying nasal voice constantly throughout the entire game. Thankfully though she becomes less 
 of a nuisance later on into the game, but still she irritates even in the most sensual moments. 
 As you continue your journey through the world of Hyrule, you soon find out that the secret to 
 stripping Zant of his power and restoring Hyrule back to normal lies in the various dungeons scattered 
 throughout the land.
  
  Overall, there are a total of nine dungeons throughout, each of them offering their own distinct 
 feel and environments. While the first three are reminiscent of Ocarina of Time (water, fire, and 
 forest temples) , the reaming six are exceptionally well-created and equally epic in size. Every 
 room has a purpose, and ever part of the dungeons may hold some key to unlocking the final doss 
 at the end where the boss waits. Beating the dungeons and getting the secret items is a simple 
 matter, but making it to the desired location is a different matter altogether.
  
  The controls in Twilight Princess are shaky to say the lest. You cant help but notice the tackiness 
 that was thrown together in order to include motion sensing into the game. They work great, but 
 it still feels cheap at certain times. For instance, while innovative, it was not really necessary 
 to make the player wave the controller for every single sword slash. Since the sword is Links 
 primary form of combat, it gets extremely tiring and annoying as you venture further into the game. 
 The Wiimote does use some of the weapons well, for example the bow works great with the precision 
 aiming, and the boomerang works a lot quicker and efficiently than in the past. These new controller 
 techniques help make combat feel more fluent and fast-paced, something that has long been missing 
 in a series where combat took a back seat to exploration.
  
  While in wolf form, players can use the same basic controls to attack as well. The similarities 
 and simplicity of the wolf form make it easy to continue fighting, but perhaps a few minor changes 
 in the controls could have made some things that much more rewarding. Twilight Princess is one 
 of the most visually stunning titles seen in a long time. While the other systems focus more on 
 hardware graphics, Twilight Princess proves that with some magnificent artistic sense, as well 
 as the knowledge to create some unique locations, will make the game worthwhile. It is quite reassuring 
 to note how massive the entire world is, and at first glance the sheer size might overwhelm you.
 
  
  Nothing ever looked more epic or grand than the world in Twilight Princess, and its amazing to 
 see how everything remains at a constant steady pace, with no apparent slowdowns or graphical glitches 
 either. Even the dungeons have some of the most interesting designs in the series history, with 
 one of them taking place inside an Abominable Snowmans mansion atop a mountain. While the game 
 may last a good while, there really is no point of playing it again soon after since the thrill 
 of exploration is lost since everything is known. There are a few mild extras, such as trying to 
 catch every poe or bug in the game, or participating in a secret Cave of Ordeals, which rewards 
 you with unlimited health. Twilight Princess is a great addition to the a series that has long 
 been considered a formidable gaming franchise. Anyone fan of the series, or anyone who is in for 
 a lengthy adventure will no doubt enjoy this game, as it is one of the best Zelda games to come 
 out in years. p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  We have franchises that have been critically acclaimed since day one, making it exceedingly tougher 
 to judge their evolution. When an IP establishes true quality when it breathes first life, most 
 critics tend to be blinded by the ongoing hype, refusing to acknowledge obvious flaws. Perhaps 
 the series most noticeable for this trend in recent years is The Legend of Zelda. Allow me to establish 
 something between you and I. There are thousands out there that won't budge from the notion that 
 Twilight Princess for Wii holds the current timeline crown. While I have enjoyed playing it, I 
 do not adhere to popular opinion. Reasons being, a couple things didn't sit quite well with me, 
 or felt missing altogether.
  
  Before I go on with what is likely going to sound like a rant, let's first dive into the beauty 
 of Twilight Princess. The vast world of Hyrule in the newest Zelda is incredible in sheer scope. 
 The landscape is quite breathtaking, save some blurry textures and blocky objects. Everything else 
 though, is truly a work of art. The attention to detail in Link, his friends and foes, and the 
 dungeons blew me away in a moment's notice. Heck, even the water looks like you can drink it right 
 from the screen. Even the ambience of all those special effects will strengthen your inner Zelda 
 fanaticism, with jaw-dropping fire and memorable battles.
  
  This adventure also has some insane value, with the combined main story and side goodies. For the 
 hardcore, the campaign will run roughly 25 hours give or take, and between 30 and 50 for those 
 experiencing it for the first time. Either way, Twilight Princess is loaded with content, including 
 the fishing and boating activities, and the capturing bugs and Poes quests. Nintendo definitely 
 took time to make sure the thirst of their fans would be quenched with the entire package. Moving 
 along, many Zelda fans will agree that OoT's music is the most attractive. Twilight Princess does 
 feature a number of magnificent original compositions, and a heavier selection of remixes, but 
 Nintendo decided to be a bit lazy in this regard. The game was originally meant to have fully orchestrated 
 themes, however; fans ended up screwed over, as the Big N chose to take the less challenging fork 
 in the road, and use MIDIs instead. Personally I don't have much problem with it, but I'm sure 
 this ends up disappointing a lot of people, asking Why Nintendo, why? Fortunately the sound effects 
 weren't affected in that light, as all of Link's trademark vocalizations have returned, along with 
 all of the great weapon and item sounds. Even the remote speaker adds to the game's immersion, 
 even if it doesn't always sound great. One quip though. It's fine that Link hasn't spoken since 
 1985. But 21 years later, there's technology out there that allows for convenient voice work production, 
 so why didn't Nintendo use it? I think it's time to bring all of Hyrule to life with voice-driven 
 personalities for each character. There can always be a place for text, but as epic as Zelda is 
 meant to be, it's becoming archaic. This issue really makes Castle Town feel more like Ghost Town 
 , even when you free it from the dreaded Twilight. Having only freaky-loo verbal dramatizations 
 is a thing of the past, it just doesn't feel right this time around.
  
  Let's shift focus to the heavily emphasized story. Twilight Princess was being claimed to author 
 the darkest, most mature tale of any Zelda to date. Well, in the grand scheme of things, I think 
 it should be considered more novelistic than anything else. In other words, it's simply a Zelda 
 that tells a better story. Take a closer look though, and you'll notice that half of the narrative 
 is really Ocarina of Time regurgitated. That isn't terrible given that TP is the sequel to the 
 aforementioned, but I wish Nintendo didn't rely so much on their creative dungeons for the game's 
 'wow' factor. In the end, methinks the story could've used a little more distinctive substance 
 to make going after the final battle more enticing. Even so, Twilight Princess supplies with its 
 mix of nostalgia and decent tying together of franchise elements. Now for the most significant 
 aspect, oh yes, the gameplay. What can Wii do for you Zelda? Apparently it can do a lot, however, 
 I think the next franchise release will prove a more befitting console benefactor. At the very 
 basic level, the Wii controllers work wonderfully with Link in both his Hylian and beast forms. 
 The nunchuk conveniently takes care of directional movement, spinning attacks, enemy lock-on, etc. 
 The remote is used for pretty much everything else that involves attacking, pointing and using 
 an item, and selecting something onscreen. Aiming with any new tool functions with intuitive and 
 enjoyable pixel-perfect accuracy. When you're using that bow of yours, no matter what the situation, 
 you'll have some fun, I guarantee it. Actual fighting on the other hand, can be a bit of a mixed 
 bag. Link's lycan form is generally entertaining, but since his abilities never truly evolve, you're 
 stuck with what you initially have. His spin attack and combo with the mysterious Midna provide 
 for some guilty pleasures, but once you've done either, you will another 500 times. The elven side 
 of our hero fares better, with death and destruction raining down with both his sword and shield. 
 There are hidden skills that can be unlocked for further expansion of Link's offensive repertoire, 
 making the punishment of your foes as time progresses more inviting. I could never get enough of 
 Mortal Draw myself, so authoritative! One major gripe I want to point out though, is the evident 
 repetition in your actions. 99% of battle is done via gesturing with the controllers, however; 
 those new skills won't help shake that feeling of 'been there, done that' after you've swung the 
 same sword combo for the umpteenth time. It may make progression slightly boring, but you'll only 
 notice it as much as you want to, since there is so much that one can do in the game. Thankfully, 
 Link's trusted steed, Epona, helps to remedy this problem. It feels very natural and satisfying 
 to both control her movement and attack enemies at the same time.
  
  With another speechless Link, another problematic Zelda, and another villain making things difficult 
 in the timeline, what could possibly be next? It's unfortunate that Twilight Princess' ending left 
 me with more of a You're kidding me, right? letdown more than overall satisfaction. I thought Nintendo 
 could've done a lot more with Midna and the Twilight Realm, but unless Zelda or Link figures out 
 how to repair a certain ancient artifact, chances are that isn't going to happen. A shame really. 
 In any event, we've heard that before Twilight Princess was released for either Nintendo system 
 that the next new Wii Zelda was already in the works. Well, everyone knows that Miyamoto and Aonouma 
 are creative geniuses, so hopefully next time we'll see what Link is truly capable of on the newest 
 gaming revolution. The sky is obviously the limit, so here's to there never being another cloudy 
 day in Hyrule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardo_f0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Este ha sido la mejor odisea de Link!! est&aacute; tan genial... no hay palabras para describir 
 tan hermoso juego!! las Gr&aacute; ficas estan geniales, se defiente, no est&aacute; n tan p&eacute; simas, 
 s defiende, y la m&uacute; sica es lo mejor que ha hecho nintendo... en mi opini&oacute; n ha sido 
 el mejor juego de toda la historia!!! :D
  Este juego es superior comparado con otros de otros consolas, aparte que tiene 20 a&ntilde; os respaldandose 
 con otros Zeldas, a mi criterio este juego es superior a Ocarina of Time, adem&aacute; s que el 
 gameplay en el Wii est&aacute; muy bien, te hace sentir como si fueras link haciendo diferentes 
 cosas como pescar, atacar, lanzar cosas, es lo mejor... ojal&aacute; y nintendo se ponga las pilas 
 para hacer otro juego igual o mejor, aunq tendr&iacute; an que hacer 1000 veces m&aacute; s que este 
 juego para poder igualarlo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RENDALL7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Guys, This game was the main reason I bought the Nintendo Wii, I have finished the game twice, 
 and as far as I can tell it is a nice Zelda Game but is not the best because of Certain factors. 
 Some of then are related to the console and not to the game. One of those factor is the graphics, 
 I was wainting to see High Definition Graphics in this game, but it seemed that the Wii is not 
 able to handle that, so fo that I giving and 8 in graphics, the other reason is becuase this game 
 was made for gamecube they used the same engine and graphics and the only thing thart they did 
 was mirror the game in order to be able to use the Wiimote and make the game to support widescreen 
 displays. The other thing that was improved was the textures, because of the fact that the Wii 
 GPU is better, but not much difference, I notice better graphics until I got the Component cable. 
 No on the other hand we have the sound, first some that I didn't like is that nintendo is still 
 using midis for some of the songs. The other thing is the lacked of 5.1 digital sound. This a 7th 
 generation Era game and is still using prologic II for the sound. This it still sound pretty well, 
 but on the other hand the songs that were used from previous game was a nice touch and that was 
 something that I liked a lot, but I would be better if instead of MIDIS , all the music should 
 be Orchestrated. But it seemed that Nintendo got some limitation at the moment that the game was 
 done.
  
  Now for the Value i gave an 8 becuase some of the thing of the game are from previous game and 
 that why at some point the game becomes to easy or boring.
  
  My conclution is that this is a great Zelda game with a couple of things that should be improve 
 in order to have the perfect game. I hope that for the next Nintendo console we will seen another 
 Perfect game as Ocarina of the time was when Nintendo 64 was release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda TP is by far the best game for the wii yet. This game his highly addicting and 
 fun, with lots of things to do and tricky stuff too. Graphics- Who gives a crap, if you like the 
 wii then you dont mind having Gears of War graphics.
  
  Gameplay- the best gameplay for the wii system yet it controls so smoothly unlike Red Steel, the 
 story is great and what a adventure it is!
  
  Sound- Does anybody care unless its 20 seconds late lol My Opinion- Well i did not find being the 
 wolf that fun but being Link if very enjoyful, my opinion BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of the longest running and best RPG series in video game history. Now 
 the newest entry in the series has made it's way onto the Wii, and Twilight Princess doesn't disappoint. 
 This Zelda game takes on a much darker tone than past entries. It should also be noted that Twilight 
 Princess is the first Zelda game to get a Teen rating for animated blood.
  
  The story centers on a darkness that is covering Hyrule. You start the game playing as a teenage 
 Link, and eventually you become trapped in the Twilight Realm. In this realm, Link takes on the 
 form of a wolf and meets up with Midna an impish creature that aides Link throughout the game. 
 Later in the game you can switch between wolf and Link forms. It's a very well crafted story, and 
 will please long-time fans of the series.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in Zelda is hit or miss on the Wii. Some of it is well designed, while other parts 
 feel dated. But overall it's mostly good. This is the same gameplay engine that has been used since 
 the Ocarina of Time. The only noticeable difference is the addition of support for the Wii's remote. 
 This allows the player to control Link in combat in a way that has never been done before. A slash 
 of the remote will cause Link to do the same with his sword. While this does allow for a more interactive 
 experience, the rest of the gameplay feels dated.
  
  It's not all bad, though. In fact, although the gameplay feels old, it's not really a bad thing 
 because it works. It just leaves me wanting something newer. The controls are still solid, and 
 the battles are fun. It will take some getting used to the Wii's control setup, but once you do 
 it's an absolute past. You'll jump, use items, and fight in pretty much the same way as you did 
 in the last couple Zelda games. I just wish it were easier to control the camera. When you enter 
 into a first person view, you can use the remote to change your view. But you can't do this when 
 in third person, which means you'll be pressing the Z button a lot on the nunchuk to center the 
 camera behind link.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Zelda is lacking in visual quality from a technical point of view, but it more than makes up for 
 this artistically. Because the game was designed for the Gamecube, it's technically a port to the 
 Wii. This makes the graphics not as sharp as they could have been.
  
  However, Twilight Princess has a unique style to the graphics. It's dark, and probably one of the 
 saddest Zelda games that has ever been made. All the characters are well designed (especially wolf 
 Link) , and there's a great sense of distance and scale in the environments. This pulls you into 
 the game, and makes the low poly-count visuals easier to forgive.
  
  SOUND
  This has always been a strong point for the Zelda series, and is no exception here. The music is 
 masterfully performed, and as always, helps set the mood. The sound effects are good as well, and 
 help you feel like you part of the action. The only thing I didn't like was the sounds from the 
 remote speaker. They tended to be much too loud, and distorted. I'm not sure if this was a problem 
 with the game, or if the speaker in the remote just isn't high quality. But this is a minor flaw 
 with now brilliantly everything else sounds.
  
  VALUE
  Like most Zelda games, Twilight Princess is a lengthy adventure. It will probably take you 30+ 
 hours to complete on your first play through. There are also many hidden items, mini-games, and 
 secrets to find. But for the most part, one play through is enough for most people.
  
  Twilight Princess is a great addition to the Zelda franchise. It may feel dated in a few areas, 
 but this is easily forgiven because of the great presentation. I just wish that next time they 
 would update the gameplay engine, and add a few more new features like the time mode from Majora's 
 Mask. Twilight Princess is the darkest Zelda game in the series, and this allows them to tell perhaps 
 the greatest story thus far in the series. Just goes to show that Zelda still has it where it counts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fears_God767
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Yup like one time this guy walked up and called me pretentious, well not really..... but if you 
 look at it in a funny little perfect way you see........ that I dont know pretentious means.... that 
 buetiful letdown me. But i do know that this game is an exelent little baby brother (or sister..... or 
 cousin.... or intergalactic martian pet if you will) of Ocarina of Time. IT , that's right it , 
 holds true to this exelent series. The gameplay is like it's 3d predecessors. Great... and exactly 
 the same, if you used to swing your N64 controler when trying to kill something. Swing! you injure 
 your enemy! Swing! you knock him down! AND SWING!!!! There goes your dry wall. The motion sensitivity 
 is near flawless. I mean what other home game lets you aim with a remote to shoot your arrows? 
 I mean this is the true next gen.......... oh wait the graphics.... Come on nintendo! sure we can 
 live with the same graphics for the time being but you want us to live with the same graphics for 
 two whole generations?! Well, I guess there not all bad...... for now. I mean the water is really 
 cool and some of the people are nice to look at..... and than there is others...... well there not 
 important. The sound is really good if you turn off your Wiimote speakers. If you dont you'll hear 
 an array of blurry sound affects that struggle out of a primitive speaker to squeeze into your 
 unfortunate ears. The story starts off strong with a strong cast of characters, but left me with 
 an unsatisfaction in the end....... maybe I just played to much Kingdom Hearts while you were gone 
 Zelda. Anyway I expected alot more character development. I mean whats the point of having billionaire 
 actors if your not gonna use them right? Some, if not all, of the dungeons are pretty boring, but 
 are satisfied with cool boss battles. Other than that there are little flaws in this game other 
 than little annoying things (Was that fairy aimer necassary? And where the heck is the voice acting? 
 (no i dont mean link talking) ) (that would suck) (SHUDDUP!) This game is worth every penny you pay 
 for it with it's long lasting value. I mean it took me 90 hours of gameplay time to finish it. 
 SO overall this game is worth playing and I recommend it to all you funny little Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  My first Zelda game. My friends all had a N64 and told me that Ocarina of Time was the best Zelda 
 game ever and always will be. When I was lucky enough to open up a Wii on Christmas day, I rushed 
 out to by Zelda the next day. I wanted to prove my friends wrong. Twilight Princess is the best. 
 And I wasnt wrong.
  
  TP is almost perfection. Everything about it is great. The interaction, the amazing storyline, 
 its like playing a movie. For the next Zelda on Wii, they could only improve by adding more motion 
 sensing gestures instead of waving it about. Possibly update the graphics, even though they were 
 amazing on a HDTV. Best looking game on the Wii so far. And did I mention that you could spend 
 100+ hours on it? I dont really have any negative comments to say about TP. It is the best game 
 I have ever played, and it IS the best Zelda ever. Looks like I proved me friends wrong afterall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  The game is great!
  Fun! Immersive! Challenging! And yet i feel as if im playing an attempted re-make of the legendary 
 Ocarina of Time...
  
  This game at parts can be confusing and i know thats in Zelda tradition to include things like 
 time, space, light and dark and so on but the whole swaping and changing and flipping and turning 
 really went a bit far i think.
  
  Sometimes i feel like the controls are just there to say,
  
  Hey look at us we're Wii Remotes 
 and we can make your character do THIS! 
  
  And im just thinking... i COULD swipe to the left of the screen and have my character do a swipe 
 to the RIGHT of the screen... OR
  
  i could just press a button...
  
  It is a great game though and i do recommend it im just saying FAT CHANCE to ANYONE who thinks 
 they can make a better SP-RPG then OCARINA OF TIME
  
  thanks for readin
  
  tom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  I never really played Zelda before in my life and Twilight Princess is my first Zelda game I actually 
 ever play in my life. I just heard a lot of rumor that this game is really good. First time I I 
 started to play this game I was not really impressed. I found some of Link movement is really stiffs 
 and also no voice acting is something that developers should do these days. I was not impressed 
 at all and I found that the in game graphic was mediocre. After playing like 2 hours this game 
 started to grow on me. I have to admit that it was quite slow for me to actually start liking the 
 game because I have never been a big Zelda fan to begin with. After learning several combat moves 
 and riding Epona I was starting to see what other players see. Hyrule is so vast and you can explore 
 it on foot or by riding Epona. I found the in-game story was quite slow in beginning but after 
 couple hours of playing the game started to grow on me. You will find that the story is actually 
 really interesting and really well implemented I have to say. Some people say that the gameplay 
 mechanic is a bit tacky but I find it really well implemented. The graphic of the game is actually 
 great even though Wii is less superior to its competitors such 360 and ps3. I can say that this 
 has to be the most beautiful game in Wii so far. The game gives you freedom to explore Hyrule even 
 though there is still some quest you have to finish in order to unlock certain area and other quest 
 or the main story itself. In here Link also have a feral form which is a wolf and it has all different 
 complete set of attacking moves and abilities If there is one thing that I don't like about this 
 game, it will be the sound. One, sometimes I found that the wii remote crackled in some part of 
 the game and also some of dialogue with non voice acting can be quite annoying.
  
  If you own a Wii, and you are looking for a great adventure game that has a great story line, gorgeous 
 graphic, and great game play mechanic this is definitely a must-buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game had a lot to live up to, considering I feel Ocarina of Time is the greatest 
 video game ever made. In many ways it lives up to my expectations but it also comes up a Wii bit 
 short at the same time. O. K. lets get the negative out of the way first. The sound is not up to 
 the epic standard that I would hold a game of this caliber. I can handle reading the text but there 
 should be some sort of sound made. For instance Midna's character has sound when she says something 
 but no one else does. I think this is why I became more involved with her character. I feel that 
 it is time Nintendo put voice acting into their games to give it more life and further add to the 
 epic feel that they are able to acheive with this series. This game also played it safe with how 
 similar this game and OOT are. While the bosses are eye pleasing and most take up the entire screen 
 I felt most were entirely to easy. There were a few things I missed in this game that OOT had. 
 You will not find the light, fire, or ice arrows. Also the magic that surrounds your hearts to 
 lesson the damage is now gone, which I guess is fine since the game is quite easy. The are really 
 only two different tunics in the game (I never once used the Magic Armor) . I always enjoyed discovering 
 the Great Fairies but they are pretty much thrown in as an afterthought in TP. There are also only 
 two shields and two swords to discover which I found disappointing, especially the third shield. 
 I also don't know why you can only get up to 1000 rupees because I was constantly putting them 
 back in chests because I was always full. This game really makes me realize how ahead of its time 
 OOT really was. I can see why gamespot reviewed it higher even today. Although gamespots review 
 is to low. If I had to make a choice between the two today I would have to take OOT as much as 
 I hate to say that. Alright that is enough bad talk because this game really is awesome and one 
 hell of a launch game.
  
  As far as action adventure games go TP is one of the best. The quest will take you anywhere from 
 40 to 70 hours depending on how many of the games secrets you wish to find. Trust me there are 
 many and most are cleverly thought out. The controls on the Wii are excellent, playing Zelda the 
 old way now makes the combat feel dated. I also enjoyed being able to play as the wolf, especially 
 later in the game when you could freely switch between wolf and human. This added to the gameplay 
 and made the puzzles that much more clever. Also traveling in this Zelda is easier than in the 
 past, you just warp to the different areas in Hyrule. The mini games are more fun than in previous 
 Zelda's especially thanks to the Wii controls. Fishing games need to take notes because I could 
 spend hours at the pay lake in this game. I felt this game did get better as it went, it starts 
 off fairly slow in my opinion. The are plenty of dungeons and each one is very fun to navigate. 
 The graphics are the best I have seen on the Wii by far. Hyrule has never looked so lush and beautiful 
 as it does in TP. The last fight with Ganon is also very cool and actually lives up to the epic 
 last battle that OOT had. The story while still very much Zelda was very good. There are a couple 
 of new items that were clever and fun to use. The spinner reminded me of the track riding morph 
 ball in Metroid.
  
  Overall you will not be disappointed with Twilight Princess because it is a wonderful adventure 
 that you will make you feel like you really accomplished something when it is all over. A game 
 I am sure to go through again. But I would have to say it is the third best Zelda of all time slighty 
 behind; A Link to the Past and Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestroyAllNoobs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  So, the Gamecube era ended and the Wii era started. What we have seen from Nintendo in terms of 
 games lately in the Gamecube era was prettly lousy. Repetitive Mario Party and Mario sports games 
 flooded the Gamecube market for about 2 years, with no really good game released by them...
  
  Well, these two years are OVER!
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (aka Ocarina 
 of Time 2.0) is actually the same concept, yes, true, but shows it with a fresh face that attracted 
 lots and lots of new players, while giving a delicious treat to the already fans of the green clad 
 Master Swordsman. I still don't know how some reviewers (hello there, Yoshiman23!) rate the game 
 low when their review can really tell us they didn't even go outside Link's homeland, Ordon Village. 
 The good thing about the game is that it gets better every second you go further.
  
  About the whole OoT 2.0 thing, yes, we are seeing something similar, but we know that concept and 
 gameplay actually worked.
  
  The story grows strong and interesting every minute you play. After Ordon, fans of OoT will start 
 seeing links between TP and OoT, as apparently, TP is set 100 years later from OoT.
  
  So now, the reason of my grade:
  Gameplay: It worked to perfection, the only thing it becomes 
 a 9 is that it has hardly changed since OoT. It still DOESN'T mean is good.
  
  Graphics: Wii has a brand new potencial for graphics! FOR WII, graphics are excellent, though it 
 can do better, but for now, Wii has just started. Later on we'll see developers taking full advantage 
 of the console.
  
  Sound: Not as cool as the rest of the game: sinthetized music, unclear Wiimote sounds. The music 
 composition is great, though, but for an epic game as TP NEEDS orchestral music.
  
  Value: Besides from the great experience I, personally, had playing it, we can know Nintendo really 
 put an effort on the quality of the game because of the time they took making it. For a GC closer, 
 and a Wii starter, the game is almost perfect. Fo a game in general is veeeeery good, still. Tilt: 
 The story is very good, and as a fan, I confirmed the high hopes I had on this game.
  
  Conclusion: Some review magazines and sites rated it GOTY. Well, they were right, along with GoW, 
 Zelda is the greatest game of all during the year. For the comeback of Nintendo's good games since 
 Nintendogs (it was really not perfect, but it was good) , this game is excellent, and most players 
 loved it. I hope Nintendo uses this game as a STANDARD for the rest of its games. In my opinion 
 the best in series along with OoT.
  
  TOTAL SCORE: 9.3 - SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got my my Nintendo Wii when it first came out, and this is a great starting 
 game, and great game it self might I add. The controls are smooth, graphics are gorgous, and the 
 music is awsome. But is it the greatest Zelda game? I say, its not, Orcarina of Time was better 
 by far, and I know this will sound wierd, but I think Majora's Mask was better then all of them. 
 But this game comes before Orcarina of Time, and Majora's Mask. It would have been better if this 
 was a direct sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robzan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I think everybody know what this game is all about, so instead of telling you about the game, i'm 
 gonna tell you my opinion on what is good in this game, and of course, what's bad. I'm going to 
 divide into + and -. I'll start with the bad things.
  
  - Too easy bosses, and easy to predict how to fight them. Those who played it, you know what i 
 mean.
  - The remote sound. Awful. :S
  - This may not be a -, but the controls wasn't that revolutionary as I thought.
  
  Oh, that 
 was fast! But in fact, it's hard to find bad stuffs about this game! Now to the good part!
  
  + What I found interesting in TP, was that the characters got stronger personality then in 
 any other Zelda game before. OK, I know it wasn't possible in the first Zelda's, but here you learn 
 to know the main character really good, and that's a +.
  + The music. Nostalgic old songs combined with new wonderful songs, that I know is going to be 
 nostalgic in the future.
  + The controls. Maybe they wasn't so revolutionary, but I think that was good, cause they are so 
 natural. I can't think of how it would be going back and aim your arrow with an analog stick! Also, 
 I found the controls good when it comes to sword fight; when you wanna do a Shield attack, it does, 
 and when you wanna do a Spin attack, it does.
  + The puzzles are as fun and challenging as always.
  + When you have spent those 30, 50 or 70 
 h on finish the game, it's still so much to do: Get the biggest Quiver, Wallet, collect all Poes 
 ect. This is a game that will keep you busy for a long time.
  + Now it isn't just the boomerang, bow and bombs; Twilight Princess got new weapons!
  + In this 
 Zelda game Hyrule isn't just great designed, it's also, what should I say, big?
  + TP got really nice graphics, in any case if you remember that this is a launch game.
  + Good 
 combination between temple playing and... the other.... :)
  
  In other words; Twilight Princess is amazing.
  
  So, I think that was it. Maybe you can not 
 call this a review, this is more like a... Discussion starter. ;) Anyway, i'm open for discussion. 
 If you disagree with something, or just wanna discuss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has been a big piece of my life since Link's Awakening on the Gameboy. 
 The story that unfolded in that game, plus the control and gameplay kept me going until I got to 
 play Ocarina of Time, which became one my top games, 16 times beaten and still enjoyable, that's 
 how good Ocarina is. Finally a Zelda game that gets to have the same map idea (mirrored of course 
 on Wii) as that masterpiece version of Hyrule. The graphics, though only GC in quality are still 
 visually stunning, showing that you don't need HD to enjoy the graphics of a game. The water effects 
 are beautiful, the character models are great, and the familiar sights really help with the Ocarina 
 of Time feel. The sound is good, both when using and not using the Wii-mote speaker, though the 
 actual sound quality is a bit better when the Wii-mote speaker is turned off for this one. The 
 controls work well, and really help draw the player in. A great story, with great characters. This 
 game is a wonderful starting point for the Wii console. The tight responsive crontrolls that don't 
 require the movement sensors are the same goodness of OoT, but seriously, how could that be any 
 more perfect? On a side note I would like to make a comment on the fact that Zelda retains it's 
 text style talking. I prefer this, I mean if they got voice actors, chances are the game would 
 end up ruined from crappy voice acting. Remember Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children, people are 
 still complaining on the voice acting by some of the actors on that. Do we really want to have 
 those conversations about a Zelda title? I don't, I'd rather have the text, at least then I can 
 imagine the voice of the character, instead of being stuck with some voice actor who either can't 
 pull the weight or tries too hard.
  
  While the game isn't perfect, people need to look at the production history to understand why. 
 This game was a GC title throughout development,, near the launch they decided to make it Wii title 
 as well when the Wii was announced. They didn't have a lot of time to truly make the game use the 
 Wii to the fullest. Even so it's defenately the strongest Wii launch title, and truly worthy of 
 the Zelda legacy, as well as a place in the top 5 Zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The Legend of Zelda - Twilight Princess was original designed for the gamecube, so the graphics 
 are essentialy gamecube graphics. They are good but Wii can do much better.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Wii remote and nunchuck can do miracles and they have done a miracle, if you play zelda on 
 gamecube it will not be as fun as if you play it for the Wii.
  It feels great just to walk threw the scenario slashing the grass with your Wii remote, its great 
 to feel like you are really slashing your enemies.
  The gameplay is just great with the Wii remote.
  
  Sound:
  
  The overall sound in zelda 
 its good, I just don't like the sound from the Wii remote.
  
  Life time:
  
  Like any RPG zelda will take you many hours of your life.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Twilight 
 Princess its the best zelda ever, but we can't forget ocarina of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsome8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  i've got twilight princess and its a really really great game. Its hard to which makes it a bit 
 annoying but awesome still. The motion sensor makes you feel like you're really there and so does 
 the rumble. im trying to get up to the temple in the sky but i can't find the cannon!!!!! It's 
 really hard for me but the temples are a bit easy to me. but when i have completed a temple and 
 are looking for the next 1 its kinda hard. so i think this is the best game ever. (i wonder what 
 all the items are????) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  On of the best Wii games and better graphics. But the worse thing is that you compare games beetwen 
 XBOX or PS3 to Wii this game lose for a very long way. The water and the people on there is very 
 well designed but only if you compare with a past Generation game
  
  Sound
  
  The song and music is the same of past Zelda games, infortundly this is a reflex of 2 things. 1.- 
 Is boring 2,. And is maybe for a lazy composer that refuse to make new songs
  
  Taking about the Value leave you in shock because Zelda was in other time a great game ( since 
 N64 ) But know is a title that leave you empty and maybe very boring.
  
  Buy it if only you like the same games again, and again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentspin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is great, especially the balance of fighting and puzzles. the only problem 
 is that in some places when midna gives u hints on where u should go, its like reading riddles.
 
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are great, but if u have fun with the game, u wont care about the graphics.
 
  SOUND: for me, i think there should be different music besides past Zelda games music.
  Overall this is a great game. this is a must have game if u have the wii. It could have been better 
 if there was voice acting (kidding) .
  this game is the best in its franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  It's been so long since the Zelda series has seen the light of day. Many fans have waited for countless 
 years for a Zelda game that would get as much hype as Ocarina of Time. NOw it's finally here. Was 
 it worth the wait. YEAH IT WAS!
  
  The vast land of Hyrule is detailed to the last pixel. The cold gloomy night, scorching sun, the 
 heavy rains, the flesh ripping blizzard, all the weather effects greatly contribute to the detailed 
 enviroment. The towns also look very nice, there is alot to see and do in each town. There are 
 numerous dungeons in Twilight Princess, from the depths of Lake Hylia, to the scorching fires of 
 Goron mountain. Every dungeon has a vast numbers of puzzles for you to solve, they're not too hard, 
 but they're not too easy either. Each dungeon cleverly makes use of the weapons you get in the 
 game. This is a game where you actually have to use your brain. Which is good for some people, 
 and bad for others. The boss battles are easy, if you know how to control the new weapon you got 
 in the dungeon, then you already know how to kill the boss. You will proabably feel more relaxed 
 at the boss fight then when you started the actual dungeon. But the bosses are detailed, fun to 
 fight, and require different strategies/weapons to defeat. The gameplay has made a HUGE improvement 
 since the N64 Zelda. Link doesn't just swing his sword now, he can shield bash, roll around an 
 enemy and do an upward slash, he can shove his sword into the gut of a knocked out opponent, he 
 actually has a new variety of moves now which can be learned by finding howling stones. They're 
 are a variety of weapons such as the Hero's Bow, Clawshot, Spinner, and Gale Boomerang. Each weapon 
 is incredibly useful anywhere you go. They're also fun to play around with.
  
  Overall The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the greatest games of all time, it will 
 surely be remembered in the future when Nintendo makes another new system. If you need a reason 
 to buy the Wii, this is it right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jmac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  People ask me why I love the Legend of Zelda games so much, and I've found, ever since the fateful 
 day I played A Link To The Past when I was a wee-lad of 9, the answer to their question is always 
 the same.
  
  I dont complete Zelda games, Zelda games complete themselves. 
  
  Zen? I guess. True? Yes. Let me explain:
  
  Games like Twilight Princess ASK the player to 
 come along with them on this ride you're taking. The story begins, and progresses, relationships 
 are developed, and then you're at the end... almost like a movie. The player is taking the place 
 of an audience. Combine this with a gameplay engine that may have been the greatest ever (Ocarina 
 of Time N64) , and one has the recipe for a masterpiece. The ride I took whilst playing Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess will NEVER be forgotten. This is a ride that everyone with a Wii, or a 
 Gamecube should take, and absorb every second of. Gamers? Rejoice, for one of the best games you'll 
 ever play has arrived.
  
  Gameplay and Controls:
  
  As you'd expect, outstanding. I'll focus more on the Wii control scheme here, because it was something 
 I was INCREDIBLY skeptical about when I first heard that TP was coming to the Wii for launch date. 
 And I was surprised of how seemless the Wii controls were integrated into the game, even so late 
 into the development. Swordfighting is the major difference... I actually felt like I was swinging 
 a sword, not pressing a button, and that was a very WEIRD feeling at first, and when you get used 
 to it, its better than a button ever could be. I'll touch on graphics here too, because although 
 this is a Gamecube Port, it looks BETTER than anything on the Wii so far, especially with the component 
 cables I have. If you have a TV that's capable of supporting these component cables, dont play 
 Twilight Princess without them... the colours absolutely leap off the Television while you play. 
 So how does this game differ from the other Zelda games in the series? There's a few pro's and 
 cons:
  
  I'll say right now, the dungeons in Twilight Princess are absolutely OUTSTANDING. There's 11 of 
 them I believe... or 9 or 10... but that's a lot compared to the other Zelda games we've had in the 
 past. The Dungeons really reminded me of A Link to the Past, in the fact they were numerous, and 
 they were FUN! I'm not a big Dungeon Fan... or at least I wasn't.... dungeons were always something 
 to me that got in the way of the story. No longer. Dungeons have been made fun again, in the way 
 that they're more unconventional this time around. A Mansion turned into a dungeon instead of the 
 normal cave dungeon one example of the great surprises in this one. The bosses get better and better 
 as you progress through the game, and those same bosses provide some of the coolest-moments in 
 video-games this year, or ever. That's NOT an exaggeration. Having said that however, my one complaint 
 is that the bosses were far too easy in Twilight Princess... give us a steeper curve on them, and 
 I'll be one happy camper. But the bosses.... taking up so much of the screen... the scale will blow 
 your MIND. All I can say is amazing controls, and a PERFECT gameplaying system that has only been 
 improved up here. Top Notch.
  
  Music and Sound:
  
  To be honest, a dissapointment. Koji Kondo, who may be the best in the business comes up huge again. 
 Where I was dissapointed however, was in the production value of the music. Where's the fully Orchestrated 
 Score?! A game like this NEEDS one. When one is becoming fully immersed in a fantasy world, an 
 orchestrated score would have done wonders, but sadly I was let down. Having said that, the themes 
 and sounds are incredible. There's some amazing themes in this game, my favourites being the Lake 
 Hylia theme, and the Kakariko village theme. I find myself humming them, even now a few weeks after 
 I've beaten the game, and I'm STILL looking for a soundtrack (if you know where I can buy one, 
 message me.) But once again, Koji... you're the king. Next time however, give us a fully orchestrated 
 score to salivate the music nerds like me out there.
  
  Impressions:
  
  I'm not going to give away spoilers, obviously. But the character of Midna may be the most full 
 and enjoyable character in a video game I've ever seen. Not to sound weird, but this game during 
 the credits actually brought tears to my eyes. It is THAT GOOD. No game ever has hit an emotional 
 cord with me, as this game has... even Ocarina or anything else I've ever played in my long gaming 
 career. The scale, from going to a lowly farm-hand in Ordon Village, to the big-leagues in the 
 castles at the end... all I can say is that Twilight Princess is an absolute Epic. The environment 
 in the last dungeon literally made my jaw drop (probably the 100th time in the game that jaw-dropping 
 occured) The characters, Link... Zelda, Midna, all of them... I will miss them all until the next 
 time we meet in the future, which will be years from now. The story of the Twilight Princess will 
 endure, and is a benchmark in gaming history, in a controlling-sense. Every gamer, fanboys and 
 non-fanboys alike, should play this game. Invest the time, and accomplish something... solving puzzles, 
 beating dungeons... THIS is what video games are about. Do yourself a favour, and play through it, 
 because you wont be dissapointed. I personally guarantee that.
  
  The Legend of the Twilight Princess goes down in my books, as one of the most fun and entertaining 
 games I've ever played. This game gives the player (or audience) a sense of accomplisment as you 
 play through it... solving task by task, until the larger scale battles and problems start to happen, 
 and characters' mysterious pasts are slowly revealed to the player.
  
  Like I said, you're just along for the ride. You don't complete Zelda games, Zelda games complete 
 themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowwow27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  if u have a wii, get this game. it rocks! very hard to put down, and lots of fun to play through, 
 even if it isnt too hard. the visuals are great, the story is top notch, and has tons of replay 
 value, definately worth any players time, shoot i havent had this much fun playing a game in years. 
 the only people who didnt like this game were overpaid losers who think it isnt cool to play anything 
 that doesnt have realistic violence or nfl licenses. i think sony or microsoft paid u guys off 
 to review it so low. it may not be super original, but hell its got all the same things i like 
 about all the old zeldas mixed into one fantastic package. buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlink517
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess somehow manages to capture the essence of past titles, such 
 as Ocarina of Time, A Link to the Past, Majora's Mask, and Wind Waker, all the while creating a 
 whole new, emersive experience.
  
  Whether you are fishing, fighting on horseback, doing sidequests and minigames, or sticking to 
 the story, there is never a shortage of things to do in Twilight Princess; with over 50+ hours 
 of gameplay, you'll definately need to set aside time to go on a Hytherian adventure.
  
  Graphically (though it was initially made for the Gamecube) , Twilight Princess has some of the 
 most breathtaking scenery available in a Gamecube game; realism was definitely a graphical focus 
 for the developers, and the game looks great as a result.
  
  The Twilight Princess soundtrack is an epic one; from powerful songs to spine-chillingly beautiful 
 songs, this game has it all. On certain occasions you will even hear renditions of songs from previous 
 titles that make it so you can't help but feel nostalgic and get game flashbacks . The Wii controller's 
 speaker is also a nice touch; when you pull out your bow and arrow and press the B button to pull 
 it back, you can hear the string getting taught, and on certain occasions you can hear Midna beckoning 
 you to perform some action, or to give you a hint.
  
  The dungeons are challenging, and there will most likely be more than one occasion in which you 
 get temporarily stuck trying to figure out a solution. They are by no means impossible, however. 
 I recall getting frustratedly stuck in Ocarina of Time's Water Temple, but thankfully I had no 
 such frustration in Twilight Princess. Like the dungeons, the bosses are more fun to fight than 
 difficult to beat, which can either be a negative thing or a positive thing depending on your perspective. 
 Would you rather have a fun, but challenging experience playing a game, or are you looking for 
 a hard game? If the latter is true, then you may be disappointed, but if you answered yes to the 
 former, then I think you'll be pleasantly pleased.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an instant classic that deserves to be on every 
 Wii owner's game shelf (or drawer, or pile, or whatever it is you use) . I haven't personally played 
 the Gamecube version, but since they're exactly the same, you can expect that this review will 
 apply to that version as well. Despite some of the negative comments this game has received, it's 
 a solid game that nearly everyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzero14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  i think zelda TP was an amazing game that gamespot underated its has amazing graphics interesting 
 story line and good gameplay. i loved the new items in the game like the spinny top and the double 
 clawshot and the dominion rod. Also i liked the way how there was so much space to ride ur horse 
 and i also loved the new monsters and boss and my fav boss was the boss in the 3rd temple and also 
 i liked the new link and all the new characters .so all in all this is an amazing game with some 
 amazing graphics interesting story line and one hell of a game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Nintendo fans waited months for the release of the Wii and Z: TP, we waited 
 and got what we wanted, 100%. Link has returned with new weapons and a new storyline to wow us 
 again. The graphics are amazing; you can see each fibre on Link's hero's clothes, each chain on 
 his armour. The sound track is legendary (excuse the pun) gamers hear the familiar music and think 
 back to good times, and even new gamers hear the music and know that this music means good times 
 with TP. Although there is no voice acting this would only spoil the Zelda experience. But the 
 most important thing in any game is game play. Wolf link, the link you will play as in the twilight, 
 gives two sides to the game, like a second character with different moves. I found wolf link to 
 be dull at first and was bored playing the first section as wolf link. However i have started to 
 warm up to link's other side and am enjoying the twist. Human link will not disappoint. From the 
 outset you will enjoy playing but as your arsenal improves things can only get better. You will 
 find your self hanging from the ceiling shooting your bow at magnetic crocodiles and zooming across 
 a cage with your clawshot. Nintendo have not left anything untouched or imperfect.
  
  This game is an instant classic and it will be on the shelves for a very long time. Well done Nintendo 
 you've done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooglegeneral1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  i had been waiting for this game to come out for 2 years and when it final did i was without the 
 money for a wii. i finally got one and heres my review of twilight princess
  
  this game starts off in a forest village ( as it should ) and is really slow for about the first 
 hour. but as you get into the story its start to improve. i dont like that they took out some of 
 the thing that have been in almost every zelda game, such as the ocarina, the dekus, navi, and the 
 gold skultulas have been replaced with lame bugs. the story line is compeling and will keep you 
 interested to see what happens next. it gets even better as you delve into the twilight realm and 
 gain diferent abilities. the characters are pretty much the same. link still dosnt say much and 
 as always everybody in town loves him.
  
  the gameplay is fun with the twist given by the wii remote and it really gets you into the game. 
 some of the thing you have to do feel repetitive and boring but thats a tiny detail. overall its 
 fun and a must for any wii owner (after all why else do you get a wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game takes the Legend of Zelda formula and breaths some new life into it. The graphics my be 
 a bit dated they are still to notch. Especially for the Wii and Gamecube. What I loved the most about 
 the graphics is the graphical presentation in the Twilight realm. It`s what you would expect from 
 a place that is called the *Twilight* realm. It has a dark, gloomy, and sometimes frightening presentation 
 and atmosphere. The gameplay also rocks. For the Wii version you just swing the remote around to 
 preform a basic slash or thrust it forward to preform a stab. Or you could shift the nunchuck extension 
 from side to side to preform a spin attack. Although the controls sometimes don`t respond right 
 away (especially for the spin attack) it should not bother you that much. But the controls for the 
 weapons are excellent. They respond quite quickly. And they are just plain fun to use. The dungeons 
 are pretty straight forward and the puzzles are not that hard but you will usually find one or 
 two that will stump you for a while. The dungeon bosses are not that hard either which is a shame 
 but that does not mean that they won`t give you any bit of a challenge. The sound is quite good, especially 
 the sound of the twilight creatures voices. It makes them appear a bit more threatening and frightening. The 
 music is also quite enjoyable. Although some of the music is borrowed from the previous Zelda games 
 it`s still fun to listen to, but after a while it does get a bit boring. But what I love about the 
 sound is the sound of the of the weapons as you use them. Weather it the chain rattling of the chain 
 from the ball and chain or the arrow as you release it. This game is very long yet enjoyable every 
 step of the way, while other games lose their appeal after a few hours. You won`t unlock anything 
 new if you play the game over again but then again why would you play a game that`s over 40+ hours 
 long over again. For a game that`s $60 you would be getting you moneys worth and maybe even more. Overall 
 this game deserves the title of The Legend of Zelda in its name, it`s a very long game that will 
 keep you busy for a long time, the graphics are top notch, the gameplay is fun and fresh on both 
 console versions of the game, and the sound is good although it borrows quite a bit from previous 
 Legend of Zelda games. So, now the question is do I recommend it. Of course I recommend it. I recommend 
 it to anybody thats a fan of the Zelda series, who would like a long adventure game, or to anybody 
 who owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightgamet
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its like Ocarina of Time except the Wii-mote makes even better. Ive never used something 
 like it before and I get to enjoy the game a lot more because of it. Also the puzzles are always 
 great, but this game brought it up a notch.
  
  Story: Zelda: Twilight Princess takes a darker tone, but it still has its quarks and fun. Your 
 not going to believe what happens toward the end (Hey I was pretty shocked werent you?) .
  
  Graphics: Sadly it looks like it can run on the Gamecube, but who said graphics were everything 
 right? Even though it was nothing spectacular, you forgive it with the awesome gameplay it delivers.
 
  
  Sound: As always great memorable music with the old theme in there as well. However the only thing 
 that was the missing, was the voices. You might not agree, but I wish Link actually talks as well 
 as the characters in the game. Theres also the way the enemies sound. Some of them sound really 
 out of place and annoying at times. Value: Fishing, Archery, Horseback, Mini-games, Missing Items, 
 etc, etc, do I need to say more? Reviewers Tilt: As you can guess, I didn't really like this game. 
 I think it has to do with the fact that it feels unfinished and what feels as if it was a test 
 run. It also missed some things that made a typical Zelda game (Magic, 3rd Shield, Hookshot - Okay 
 fine the Clawshot is the same) .
  
  Other complaint (s) :
  - Zelda doesnt really feel all that important.
  
  - Why is Ganondorf even in this game?
 
  - The blue tunic is ugly...
  The cool Stuff:
  - Midna  a sassy character that Link takes orders from (!!)
  - Turning into a Wolf
  - Riding 
 on your horse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicfan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Buy it if your a Zelda Fanatic!. The puzlles will take you awhile to understand! Trust me its the 
 Hottest game still selling out at retailers nation wide and you can blame that on Wii! lol The 
 most bad thing I would have to say about The Twlight Princess is the sound and Graphics! But I 
 mean you can hardly tell when your playing it anyway..
  I like the dark story to this game. And I could say Nintendo made this for the kids who played the 
 80's Zelda games to the N64 days! Its got freaky moments with the Spiders crawling all over the 
 place and The moment you see that dead Knight teaching you moves?. Strange but very cool!. I would 
 have to give this Game a A--- for all the cool stuff that they crammed into a game for LInk! Nice 
 job NOJ-NOA! I hope they do another one like this that would be sweet!-Now if only Metriod would 
 go back to the oldschool!-Now that would kick ass!- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lachdaman
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, i can see the attraction to this game,, the wii controls work fantastically, the visuals 
 stand up on their own against some of the next gen stuff, the world is HUGE and immersive, and 
 the puzzles are devious and clever. The problem is that when im playing this game im simply not 
 having fun, at ALL. Yes, maybe there is something wrong with me, or that i just dont get this game, 
 or maybe im a complete moron like some other reviewers *cough, Yoshiman23, cough*. or, most likely, 
 that this game has no real redeeming features. I mean the world is huge, but is pretty much a great 
 expanse of nothing, and Oblivion did it better anyway. The puzzles are clever, but the story is 
 so incredibly basic i simply felt no obligation to doing them. The wii controls do work very well, 
 yeah, so does wii sports's. Oh yeah, and one of the most common sayings surrounding this game is 
 the graphics look amazing, for a wii game WOW thats incredible, but guess what, Gears of War graphics 
 look incredible, period. And the STORY, oh dear Christ, the story? what story. Link is a lame girly 
 boy who for some reason likes chasing apparently evil monkeys, and is randomly chosen to take some 
 gift or something to Hyrule castle. Then, BAM, the world suddenly turns evil into twilight world. 
 How do the creators create this effect of evil ? Hey, lets put random black stuff fall out of the 
 sky, yeah, that is so evil im pretty much sitting at the edge of my seat, because of that black 
 stuff. Where was i, oh yeah the story, i cant be bothered to tell you the rest, so be rest assured 
 that it is filled with characters with minimal personalities, and boring bosses that never really 
 tell you why they are killing you, or why they have pieces of heart jammed into their body. In 
 short, if you like you games long and pointless, with extremely boring characters, puzzles that 
 are random, unfulfilled stories and with lots of pointless searching, go ahead, buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief_Mendez
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I really think Gamespot Underrated Zelda TP. I'd say it deserved at least a 9.5. It had a really 
 engaging story, Great gameplay, and Great music. Just like Ocarina of Time did. The Graphics are 
 also great considering it's the Wii, The Wii controls work well for this game. I spent about 50 
 hrs. so far and haven't done everything I wanted. When I have more time, I will replay this game 
 from the start. I loved it just as much as Link to the Past and Ocarina of Time. I have played 
 Every Zelda game so far, may not have beaten a few, but have beaten most. And to Yoshiman, you 
 are screwed up, you did not allow the story to develope, you just gave up afraid the rest of the 
 game would be just a boring as the beginning. Games like Zelda take time for things to develope. 
 Don't expect everything to develope right at the beginning. That that dosen't happen often with 
 these types of games. And I'm not saying the beginning was boring, it's just an introduction to 
 controls, riding Epona, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  no matter how u look at it TP hit a homer. nominated for best game, on both nintendo platforms and 
 acknowledge by developers around the world whether its microsoft or sony. heres wat i think of this 
 great game.
  
  nintendo planned on making this for only gc until they found out the wii was coming out. they prolonged 
 the launch and set it off with the wii launch. almost 90% of wii owners [which is alot so far ,stupid 
 360 people!] own TP! now, the previous games in the series like, windwaker [which had mixed thoughts 
 amound players] , GBA title minish cap, majoras mask , and arguable the best game of all time ocarina 
 of time. TP is no acception to these great games. not at all. the developeres did the right thing 
 adding motion control, theres no way i would go back to the GC version. now for my opinion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the overall play of this is satisfing. the dungons r classic ,maybe to much for there 
 own good but great. now the sword swinging is awsome! whoever likes to press A better is just plan 
 lazy. ya now the bosses arnt all that hard. atleast not to me. i usually get anoyed at bosses but 
 4 this game i have alot of fun. pointing at the screen to ,shoot a arrow, boomarang, slingshot and 
 a whole lot of other stuff. is the most satisfying feeling in gaming i ever had in my life and probually 
 will hav for a while. it makes u feel so much more in the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics r nothing to complan about considering they only used gamecube power for 
 it. they even said they could of done more with it if they had more time .the only thing i find 
 to old is actually the vines. its lik 2 D. the cutscene graphics r decent to.
  
  SOUND: ya now the sound is still good the sound that comes out of the wii remote is a little distorted 
 but still fun to listen to. now heres the problem. that guy dosnt want Link to have a voice, so what? make 
 other people have a voice and him text. i dont mind reading it but it is kinda out of date. the music 
 is great makes u fill like your in a epic.
  
  VALUE: any body whoe owns a wii should play it. if your a zelda fan if u either have a wii or gc 
 no one needs to tell u twice. worth 50 bucks so play the game, im looking for freinds so im reidwii1. hopefully 
 the phantom hour glass is just as good. and more zelda games to come. see ya on my next review! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkoman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  I've said it once and I'll say it again. Any system that can get my 63-year-old mother playing 
 video games for the first time has to be the best. The sports games are fun, Wii Play has some 
 good stuff and some bad, but Twilight Princess is a masterpiece. The use of the wii-mote and chuk 
 for navigation is seamless, quite intuitive, horse back riding is a pleasure, and the puzzles are 
 difficult and fun. The game also does a marvelous job building emotional attachment. I care what 
 happens to the brave little children of Link's home village, and about the fate of the dumpy, adorable 
 rock people of the firey mountains. Please sir, I want some more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I got my Wii on Wednesday 16th March after a long, long wait. So i picked it up with two other 
 games, Wii Sport, Wii Play (free controller) and Zelda. After getting the hang of Wii sports i 
 tried Wii Play.... yeah it was ok but at least i got 2 controllers. Then i put Zelda on and Wow, 
 no seriously Wow! Personally myself i've always had a Xbox and i now have a 360 (and a Wii of course) 
 so i've never really been a 'points popping out of goblins head' gamer. However after hearing all 
 the fantastic reviews i had to get it. The graphics are fantastic, they may not rival 360 games 
 like Fight Night Round 3, but they really bring out Link's complextion (lol) . The gameplay itself 
 is absolutly brilliant. When you swing the Wii controller Link's sword swings or even mini games 
 like fishing are good. I would urge anyone that's thinking of buying it to go for it! You won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that Gamespot reveiw is very disappointing and shows that their rating 
 system is very flawed. An 8.8 for the Wii version and an 8.9 for the Gamecube version is absolutely 
 rediculous. Especiailly, when they mention that the controls in the Wii version are superiour, 
 and they say quote the Wii version is just a bit better. That is just unacc-freakin-ceptable! Now 
 on to the reveiew... As you can see by my game collection I love the Zelda series and was looking 
 forward to Twilight Princess for a long time. In no way does any aspect of the game disappoint, 
 and the many side quests add to gameplay and value. The addition of the wolf in the gameplay is 
 wonderful and I LOVE the new weapons (Ball and Chain, Spinner, and and having two Claw Shots.) 
 The boss battles are inventive, ecspecially the Spinner boss, and the Wii controls fit great. In 
 no way do they feel tacked on! I played this directly after playing Okami, and the similaities 
 are stricking. You are a wolf/turn into a wolf in both games. As a wolf, you can dig, and you have 
 a side-kick type character that rides you. Many times in both games you are trapped in a bubble 
 or combat arena fighting your enemies, and finally you begin both games trying to clean areas of 
 the game of a cursed zone or Twilight area. They are still two very different games, but Twilight 
 Princess is by far superior to Okami. The dialog between characters is more believable, and memorable. 
 Also, you are not bogged down with conversational periods of the game. The only real thing that 
 could have been better with Twilight Princess is that its way too easy. I only died a few times 
 during my 40 hours of gameplay. I was able to beat the final boss in one try, and anyone who knows 
 me knows that I find most games too hard. I enjoyed the difficulty levels of Ocarina of Time, Majora's 
 Mask and Windwaker but this one seemed like I was able to conquer it too easily. However, with 
 its deep dungeons, inventive weapons, fun controls, charming characters, great graphic, seemingly 
 endless sidequests, and amazing story Twilight Princess is a game you should not miss, and is currently 
 the reason to own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreichel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is awesome, although the puzzles arent as challenging as 
 the previous Zelda games people new to the series wont be dissapointed! It still has some classics 
 in it for the long time fans, such as the block pushing puzzles, the master sword and much more. 
 There are also afew things new to the game that alot of the older Zelda fans will like, Midna is 
 a very cool character and in my opinion she feels like such a lively person, I dont think that 
 people will be dissapointed that Navvi was left out.
  
  The goodies: Cool sounds come from the wiimote speaker, good way to make the controls fit in with 
 fishing and other things, cool new toys to unlock, nice characters.
  
  The baddies: Not enough challenging puzzles, not enough of well.... ALOT of collectables and stuff.
 
  
  Well that was my review hope you liked it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KINGmastergamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It is long and stragetic and actiony. This game will DEFINITALY NOT leave you dissapointed. And 
 if you notice it is all the same places from ocarina of time. Well more places too and more things 
 to do. And since its on the wii its more interactive with the sword and sheild and even fishing. 
 IT IS A CRAZY GAME MAN AND WOMAN!! They should come out with a number 2 of this or another franchise 
 for the wii where he has more powers or sumthin like that. And he could try to find a way to find 
 midna. He should also have a child and maybe play as him. You know u will never know waht they 
 will make next especiialy for the WII BABII!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Twlilight Princess Is absolutly amazing to play and i think 8.8 Isn't enough and deserves a 10.0 
 I cannot think of anything wrong with this game. Graphics = Amazing
  
  Sound = Amazing
  
  Game Play = Double Amazing
  
  ect This game is highly addictive and will keep you at the 
 screen for hours!! I dam anyone who hates Zelda games to Hell!! My Personal Total gameplay is at 
 100 hours and 34 Mins ... Says it all dosen't it. This game was worth waiting for when i found 
 out it was being released. What made this game a hit i think was the fact Link can change into 
 a wolf which made the gameplay more exciting than ever.
  
  MASTERPIECE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertST
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I've played through about 13 hours of the game and have finished the second temple. I have to say 
 this game is just a fantastic reason to purchase the Wii, although there are doubts that this game 
 will retain classic status as previous games in the series.
  
  The control in the game is excellent. If you plan on getting the Gamecube version, don't, because 
 it is incredibly easy and fun to aim the bow and arrow, boomerang, and slingshot with the Wii Remote. 
 This game has you firing at enemies extremely far away which is easy with the Remote, but may be 
 difficult for the Gamecube verision. Controls for sword fighting are good, but as time goes by 
 you find it easier to just shake the Wii Remote to swing your sword instead of actually going through 
 the motions. The game doesn't really pick up on your exact sword movements. The nicest part of 
 the controls in my opinion is shaking the nunchuck to spin attack. I think it's the most intuitive 
 spin attack ever, and it feels satisfying. The actual sword moves are identical to previous Zelda 
 games and only add special moves that you pick up as you go throughout the game (the only one I 
 have so far is the finishing move, which is executed by pressing A near a downed enemy) .
  
  Controls for item selection have changed quite a bit although have the basic idea the same. By 
 pressing the D Pad, you swap items between it and the B button, and you use items with the B Button. 
 It's different and takes some getting used to, but once you do it gets the job done with ease.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same Zelda puzzling you're used to. The difficulty is just right, and I've 
 only been stuck a few times (actually at the beginning) . The game does a great job balancing everything 
 out and mixing things up. So far, it's taking me between twilight realm and the light world, and 
 both worlds give balance to what you can do in your form. In the light world, you can ride Epona 
 and call her with grass that's usually lying around important places. In the twilight realm, you 
 can't go as fast as epona, but you can warp to portals that you've created by defeating some guys 
 that I can't really describe.
  
  The graphics are stunning, especially in the twilight realm. I can't believe Gamecube hardware 
 can achieve all of the effects that are going on at once. Screens really don't give this game justice. 
 You have to see a full res video to understand. Some areas of the light world (think: regular graphics) 
 are less than impressive, but the overall artistic direction is absolutely beautiful and defies 
 generations. The graphics can't score less than a 10 because they will always look good, the environments 
 are made to be timeless, and you'll ignore the fact that it's not super high-res high-polygon graphical 
 perfection. It's perfection in the sense of art.
  
  Sound is great, but could use improvement. The twilight realm has beautiful MIDI tracks that are 
 trippy and moody. The regular world sounds a bit cheesy at times. However, the game seems to be 
 too huge to put in real music, not in terms of disc space, but in terms of writing that much music 
 for an orchestra and the expense of it. Overall you can expect the same great sound. Some sound 
 effects are recycled from Wind Waker and if you don't like that game it'll tick you off a little. 
 However, nothing has been used that doesn't fit with the whole style of the game.
  
  This game takes forever. There's no question that this game has lasting value and we shouldn't 
 even discuss it because there's 80+ hours worth of content in here. Although I am having trouble 
 finding any side-quests or things of the sort at the moment, I have yet to get through a lot of 
 the game. Plus, I could just be missing them. I really can't comment on it. The game feels more 
 linear at this point, but it still packs so much content that it doesn't really matter.
  
  You can skip through the text at a great rate, and you can skip through a lot of cut scenes, which 
 is really nice, although most of them are so great you won't want to.
  
  We could nitpick all day, but this game is a masterpiece, and it has flaws, just like any game, 
 and just like the perfect 10 Ocarina of time. Every gamer should eventually play it, even if they 
 hate the Wii, they should at least get one when the price goes down just to play this game. Or 
 at least play it on the Gamecube. This game will be in the top 100 games of all time, and I think 
 it will be closer to the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I know this may sound strange to you but honestly i was not really a zelda fan before i got this 
 game, infact the only reason i got this game was because of all the hype and reviews it had, its 
 not really my type of game. Well it is now......
  The start is a liitle slow but will get better throughout the game so don't be put off by the little 
 weak start.
  
  The storyline is great, do not listen to anyone who says otherwise, trust me. I wont really talk 
 about the storyline at the moment as i may spoil it for you, so lets just say it's great. It took 
 me 50 hours to complete the story mode, if i wanted to complete the whole 100% of the game it would 
 take me no less than 70 hours, so its a pretty long game. Great controls also, there not much else 
 to say about the gameplay really. The graphics were not exactly great, however it was a port from 
 gamecube so the wii never fully showed its graphical capabilitys here. It was good enough though.
 
  
  The sound was good , from the sword sounds to the wind. However there was a few things that were 
 lacking, first of all there was no voice acting and second of all there was no orchastrated music 
 in the background. Still it was overall pretty good though.
  
  It's 100% worth you money as it will keep you statisfyed for really really really really really 
 long. So definatly has a great value.
  
  Overall this game was great, not the best, but it was very good. A definate buy for any wii owners 
 as its proablly the best wii game out there at the moment. There should be no reason not to get 
 it, even if your not a fan of zelda (which i wasn't) you have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a must play for anyone with a Wii. The unique maneuverability of the 
 Wii remote coincides perfectly with Links actions during gameplay. The Wii remote is awesome, its 
 as close to virtual reality as any game has ever come. When you swing the remote, Link swings his 
 sword. Hyrule is the land that Link traverses on his adventure to save the kingdom. The many regions 
 of Hyrule are masterfully done and the inhabitants of each one are delightful. There are many new 
 characters but I am glad to see that the Zora and Gorons make an appearance in this new Zelda installment. 
 The game is challenging enough to keep you on your toes but not overly difficult which is great! 
 I find that if games are too difficult I loose interest in them quickly, especially after being 
 stuck in an area forever. I never had this problem in Zelda. I did try a couple of times at most 
 to get by some mildly difficult bosses but they werent a huge obstacle. As long as you practice 
 Links various moves youll be fine during battles. Zelda provides players with many hours of gaming. 
 It took me about 55 hours to complete the entire game and finish most of the side quests. The only 
 quests that I did not get to were collecting all the Poe souls and golden bugs. Links weapons arsenal 
 is filled with a few classics and some surprising new additions. I found nothing wrong with this 
 game whatsoever. It was well worth the wait. Please play this only on a Wii for that is what is 
 was meant to be played on. If you dont have a Wii wait until you get one, do not play on a Gamecube. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViewtifulLos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  I'm shocked by you gamespot folk. I sincerely thought you were the only game review crew that kept 
 it real when you gave Killer 7 an 8.3. Looks like I was terribly wrong. How in the world do you 
 give a game with an incredible story, wonderful graphics, and gameplay with so much depth an 8.8? 
 I dont know.
  
  Anyways, this game is the reason that I wasn't able to but a Wii until early February. From your 
 first run of the mill errands in the woods, all the way up to the dragon fight in the city in the 
 sky, then back down to the greatest swordfight in videogame history, I GUARANTEE that anyone who 
 picks this game up and plays the first 2 hours will want to play the next 45 or so hours.
  
  It's truly nuts how many sub-weapons you ultimately end up with in the end. Also, the plot 
 twists which lead into some exciting events, such as the horseback rescue of that fairy Colin, 
 is what makes this game so special. You can just ride around your horse all day and have fun because 
 you will find secrets and never stop fighting the goons around Hyrule field.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: IF YOU TRULY APPRECIATE VIDEOGAMES AND HAVE APPRECIATED THEM SINCE THE 80'S ESPECIALLY, 
 THIS IS A CAN'T MISS!!! AND ALSO IT WILL GET YOU ADAPTED TO USING THIS REVOLUTIONARY CONTROLLER. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weemick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  We all know by now that this is a Gamecube game Ported, flipped and had Wii-mote functions tacked 
 on. That being said this is still an amazing game. You could spend hours wondering about the Ordona 
 provence at the start of the game making sure you do absolutely everything on offer. This brings 
 you into the game slowly and carries you through the (overlylong) first dungeon. This part was the 
 section of the game that took me the longest as i thought the fishing section was a nightmare one 
 time, never mind two in a row. The bosses are screen filling beomoths that can be taken down surprisingly 
 easy. After about an hour or so playing the game you get a chance to try out Link's canine form. 
 Luckily you meet your guide Midna and she is nowhere near as annoying as Navi even though she makes 
 the most hilarious of noises at the most akward time. Enimies old and new make appearences through 
 out the game. The newest and most prominent new appearence is the twili and the twilight world 
 which is slowly grasping control over the world of light. Link, the average farmboy is obviously 
 the right person to save the world. :)
  Luckily for all those who hated the long wait to gain control of the reigns of epona in OOT you 
 get the animal from the start and you even get to name her. The graphics have sparked many debates 
 over Wii's capabilities but one must remember, Gamecube game. Although the controls are somewhat 
 of a letdown we will only have to wait a few months for Zelda 2008 to be unveiled as it has been 
 in production for over a year. (that will have amazing graphics and might even catch evry move 
 from wii mote giving you so much freedom) If you can see past the faults this is an amazing game 
 and is up there with OOT. At times it seems better than the 1998 classic but still feels like it 
 is missing something.
  ----WORTH BUYING BUT TO EASY AND SHORT ----
  Best bits- New Items, Emmersive storyline
  Worst bits- Cube Graphics, Tacked on Wii controls, 
 Re-dead Knights? No shadow temple, no voice over, Hyrule is barely populated for such a large place 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemar7856
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This is infact the best zelda game (cough oot its over) it took me about 25 hours gametime to complete 
 it the first time ever I was disapointed with somethings but this game is great. Gamers need 2 realize 
 this is a gamecube port and for gamecube these are increable graphics if you play this game just 
 look around and you will be amazed but its 2 bad this game was'nt in full HD game its a shame the 
 wii does; nt have that kind of power. The only bad thing for this game is that the boss for each 
 dungion was way 2 easy people who played zelda games before should agree I never had a boss kill 
 me once during the entire game even ganondorf was easy. In conclusion I recommend this game for 
 every wii would the new controls system males this game addicting even if you never played zelda 
 before buy it! this will be nintendos best for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Same solid Zelda gameplay (including great puzzles and exploration) ; Highly artistic (and 
 well detailed) graphics; Classic tunes; For a single player only game, it will last you a while; 
 Wiimote controls feel more satisfying than button controls; Story is interesting, if a tad predictable
 
  
  Cons: Too easy; Issues from past Zelda games (such as Z-Targeting problems) are STILL around; The 
 beginning is way too slow; Some dungeons (such as the 5th, 8th, and 9th) feel a little rushed; 
 Early wolf segments arent that interesting; Because of the series, some people will be blindsided 
 by these issues (and I still dont know why)
  
  Im not going to lie to you: when I heard of Twilight Princess, I was happy and skeptical both 
 at the same time. I knew it was going to be another solid entry in the great series, but I knew 
 it was going to be another overrated Zelda game (and I still dont get what makes this series the 
 one that so many consider THE BEST, even if it is quite solid) . I still surprised myself by how 
 right on I was, knowing exactly what type of gameplay and difficulty, etc to expect. That doesnt 
 mean I didnt have fun though.
  
  By now, 99% of the people who read this probably know what The Legend of Zelda games are, and many 
 have probably already decided to buy this game without even reading a review. For the 1% living 
 under a rock, TLoZ games are among the highest quality adventure games, mixing puzzles, combat, 
 and exploration into one large adventure.
  
  Its really hard to explain, but its fun in the way that can only be experienced. Youll usually 
 start off exploring around a field (which I might add is larger than ever in this game, and looks 
 great) . Several items, including rupees (cash) , and heart pieces (5 will upgrade your health by 
 one heart) , are well hidden, usually requiring any item and skill you have/will receive. In a typical 
 Nintendo fashion, these are quite fun to find, and require you to think a lot, stacking on more 
 hours to play the game.
  
  When you focus on the main quest, youll usually come across dungeons (there are 9 in this game) , 
 where the other two elements of the game show up more. The puzzles in the dungeons are really well 
 designed, often providing a challenge, while not requiring puzzle game experts out of anyone. You 
 often may see a puzzle, but wont be able to solve it until you receive an item in the dungeon 
 from solving the other puzzles.
  
  To make sure the puzzles dont get too repetitive, there is combat involved too. Its pretty simple 
 stuff, and while its not horrible, you never get the feeling that the combat is included for anything 
 other than variety. You hold one button to target enemies, and slash at them, occasionally using 
 one or two advanced moves when you get the opportunity to strike.
  
  While Im on the subject, I should mention the controls. In the Gamecube version, the controls 
 are the same as they always are (see Wind Waker, or one of the collection discs) , but on the Wii, 
 you aim with the Wiimote, and slash by swinging it. While it goes without saying that the aiming 
 is better, the slashing just feels more satisfying. Even though it only measures the speed at which 
 the Wiimote (and/or Nunchuck) is moving and not the direction, it feels better to swing in the 
 wrong direction than to press one button over and over.
  
  Almost everything else is performed with buttons. The only beef I have with those controls is that 
 Z-Targeting just doesnt work as it should sometimes. If there was an option to change your target 
 manually, the problem would be fixed. Everything else works well enough to do everything you need 
 to do.
  
  Such as, fighting a boss at the end of each dungeon. Here the puzzles and combat merge together 
 in one place. The bosses are quite fun, requiring you to use the item you received in the dungeon 
 to expose their weak point and then bash it with the sword. They tend to be pretty simple, but 
 the bosses just feel great, and I wont talk any more as to avoid spoiling the ways to beat them.
 
  
  The other gameplay element is really part of the other 3. The wolf form introduced in this game 
 really doesnt change that much. When in wolf form, you lose the ability to use your items, gain 
 a new set of moves (that feel even better to pull off than Links normal moves) , and gain senses 
 which basically show you areas to dig for the most part, but come into play in puzzles later on. 
 The first 4 or so times you are a wolf, you are forced into it, and its unfortunately not that 
 fun, but after that time, you gain the ability to change at will, and the form becomes less forced 
 and more fun.
  
  Actually, the game kind of flows like that, Im sad to say. The beginning of the game is ridiculously 
 slow and drawn out. You are tasked with helping out with chores and learning the basics of the 
 game that most people probably already know from previous games (Im certain many of you have played 
 OoT, MM, or WW) .
  
  No doubt it adds to the length of the game though, which will take you at least 20 hours if you 
 just move through the story, if not more, and at least 30 to get 100%, however, many people will 
 take longer.
  
  Aside from gameplay everything else is really top notch. The story works well to set up your context 
 for rescuing the princess. Without revealing too much, you have a Twilight Realm sucking up Hyrule, 
 and you have to help restore it to normal, along with helping solve the kidnappings of your friends, 
 and more.
  
  The graphics on the other hand are just as youd expect. They boast a more mature style than any 
 other Zelda to date, and they look great (perhaps only second to Wind Waker, but thats a debate 
 for another time) . The Twilight Realm in particular has a great surreal style that its disappointing 
 that it doesnt last long (ironically, its at the same time that you get forced into wolf usually 
 though) . The detail is about as good as it gets on the Gamecube, and almost as good as the Wii 
 gets, but you definitely do feel the hardware limits (it is the same year as the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 after all) .
  
  The sound, unlike the graphics doesnt sound more mature and separate itself from the rest of the 
 series. The tunes are mostly rehashed from the previous games with a few new tunes. It works though, 
 and you will never complain once about the music. The only reason its not perfect is because of 
 the lack of new content.
  
  It goes without saying that most people should get TLoZTP (Wii version especially if you can get 
 it) . It has everything you liked (and disliked) from previous entries, scratch for the graphics. 
 However, at this point the overrating of the series isnt so much unreasonable and annoying as 
 it is now hindering gameplay. Zelda is in top form as ever, but now more than ever is the time 
 to take a reasonable look at the series so that it can deserve near perfect scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game!!! (Obviously it was Wii Sports first, but I didn't count it) With the Wii 
 control and nunchuk I was playing Zelda on a whole new level!!, but the enemies and bosses are 
 just to easy. I mean you just beat them when you hit them three times or four. (Sometimes I think 
 the mid-bosses of the dungeon or temple are more challenging than the dungeon boss) . Zant was the 
 easiest boss of all and because of that, I felt disappointed at the game. I'm now in Hyrule castle 
 and it's a little hard. I HOPE that Ganondorf will be a challenge to me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franken_Berry
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  A video games main attraction has always been one seminal process of enticement: they provide 
 entertainment. Whether this is done through a fresh and exciting story, visually orgasmic graphics, 
 or innovative styles of play, they are ultimately here to entertain us. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess does just that. This is a game that just feels fun to experience. It creates a precisely 
 calibrated balance of superbly constructed puzzles, quick and engaging combat, and a charming art 
 style so fantastic the game is worth merit based on its look alone. It is this key balance that 
 makes the game just as entertaining as when you opened the case and first put the game in to when 
 you finally remove it after sweeping through every last corner of Hyrule (an adventure that will 
 take roughly 40 hours to complete) . If I can offer you an observation of this game free of subjection, 
 its this; as soon as you put Twilight Princess into your Wii, youre not going to take it out 
 until youve got your fill, and if youre even mildly interested in this genre or series, one hour 
 with this game will leave you feeling rather famished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome weapons and collectibles; graphics look amazing; some of the new music in there 
 is pretty awesome; pretty long; Wii remote works well with the ranged weapons; puzzles and an amazing 
 story are still here; boss battles are as intense as ever
  
  The Bad: Doesn't feel like a Zelda game most of the time; swordplay with the Wii remote doesn't 
 feel right; most music is retired from previous games.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: TP was probably the most anticipated game this year. Altough a lot of people 
 may disagree with this review, I stand by saying that this doesn't feel a lot like a Zelda game. 
 Every once in a while you'll feel that spark, but nothing compared to Ocarina of Time or Windwaker. 
 The story is pretty decent: Link is a young orphan boy who lives in the village of Ordon. He's 
 an expert horserider, and passes his time as a herder. He is also popular with the kids, who look 
 up to him and follow him around virtually everywhere. When Link is asked to leave the village to 
 deliver a gift to Hyrule castle, he willingly accepts, and prepares for his journey. However, soon 
 after, he is attacked by strange creatures riding on large hog-like creatures. The kids are taken, 
 and Link has been knocked out. Desperate to save his friends, Link follows the creatures when he 
 awakes. He eventually comes upon a strange, black, wall-type barrier. As he approaches it, he is 
 suddenly pulled in by a dark hand. Once inside, what is called the Twilight, he is released from 
 the monster by a Triforce symbol on his hand. Suddenly, he begins to feel strange, his vision is 
 blurry, and he turns into a black and gray wolf. During his transformation, he faints. He is dragged 
 off by the Twilight creatures into a prison, where he awakes, chained to the ground, but a strange 
 creature approaches him. Her name is Minda, a small imp-like creature who frees him for his services. 
 Your main enemy here is Zant, a large Twilight controller, who dreams of covering the world in 
 Twilight. He is crowned, by himself, the Prince of Twilight. With the Twilight at his disposal, 
 he seems like a pretty threatening enemy.
  
  Either as a wolf or a human, you'll be traversing the same areas, only in Twilight, everyone has 
 been turned into ghosts, and they cannot sense you, or Midna's presence. It puts a twist on things, 
 and makes you feel in a somewhat, isolated environment. However, you would think you'd be switching 
 in between wolf and human a lot. Well, you don't as much as you would expect, which is disappointing, 
 because a lot of dungeon twists could've been added by switching back and forth.
  
  Your main objective is to clear away the Twilight in Hyrule by helping the Gods which inhabit the 
 area. The gods have had their power sucked away by the power of the Twilight, and you must help 
 regain it by killing the creatures which have it. These creatures are just... big bugs... which are 
 shown on your map. Its pretty easy to kill them, but in doing it, and doing it over and over again, 
 takes time, and makes the game feel a lot less like a Zelda game.
  
  After clearing away the Twilight that polluted Hyrule, you start your "real" quest. Midna mentions 
 these items called "fused shadows", one of which is one her head, acting as a helmet. With these 
 items, she will be able to defeat Zant, and his "fake" magic. You'll go through a couple of dungeons 
 finding the fused shadows, and then you might start to feel the "Zelda" feeling once that's all 
 done. Unfortunately, the game is over once you feel it. The gameplay still has Link swinging his 
 sword and shooting his arrows, but this time you'll be using the Wii remote to use your weapons 
 and items. You'll simply shake the Wii remote to make Link swing his sword, which doesn't always 
 feel right since much more could've been done. Also waving the nunchuck allows Link to pull off 
 the circular sword swing, where he swings his sword around him in a circle (..... Duh) and can kill 
 enemies in his sword's radius. It feels like a lot more Wii capabilities could've been added.
 
  
  Also, as your journey begins, you'll soon meet a shining wolf. His true identity is a strange skeleton 
 warrior, who teaches you different sword and shield techniques to aid you in your quest, but after 
 meeting him the first time, in order to see him again and get the other techniques, you must seek 
 out these strange stones, which contain notes on them. You must find these stones as a wolf, and 
 match the pitch of each note by moving the pitch line up and down.
  
  As a wolf, you'll only be using two Wii functions: swinging the remote and nunchuck; which lets 
 you pull off some simple attacks and a tail circle swing, much like the sword swing.. You press 
 the control pad, left or right, to hone your senses, which allows you to see ghosts, invisible 
 enemies, and so on. The "A" button is your dash attack, and can also be an attack where you can 
 grab onto an enemy, and, depending on its size, bite at it repeatedly. Also, sometimes you have 
 to take out multiple enemies using one of Midna's skills, which creates a large barrier around 
 you, and whoever is caught in it's radius will be killed in a quick jump and slash attack. These 
 creatures that you have to kill at the same time are simple shadow creatures. When you find them, 
 a Twilight barrier will form around you, sometimes in strange shapes that make you think before 
 attacking. When you defeat these creatures, you will be able to warp to the area where you beat 
 them, via Midna's transporting ability, which comes in handy a couple of times. You can even transport 
 other things that may help you get to your objective point, such as a large bridge (that just happened 
 to not be in its original spot.....) .
  
  Altogether, the gameplay is pretty fun, but with all of the missed opportunities, you can help 
 but feel like a lot more could've been done.
  
  There's been a lot of complaints the graphics aren't up to Wii standards. Those who think that 
 the graphics could use a major improvement need to think again. What Nintendo has pulled off, and 
 with the limited resources, is nothing short of astounding. Midna moves smoothly through the air, 
 and Link looks great. Even his wolf form is extremely cool and detailed.
  
  The music is probably this game's biggest disappointment. Most of the music is retired from previous 
 games; mostly Ocarina of Time. However, there is some new music in there, and most of that new 
 stuff is pretty awesome. The sound is mostly the same. You'll here Link yell when swinging his 
 sword, a piercing sound when an enemy is struck with an arrow, and Midna speaking in a sort of 
 gibberish. Most people expected speech in this game, but I don't think I can even imagine speech 
 in a Zelda game; especially after Link actually talked in CDI Zelda games. However, speech from 
 other people would be really nice.
  
  The game is very long: about 40-50 hours, without doing any side quests. So, you'll be busy for 
 a pretty long time.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's a great game, but if you're looking for the feeling that you found in 
 the Windwaker, or Ocarina of Time, don't expect to find much of it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skhellitor
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  when i started playing this game i wasnt estatic it starts off rather slow, having you do odd jobs 
 and such which gives you time to learn the controls, enviroment and such, then the game picked 
 up almost imidiate, zelda games have never been very fast paced, but with the wii remote things 
 like aiming, and grappling are more precise which adds a faster element to the gameplay and combat. 
 I really like the hidden skills as well this was an excelent addition in buiding on what ww and 
 oot had set forth, my only real gripe about this game is that no voice acting tends to make the 
 game feel like its missing something which is why i marked down the sound a point, the music is 
 great, as well as the in action sequences, the control are really a blast, and give another element 
 to a zelda game that sets the bar for future action titles in this genre. this is one of those 
 games that seems to only come around once in a blue moon. even the side missions, such as fishing 
 are excelently done. i would highly recomend this game to anyone that has a wii, or a gamecube 
 for that matter. for the wii it seemed like the wiiremote really made gameplay a lot easier and 
 precise. gamers looking to blow a lot of time exploring will love this title. Also the addition 
 of the cave of ordeals was pretty cool, test your skill in fifty levels of hell. i recently finished 
 this title and am looking forward to future zelda titles. This series is just on another level 
 from other action adventure titles point blank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmrman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is THE reason to own a Wii. This is a great game that has 
 the epic storyline that all previous Zelda games have, unique items that are used to solve equally 
 distinguished puzzles, and great graphics and items. It is easier, in fact, to point out the flaws 
 in the game than to give it praise.
  
  There are a few key differences between Twilight Princess and Ocarina of Time (the game that TP 
 is so often compared to) . First off, Link doesn't have magic or an ocarina in TP, which is a major 
 change in the Zelda formula. TP makes up for this exemption by giving Link more weaponry and moves 
 such as the ball and chain, the dominion rod, back sword slices, flip sword slices, and, my personal 
 favorite, the spinner.
  
  These items do in fact make up for the lack of magic and magic based attacks, but I found myself 
 thinking how much more useful the developers could have made each of the items. For example: the 
 ball and chain, which is a totally badass weapon, is really only used to smash ice and defeat ice 
 enemies. If it could have been used to do something else; say knock down pillars, break cracked 
 walls, smash windows, etc; then I would have been happier. A major disapointment was the spinner 
 puzzles. Although they were pretty good, I was afterward wishing for a gigantic room entirely filled 
 with spinner tracks that put you at 30 mph or so as you went up down, around, and shot you huge 
 distances from track to track to get to the next door. That would have been a SWEET addition to 
 the already outstanding Arbiter's Grounds.
  
  One thing I really did like about the game was the variance of the temples. In Ocarina of Time, 
 the temples have pretty unoriginal names, like the fire temple, water temple, shadow temple, etc. 
 In TP, every one of the temples except for the Forest Temple (that's a given) have fresh names, 
 such as the Goron Mines, the Lakebed Temple, Arbiter's Grounds, City in the Sky, etc. I am very 
 glad they included the Temple of Time in TP; this was something I wanted to play in OoT, but it 
 wasn't part of the game dungeon-wise.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an outstanding game. Just buy it and cure your Zelda 
 fever; it won't get better until you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Well i d like to start by saying no it doesnt live up to the hype. There are many things wrong 
 with this game and it gets boring extremely quickly. First off, the graphics really arent greatand 
 the sound is just so repetitive and awful it really gets to you. Another bad trhing is that the 
 a button does too many things. It is primarily a button that makes you roll, but it also picks 
 up objects, opens doors, etc. You have to be right in front of an object to pick it up and if ur 
 not wham u just roll, possibly down to the bottom of a level and have to go all the way back up 
 the stairs or something i dont know and it can be kind of hard to get right in front of the ojbect 
 with the camera views. The cool part is is that the story does progress and it becomes a bit fun, 
 but you mostly want it to end because of how boring it gets. I personally don't like the game too 
 much, the controls are also a bit quirky, but it is fun swinging the nunchuck to do attacks, but 
 all in all the controls for combatr and moving around just eventually get annoying. NO this does 
 not live up to the hype IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imranmotala
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  For the very first time, theres a zelda game i can just go through and not get stuck on, sure i 
 got stuck once or twice but still the game is very long and you wont be able to just zoom right 
 through it.
  
  The sword attacks are fun to pull off and the skills learned through out the game are very fun 
 to do. I sometimes just kill random enemies when i dont feel like progressing in the story. Which 
 brings me to my other point, there are so many mini games and side quest, well not that many but 
 they are long, ill name a few...
  
  Bug catching: You collect bugs and get 50 rupees for each one, if you collect a couple you get 
 100
  
  Riding a Boat: You go downstream breaking pots
  
  Riding a Bird: you ride a bird and collect water mellons and strawberrys
  
  Getting more bomb 
 bags and quivers.
  
  Another thing is that it takes 5 heart peices this time around to get a full heart, but not to 
 worry, that meens there eisier to find.
  
  This game is the best zelda game i have played, with the magic armor and all the other stuff that 
 makes a good zelda game.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics for this game are way better than any other zelda game there is. The use of the wii 
 mote for the bow and arrow, the sword, everything is just so realistic.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Classic Zelda music added with some new, it is amazing and will keep the frustration down.
 
  
  All in all i give this game a perfect 10 and recomend it to anybody that owns a nintendo wii and 
 loves the zelda series, this game is like an anhanced version of the ocarina of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincenzo2330
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Nintendo had finally done something right by releasing Twilight Princess along with the Nintendo 
 Wii itself. This game was one of the main reason that i had picked up a Wii. The game play is totally 
 interactive and those of you who have a Wii know exactly what i am talking about and for those 
 of you who don't know much about this game, here is a little explanation on the storyline, controls, 
 weapons, and my opinion.
  
  So heres the deal... I am not going to spend a lot of time describing the plot, only becaue it 
 would take a really long time and i don't have time for it so please forgive me for skipping some 
 major parts. At the beginning of the game you are Link. The classic Zelda hero who has to rise 
 to stop the forces of evil. Anyway you start out in this little village called Ordon where you 
 are asked to deliver something to the king of Hyrule. In the village there is a girl named Illa 
 who takes care of your horse Epona. Anyway you find her cleaning your horse at the spring and suddenly 
 you get attacked but these huge orcish looking creatures and Illa is kidnapped. So as Link of course 
 you have to save her so you chase after them but run into this giant black wall blocking your path. 
 It then go to a cut scene where Link investigates the wall and is grabbed by a gigantic red hand 
 and pulled into the relm of Twilight. As Link trys to get up, the tri-force of courage resonates 
 from his left hand and transforms him nto a wolf. He is then imprisoned and meets a normal local 
 of the twilight relm named Midna. Midna is koinda like Navi from ocarina of time but half as annoying. 
 Anyway, she helps you escape from the prison and climb up the tower where you meet the supposed 
 twilight princess which is princess Zelda. She sends Link back to Ordon village but Link is still 
 in his wolf form. Midna then tells Link about light spirits and the false ruler of the twilight, 
 and the only way to defeat him is to gather these relics called fused shadows . The fused shadows 
 will give Midna the power she needs to take on the false king. So Link sets out on a journey thats 
 takes him to the forest temple, goron mines and the water temple to collect the fused shadows for 
 midna while along the way clensing the realm of light and freeing the light spirits from being 
 over taken by the power of twilight. Once the fused shadows are collected, Link is then introduced 
 to the ruler of the twilight named Zant. Zant tells Link that the fused shadows can not be used 
 against and that twilight will engulf the land weither or not he wants it to. Zant then transforms 
 Link into his wolf form and almost kills Midna.
  
  After all is said and done, the practically dying Midna tells Link to go to Hyrule castle to see 
 Zelda. Link the climbs the castle and meets with Zelda where she sacrifices herself to help Midna. 
 Midna tells Link to go to the Sacred Garden, there he can get the Sword of Evils Bane , the Master 
 Sword. Once Link abtains the master sword Midna the tells him about the Mirror of twilight. Once 
 again, Link must set out in search of what Midna tells him is the Mirror of Twilight . This leads 
 to new parts of the world which i thought were amazing. The journey throught the Gerudo Desert, 
 Snowhead (kinda like and ice world) and even The Heavans. All along collecting the Mirror Shards. 
 Once Link has collected all the shard he then goes to the twilight relm to fight Zant. Of course 
 the fight with Zant is crazy annoying because all he does is run around like a chicken with its 
 head cut off. So after defeating Zant, Link learnes who the real problem is. And of course you 
 can't have a Zelda game without... dunt dunt dun... Ganandorf. So once back in the Light Realm, 
 Link sets out to Hyrule castle to face off with Ganandorf. The fight with Ganandorf was really 
 long. As usual there are four parts to this fight. All of which were amazing. The first Ganandorf 
 uses Zelda as a puppet in which Link must bounce back the energy orb back at Zelda. For those of 
 you who have played Ocarina of Time you know... you know. Anyway the second part, Ganandorf transforms 
 into a gigantin wolf/beast, and here's where the fun starts. Link must fight him wolf to wolf. 
 So the fight is as follows, Ganandorf runs around and warps in and out of portals, the play has 
 to watch and see which portal he is charging out of. Not really that had because the portal he 
 comes out of turns blue. So when Ganandorf charges The PLayer has to grab him and move the control 
 stick to have Midna trhow him to the ground in which Link bites the heck out of him. After that, 
 Link and Zelda start to leave the castle but Ganandorf comes back to stop them. Midna then uses 
 the fused shadow to fight ganandorf by herself and transports Link and Zelda to Hyrule field. However 
 its not over, Midna destroys the castle but as Link and Zelda are watching, the see Ganandorf on 
 the horizon on his horse holding Midna's Mask. No for the Horse back Fight. Totally cool, Zelda 
 shoots light arrows at Ganandorf and Link slashes at him. Thats it. For the fianl round, its a 
 one on onme with Link and Ganandorf. This was cool and all, but the only way to hit Ganandorf was 
 to wait for the CHANCE icon to appear at the bottom of the screen in which Link and Ganondorf clash 
 and you must push him down and then milhouse him with the master sword. You do that about three 
 times, and you'll get the finish icon and Link will do a front flip and stab Ganandorf right in 
 the chest with the Master sword. And thats the game.
  
  Alright, the controls took a bit of getting used but once you had them down, you were set. To swing 
 the sword the player had to well swing the Wii Remote. The direction buttons Left, Right and Down 
 were your Weapons slots, here you could hold any of the weapons you found in the dungeons or in 
 Hyrule. The B trigger allowed you to used the weapon you had equipped. Z was your sheild and the 
 C button was your camera. Thats basically it for controls.
  
  Oh man... the weapons in tis game were awsome. You got to your disposal, a Slingshot, A Hero's Bow, 
 Iron Boots, Double Claw Shot, Dominion Rod, Gale Boomerang, Fishing Rod, Spinner, Bombs, Water 
 Bombs, Bug Bombs (don't ask, totally useless) , THe Hawk Eye, the Ball and Chain and 3 or 4 Bottles. 
 Link also gets two types of armor, The Zora armor which is a game requirment and the ever USELESS!!!! 
 AND I MEAN USELESS magic armor. All of which play many roles throught the game.
  
  All in all i really enjoyed this game. I found some dunjeons a bit harder than others but a heck 
 of a lot easier than Ocarina of Time, The Boss fight were awsome, constant action throught the 
 fights made for a better experience., Once again Nintenmdo has finally done something right with 
 makeing this game. I RECOMMEND people who like Zelda, get the nintendo Wii and buy it. you'll love 
 it. And if im wrong and you don't like it, ah no biggie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  I have been a Zelda fan since the release of Ocarina of Time, and I had spent a long time waiting 
 for this game. I followed all the news, was dissapointed when I found out it was delayed from being 
 released last year and pleasantly surprised when it was announced as a simultaneously release on 
 the GCN and Wii. After all of this waiting, was it all worth it? You can bet your socks it was.
 
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : When somebody finds a formula that works, it is always a good idea to stick with 
 it. Granted, sometimes change is necessary, but this is not a franchise that needs that change 
 yet. If you have played a Zelda game in the past, you know what to expect, though there is a slightly 
 larger emphasis on story in comparison with the Zelda's of old. To those of you that are not familiar, 
 the concept is simple. You play as this chosen hero named Link that is destined to save Hyrule 
 from this evil ruler named Zant. You go about doing this through various methods, but they all 
 end up leading to a trek through dungeons, each one forcing to make use of your unique items (like 
 the Gale Boomerang for example, which not only works like a normal boomerang, but commands a small 
 whirlwind that can be used to spin certain objects) . Each dungeon is very well-crafted, and even 
 though you will likely find the best dungeon being one of the earliest, the rest are done quite 
 competently and are actually done in a more unique way than in past Zeldas. In the past a dungeon 
 was MEANT to be a temple or what-not, but here some dungeons are not meant to be important, like 
 the mansion of Yeti which you must trek through. Add in the great new weapons and you have lots 
 of fun to be had. There is a flaw here though. Some of the best items you acquire will scarcely 
 be used, even though they are the most fun to use. One of my favorite Zelda items of all times 
 is in this game, but unfortunately is not used enough. Another problem is that the game is far 
 too linear, and does not force thinking and exploration like many past Zelda games have. Lastly 
 is actually a very large problem. It is tied in with exploration as well. Zelda games have this 
 knack for rewarding explorers, so if you go exploring you know you will find many goodies. Well 
 the problem with this game is that half of the time you go exploring you will merely find chests 
 full of rupees. This is frustrating at times when you spend a lot of time in a 'secret' area hoping 
 to find a heart piece but instead find a chest with 20 rupees in it. Granted there is PLENTY to 
 explore, but they could have made it a little more rewarding. Nonetheless there is a great host 
 of things to do, items to use and there are 9 dungeons to explore, all of which are crafted fairly 
 nicely, with a couple of exceptions.
  
  The saving grace for this category, preventing it from droping down to an 8, is the story. The 
 story is actually pretty emotional and I am very surprised that Nintendo can STILL pull off making 
 you get attached to characters that don't even talk. You will find at least a couple of interesting 
 plot twists in here (more if you haven't played Zelda games in the past, less if you have) and 
 it also seems like Nintendo has learned their lesson with the whole Navi bit. First they churned 
 out a pretty funny character in the form of Ezlo in The Minish Cap, and now you have MIdna. Instead 
 of the 'HEY! LISTEN!' ordeal she makes a giggle that you will hear out of your Wii Remote that 
 is a LOT more bearable than Navi's screams. Add to that her wonderful attitude and the fact that 
 she can be so adoreable and Midna is an instant winner. The rest of the characters are pretty well 
 done and I especially liked how they handled Castle Town, since it seems SO busy like it should 
 be.
  
  Lastly are the controls. Nintendo spent a good amount of time adapting the controls for the Wii, 
 and I must admit they did a pretty good job of it. You swing your Wii Remote to swing your sword. 
 At first you will likely swing very enthusiastically but over time you will learn to just flick 
 your wrist, which is much less taxing and just as effective. You use the nunchuk to push enemies 
 back with your shield and you point and shoot for aiming weapons (like the Bow) . You have access 
 to 4 of your items at any one time since you use B and 3 control pad directions to bind at your 
 will. I only have two complaints. First, I wish Nintendo had maybe taken out an item slot and put 
 THAT as the action button (maybe down on the control pad?) and made A sword attack so we have a 
 choice. It can get frustrating sometimes when all you want to do is carefully swing your sword 
 once because of the way an enemy attacks, but you swing 3 times instead. It is easy to adapt to 
 though. The other issue is the camera. I have been spoiled by a free-roaming camera since Wind 
 Waker and the loss of it really is hard to deal with. I can deal with the lack thereof in OoT or 
 MM but the problem here is that even though you can use Z-targeting as a makeshift camera, if there 
 is an enemy nearby it ALWAYS will target it, thus impeding your ability to move the camera as you 
 want and sometimes that can mean you accidentally jump into oblivion since you can't see where 
 you are running. Otherwise it is good and actually I feel much more satisfied when I play the Wii 
 version over the GCN version for some reason. Graphics (9/10) : In the end this is a GCN game. If 
 I were rating the GCN version this would have a perfect 10 because there is a lot of detail and 
 honestly the game looks absolutely beautiful. The Twilight Realm looks great with this surreal 
 feel to it and the enemies also look magnificent. The dungeons are an absolute JOY to look at and 
 you won't likely get bored of travelling on Hyrule Field due to the larger attention to detail 
 (though they could have done more there) . This doesn't score a perfect though because it is a Wii 
 game, and even with the addition of Widescreen support, it is still a GCN game at heart. It still 
 manages a 9 though because honestly, thanks to the artistic touch in this game, it is difficult 
 to say it isn't beautiful. You will find plenty of eye candy here, just don't expect it to push 
 the Wii's limits.
  
  Sound (8/10) : I must admit, half of the music in this game sounds... weak... for lack of a better 
 word. It often just doesn't deliver the same emotion that I feel from music in other games. There 
 are a lot of great tracks too but I think there are two main problems here. The first is the overused 
 reference to OoT and other Zelda games in the musical themes (OoT managed to be really unique and 
 good with its music... why couldn't Koji Kondo do it again?) . The music doesn't sound like it is 
 at its max quality either, and I think this would have been a perfect chance for Nintendo to go 
 fully orchestrated, because this game would feel a lot more epic with that touch. Nonetheless the 
 music is still good and the sound effects are wonderful in this game. The main problem comes from 
 the Wii Remote. The fact that the speaker sounds cheap is bearable because it is pleasant to hear 
 the bowstring being released from your remote and then it make a sound of contact in the tv, but 
 often the sound effects are choppy sounding and sometimes won't even play. They really could have 
 done better with that and I honestly hope that it was a programming fault and not because the speaker 
 is cheap, because I don't want to have to live with this cheapness in an otherwise great console 
 in all of my games. Otherwise you will find no pain coming to your ears from this game.
  
  Oh and Nintendo, would it kill you to add voice acting? There are times that it looks like the 
 characters are BEGGING to say something (like when Zant is talking, I can almost hear his voice... but 
 it never happens) . Nintendo could easily give Link the silent treatment and give everybody else 
 voices. I feel there would have been a MUCH greater emotional grip if there was voice acting, ESPECIALLY 
 during the final battle sequences.
  
  Value (8/10) : It is a Zelda game. Therefore. there is PLENTY to do outside fo the main quest. For 
 some reason though, it doesn't feel like this has too much more to offer than OoT had. Maybe just 
 a little more. I mean, I don't need a wealth of sidequests like in Majora's Mask, but this game 
 could have used a bit more to do, especially since there is a lack of a 'Second Quest' or something 
 similar, which my recently played Okami provided me with. It would have been nice to have some 
 developer commentary and 'making of' info since this was such a big project, but like every other 
 Zelda game, there are no such features. Nonetheless there are a good amount of things to do in 
 this game and it is fun enough for you to want to come back and play it again not too long from 
 now. You will spend a decent amount of time with it too, I clocked in around 32-34 hours in the 
 main quest and some sidequesting, so it will last a decent amount of length at least. In fact, 
 it is longer than some RPGs I have played, which is an accomplishment. Especially since it is easy 
 to get bored of a game that ISN'T an RPG or RTS that lasts this long.
  
  Honestly I can't disagree with Gamespot's review when it says that this game holds onto the olden 
 days too much. That is probably the MAIN thing that prevents this from being the best Zelda game 
 out now. It has a great story, compelling characters, great items and great dungeons. Oh and of 
 course VERY intimidating bosses and a last boss battle almost as fun as Wind Waker (and that was 
 pretty darn fun) , but really couldn't they have been more original. I understand the need to make 
 the story consistent so a lot of repeating themes are necessary, but it just seems overdone and 
 really seems like an OoT fangame. It is good because of that reason though and all their hard work 
 DID pay off in the end. This is one Action/Adventure game you will not want to pass-up on, and 
 is the best of its kind on the Wii right now. If you own a Wii, and don't mind using your brain 
 a little, this game is a MUST HAVE. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  when i picked up this game i already knew i had a great video game before i even started playing. 
 thats whats so great about the zelda series. this one did not disappoint and might even be the 
 best of the series. twilight princess is like a supped up version of ocarina of time (and that can 
 never be a bad thing) . the graphics are very well done for the least powerful of all the next gen 
 systems. the sound and the soundtrack draws you into the game. adding the wii controller into the 
 mix makes this game on the level of unbelievable, it just makes a zelda game more exciting to play. 
 in the game itself you should never find your self board because besides the main quests the side-quests 
 keep the game going. hyrule field is huge, there are many hidden items to be discovered within 
 the world to help link whip ass. the temples are great; the puzzles, enemy's, and boss battles 
 are done close to perfection. this game just like the rest of the zelda games should have any gamer 
 happy with their purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patch7331
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  My little bro bought a Wii and I paid for Twilight Princess and I have to say I'm a little disappointed.
 
  
  So he came home we set up the Wii (syncing the remote took forever) and we stuck in Twilight Princess, 
 I left for awhile so my bro couldn't ruin it for me.
  
  Ok, my bro gone I sit down and start playing and looking at the pretty lighting and water but everything 
 else looks so last-gen muddy textures and 2d-sprite eyes.
  
  I understand that every Zelda has been in text but they have to let it go seriously we've had voice 
 acting since the N64 days.
  
  The sounds in the game are good and the music is excellent but the sound from the Wii-Mote speaker 
 is very bad and tinny, I wish they had an option to have all the sound coming out of the TV.
  
  If you are expecting to be doing fancy moves with your Wii-Mote prepare to be disappointed, 
 you just wiggle the Wii-Mote a little to swing your sword, this is good and bad because you don't 
 get a tired arm. Also the nunchuck motion sensor feels like a last minute addition it is very unresponsive 
 and annoying.
  The camera controls are downright crap.
  
  Its not all bad the story is good, its a lot of fun too, lots little extra goodies and quests and 
 a lengthy main story but you can't help thinking they could've put more effort into porting this 
 form the the Gamecube version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett507
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, one of the best Zelda games to date. The introduction of the new horseback combat 
 system is probably one of the best aspects of LoZ: TP. The use of the Wii-mote is also excellent 
 and very innovative, providing the player with a whole new way to play. The graphics are a fairly 
 decent improvement on the OoT, especially considering that the Wii is not the powerhouse that the 
 360 or the PS3 both are. As in all Zelda games, there are plenty of sidequests, minigames, and 
 extra content that will keep you playing for hours on end. As usual, the music is wonderful. It 
 is loud enough to be heard, but not so loud that takes your attention away from what is going on 
 in the game. The only downside on the sound is that the Wii-mote makes an extremely obnoxious metal-grating 
 sound when Link draws his sword. There are people who complain about the lack of voice-overs, but 
 the text at the bottom of the screen is classic Zelda, and the game would not be complete without 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twlight Princess is the best Zelda game ever, there I said it. No matter if 
 you play it on the GCN or the Wii, it delivers a adventure that truely satisfies. There are some 
 issues with the game that has plagued the series since Ocarina of Time changed how we played Link. 
 The main gripe? It's not very innovative even with the motion controls. One thing about Nintendo 
 is that it's slow to change, but if it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
  
  The story unfolds like most Zelda games do. This incarnation of Link is a farm boy off in a small 
 corner of Hyrule. As the adventure begins he's sucked into the Twlight realm and meets Midna (who 
 is one of the most original characters ever created) . From there he is changed into a wolf and 
 forced into the service of Midna in order to find the 3 parts to a shadow mask (another typical 
 part of Zelda is the 3 minor things before the 8 major things) . From there you explore a bunch 
 of greatly constructed dungeons that will test your reasoning center. This is probably the brightest 
 point of the game. Along the way Twilight Princess bows to the prior 3-D Zelda games but also creates 
 it's own part in the mythos. This one is considered and alternate reality after Ocarina but before 
 Windwaker. As the story unfolds it's pretty predictable. The ending, while very cool, is pretty 
 much figured out by the 3rd or 4th dungeon. Still this was a great idea to have as a launch title 
 for the Wii. 
  
  The graphics are on par is not a little better then the GCN version. They are well animated and 
 detailed. The lighting and shadowing are good. They aren't as good as the 360 or the PS3, but they 
 do the game justice. 
  
  The music and sound are vintage Zelda, taking classic themes and recreating them for this game. 
 
  
  The controls for the Wii are good. Kind of what you would expect for the game. But they don't really 
 diverge too much from the GCN controls or prior Zelda games. The major change is that the Wii mote 
 and the nunchuck are used in combat. You swing the Wii mote like a sword and you but with your 
 shield with the nunchuck. Some aiming with the bow and the slingshot are done with the Wii mote, 
 but other then that it's all buttons. Much like the prior Zelda games, Z is for targeting. B is 
 to use items. The askee paid is for assignment of items. The C is for 1st person and the A is for 
 accepting. 1 and 2 toggle the huds on your screen. It's the same basic set up as the prior Zelda 
 games. So it's really not Wii specific. You can tell tha the Wii controls were taylored from the 
 GCN controls. The swinging about feels slightly tacked on. Still this doesn't take away from the 
 games greatness but it may hurt your wrist a bit. 
  
  Hyrule itself is massive, this is the largest Zelda game to date, with the most dungeons, and possibly 
 the most extra caricular activites attached to date. Twlight will keep the gamers busy until the 
 next big Wii splash comes out. 
  
  The level of difficulty isn't too great as far as bosses and thugs are concerned. Some of the puzzles 
 are pretty deep though. The massive amount of extra items alone are hard to find if you don't choose 
 to go through the story all at once. 
  
  Aside from some minor flaws here and there this is the big bang that the Wii needs to boost it's 
 self to popularity. Zelda is deep enough for fans of the prior games and hardcore gamers, but easy 
 enough for casual gamers and kids to enjoy. It's one of the games that levels both off perfectly. 
 It's essencial for any Wii owner, Nintendo fan, or Zelda gamer. This is also the first Zelda game 
 to rate a "T", which I feel is the right direction for the franchise to go. Especially after Windwaker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJgamer93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Besides game of the year I would call it the best Legend of Zelda game out there! (You know besides 
 link to the past) It starts off sort of slow, but when you get to the dungeon's you'll know why 
 this game is so good. There are difficult puzzles and weird creatures to battle. Not to mention 
 the huge bosses that are easy to beat, (As long as you find out how to beat the darn things) Besides 
 dungeons the scenery is great! I know that their only uses game cube graphics, but they were creative 
 with what the had. Sometimes I spend more time trying to find the dungeon then actually in it. The 
 game usually takes 40 hours to beat normally, but since I want to get, every single heart it will 
 probably take me 50 hours. Okay I'll just sum it up to, this game is Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuck81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a dungeon crawler myself, and I have only played through two and half 3D Zelda 
 games (WW TP and half of Ocarina) But this game is beautiful, engaging, with plenty to do. While 
 some dungeons and activities (tear-gathering) are tedious, you generally feel rewarded enough after 
 you finish that task. Graphics are stylistic and great, sound is classic zelda, and the music is 
 great despite not being fully orchestrated. Once you get used the controls are very natural and 
 its tough to play Zelda on a traditional paddle afterwards, although it does feel that there is 
 a slight delay in the sword swinging you soon get used to it, and the bow and slingshot were made 
 for the Wii-mote.
  
  Its the Wii's current Killer app, and its doesn't dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbswordfish8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, I can't help but be just a little dissapointed by Twilight Princess. It is true 
 that it is an amazing game, with a huge world, great dungeons, and a whole bunch of stuff to do. 
 It is true that it is one of the best games I have played, period. But in a game like these, I 
 work to fight a boss worth fighting, and the bosses in Twilight Princess were just too easy. Graphics: 
 An amazing looking Gamecube game. And I'm completely fine with that. It is still much more inspiring 
 than what I've played on PS3. This is really good-looking.
  
  Sound: I don't care about this orchestra bull. The tunes in this game were amazing. The new tunes 
 mix in perfectly with the old tunes. Value: It took me 42 hours to complete. And I'm still going 
 to go back for more fishing, and a very nice little minigame involving a marble and tilting the 
 wiimote that I really must go back to. As it stands, this game is amazing. It really is. I just 
 felt a bit let down at the end of each dungeon, and went to the next one hoping that the boss would 
 be as tough as it looked. Wind Waker's bosses were still pretty easy, but these were just a joke. 
 They really were. Even the final was a piece of cake. But this is too much ranting, and a bit of 
 an exaggeration. The puzzles in the dungeons will at times make you scratch your head for five 
 minutes or so, until you find out the solution. They are pretty smart for the most part, which 
 adds to the difficulty a bit more. So you just go play this game because it is amazing, with a 
 great storyline, though I must say that some characters seem a bit... indescrete? I don't know 
 if that's the correct word. I mean, those girls, and Telma. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckcleric
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  The Good: Decent graphics, good plot, minigames and side quests add much more depth to the game, 
 great items and bosses.
  
  The Bad: Sound is dated and when it comes from the Wii-Mote can be garbled, loses a lot of great 
 content from OoT, not much to combat.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is the official 'sequel' to what is arguably one of the 
 greatest games of all time: The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Ocarina of Time was a game that 
 proved top-down and 2-D games could be converted into 3-D, and it did a damn good job of it too. 
 So the question is: does Twilight Princess live up to Ocarina of Time's standards? The answer, 
 in my opinion, is no, but it still is a great game that belongs in every Wii owner's library. Twilight 
 Princess starts off in the small farm village of Ordon, where you are cast as a young boy named 
 Link who is about to undertake a journey to Hyrule Castle to take a present to Princess Zelda, 
 the ruler of the land. However, before you can journey there, a strange twilight covers the land, 
 and you are turned into a large grey wolf. From there, things get complicated. You'll go to the 
 ends of the earth to free Hyrule from eternal twilight, and ultimately, defeat the ones responsible 
 for trying to take control of Hyrule. It's an engaging quest, to be sure, and a long one at that, 
 taking anywhere from 40 to 60 hours to complete. While the story is good, at times it is a bit 
 predictable, but for the most part, it doesn't really matter. All you need to do is venture into 
 the dungeons of Hyrule, get a new item, defeat the boss and continue onwards. You may think this 
 would be boring, but it's quite the contrary. It's a blast to play, and the bosses and items are 
 incredible. You'll find it hard to pull away from the game, and you won't stop until you finally 
 defeat the last boss. However, there are a few things that are not so great about Twilight Princess. 
 For one, the combat system. While you can learn hidden skills that do require a bit of finesse, 
 for the most part, you can just wave you Wii-Mote around like a madman to kill anything. It's not 
 very immersive, and it's just too simple. On a whole, the combat system is not very enjoyable, 
 and if it weren't for the hidden skills, slaying your foes would be boring. The sound system is 
 also another issue in Twilight Princess. Most of the music comes from the original OoT, and although 
 OoT had some of the best music ever found in a game, it sounds dated here. You'll be riding your 
 horse, Epona across the wonderfully lush fields of Hyrule dramatically slaying foes left and right 
 as the sun goes down, while you are listening to tinny, dated music. Also, although the speaker 
 from the Wii-Mote generally works well in all the other Wii games, here for some reason it comes 
 out garbled. When you slash your sword, sometimes the noise coming out of the speaker will sound 
 incredibly garbled. Twilight Princess also loses a lot of great content from OoT. Gossip stones, 
 Lon Lon Ranch, great characters such as Sheik and others never make an appearance, which is sad 
 to say the least. All in all, Twilight Princess is a great game on its own, but pales in comparison 
 to Ocarina of Time. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a game that should be owned by every 
 Wii user, and it is a solid, but not excellent, addition to the Legend of Zelda series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khron0248
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  immersive world, though not as big (unfortunately) as the one in windwaker. great characters, design 
 and personality development. story is fantastic and different, though doesnt go so far out of the 
 realm of the series. many recurring ( from previous games) sounds and music which in my opinion 
 is a great thing. great level design as well as enemy design. controls are great, sometimes the 
 wii remote controls feel forced, though i know if i try to play it on the gamecube its gonna really 
 be tough now, haha. horse riding controls can be frustrating. plenty to do as in all zeldas, lots 
 of secrets, pieces of heart, etc. best game on wii by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocode81
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I think that says it all, 12 hours straight, and I only stopped b/c it was noon the next day and 
 I really needed to sleep. This is one of the best games I've played in a long time, and really 
 got me back into games after a bit of a drought during the game cube years. That was partly due 
 to a lack of games, but also due to attempting to graduate college. This game is more of what you 
 would expect from a Zelda title, and then some. While the structure of the game is similar to past 
 titles in the series, Twilight Princess stays fresh throughout. The dungeons, with the exception 
 of one or two, have a big wow factor, and really impressed me. Overall, this is the second best 
 Zelda title, coming in a close second to the SNES installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenomenon11
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The game was enjoyable but it went all over the place, most parts you felt as if there was a catch 
 because it was way too easy and in other parts were insanely hard! the Graphics were good though 
 in some parts of the game Link did look a little creepy, the ground didn't match up all the time, 
 and some of the monsters looked a little sketchy, but why let such minor details ruin our fun. 
 Music was excellent it matched up with the entire game. I think Nintendo did areally good job on 
 this game. If you haven't played the game rent it! It is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Naturally When i bought my Wii i was going to pick up a copy of this game, and judging by sales 
 figures most Wii buyers did. First impressions its a great game, its charm is immense with all 
 the citizens, areas and items all nicely coated in a charming graphics style, which is quite unique. 
 The music is fairly adequate for a Zelda game and the plot is up to scratch. The plot involves 
 link transforming into a wolf, and along with your demon friend 'Midna' you must tread the world 
 of the spirits, and help (or sometimes scare) the land of the living. The plot is sometimes unclear 
 however it does give Zelda a darker edge which has never really been seen before in any Zelda. 
 The only flaws i have with it are sometimes it can become frustrating, and you feel like just going 
 online and getting a guide. Also the camera angles still are not perfect, causing some jumps and 
 maneuvers to prove difficult. All in all this is still a good game with a lot of charm, so i still 
 suggest buying it. The Good: Same Core Zelda Gameplay we all love and missed, good music, new edge, 
 large world
  The Bad: Tricky and frustrating parts, camera angles not 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was what many fans of the series craved. It offers a more 
 mature style and theme to the gameplay than the previous installment, Wind Waker. You play as a 
 young adult as opposed to a child version of the hero known as Link. One of the biggest criticisms 
 over Wind Waker was the graphical style it took own, making it seem more childish. While this was 
 a very interesting direction they took, and unique, people wanted to see something more realistic, 
 similar to the great Ocarina of Time. Well, that's what they received here.
  
  The visuals in Twilight Princess are very beautiful, but you must keep in mind it is technically 
 a last-gen game (developed for the Game Cube) . The land of Hyrule is massive and it is great riding 
 through it on Epona - who makes her return in the game.
  
  Gameplay on the Wii is great. Using the Wiimote and nunchuck is an excellent way of controlling 
 Link, it really does make it hard to go back and play older installments in the series such as 
 Wind Waker or Ocarina of Time. A couple nice additions were being able to swing your sword while 
 running, which makes it great cutting grass while looking for rupees, and using your sword while 
 riding Epona. Although it could have appeared more in the game, it is a blast fighting enemies 
 upon Epona, similar to jousting.
  
  A flaw in the game that I found was the audio. The music is great, as it always is in the series, 
 but it would have been nice to hear it with an actual orchestra as opposed to the aged MIDI. It 
 is great to hear a lot of the classic themes re-hashed in Twilight Princess, but it's hard not 
 to want it played through real instruments. Staying in the audio aspect of the game, they did a 
 great job of utilizing the speaker in the remote throughout the game, be it playing the classic 
 theme when opening a chest or Midna yelling Hey! . The problem with it was not so much the game's 
 fault, as the hardware's fault, as it is well known that the Wiimote speaker distorts due to the 
 cheap quality.
  
  The story is great in Twilight Princess, and brings back elements of past Legend of Zelda games 
 in it. I personally would have liked to see more of the traditional story including the Triforce 
 in it, but the concept of the Twilight Realm was very interesting. As many of the great Zelda games 
 have had, this too contained two parallel worlds (the Twilight Realm and normal world) . It was 
 a shame you couldn't warp to and from them at your own will, though.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is a must buy for any remote fan of the Zelda series, even though it 
 falls short in certain elements to its predecessors. If you are a fan of the genre (Action-Adventure, 
 Action-RPG) , you should definitely take a peak at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredlord
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is just great. the controls and everything. The graphics too it are good as well. So 
 far its the best game i've played on my wii. i wish they would make a multiplayer mode for zelda 
 thought, that'd be fun. Its tricky enough that its fun, but not so hard that you throw the wii-mote 
 at a wall in rage, which is good. Also the game itself is pretty long, and definitely worth the 
 money. You might find yourself playing Zelda many sleepless nights ;) . If you dont have this for 
 your Wii, youre missing out; its definitely a must-buy for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramseyT
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I think I have finially played the game enough to give it a fair review on thid truly terrific 
 game. Although it does have its problems there very minor and will most likely bother very few 
 people. I was very exicted to get and play this game after finially being able to get my hands 
 on a Wii dew to lack of numbers in my community. As a first started up by the game a was very suprised 
 by the games polished look, although Ive heard many people say nintendo just added earth tones 
 and made everything shiney (witch in part is true) too give an illusion of improved graphics to 
 compansate for the Wii's low graphics capabilitys, true or not the game has very nice look to it. 
 Another common, and false in my opinion, statement by many critics (Jeff Gerstment of gamespot 
 included) that this game isnt very diffrent from past zelda games, but that just isnt true. Yes 
 the core gameplay is the same, go to several dungeons and fight big bosses, but there are many 
 little things that made this feel diffrent from the others. For one thing the past zelda games 
 the action never got to exciting, were several time while playing twighlight princess I founf my 
 heart racing as I was chasing an orc on its stead down while getting chased by a horde of smaller 
 orcs. Also the designers got much more creative with the types of weapons in the game, though I 
 wont say what they are so I dont spoiler it for future players who are reading this. Though I was 
 annoyed by the fact that alot of the equipment you get is used maybe 3 times throughout the game, 
 and mainly there just used in the dungeons you get them in. Now for the Wii specific controls. 
 I will say I wasnt amzingly impressed by the motion sensor controlls in the game, although they 
 work quite well for specific moves. But also they can be a little annoying when your surrounded 
 by several enemys and you cant swing the controller fast enough as well as you could press a button, 
 but this really doesnt hinder the gameplay. I though really injoyed the use of the pointer for 
 aiming things like your bow and it adds more accuracy too your shots and makes the game feeled 
 much more engrossing. The sound effects where really cool for about an hour, but for some reason 
 about an hour into the game the sounds coming from the controller start getting glitchy and sounding 
 like crap alot of fuzzy noises, but when they did work (witch was hardley ever) it sounds very 
 good, but over all it got annoying when ever you pull out your sword it sound like a your controller 
 just farted. Over all this game was very good and probably one of the best zelda games in the series 
 and I would recamend it to any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santanablu3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  i think this is one of the best game iv ever played since grandia 2.... the story plot is very long 
 and entertaining. the graphic's are pretty well and the water graphic are crazy cool....... this 
 is a must buy game for the nintendo wii and stomp out competition between alot of game that are 
 out right now.. when you think your near the end of the game your not even close, that is the type 
 of game ive been looking for. one thing if you dont like reading then dont buy this game. (but who 
 doesn't like reading!) there are massive weapen's in this game that will make you happy an on top 
 of that the finish move are all fun to do. so if you dont have this game pick it up and i promise 
 you will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  With the heavy burden of such behemoth titles as Ocarina of Time, Majoras Mask, and Wind Waker, 
 you can see that Nintendo had a lot of pressure when making it's 12th addition to the series. First 
 of all, if you haven't been living under a rock and you've played at least one Zelda game, you 
 would know that each game revolves around a few central characters - Link, Princess Zelda and a 
 force of evil usually linked to Ganon (dorf) . What makes this game special is the surprising way 
 that Twilight Princess unravels this story.
  
  Set a few decades after the events of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, the game begins with 
 Link residing in Ordon Village, working as a ranch hand. He is abruptly attacked by a group of 
 monsters who kidnap his friends. While in pursuit, he is pulled into alternate world called the 
 Twilight Realm and is transformed into a wolf. This sets up the fundamental structure of how the 
 gameplay is set out for the rest of the game and is an excellent introduction to the story and 
 gameplay.
  
  The situation with Hyrule this time is that the nefarious ruler of the Twilight Realm, Zant, is 
 trying to bathe Hyrule in perpetual twilight. Once imprisoned in this abstract reality, Link is 
 befriended by a childish imp named Midna who becomes his faithful sidekick and a pivotal character 
 to the story. She replaces the role of Navi and gives you helpful tips and generally aids you in 
 your adventuring.
  
  Once you've scratched the surface of the game you will find that this Zelda is easily the largest 
 one ever and you will easily spend around 50-60 hours purely on the main quest. Not only will it 
 take you a while to complete, you will also find that the physical content and environments in 
 Twilight Princess are utterly expansive, with Hyrule Field literally stretching for miles and miles. 
 Thankfully the robust travel and warping systems keep you from losing your interest too quickly.
 
  
  Progression is basically defined by where you are in the game and how many unlocked doors you've 
 opened. In addition, the stunning variety of different items and manoeuvres you receive help make 
 the game more and more entertaining as you progress. Gameplay is divided into two parts. In the 
 normal realm you play as human Link and in the twilight realm you play as the wolf. The only real 
 difference is that in the twilight realm everything is shrouded in darkness, the humans are ghosts, 
 and the monsters take on a very creepy and peculiar appearance. Eventually you gain the ability 
 to change back and forth between wolf and human form which adds another element to challenges within 
 the game.
  
  The big topic of any Wii game is obviously the Wii remote and Zelda blends the motion control seamlessly 
 into the game mechanics. Don't expect to become tired while playing because most of the time you 
 can rest your arms on your lap while making simple flicking motions with your wrist. Pointing the 
 remote at the screen to aim your bow or hookshot is extremely accurate and shows how well a good 
 FPS will fare with the Wii's controller.
  At times though you do wish the enemies were a little harder and the boss fights are pretty straightforward. 
 Of course, in keeping with a common tradition with recent Zelda games, there is an excellent fishing 
 minigame where you could easily spend hours of gameplay entirely devoted to sitting in a boat searching 
 for the ultimate catch of the day. You are also guaranteed to end up with a sore arm from reeling 
 in fish using the remote (one of the few energy intensive tasks in the game) .
  
  Twilight Princess uses a highly modified version of the Wind Waker engine and so the graphics frequently 
 take on a Gamecube appearance. However, the creative styling of the game easily overshadows this 
 minor issue. The character animations and facial expressions allow for an astounding array of emotions 
 to be portrayed and help you connect with each of the characters in the game. What Nintendo have 
 done here with such limited resources is nothing short of astounding and shows how pure graphics 
 does not determine the entertainment value of a game (yet again!) . Another minor issue with the 
 Twilight Princess is its underwhelming sound. While the game does sound great, the use of midi 
 files gives an emaciated feel to what could be a truly epic soundtrack, especially considering 
 the capacity of the new disk format. Nintendo could have easily included higher fidelity sounds 
 to further enhance many of the humbling and awe-inspiring moments that you encounter throughout 
 the journey.
  
  The boss battles are ultimately the biggest let down in the game. You come face-to-face with some 
 of the coolest bosses of any game around, yet the bare sound and simplified, hold-your-hand difficulty 
 takes away from what could have been the next Ocarina of Time.
  While The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess has a few stumbling blocks, you cannot use these minor 
 faults to downplay the titanic experience that is presented here. To create a game this large and 
 yet have so little faults with which to criticise it is amazing. It gives you everything you expected 
 in a Zelda game and then throws in a few things you didn't expect either. So if you have a Wii 
 and want another great game to add to the collection then pick up this one because you are guaranteed 
 a great experience. Now get fishing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy_Frank
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay ~
  
  Twilight Princesses game play is very similar to the Ocarina of time Zelda game released for the 
 N64. You, as link, go around the massive world of Hyrule while helping people in trouble and slashing 
 your way through the dungeons. There is 20 hearts (lives) to collect which will keep the normal 
 gamer busy for a while since most mini quest only give you 1/5th of a heart piece. Aside from the 
 very immersive and epic storyline, there are many things for you to do. You can fish at the lake, 
 play the large amount (for a action RPG) of mini games, or try your best at the cave of ordeals 
 (a extra dungeon) . However normal to a Zelda game this sounds, there are three major differences 
 that can be seen with Twilight Princess. The first is that most of the fighting and the use of 
 items rely deeply on actions of the wiimote, you control your sword and shield with your wiimote 
 and nun chuck and you aim your ranged items with the wiimote. The second major difference is that 
 not only can you play as Link but you can also play as link in a wolf form. The third difference 
 is the addition to new moves with the sword. These techniques are taught to you throughout the 
 game and keep the fighting system fresh.
  
  Graphics ~
  
  The Wii is not known for its graphics but Twilight Princess does showcase a graphical step up from 
 the anything that came from Nintendo in the pass. It is no comparison to a 360 or a PS3 but we 
 all knew it wouldnt be on that level when we bought the system right? The cut scenes are nice 
 and the overall glow that the game has does set the mood of the environment. Sound ~
  
  There will be people that will say that the sound could have been orchestrated or other things 
 along those lines but to tell you the truth, The sound matches the game perfectly. Twilight Princess 
 offers superb sound that does try to include the player in the game. Boss battles offer some of 
 the best music that I have heard in a game in a while. Value ~
  
  For the 49.99 price tag, this game is worth every penny. Twilight Princess, to me, is probably 
 one of the must have titles for people that own a Wii. There is no real replay value in the game 
 but the first run through is worth the price itself.
  
  Final thoughts ~
  
  Twilight Princess lets the player really get into the game. From the immersive world, memorable 
 characters, to the stunning sound, everything contributes to include the player in this very epic 
 game. Sure, the graphics are not perfect but that has no dent on this games incredible value. This 
 game is a must have for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Twilight Princess is a truly spectacular achievement. I really enjoyed this game, and it is 
 arguably the best Zelda game ever. I'm a veteran of several Zelda games and i think I enjoyed this 
 one the most. Ocarina of Time was a groundbreaking title, but TP is its evolution. Aside from the 
 lack of voice-over and somewhat out dated graphics, this game is perfect. It is long, beautiful, 
 and has an amazing story. The world is huge. It took me 52 hours to complete it. The wii remote 
 also works perfectly for this game. This game is a true masterpiece, and no one should miss out 
 on it, even if you don't have a Wii (also on Gamecube) . Go and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CybranMaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever for wii. Always was, is and will be. I haven't finished it yet, 
 so I can't give anything away, but it is an awesome game. It froze once on me, but I can excuse 
 that. My advice: GET A GUIDE! There is no instruction in this game whatsoever. You will get totally 
 lost if you don't get a guide.
  Compared to the US launch games, though, this game could be crap, and it would still be the best 
 launch game, cause it's Zelda. Super Monkey Ball is okay, and I'm trying really hard to get a copy 
 of Trauma Center (looks good) , but other than that... Nothing.
  
  Overall, a good game in general, and looking forwards to more Zelda on the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintenpower_198
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  BUY THIS GAME NOW!!! this is must a must have in any wii owners libary there may be no new expeiriance 
 like other zelda games but this ones has a wierd feeling about it that just makes you never want 
 to put the wii mote down. SO BUY THIS OR YOUR UMM... WHAT EVER'S IMPORTANT TO YOU GET'S IT!!! But 
 not just this theres a whole lot of other wii games you should buy.... Sonic and the secret rings, 
 mario galaxy, metroid prime 3, Mariom party 8....... and the list goes on for ages. oh and buy a 
 wii there good to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has always been a landmark series and Twilight Princess is a stellar addition 
 to the beloved franchise.
  
  The Wii version offers an interesting way to play with a fairy cursor for menu selection as well 
 as aiming your bow and hookshots. You also use the motion sensors to use your shield and sword 
 in combat, making this a very unique gameplay experience. The graphics on Twilight Princess utilizes 
 a re-vamped cel-shading engine from Wind Waker and produces some of the most life-like Zelda scenes 
 yet. There are also plenty of nice-looking effects throughout the game.
  
  Sound however, is the weak point in Twilight Princess. Instead of the long-wanted orchestral scoring 
 of Zelda, we are still left with a MIDI version of Zelda music. There is some voice work, however 
 it's nothing that is understandable to a person. Sound effects are very well done, however and 
 often play a key role in discovering items and skills.
  
  Re-play value is something you CAN get out of Zelda, but can get if you leave it alone for a few 
 months and play it again. This way, your memory of dungeons and bosses is somewhat weakened and 
 you gain new joy from playing. Despite it's sound flawsThe Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is 
 one of the best Zelda titles to date. This is easily recommendable for any Wii owner who wants 
 a deep and challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Ok. This game is great. While simultaneously being the spiritual successor to Ocarina of Time, 
 it brings back enough and changes enough to be fresh and familiar at the same time. Wonderful control 
 add to the immersive storyline. While lacking in in-game camera control, the control or lack thereof 
 are extremely reminiscent of Ocarina of Time. This is one game NOT TO BE MISSED.
  
  This is an extremely worthy entry in the hallowed Legend of Zelda series. Twilight Princess seems 
 to be on-par with Ocarina of Time, but is it BETTER? You decide.
  
  (One interesting thing about the GameCube version of this game... everything is mirrored. So EVERY 
 screen, EVERY dungeon, EVERY character is flipped . This makes the GameCube version's geography 
 even closer to that of Ocarina of Time due to where locations are in relation to each other.)
 
  
  The following is taken from Zelda Forums :
  Nintendo says that the game will feature more dungeons and temple themes than in Ocarina of Time, 
 that Link will get many more weapons (many of them unique to the game) , and that there will be 
 100+ hours of gameplay. The idea set by the development team is that Twilight Princess will be 
 the best Zelda game yet, and things are looking that way. 
  
  2007.02.26
  
  At well over 90 hours of gameplay and still going, this is a great, great, great game.
  
  2007.02.28
 
  
  Completed in 102 hours. I admit that I took my time with this one. Games this good don't come along 
 every day. I made this one last. (I wasted time just riding around the field on my horse, looking 
 for all those stupid gold bugs and other hidden details, fishing, etc.)
  
  I would DEFINITELY recommend this title to all Wii owners. Overall, playing Twilight Princess wasn't 
 as much fun as playing through parts of Wind Waker , but that may just be me. Twilight Princess 
 is great none-the-less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintend-man86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was probally meant to be the center of the Wii launch. It probally is one of 
 the best game out there. If you get a Wii, you probally should get this game as a starter. The 
 game starts out with Link in his home town village place of Ordon. You must complete some task, 
 which on some level could take awhile to figure what to do. Once you give a lady her cat, heard 
 some goats and save a monkey, Ilia takes Epona away from you because you her the horse. Your young 
 friend Colin talks some sence into her, and she gives you Epona back. All of a sudden, some mobster 
 Ork dood nocks you upside the head with a club and takes your friends away. Then some shadow monster 
 take you through some wall, and BAMB! You scream with pain and turn into a wolf. The controls couldn't 
 be more intuitive. You use the nunchuck to move around. The Z button is used for Z-Targeting enemies. 
 C is used for going into first person to look around. The A button on the Wii Remote is used to 
 perform actions such as rolling or picking things up. The D-Pad is used to place items wich when 
 you press left, right, or down, the item will be able to be used with B. Up on the D-Pad is used 
 to talk to Midna, who will give you advice and trasport you, and eventually let you transform. 
 You use the pointer on the Remote to fire projectiles or hawks. If you give the remote a quick 
 wave, Link swings his sword. If you swing the nunchuck, Link does his spin attack. YOu can also 
 do the jump attack and the stab with the Remote. The game is a very long story. It should take 
 you at least 30 hours to beat it. The bosses are fairly easy, but the dungeons have really good 
 puzzles that will keep you guessing. After every dungeon, there's another pot twister that keeps 
 you want to keep you playing. There are about 19 or so levels and 7 main dungeons. Once you do 
 beat the final boss there's plenty of sub-quests to do. Pleanty of minigames to. The best one would 
 have to be fishing. It could be a game on it's own. Over all, this game is totally worth your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto945
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure fun. If you have a wii and a PS3 (like i do) then try this experiement i did. 
 Buy this and Resistance Fall of Man. Play like 4 levels of Resistance (or however long it takes 
 you to get hooked) . Then play this and see how long it takes you to go back to Resistance. For 
 me it was about two days when i finally got stuck for the first time then i played some more RFoM. 
 Thats just an example of how great this game is. Gameplay: Swinging the wiimote aroud like a sword 
 really gets you into the action and the wolf portion of the game is equally as rewarding.
  
  Graphics: The graphics arent the best of next gen but when you have an adventure like this 
 are you really concerned with how many hairs are on links head.
  
  Sound: In-game souds are great but the crap coming out of the wiimotes little speaker is horribly 
 cheap sounding.
  
  Your gonna love this game if you buy it, and please dont rent it cause you most likely wont beat 
 it in time and will go crazy from wondering what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BackspaceCloud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the most overrated game... and you know what... it completely deserves it. This game 
 has everything it takes to get the Wii to compete with the PS3 and 360. Such as, terrific storyline, 
 great controls, challenging puzzles, and the graphics are far better than people say they are. 
 Sure these graphics aren't as good as the other next gen consoles, but I still thought the presentation 
 was fantastic. Ok, on to the review.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  Definitely utilizes all aspects of what the Wiimote and the Nunchuck can do. From swinging your 
 arm to make Link swing his sword, aiming your bow and arrow, or casting and reeling in a fish. 
 Even though motion sensing controls are awesome, you can be lazy and use the buttons on the Wiimote. 
 And the puzzles may just have you scratching your head for hours (in a good way) .
  
  Graphics:9/10
  In my opinion, they are incredible, but just aren't as good as they could have 
 been. but with a game as fun as this who pays any attention to the graphics. I think that a solid 
 9 is fair.
  
  Sound:8/10
  The sound effects in this game will take you back with the classic puzzle solving jingle, that 
 millions have come to love. The only reason I have given this an eight was because the music in 
 the temples tended to get repetitive.
  
  Replayability:9/10
  Sure, you can put this to rest after one play-through. But who is gonna find and see everything 
 the first time through? Not me! Have fun in the Cave of Ordeals.
  
  Final Call
  This is the reason to buy a Wii. It is what any Wii owner could ask for. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsAngel2c
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  As an avid Link fan, i needed to get this game when i bought my Wii and i am pleased with the buy. 
 It is a good, addictive game with a decent story line that grows and develops the longer you play. 
 It's got pretty much everything one expects from a Zelda game, with lots of puzzles, fighting and 
 chocobos! In fact, its got everything a Link fan could ask for! But what if you aren't a fan of 
 the elf? What if you play games for its quality rather than for building your collection?
  
  Even though this is a very good game and one which can keep you entertained for hours on end, 
 the hype it is receiving by Link fans is not deserving. Here's a few reasons why. The revolutionary 
 controller of the Nintendo Wii should make the game play revolutionary and fun. However, it feels 
 more like an add-on rather then a whole game focused around the controller system- the game was 
 made first, the controller came second. This wouldn't be an issue, if it hadn't had declared itself 
 to be immersive and (i'll use it again) Revolutionary... immediatly, my hopes for the game were 
 seriously harmed when the controls felt... well... clumsy, to be honest. The second reason is due 
 to the sound. For one, Nintendo has abolished all original Zelda sountracks, taking away the classic 
 feeling of being Elf Boy Link on yet another quest to rid the land of evil! It is a shame they 
 removed the music, as it is one of the best soundtracks of any game on any platform. Moving away 
 from the soundtrack, you have the case of bad bad sound effects, for example: Monkeys. The sound 
 which comes from the Wii mote itself sounds crackly and unclear and rather cheap... which is something 
 i wished i wouldnt have to say about this game! And last of all... its pretty simple. It is possibly 
 one of the easiest Zelda games i have played- the puzzles are self explanatory, the missions and 
 tasks are not as vast as in other Zelda games and the bosses and enemies are very easy to defeat. 
 It may be i am just growing out of Zelda games and am looking for a deeper challenge but one thing 
 is for sure- This game provides little challenge for the player.
  
  However, if you are looking for a very entertaining game that will provide you with a good story, 
 good environments and a good laugh here and there, then this is definatly a must have game! And 
 if you do not have a wii, then you must go to a friends house and play their one, because every 
 gamer should play it sometime in their life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon8link
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its Zelda. what else is there to say the gameplay is perfect and the wii controls go 
 perfect in the game.
  Graphics: Art style is amazing but the graphics should of been pushed up to wii standards, there 
 are also some issues with the game but they dont really get in the way that much.
  sound: Amazing. voice work dosent really matter to me though especially in a Zelda game. The Hyrule 
 field theme is a new favorite.
  Overall: Zelda Twilight Princess is one of the best games i have ever played tied with OOT. The 
 Wii version is more favorable then the GCN version with 16:9 widescreen and the wii controls. It 
 is definitly the wii seller and everyone should own the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess is a revolutionary game. It is probably one of the best games I have ever 
 played. The level design is fantastic, the fighting system is great, mini-games are impressive 
 as well. I was really impressed with the new items that could be found in TP. I was especially 
 impressed with the Double Clawshots and The Spinner. I really liked how you could learn new attacks 
 through out the entire game. The wii remotes controls work really nicely. Aiming for the projectiles 
 works perfectly and swinging for the sword works really smootly as well. The puzzles for this game 
 are great too. It's like any Zelda game. You take about 2 hours trying to figuire out whats right 
 in front of your face. The dungeons are outstanding. They are complex and exciting. Some seem a 
 little short. But they are still good. The boss fights are good as well. They are action packed 
 and are probably one of the most exciting parts of the game. Overall Zelda TP is amazing and and 
 owner of the Wii or GameCube should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_leetnesslol
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, for any of you people that have a Wii and dont have this game, well lets just say GO BUY 
 IT NOW!!!! This is the best zelda ever made because of the Fun temples and the awsome bosses and 
 the non stop action! Playing this game makes you fell that your in the game just your sword to 
 swing with the wii-mote and twriling the nun-chuck to spin, also the sheild bash moves makes you 
 fell like... well, using a sheild on your left hand. I think one of my favorite parts of this game 
 is using the bow and arrow. Aiming the wii-mote like your really shooting someone or something. 
 It makes the game feel like no ordinary zelda, thats because its on the wii!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelersbigben
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I just got my Wii a little bit ago. I was doubting whether it was a good decision, but then I started 
 playing this game, and I realized it could have been the best thing that I've ever done (gaming 
 wise) . This game is so much fun! If you have a Wii and don't have this game, you need to buy it. 
 Heck, if you don't have a Wii, go out and get one for this game. This game is challenging and will 
 keep you occupied for hours and hours. But don't get the strategy guide or look online for help, 
 because that would ruin some of the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eragon64
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I think it was the better game of zelda that I ever played !!! The graphics are good, and the gameplay 
 is really, really good. The diffuclty is ok, just right, you know it's a zelda, then you have to 
 expect some hard moment, but overall the game is perfect, the storyline was really great, even 
 if it's like the others zelda, but i think they made some good change... good change ! And i tried 
 the game with the wii, and the gamecube, and of course, the game is better with the wii ! Seriously 
 it's amazing, that we can use the controller to fight with the sword, and the bow, and the shield.. 
 lol, so, seriously, it's a good game !
  
  I give 9.9 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talnar85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  With the Wii it lets you play with Link in a new light. The way you have the combos in the game 
 and the use of the Wii mote makes the game play totally different to use but its so great to have 
 a new way to play games such as your RPGs and Adventures. In Zelda TP you end up becoming a shadow 
 wolf as I call it. While your in the wolf form you find out that Zelda is in trouble, and you end 
 up fighting your way through the realms of light and Dark trying to find out what you can to help 
 Zelda to lift the darkness from the land.
  
  If Nintendo keeps making games like this for the Wii I think that they will me on the top of the 
 gaming world. Keep up the Good work Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak2080
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After many delays we finally have The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. In my mind it absolutely 
 blows away any other game ever made. The gameplay is core Zelda gameplay with everything else that 
 you could possibly imagine. The Wiimote is the biggest new feature in the game. It is used as your 
 sword. Simply shake the remote and Link swings his sword. Midna who is an imp like creature serves 
 as the roll of Navi or Tatl. However she isn't very helpful and the only thing she is concerned 
 about is the storyline. The graphics however, look like a Gamecube game, but the art style makes 
 up for it and makes it look like a next-gen game. The teaser trailers are a little misleading soundwise. 
 The trailers have a full orchestral soundtrack, the game does not. The background music in the 
 game is made up of midis. However, they are expertly done so sometimes you can't even tell that 
 they are midis. You know the little cheap speaker on the remote well whenever you swing your sword 
 or Midna laughs etc. then that little thing will start making sounds. That thing is the most cheap 
 sounding thing ever! After the first few minutes with the sword I pressed home, Wii remote settings 
 and turned the microphone off. This game is easily the longest and largest adventure game ever 
 created. This game took me 40 hours to complete and I had a Prima guide with me. The game however 
 is a little bit on the easy side. Some of the puzzles in the dungeon are extremely hard, then once 
 you get to the dungeon's boss you can take it down in 2 minutes. This even goes for the final ending 
 boss which in my eyes is a little disappointing. Overall this game is one of the greatest games 
 of all time. If you have a Wii console or a Gamecube there is absolutely no reason why you should 
 not have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  It was a long waite but Ze3lda TP finally came. There are so many things that makes Zelda TP so 
 great. The combat is new and a refreashing change to what were use to. Swinging the wiimote to 
 weild your sword adds more paly to it, aimnig with the wii mote to aim your Bow&amp; Arrow or bomarang 
 al lthis adds a bit more realizem into the game and felsl like your more into it. The Storey reamins 
 the same for the most part. Link is a villige boy who rises up to save Hirule. This time it's from 
 an erie darkeness called the twilight. in the twilight you'l lbecome a wolf this also adds a change 
 of pace to the gameplay. Soon you'l lbe able to change willnigley from link to wolf. Hirule this 
 time is HUGE! and filled with all kinds of things to explore. The dougens here are bigger than 
 ever and fileld with some cool puzzels and huge foes that requiers tactics to take down. The quest 
 is a long one spanning about 30hrs. if that wasnt enugh theres even side quest and miny games. 
 Fishing is really fun and something you could spend houers on alone. Theres also a cool snow bording 
 corse. The side quest are full and can take up some time. The graphics here arnt really what we'd 
 call nex't gen but look good on a big flat screen. The music takes a hit aswell. Not to say it's 
 not good but Nintndo needs to change it up next time. The only real compalint I have about this 
 games is the cammra it truobled me at times causeing my death on a simple jump. Any way a must 
 have game for any wii owner or andvetuer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyboy932
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks the gameplay is just amazing needs work on graphics but other than that it is awesomeit 
 has a great storyline the bosses are easy but fun but zant and ganondorf are hard but the best 
 if u have a wii you should absoutley get this great gamethe bad part about the game is the graphics 
 when they do cut sences it really but the temple of time has 360 graphics for some reason but gameplay 
 is great u get good weapons such as master sword ball in chain and bow + arrow and the great clawshot 
 as i was saying anyone should get it u can learn easily the controlles and it is fun i say is it 
 the best wii game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindude24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  OMFG! this game is awesome. it has satisfying game play and finishing moves, great controls, phenomenal 
 story line, and basically its a perfect game for the wii and any one with a game cube or wii u 
 must get it immediately. this game completely rocks. I got my wii on launch and one game i really 
 wanted was twilight princess! ive been a Zelda fan for a while now but even if your not u will 
 love this game it just simply rocks. i don't know how much iv said it bu you must buy this game. 
 so in conclusion get this game its worth over 50$
  go  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majura
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Jup, the game is good. Believe the hype that came with it. But as a gamer, I can find a few points 
 that might be a bit improved in the next sequel of Nintendo's most famous (but one) series.
  
  First is the difficulty. Because Zelda produced so many games, there is a species walking this 
 earth known as the 'Zelda veteran', which I consider myself as well. These people know exactly 
 how to think to get trough the game. Something stuck on the wall? Bash it with a roll! Why do I 
 speak of teh veterans? because at the moment, I lend 'the Wind Waker' to a friend of mine, who 
 never finished a Zelda game before. He got stuck a a part pretty early on, which make me think: 
 'Is he stupid, or am I just good?' I concluded that the puzzles in Zelda always looked different, 
 but never really changed. If you only keep basic skills Ocarina-of-time skills mind, you know just 
 the way the creators think, and how to get past it.
  
  Off course, this is NO excuse for the enemies, who are more like buzzing flies which you hit with 
 a newspaper to get rid of them, then a serious threat. Off course, there ARE some of them who are 
 pretty hard to take down, when they come in numbers, but most fit the other description pretty 
 good. Such a shame, since you never feel like fighting the forces of evil, but more like some street 
 gang consisting of 12 year olds.
  
  Also, the music and sound never really impressed me, and the speaker in your Wiimote is not the 
 place to put the classic 'puzzle solved' tune. Such a shame, I always the Zelda tunes, no matter 
 which game. These were just not special.
  
  And the last negative thing I can say about this game: hardly any replay value. Side quests are 
 not interesting to do, hardly get rewarded, and are more likely to be non-excistend but two or 
 three. So the only reason to replay the game, is to get trough the story another time.
  
  But I am far to negative now. The graphics are pretty good for a Gamecube port, for example. Off 
 course, gamers are spoiled, and wont be impressed ny this. But if you take a moment, you get to 
 realize that playing this game is like watching a Disney/Pixar movie There is nothing wrong with 
 it, we just got used to it.
  
  And who needs replay? The main quest took me exactly 40 hours, which is long, longer then it looks. 
 And after a month or two, you do feel the urge to get trough the story again, as if it was a good 
 book.
  
  This review sounded pretty negative, but I like this game. I just wanted to pinpoint some things 
 other players seem to forget in their reviews. If you still didn't get it, I do think you should. 
 The game is long and entertaing, and that's what games are for. But I won't give a 10 for a sequel, 
 until we get the awesome music as we used to know, enemies with a reason of excistence, many side 
 quests just for goofing of a bit, and a real challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I've never owned a nintendo console before wii. I was a sega fan with the master system and megadrive. 
 I was a PS and PS2 fan in the previous two generations. For this game to be the first nintendo 
 game, I am surprised, amazed and completely blown away! This is easily the best action adventure 
 game I've ever played. The legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a masterpiece. Its easily the best 
 action adventure game I've ever played. I am a big fan of the action adventure genre and I regret 
 not being able to play the previous Zelda games now. I never thought any action adventure series 
 could hold a candle to my much loved tomb raider series. How wrong I was. Twilight princess is 
 an epic game. It will take you over 40 hours to complete and that alone makes your purchase well 
 worth it. I'll admit my first impressions weren't good at all. The game starts out very slow and 
 quite boring in my opinion. Ordon village at the start of the game wasn't fun at all. Once you 
 get past ordon village the game really kicks off though. After that it was non stop fun.
  
  What I love about this game is that as you progress through the game, you obtain different items 
 in your inventory. Each item is used in defferent ways and are used to solve all sorts of different 
 puzzles as well as defeating enemies. The puzzles in this game can be quite challenging and may 
 stump you from time to time. However they are never so frustratingly difficult that you'll end 
 up hating the game. The boss battles are very good. Each boss has to be handled in a specific way. 
 The bossed feel amazing at times and you fight all kinds of different monsters. The sword fighting 
 is great in this game due to the wii motion controls. The combination of motions with the remote 
 and nunchuck is used quite well. There aren't really many other ways motion controls is used though. 
 Well the pointer is used tof targeting with arrows and the motion sensing is used for fishing but 
 most of the time normal controls are used. I dont know if the wii version would be better than 
 the gamecube version or not. Not only is this an amazing game that will take a massive 40 plus 
 hours to complete, but there are many extras to do as well. There are lots of hidden pieces of 
 heart to collect. There are 26 bugs to collect, 60 poes to kill and there are hidden skills to 
 unlock as well. This would add to the replay value. Puzzles are quite varied. Sometomes its a simple 
 lock and key puzzle, sometimes its using items in certain ways to solve puzzles, sometimes its 
 a bit of platforming to solve a puzzle, sometimes its moving blocks, sometimes its transforming 
 into a wolf and using the sensing ability to see something, sniff something or kill something. 
 The ability to change into a wolf is brilliant and adds to the greatness. All in all Zelda TP is 
 an amazing achievement that has many different gameplay elements to it. It combines combat, puzzles 
 and platforming perfectly and created the best action adventure game I've ever played. With 40 
 plus hours of the main game plus extras to do and collect this game is well worth a purchase. Its 
 an epic game, its a fun game, its a challenging game but not challenging to the extreme. I've never 
 played a Zelda before and for this being my first I amazed and impressed. If there is a better 
 Zelda than this then that game is guarranteed to be a near perfect game as well. Thanks to this 
 I'm definitely downloading Zelda OOT on the VC. Simply put The legend of Zelda Twilight princess 
 is hte best action adventure game I've ever played and one of the best games I've ever played. 
 The only game I can think of thats better than this is GTA San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I can personaly say this is one of the most innovative and addicting games I've ever played. The 
 gameplay is great, and, unlike most video games, there isnt an obvious way to get out of every room, and 
 it makes you think. The graphics... not the best, but still pretty sweet. The only thing that I dont 
 like about this is there's no voice acting. Link never makes any noise like some other people do, he 
 just nods and shakes his head and smiles. This value is great, so if you can ever stop by to get 
 this game, you should, it's one of th greatest games of all time, along with Ocarina. and, if ocarina 
 had the graphics of this, it would be the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KERNELPOTTER
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  What is left to say? Challenging puzzles without being frustrating, nostalgic feel, great adventure, 
 two life forms (wolf and human) , i am GLUED! This game pushes the envelope with innovative control. 
 I love adapting to a new control style while soaking in one of the greatest game franchises in 
 history. Nintendo definitely got it right for this title. I am hoping they can continue to provide 
 quality like this because I want this platform to succeed. I purchased an Xbox 360 before this 
 system and it has great games as well (Gears of War, Elder Scrolls Oblivion, F. E. A. R.,
  etc.. But for now, the Wii has my undivided attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude17761991hat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  A game like Twilight Princess is difficult to describe. Many people call this game the one that 
 takes Ocarina's throne, but whether or not that is true is difficult to decide upon. Whether or 
 not it does, TP is still an amazing adventure and an absolutely wonderful game.
  Zelda seems like a glove fit for the Wii and swinging that little piece of plastic around makes 
 you feel as awesome as Link himself. With some mind bending puzzles and some great action sequences 
 it is truly the next best thing to Ocarina, if not better.
  Simply put TP is the best Wii game so far, the best Zelda since Ocarina and the best game of the 
 year. Anyone with half a brain should get a WIi for this game alone, it really is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game. It's long story, compelling, and new 
 style thanks to the Wii remote and Nunchuck, gameplay is wonderful. Many aspects of this game are 
 truly works of art that are impressive.
  
  The graphics in Twilight Princess can either be impressive or pathetic. TP looks like a large moving 
 oil painting. The enviroments doesn't have that flair that other games (on other platofrms) have, 
 but they have this classic, oil coloring on them. The overall look of the game is something to 
 appreciate.
  
  Another beautiful aspect of Twilight Princess is the games sound design. The musical score is entertaining 
 and relaxing. It soothing calm helps move you along through the peaceful moments of the story, 
 and it's high paced tone helps you along the adventure portions of the game.
  
  The downside to the games sound design is that there isn't any voice work in the game. The animals, 
 and Minda makes noises, but nothing really worth listening too. In this day and age there is no 
 excuse to have no voice acting in game of this scale. Text reading, even text scrolling, is one 
 reason why the game is as long as it is.
  
  Through out your adventure you'll go through everything from goat herding to cave hopping. You'll 
 travel through the dessert, and even fall in some dungeons. You spend some of your time as a dog, 
 which can seem pretty cool, but just becomes a chore after 2 or 3 times. With the Wii sporting 
 motion sensitive controlls, it was a lot of fun controlling link. You used the nunchuk to move 
 link around and to auto target enemies with your boomer rang and other projectile weapons, and 
 you use the Wii remote to fire your weapons, and control your sword. It's pretty much a jab here 
 and there, but it's a lot better than just pressing buttons over and over.
  
  Twilight Princess is one of the best games released since Knights of the Old Republic. If you're 
 looking for a game that has a long journey, new gameplay, and is overall a lot of fun. It's the 
 game to purchase a Nintendo Wii for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillydawg5000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I never really got into any of the other Zelda games. I have the original NES cart but I never 
 beat it. I also have OoT, but I never beat that either. I was talked into buying this game when 
 I got my Wii back in November. I have spent countless joyful hours trying to beat LoZ TP for the 
 Wii. I have had many batteries die in my Wii-motes, but it was all well worth it. The graphics 
 are amazing, especially for basically being a port of a GameCube game. I love every aspect of this 
 game except for the fact that it ends, I almost wish it went on forever, but considering that doesn't 
 ever happen, this game is still a perfect 10 for me. Get this game! Buy it new, buy it used, rent 
 it, borrow it from a friend, borrow it from a store, I don't care, but get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugsy44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but its nowhere near as good as Ocarina of Time. Yeah, well anyway this game is 
 great, it has the same good puzzles, great graphics, and a good story, well i guess thats Zelda 
 for ya. Well, this game has cool characters, just like every other Zelda game. It has a rememberable 
 story, and good gameplay. So if you have a Wii or Gamecube you would like this game if you like 
 adventure, puzzle games. This game is just like every other Zelda, awesome.
  
  So, i would say that this is a game you would want to have.
  
  And the game is practicly the 
 same if you're playing it on a game cube as it is if your playing ot on a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalhero86
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The thing that really bugs me is that everytime a play a zelda game i always think Link will like 
 hook up with zelda or something but in every zelda game I have played they never do. The makers 
 should really consider this. Also about the game, the unique wepons and awesome story line will 
 blow you away or like I always say knock your socks off. The music was also really touching and 
 I liked it alot. The game play is exellent as I said in my intro I recommend this game to all zelda 
 fans. i really liked the fackt that they let you use the master sword in the game which I think 
 is totaly cool. Get this game for the wii and even if your first time in the Legend of Zelda series 
 or saga its really good and if your unsure a tleast rent it. PEACE IM OUT!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex51011
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess
  
  Twilight Princess was the most anticipated Zelda game ever, and perhaps the most anticipated game 
 in gaming history! It sure doesnt disappoint either. You start out as a goat herder named Link 
 who will soon find himself launched into an epic adventure to save the mighty kingdom of Hyrule. 
 With help from many allies and that of a mysterious creature named Midna.
  
  The story is what youve come to expect from a Zelda title, save Hyrule from the evil which has 
 begun to take it over. Although this story is much darker and you would probably think that with 
 so many Zelda titles released the story must be milked to the bone by now, no. This game delivers 
 a very good story and has many twist and turns.
  
  I think a great addition story wise was Midna, the creature that substitutes Navi. Midna actually 
 has a big part in the story and actually contributes to the story, and plays key parts throughout 
 it. There are many other aspects that contribute to the story, one being the twilight realm. It 
 ads a whole new level of playing that is somewhat reminiscent of A Link to the Past. Although you 
 do not go through portals in the ground and can only go in when a land is covered by the twilight. 
 But it leads to new gameplay and founds the main principle to the story. The story advances through 
 areas you may remember from Ocarina of Time. Such as Kakariko village, Zoras lake, Death Mountain, 
 Hyrule castle, and those are only a few that youll remember. But there are also many new places 
 to explore in your adventure. These new places are welcomed openly as they add a whole new level 
 to the story and are nice to have.
  
  The story was probably one of the best Zelda stories written to date. It in my opinion outdoes 
 Ocarina of Time due to its shear depth in the story. Ocarina of times story was good. But this 
 story takes the trophy ands does a little bow. The visuals in Twilight Princess are outstanding! 
 Now Im not talking beefed up graphics like on the 360, Im talking the art design and how theyve 
 incorporated it so well into the game. You can see great distances when out in Hyrule field and 
 other such places. Probably the best example would be the desert. It is truly massive and lays 
 forth to beautiful visuals, as you can see for a very long distance. Another thing that I find 
 they did very well was the twilight realm. The eerie look gave you a real feeling that this place 
 is an area of despair. I sure know that it gave me that feeling. Plus the little particles of twilight 
 actually looked good. Id have to say that they did a very good job with the twilight realm in 
 terms of visuals it was done just right.
  
  All around the visuals look great, like in the temples. Thats were the visuals shine. Id have 
 to say that the temple of time has the best visuals in my opinion. Everything just seemed so polished 
 and worked to the last detail. Which can truly be said about every temple, Hyrule Castle had beautiful 
 visuals which could be proven when looking straight up at the castle when standing in the courtyard, 
 it literally boggles the mind!
  
  All in all the visuals in twilight princess were incredible and most likely the best art work and 
 visuals alike out there on the Wii. If you want good visuals in your Zelda games well your prayers 
 have been answered.
  
  Twilight Princess Gameplay cannot be rivaled by the other Zelda games. There are tons of dungeons 
 to play through and tons of hearts to collect. The gameplay is staggering, there is at least 70+ 
 hours of gameplay in Twilight Princess, which derives from the main quest and the many, many side 
 quest that you may embark on during your quest to free Hyrule. The dungeons are enormous and a 
 few are not what you would come to expect but are still incredibly fun to play. They vary from 
 a Forest, to mountains, to houses! There are tons and they will keep you busy fro many an hours. 
 But the temples are not the only aspect there is a lot of time spent before you enter the dungeons 
 completing certain tasks so that you may advance to the dungeons. As which is with the first three 
 you must collect spirit bugs in the Twilight Realm to return the area to how it normally was and 
 then fight your way through the epic dungeons.
  
  Now we cannot forget the many side quests that will easily consume your time. One of my favorites 
 is collecting the Golden Bugs for Agitha. She rewards you with Rupees and bigger wallets which 
 can help you a lot since there are many coins to be collected and much to buy. Alongside that there 
 are the heart pieces. There are many heart pieces scattered throughout the land and will take some 
 patience and perhaps a strategy guide to fin them all. Not only that, but there are many treasure 
 chests spread out throughout the land, thats right there not only in the dungeons!
  
  As you can see Twilight Princesss gameplay is incredibly varied and will have you wanting more 
 and more, I believe that speaks for itself!
  
  Twilight Princesss controls were really well done, from swinging your sword to firing arrows at 
 those distant enemies, the controls worked just right. I found that the flicking of the Wii-Remote 
 to use your sword felt incredibly natural and good, as did flicking the Nunchuk from side to side 
 to perform a spin attack. I dont think I would ever go back to having to push a button, it just 
 wouldnt feel right now. Another new feature was aiming your projectiles. This was well done and 
 felt fine, you actually got better precision by aiming like this and it gives you a little more 
 freedom, and trust me nothing is more satisfying then popping of a headshot with a bow.
  
  The normal controls for running, switching your weapons, and riding Epona are what youve come 
 to expect. Walking/running/riding Epona is done simply by using the analog stick on the Nunchuk 
 attachment (although when riding Epona you can click A to make her go faster) . Switching your weapons 
 is easy and well done, you click the  button to open up your inventory screen and then set items 
 by either clicking left, right, or down on the D-Pad. Which is also how you use them in gameplay, 
 click one of those buttons and then you can use those weapons with the B button. It all feels good 
 and smooth when using it.
  
  Now you can also call for Midna to get some help. This is easily down by pushing up on the D-pad. 
 If youre in the normal world then Midna will come out of your shadow and ask you if you want to 
 talk to her, transform into a wolf or teleport (the last 2 options only open up later into the 
 game) . If youre in the Twilight Realm then shell just talk to you from on top of your back. All 
 of these controls feel good and will never overwhelm you, so I think they really did a good job 
 control wise.
  
  The music in Twilight Princess is wonderful, although it would have been nice to have had a fully 
 orchestrated soundtrack. But I still have to say that the music was wonderful and I rather enjoyed 
 it. Youll notice quite a few tunes from Ocarina of Time, such as the Temple of Time music, which 
 youll hear in the temple of time obviously. The music gets intense when fighting which is what 
 youd expect and they do it well as you really get into the fight. I find that it was well done 
 but have to say that the fully orchestrated music would have brought the music al the way to the 
 top.
  
  One thing that was nice was the Wii-Remotes speaker, I know many people say that its not so great 
 because of the low quality, but I find it adds a nice layer to the gameplay and the audio isnt 
 that bad. I love hearing my arrow go from my Wii-Remote straight to my TV that is one of my favorite 
 audio sounds in this game. Also when you find treasure and you hear that ever so loved Zelda chime 
 come from your Wii-Remote, youve got to love it!
  
  Sword swings, shield hitting, rolling, Epona, those are just some of the things that give off some 
 very nice sounds. When riding Epona and you make her go faster shell neigh and start galloping, 
 which all sounds great, especially the horse hoofs clocking on the ground, I personally love that 
 noise. Sword swinging gives a satisfying sound along with a sort of battle type cry from Link, 
 the well known HEEYAH! Still the sound and music is well done and does deserve to be recognized. 
 Twilight Princess is more then worth the money youll spend to get it. With the many hours of gameplay 
 and the sheer largeness of the game youll be occupied for hour on end. This game actually has 
 great replay value for a single player game. Its so good youll just want to come back and play 
 it over and over again. I highly recommend the game and remember you will NOT be disappointed with 
 this purchase.
  
  Story- 9.5/10
  
  Visual- 9/10
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Controls- 9.5/10
  
  Audio- 9/10
  
  Value and Replay value- 9.5/10
  
  Overall- 9.7/10
 
  (Not an average)
  
  I hope you enjoyed my review!
  
  -alex51011 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  this is definitely the best game on wii which i am suprised on how it didn't get a AAA review from 
 game spot editors.
  it is a must own for any wii owner which almost all of them have it.
  it will last you at least last you 50 hours if not more the boss battles are fun and its re playable.
 
  Its one of the best in the series in which the zelda series is awesome.
  Nintendo didn't let us down.
  The wii-mote makes it very fun but if you don't like the motion 
 sensing with this game then buy it for game cube but i think you will like this game on wii just 
 how it is.
  So go get it if you don't own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamhari
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  So you got yourself a Wii. After all the waiting a looking for one you've gotton one! So here you 
 are. You just got Zelda and your excited and want to see what other's think of it. So here's my 
 full and honest opinion!
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The controlls of this game are great! I love the way you swing your sword. and your motion-sen. 
 aiming is also great! And fishing is a blast! However other than that it doesn't really make use 
 of the controller. Which is a shame.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Yes, this is a gamecube port rip. And you can tell, I'm not saying it looks bad, because it doesn't. 
 It looks great, however you can see the jaggy edges and the horrible horrible flat flat textures 
 D=
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  The sound in this game is kinda sad. There obviously copied over from the old N64 game's. I mean 
 exsat copies. And there's no voice acting... which make's the game feel dated, but old school.
 
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Overall this game is long and will last you not one sit-though but 60 hours... and thats just running 
 through the game and not taking time to explore everything.
  
  So overall this game is an easy.... gamecube port to the Wii that is a great game. But tends to 
 end up getting old and boaring. A must buy for the Zelda fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnGrYpHiL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok basically this game is too large for words and almost every hour of this game that i played 
 i pretty much enjoyed every last bit of it, sure i can seem repetitive at times do a couple things 
 then go right back into a nother dungeon but man it is greeeaaaattt!!! they redid everything perfectly 
 if not better, some examples of severe improvements were Lake Hylia, Hyrule Castle, Castle Town 
 and the biggest improvement was Hyrule Field. The only real flaws in this game is that the horrible 
 speaker in the wii remote butchers the classic zelda chime and that when you get a item in a dungeon 
 you realy never use it agian like the bomberang you use it in the forest temple but then you almost 
 never see it again.
  at times id say this game was too easy the bosses were letdowns they were waaayyy tooo easy. even 
 the last boss was too easy i always expect something realy hard to be the games last stand but 
 no its way too easy and there is hearts everywhere in the last boss fight.
  
  One thing that shocked me is how addicting this game is I just beat it then five mins later i was 
 playing it again. Also the Depth of this game is amazing all the minigames and all the stuff that 
 you can do to distract you from the storyline that are realy fun such as fishing, rollgoal, downriver 
 rafting, star, snowboarding, finding peices of heart, scaring people in castletown in wolfmode or 
 just plain exploring the immersity this game offers.
  
  
  overall this game is easy but not too easy and its a great addition to the zelda series. i recommend 
 it to anyone who likes fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I ever played for the wii, and coming in I was worried how the controls 
 would compare to earlier Zeldas. Earlly in the game I could tell the controls were a plus, and 
 did not feel tacked on . My big concern was not being able to sit down while playing, and thankfuly 
 it's just as easy to hack away while sitting, as it would be standing. It's not like Link moves 
 exactly as you move the sword, but essentially it's close enough, so I deem the controls a positive 
 aspect of the game. Now that I've gotten that out of the way... The game starts off in Ordon village, 
 a small province isolated from the rest of the map. Typical of all zeldas, it takes about an hour 
 to get the game off the ground and moving, but once I started I found it nearly impossible to stop 
 playing. Early on Link gets turned into a wolf and introduced to Midna, an imp like creature who 
 for the most part opens up previously unreachable paths, and makes annoying giggles from time to 
 time. Once you figure out how to change back into a human you enter the first temple, the forest 
 temple. While in the temple I had the feeling this game was going to be much bigger than any other 
 zelda I had ever played just by the epic size of the introductory temple of the game. I'm not going 
 to go into any more specifics of how the adventure unravels, but essentialy after beating the forest 
 temple there are around seven more dungeons with adventures in between, and many items to collect, 
 some new, some returning. The game was visually stunning in my opinion, extremely impressive for 
 a gamecube effort. However there were some people that i felt could have used a little bit more 
 work and some blurriness here and there, but overall it was an outstanding effort by nintendo. 
 As for the sound, I was pretty satisfied by the background music, especially the hyrule field music, 
 which felt satisfyingly epic to me, as well as some nice night music, and pleasant returning themes. 
 However I would really have liked to had a fully orchestrated soundtrack as opposed to the midi 
 soundtrack. Also there is the ever present debate as to whether the characters should talk, and 
 in this game they don't. I'm perfectly fine with them not talking, but when certain characters 
 talk some annoying gibberish is played back which is ten times worse than nothing at all in my 
 opinion. Also the sound that comes out of the wii remote is of poor quality. While I wish the game 
 could have been a little more challenging (It peaked in difficulty in the third dungeon) it has 
 great depth and substance, and makes for an excellent addition to the Zelda franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  OK, im not a fanboy at all but man, this game deserved way better than that score! Anyway...
  
  This Zelda is absolutely incredible and inevative: not just thanks to the wii but in the style 
 and gameplay compared to other zeldas. Everything you wanted is improved. Combat has a much bigger 
 emphasize and its a ton of fun too thanks to nunchuku controller. Dungeons are much more interesting-and 
 they're challenging, not frustrating, like some other zelda games, they're juuuust right! The soundtrack 
 isnt as good as other Zelda entries but excellent nonetheless: hearing old-school zelda tracks 
 with some new beats is fine by me!
  Though the look of the game is much more realistic compared to Windwaker ( much, much, much, more...) 
 all the characters and environments have a very beatiful art style to them. It's hard to describe 
 but trust me-it rocks. The games graphics could possibly look better if you ask me, though I still 
 have to say they are very good. And being in the shadows of Gears of War and other graphical intensive 
 games, Zelda holds out perfectly well, plus you dont need super-amazing-unfreaking believably good 
 graphics to have great gameplay.
  
  All in all this is one of hell of a great start for the wii and an instant classic in gaming history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paine-nightmare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I cant believe how good this game turned out i guess you can say that its kind of long but it is 
 never repetitive. It might be because of collecting all the bugs and poe souls but trust me i had 
 my expectations set low very low and i definitely wasn't disappointed my favorite game of all time 
 is kingdom hearts and i believe this is almost as good. For the Wii the graphics really surprised 
 me i could not believe the art design for those people who have the Wii out there this is a definite 
 buy and for those who dont have a wii if your a Zelda fan then you better do something to get your 
 hand on a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioupopio
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  The legend began in 1987. The original Legend of Zelda on the Nintendo Entertainment System truly 
 brought a new meaning to adventure games at that time. It was unique and an instant classic. Eleven 
 years later, The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time was released for the Nintendo 64 and redefined 
 the gameplay of this growing legend. Now, nineteen years since the legend began, the third standout 
 title has come out, and it is The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess.
  
  Gameplay: The latest installment of the Zelda series has had numerous changes in terms of gameplay. 
 The biggest change is the targeting system. No longer are players using the control stick to aim 
 their bow, they are using their own arm. Aiming a ranged weapon is done by pointing the Wii remote 
 at the screen and firing at the target. The accuracy of your shot depends on how steady your arm 
 is. The next big change is how the sword is used. Instead of statically pressing a button to swing 
 your sword, you dynamically swing the Wii remote to (WARNING: Nerd Talk) vanquish the foul enemies 
 infesting the land of Hyrule (Nerd Talk Over) . This control scheme is surprisingly responsive and 
 is actually pretty fun to do. Everything else about the controls are pretty much the same. Z-targeting 
 is still implemented (of course) and items are still assigned to buttons for easy access. This 
 brings us to the story. A new evil has come to Hyrule and is spreading twilight all across the 
 land. A hero from the small village of Ordon must accept his destiny and face this evil, even if 
 it means transforming into a beast. The story is considerably darker than most Zelda games and 
 has a more cinematic feel, similar to Majora's Mask. This time, you are guided by Midna, a citizen 
 of the twilight realm, who will give you advice and warp you wherever you want. Now, when you enter 
 the twilight realm, things change. You are forced to change into a wolf and restore the land before 
 you conquer the next dungeon. The wolf controls are similar to the human controls, with the exception 
 that instead of items, you use your senses to spot hidden creatures and paths and can dig into 
 the ground to get items and to go to a new area. There are many other gameplay changes that you 
 will need to play the game to discover.
  
  Graphics: Of all the Wii launch titles, this one stands out as the best looking one, and it truly 
 is. Hyrule field is a gorgeous as ever, and much bigger. There are many details that many gamers 
 won't find unless they spend hours of exploring. Certain shortcuts and secret caves can be found 
 by any explorer with plenty of time and bombs. When you come across lands covered in twilight, 
 you feel that your in a creepy sci-fi film. Black squares hover toward the sky and the land glows 
 with an eerie yellow-orange light. This enhances the atmosphere of the game and makes for a unique 
 experience.
  
  Sound: One of the new features of this game is how sound is presented to the gamer. Not only is 
 the sound coming out of the T. V., but it is also coming out of the Wii remote. Every time you draw 
 your bowstring or swing your sword, the sound of that object is released through the Wii remote. 
 Although it doesn't affect anything, it is an interesting feature. The only thing that is disappointing 
 about the sound is the lack of a full orchestral soundtrack, but the music is still epic in its 
 own right and it still gives the player something to hum while they are adventuring.
  
  Value: Like all Zelda games, this one will last you a long time. It is worth playing over and over 
 again just to discover something you missed or to go for 100% completion. The first time through 
 will take you around 40 to 50 hours depending on if you go for full completion or not.
  
  Tilt: There is no doubt about it, this game is fun. It will make you put away any other consoles 
 until this adventure is put to rest.
  
  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess has made its place in the legend. With elements of all the 
 previous Zelda games and a few new enhancements, this game stands out in the legend and is definitely 
 another reason to venture to Hyrule again. With a sword, shield, and many other items at hand, 
 you are ready to defeat evil and save a princess once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_midget
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  Everyone who says this game deserves an 8.8 or less is lying to themselves. This video game will 
 go down in history as one of the best action adventures of all time. I can't stop playing this 
 video game which is bad because I have a life. The vast open world gameplay will take you to another 
 world. The graphics were the best on any Zelda game and have set a new standard for the franchise. 
 The sound was the same as usual and I would have liked to see some dialogue just to make the game 
 that much more interesting. But none the less I love this game and it was worth the price of the 
 Wii to get it. As for those who say the game was overrated, yes they are right. This is just a 
 video game and ever since Ocarina of Time every Zelda game has been set at an extreme level that 
 of which no one knows where it is at. The only thing that is making it overrated is the fans, I 
 thought this was a great game and deserves much more credit than it deserves ---UNDERAPPRECIATED 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gundam0085
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Ocarina of Time was a fantastic game, but I have to say that Twilight Princess doesn't quite live 
 up to my expections. It's still a really good game and it's worth buying if you own a Wii or Gamecube. 
 It just doesn't live up to the hype. The biggest problem with the I think is the parts that you 
 play as a wolf. they tend to get pretty boring after a while. I also found the quest you go on 
 in between dungeons to very dull and tedious. The actually dungeons however are superb. They're 
 all smartly designed and memorable. The dungeons are the the reason to buy the game. I just wish 
 Nintendo had cut out the boring wolf parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is just awesome. I am in awe. After completing the game, i rushed back to the wii 
 to play it a second time through. You can think of Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess as the same 
 thing as the N64s Ocarina of TIme. Well guess what. You're wrong. Why? LOZ: TP has the best story 
 plot i have ever witnessed in a game. And the music is fantastic. Im not really a 'free roamer' 
 when it comes to adventure games. As free roaming i mean exploring getting the extras and all that. 
 This game has taken free roaming to a whole new level with the landscape looking beautiful and 
 rewards that will get you off your lazy butt to look for. Fishing, golden bugs, poes, heart pieces. 
 The works. The size of hyrule field suprised me. It actually takes a whole 1hr-2hrs to thoroughly 
 explore Hyrule on foot when all areas are unlocked. Awesome. The whole wolf/link twilight/light 
 thing works well. The twilight environment looks awesome. Finding the tears of light to turn the 
 twilight back into light is like a job (sorta forced to do it, boring) but nevertheless it dosent 
 take that long if you know what your doing. There is 9 dungeons in the game in total and all are 
 quite a challenge. Well some are easy some are hard. And the cutscenes and you (as gamer) actually 
 become involved in the game like you are Link. The story is that good. And the game in between 
 dungeons are just as good. The bosses ARE AMAZING. A. M. A. Z. I. N. G. Best in the series. The whole 
 lot of them. I and you will enjoy smashing the cr** out of those bosses. The environments that 
 you fight them in are fantastic and sink you into the game. When i played the game the first time 
 through it took me 45 hours.
  
  So i guess your thinking.. Does this game beat OoT. You might think this is quite controversial 
 but YES. I fell in love with OoT and so did i with TP but TP thus far delivers the most and probably 
 wins by .05 of a mark. Thats my opinion though.
  
  Buy this game because your missing out on an instant classic that will last a lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRevan1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the game to get with the Wii. This game is revolutionary. Since its on the Wii, gameplay 
 is almost automatically a perfect 10. Slashing your sword, shooting arrows, its all so creative 
 and fun on the Wii. The graphics are absolutely stunning. Beautiful enviroments and there is never, 
 NEVER a drop in framerate. I dont pay to much attetntion to sound, I give all games an 8 in sound. 
 But now that I review this game, I see that I was wrong in not paying attention to sound. Everything 
 in here sounds great, and there is some excellent voice acting as well. Value is great as well. 
 This game is DEFENETLY worth $50, because it's extremely long. I've spent 67 hours and 25 minutes 
 plaing the game, and I havent gotten absolutely everything (Im missing one set of things) . The 
 ONLY bad thing is that once you finish the game and get all the extra goodies, there's nothing 
 to go back to. All in all, I LOVE this game. Yes, its very hard, but thats makes it so much better! 
 I dont think I've ever played such a challenging game. This is also the first Zelda game that I 
 owned and played until the end, and I have to say its an excellent experience. So if you have a 
 Wii, GET THIS GAME! If you already have it, good for you. This is a revolutionary game that will 
 make fans scream with joy, and an excellent place to start for those of you who havent played Zelda. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  ... it's a bit hard to truly appreciate what it has done. Maybe because it's not quite as original 
 or new to us? Then again, these recycled aspects of Zelda games usually are supposed to make it 
 more familiar. And boy, Twilight Princess was familiar. Nintendo was reaaaaaaally close this time. 
 Close to touching the greatness of Ocarina of Time, but some flaws pulled Twilight Princess back 
 into the shadows.
  
  From a gameplay point of view, Twilight Princess delivers big time. Its epic and its amazing, but 
 it's also nothing new, really. Turning into a wolf acts like the masks in Majora's Mask and the 
 constant switching between dark and light worlds is identical to the way it worked in A Link to 
 the Past. Twilight Princess should have really done something on its own instead of relying on 
 past popular aspects of Zelda games. You can tell it really wanted to be original. It had character 
 development and a darker story that Zelda isn't exactly known for, but was well-received. It had 
 nearly UNRIVALED game design... but I'm a bit let down.
  
  Not entirely though, because the game is really good.
  
  I have a bit of a problem with the 
 sound and graphics. The sound, while good overall, could have really included voice acting. Honestly, 
 I think Nintendo could have at least pulled off giving the story characters, like Midna, voice 
 acting, couldn't they? It's no excuse to keep them out of future Zelda games either. The graphics, 
 while very good, are also.. Gamecube quality in the textures. I doubt it's too difficult to up 
 them for the Wii, but whatever. It's still probably the best-looking Wii game out there anyway.
 
  
  It's a long quest, it's a well-made quest, but it's not an original quest. If you want to outdo 
 Ocarina of Time, Nintendo, don't mimic it. Find another way to capture the hearts and minds of 
 the gamers. With Zelda in tow, I believe anything is possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCryingDevils
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda returns with Twilight Princess for Nintendo's next-gen revolution known as 
 the Wii. In Twilight Princess, players once again take on the role as Link in a new -- yet cliche -- adventure. 
 At this point, the reader is probably thinking there's nothing wrong with that, right? To that 
 question, I reply with I totally agree. At least in the case of this new Legend of Zelda game, 
 which was created by the same Nintendo mastermind behind Majora's Mask and The Wind Waker -- Eiji 
 Aonuma.
  
  Four years have passed since TP was first announced for the GameCube. Or at least since a video 
 was leaked over the internet. The video was a short teaser clip showing an adult Link and Ganondorf 
 fighting in a castle. But when The Wind Waker was released, the viewers of this clip were wondering 
 what ever happened to that battle. Well, the answer to that can be found in Twilight Princess. 
 Although, four years have come and gone since then so the graphics have improved and interactivity 
 was included.
  
  But there's a lot more to the game than just that battle. Though the game starts out slow, the 
 game delivers enough to make up for that. Beginning in a new region of the Zelda world called Ordona 
 Province, Link is an average villager who can be found helping out anyone in the area. Herding 
 goats at the Ranch, giving the local shopkeeper's cat a fish Link caught himself, and keeping the 
 children out of trouble are only a fraction of the nice things he does.
  
  The village children -- as well as the adults -- look up to Link. A day before Link's messenger mission 
 to Hyrule, Link shows the children his slingshot and swordsman skills with targets and scarecrows 
 in his own yard. Just as the lesson finishes the children decide to chase after a monkey, thinking 
 they can do anything like Link. As always, Link has to follow after them into Faron Woods to save 
 the children and the monkey from goblins.
  
  The next morning, Link is ready for the big trip. Link is excited to go because he's never been 
 to Hyrule before. But as Link is about to take his horse Epona and leave, the Mayor's daughter -- who 
 is also Link's childhood friend -- appears. When she pets Epona, she notices a scratch on her. Since 
 she cares about Epona a lot (probably more than she does for Link) , she takes Epona and storms 
 angrily away.
  
  Knowing she would lead the horse to the spring near his house, Link follows them. But she didn't 
 care what Link had to say. Colin, the outcast of the children (the one who is only treated well 
 by Link and the adults) , sticks up for him and tells the girl -- Ilia -- the entire story. She feels 
 bad and apologizes to Link. She tells him to be careful on his journey and says her share of the 
 goodbyes.
  
  At that moment, a monster riding a huge creature charges through the gate to the spring. Link is 
 left surprised and weaponless (he let one of the children borrow his sword earlier) and before 
 he can help anybody, he gets clubbed on the back of his head. Link wakes up shortly after to find 
 Colin and Ilia captured. Following the path of the monsters, Link is pulled inside a large twilight 
 wall to find himself in the Twilight World. This is the beginning to the new journey of Link.
 
  
  Aided by a twilit being called Midna, Link is on a new save the princess quest. With new abilities 
 and weapons -- as well as the occasional transformation into a wolf -- Link and the player embark on 
 another epic adventure.
  
  Twilight Princess features astounding graphics -- probably the best seen on the Wii thus far. The 
 orange tint to the color gives the game a mood that fits the launch title perfectly. When Link 
 becomes a wolf, the facial expressions made by Link are identical to those you see in the human 
 form. When in the Twilight World, the player will notice black pixels falling from the sky, a strange 
 glow in all the colors, and the amazing environments all add to the game's graphical attributes.
 
  
  It's obvious at this point in the series that the game will not have voice-overs, or at least more 
 than the occasional hi or laugh. Link still doesn't talk except for hyahh! s and grunts when he 
 swings his sword. But all this keeps the Legend of Zelda tradition -- and with good reason.
  
  The soundtrack for the game consists of mostly recycled and remade songs, but that doesn't 
 make it any less excellent. Though the only control the player has over the sound in this game 
 are the wolf's howls. This is more difficult than the Ocarina of Time, but the rewards are greater -- and 
 not entirely needed to proceed in the storyline.
  
  The howls call for a golden wolf that Link goes to find. The golden wolf transforms into a mysterious 
 knight covered completely in armor. This knight will teach the player a brand new move to use in 
 battle. These moves mostly take a while to learn and master, but it will help you in the future.
 
  
  These moves are mostly used with the sword, which adds much more to the Wii's interactivity. The 
 regular controls are simple: Control Stick is to move Link, the A button is used as the main action 
 button, the + button is to bring up the main pause menu, the D-Pad is for information and to switch 
 the B button's item, so on and so forth. The combinations for attacks such as the Jump Attack (holding 
 Z while tapping A once) are taught to you early in the game, and can be found in the instruction 
 booklet. The moves the knight teaches Link can't be found in there, but they are easy to remember 
 after you practice.
  
  A simple swing with the Wiimote swing the sword for Link, and these swings can also be combined 
 with the press of a button to unleash an even more powerful attack. A swing with the Nunchuk causes 
 Link to release the Spin Attack on any enemies surrounding him at the moment.
  
  The controls respond very quickly, but the motions with the Wiimote and Nunchuk have a delayed 
 response. Although this isn't much of a problem, it makes a big difference in timing your attacks.
 
  
  I do admit that I had trouble with a few of the boss battles (and a few enemies at that) , but the 
 rest of the game is fairly easy. But the boss battles that took me quite a few tries bump the difficulty 
 up a bit. Some of the puzzles in the game are even harder to breeze through, but it's worth it 
 to complete it all at least once.
  
  This new Zelda game is the longest yet, with 60+ hours' worth of gameplay. Though I doubt you'll 
 be as daring as I was and play it through a second time, Nintendo made an attempt to give replay 
 value. Since there's no multiplayer of any sort, there isn't much replay but with extras such as 
 45 Collectable Pieces of Heart, as well as Poe Souls and Golden Bugs add a little.
  
  And what Zelda game could be without minigames? In Ocarina of Time, there was the arrow target 
 games, the collectable masks, and even the long item trading sidequest to receive the Biggoron 
 Sword. Well, in TP you can find minigames and sidequests such as Snowpeak Sledding and the STAR 
 Minigame. Though most of these minigames won't keep you playing for hours, there are a few that 
 will keep you coming back for more.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is most likely the best Wii launch title, and may 
 be the greatest Zelda game ever. Twilight Princess was worth the four-year wait, and it shows. 
 It could've waited a short while longer, but then again, no game is perfect. There are a few problems 
 that could have been fixed, but nonetheless this game is a must-buy for anyone who has a Wii or 
 is looking to pick one up in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CACtycoon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Most of us remember how the 2D games were played back in the day, which started the series of games 
 that seem to never cease to disappoint. Then the revolutionary debut of Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time gave players all they needed to bring the Legend of Zelda series to legendary status. The 
 newest installment of Legend of Zelda, is Twilight Princess for the Wii. New innovation in the 
 new system creates gameplay never found in any other game. As I played through the game, the controls 
 felt crisp and natural using the Wii Remote to cut down the enemies and bosses that you encounter 
 in the game. Bosses in Legend of Zelda have been a trademark in the series since it began. The 
 new bosses create some of the most epic battles experienced in a game before. Twilight Princess 
 takes the player through a gripping stories that may seem to be nostalgic, but amazing. Unique 
 interactions of characters and the world around them create an atmosphere that can compare to Oblivion. 
 This is without a doubt the biggest Zelda and also the darkest. There is nothing really to complain 
 about this game. But something that I could complain about is that the game sometimes doesn't copy 
 what you do with your Wii Remote. This is most noticeable when your fishing and your fishing rod 
 doesn't match the actions of the Wii Remote. All in all this is a one-of-a-kind game that no gamer 
 should past up. Offering plenty of gameplay and story that will keep you and your Wii best friends 
 for sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Woah. I didn't have any sort of clue that Nintendo would whip up this game so quick. I just wish 
 they got the big kick on super Mario Galaxy and pop that into a virtue guantlet. I hope that there 
 is another Zelda game BETTER, oh wait, their can't be. This IS the best game ever. Heck, I'd play 
 this for 1 month non stop. Sure, I'd get tired and hungry. But I would DIE for this game. I cried 
 when it was over cause I wanted more Zelda! But man o man this game is the yankees of video games.
 
  
  In a nutshell: So good.... makes you cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the formula that makes this game the most memorable and longest game that has hit the Wii. 
 I mean, just think about the recognition it's gotten. It was elected Game of the Year on G4TV and 
 the GameInformer magazine. It was nominated Game of the Year on Gamespot and many other gaming 
 sites on the Web. Did it deserve the recognition it got? Absolutely.
  
  Probably the most notable feature about this game is its value. The game is incredibly long-lasting 
 and will most likely keep you busy for a long time. Personally, I've spent 55 hours and 43 minutes 
 on the game. There are loads of puzzles that require solving to unlock certain doors and open certain 
 paths. But this is classic Zelda gameplay. The question is, What is so special about this game 
 that's different than the others? 
  
  The answer to that question is the addictive storyline. While I'll try not to spoil it for you, 
 the game familiarizes you with the characters extremely well, while at the same time tossing in 
 incredible plot twists on the characters, including the Twilight Princess.
  
  The only thing that brings the score down a bit is the lack of voice acting. While this does give 
 it that Zelda-feel to the game, it's surprising at the lack of voice-overing, especially at today's 
 gaming standards. Of course, you will get those classic Hi-ya! s from Link, and his little constipated 
 grunts as he climbs a ladder, or maybe an enormous HEEEEYYYYYYY! every so often from the characters, 
 but that's as far as the voices really go. The music kicks that score back up due to the amazing, 
 remastered, classic music you used to get from Zelda games. The soundtrack returns with great new 
 music, as well as the strong classics that we've come to know the Zelda series for.
  
  Overall, if you weren't a Zelda fan before, then this is a great place to start. This also rings 
 true to new Wii players. If you're looking for that great game to kick off your new console with, 
 this would be the one. It's absolutely worth getting if you own a Wii, and is simply the best choice 
 for Zelda fans, new and old. Definitely the best Wii game of 2006, and an even better place to 
 start than WarioWare: Smooth Moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicer894
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games ever made and I think it is even better than Halo. It has a 
 great story and great gameplay. I was never a fan of the Zelda series but after I played this the 
 first time it was one of favorite games ever. I'm not very far in the game but I still think it 
 is awesome. The only bad part about the game is the lack of voices. It would be much better if 
 they said more then HEY and spoke gibberish. But even though it doesn't have any speaking in it, 
 it is still one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link15000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  It started on the NES, refined on the SNES, Nearly perfected on the N64, now the perfection is 
 complete on the Gamecube and Wii. But, as the Twilight overtakes Hyrule, and the legend of Zelda 
 begins anew, will Link be able to save Hyrule again? Or will all light give out to twilight forever 
 more? Of coarse I'm talking about The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, what do you expect to 
 be my first Wii game review. The controles in a Legend of Zelda game is very important, and the 
 Wii controls does not dissapoint. While I can go back to the gamecube controles, I perfer the Wii 
 controls more. The combat remain similer pervious Zelda games. But on the Wii you get motion sensing. You 
 still have Z-targeting, you still have tons of items to colect, you still have great to awesome 
 boss fight, but this time to attack you A) Swing your arms in the air like a lunatic, or B) lightly 
 swing them left and right. Doing link's signiture spin attack is as simple as shaking the Nunchuk 
 left and right. and aiming with the Wiimote takes alittle getting used to (to tell you the truth, 
 I'm still trying to get used to them) . The story is alot more epic then past Zeldas. And I like 
 this story better. It starts with this Link as a Farmboy. The day he is to go to Hyrule to deliver 
 a sword, Llia, the love intrest, takes the hores away. When you go to get it back, Monsters ambush 
 you and kidnap you friends. Then you find out about the Twilight, and that your destined to save 
 the World from it. The intresting thing is that your transformed into a wolf. Giving link the ability 
 to dig and highting his sense, but takes away the items. The Sound disign is also top notch. From 
 great orcestral scores. To the four notes Sheep know, as the sound of succes. The Textures in the 
 Graphics do get alittle iffy. But Great lighting, Especaly in the Twilight relm, A beutiful view 
 as far as the eye can see (real. Hyrule field is imince) . To summerize this all into 1 sentence 
 is hard, but doable, The legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess: the bad) bad textures, the good) Everything 
 eles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uniquenewyork
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the very best of all Zelda games, I first thought that it wasn't going to beat Ocarina 
 of Time because i didn't think that you could beat it. But as i got further and further into the 
 game i became glued to the TV and couldn't stop playing it. I'd spend hours looking for that one 
 heart piece from the fortune telller in Hyrule Castle
  Gameplay: Amazing gameplay, if you cut a sign in half you can pick up half the sign and thrown 
 it, it has a very good story line and really hard temples
  Graphics: Link's clothes are very detailed and so is his shield, Epona is a real sized horse and 
 if you jump into a lake or water your clothes will get wet and you'll have to roll around in the 
 dirt the dry yourself of (but then you'd need to clean again lol)
  Sound: Some original music and some new music, when you slice your sword you'll hear it on your 
 Wii Remote
  Value: This game will last you at least 60 hours and thats not collecteting all the heart pieces 
 and bigger unlockables such as more bomb bags bigger quiver.
  Overall this game easily deserves a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjap00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  When I once had my N64, the Zelda classics (like Majora's Mask, and Ocarina) didn't mean anything 
 to me. I just wasn't interested in solving puzzles and such. Wind Waker came along for the Gamecube, 
 and I was quite hooked. I felt pretty appreciative of the rather interesting story, and the puzzles 
 were actually great. Collecting all the fun and nifty items and weapons got me going with the game 
 as well. Now Twilight Princess is here. At first I may have took the game a bit too seriously, 
 but it grew on to me. The action, the puzzles, the mini-games... It all comes to my fullest attention 
 now. Not to mention the beautiful graphics that the Wii was not thought of to maintain. This game 
 will immerse you, and you will fall in love with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeLostDharma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  The legend Of Zelda: Twighhlight Princess is a great game. It was the first real game I got for 
 the wi, besides wii sports. I played it and thought it was really good. It has a great storyline 
 to it and it makes sense. It has great gameplay and the fighting with the wii remote and numchuck 
 seems so real. I love using boomerangs and sligshots also because you must aim yourself pointing 
 at the screen. I think that the amount of adventure and excitement in the game makes it that much 
 better. I think that it is a really challenging game that tests your mind and ability to use it. 
 Overall it's a great game which I am still currently playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahblah311
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game on the wii. the story line of the game is very intriguing and being 
 in wolf form throws you a very interesting change to the game than rather fight through the whole 
 game as link. the mini games that are scattered through outt the game are very fun and intresting 
 and rewarding if you pass them with a high enough score. The boss fights are diferent in there own 
 ways the only bad part about that is all you have to use is the item you unlocked in the temple 
 and eventuly you'll use them on the mini games. the only down side to this title is the graphics 
 even though the wii isnt a graphics power house it still looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbishrob04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  yet another masterpiece by good ole Nintendo. the legend of zelda TP is a prime example of what 
 the wii is capable of.
  
  Gameplay: besides the new motion controls of the wii, expect the same zelda gameply which we have 
 all come to love. the gameplay is nearly flawless. i feel , however, there was just a little bit 
 much that was ripped off from previous titles, mainly OOT. alot of the primary puzzles and boss 
 fights follow the same patterns and strategies. which isn't necessarily bad, i just would've preferred 
 something a bit more original.
  Graphics: considering this game is a gamecube port, the graphics are absolutely stunning. at times, 
 however, they're just... eh. overall the game is beautiful, especially the lighting effects.
  Sound: just as every zelda game preceeding it, the music is epic... which goes hand and hand to 
 its incredible sound effects. expect everything youd come to expect from a zelda title: hiyas, 
 clanking swords, and the sound of your annoying little sidekick (just like navi from OOT, midna 
 will bug the S*** out of you lol)
  
  overall id give this game a 9.5. it is pretty much a necessity for every wii owner to have. it 
 lives up to all the hype. my only complaint about the game is that the ending feels a little rushed... but 
 the 50 hours of AWESOMENESS that lead up to that make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idnuf636
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  In 1998, Ocarina of Time revolutionized 3D adventure games and showed how good games could be. 
 Twilight Princess feels like OoT, at least a lot more so than Wind Waker. Twilight Princess is 
 the newest Zelda game, Eoji Aonuma and Shigeru Miyamoto's famous franchise, holding it's own against 
 Mario in the minds of many, even from the same brain.
  
  Graphics:
  Some of the best graphics of any wii game, compared to X360 and PS3 extremely mediocre, obviously. 
 But measuring graphics on hardware it is on is obviously important because a game like Donkey Kong 
 Country was amazing for the SNES in '90s and held to today's standards it is terrible. But you 
 still have to give that game really high graphics score even today because the SNES couldn't do 
 better. So, with that in mind, it had great artistic design and great technical compared to other 
 wii launch titles, plus this was even ported from gamecube.
  
  Gameplay:
  Classic Zelda gameplay, a little too classic though as everything feels awkwardly similar if you 
 have played Zelda before. But obviously, Zelda fans dont care and probably never will, but to people 
 that aren't not hardcore Zelda fans that have played Zelda, this may make it a less experience 
 than the first time around. Don't get me wrong though it is still a great game. Things like z-targeting 
 are obviously great. You will play the game with epic scale huge adventure, with many clever puzzles 
 in many dungeons to challenge in your quest to ultimately, save the world. The wiimote does not 
 really get in the way, especially the projectiles improved the experience. However, the sword swinging 
 was not necessary and made it take longer to unsheathe your sword and attack. The projectiles work 
 great with the aiming and makes it fun, intuitive and easier to pick off enemies.
  
  Sound:
  The games audio is great and terrible. Even without the inclusion of full orchestral 
 music, the music is great. However what stopped me from giving it a great score like 9 or 10 is 
 that the sounds come out of the speaker suck. The quality is terrible, the speaker that is supposed 
 to make it immersive actually makes the game worse in the sound category. You can turn wii remote 
 volume off and it will come out your t. v.. But the t. v. speaker is better so it is better, but 
 by a miniscule amount. It is so small because the sound was designed for the speaker, so it is 
 still the same sound, but naturally, coming out of a better speaker, it sounds a tiny bit better.
 
  
  Value:
  Great value. A really long adventure to play in, excluding extras that you can mess around with, 
 or finding poe souls or golden bugs or do some fishing (which i hate but it is supposed to be better 
 than full fishing games.) Thats just the surface. You can see videos of the cave of ordeals, which 
 i dont know about really like where it is so i cant say that but that seems very very long and 
 challenging at the end. Don't rent this game, buy it.
  
  Tilt:
  Great game, if your into adventure games with a lot of puzzles and gameplay that was revolutionary 
 10 years ago but still holds up today. Non-attribute scoring: The difficulty is hard because the 
 puzzles are many times hard to find out and sometimes they are things you wouldnt just do out of 
 nowhere to find the next place. For example, in the snow temple, there were places where you had 
 to turn to a wolf and turn on senses to see something not visible to the naked eye with no prior 
 warning or hint. 20 to 40 hours because i didnt do any sidequests. The learning curve is 30 to 
 60 because it doesnt take any time for someone whos played Zelda but someone new plus the wii control. 
 Not really but, it is as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordanJamie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Link, a young farmer boy, set out for delivering a special gift capable of truce towards the Royal 
 Family. As he sets out though, stunning graphics set through the trees as they illuminate from 
 silky layers of grass to his stunning shield and making a glint of blinding light flicker from 
 the hilt of his sword as he sets out on his miraculous journey to make an audience with the Hyrulian 
 Family, with it held high, the Legend is born once more. Nobody could compare towards this beatifully 
 ironic storyline and setting, Nintendo has really put him to the test, especially with the Wii 
 remote capabilities and Nunchuk. The Legend can survive for eternity, but how long could that Legend 
 become the enemy..? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-hamdan6465
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  every zelda is fun and this one is by far the best but also like every zelda i played the end of 
 the game is a bummer not story wise but the fact that one u beet the last enemy it starts u back 
 at the last saving point i would have liked it more if u can save after takin down ganon and exploring 
 the world wile he is dead not like u never even beet him over all it is an excelent game to play 
 through but once u beet say good by there is not much to do fun the first time only becase playing 
 seems like its a waste of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahoney23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way. I love this game, but I can't help but feel that it could of been 
 so much more. Gameplay: The Wii remote is a perfect fit for this game, and this game is the perfect 
 fit for the Wii remote. What I mean is that after you start playing this game with the motion sensitive 
 controls you'll find your self swinging regular controllers expecting to see some kind of result. 
 If it's your first time playing the Wii it might take you a few minuets to get the hang of the 
 controls but once you do every action will be like second nature (the true sign of a great controle 
 scheme) . To sum it up the controls are perfect, but that isn't the only thing that makes up the 
 gameplay of a game.
  The game starts out a little slow ,as do most Zelda games, but this dose not hinder the fun at 
 all. The first part of the game is a blast as you go through the first few dungeons. At times it 
 really seems that there is a deeper story to this Zelda than in past ones. And every thing goes 
 at a perfect pace. But after the forth dungeon every thing begins to go down hill. It's not so 
 much that the game is no longer fun to play, but that every thing just seems rushed (which is weird 
 because of how long this game was in development) . All the dungeons are still fun after the forth, 
 but there is all most nothing in between each one. This leads you to running though the second 
 half of the game way to fast. It's really sad, because TP could of easily been the best Zelda ever 
 if it wasn't for this.
  
  Graphics: While they may not be next gen, the graphics are still beautiful to look at. All so this 
 game has some really great artistic affects. Sound: Well I don't think that any one truly thought 
 that this game would have voice acting. So that really didn't bring the score down for me. What 
 ruined the sound for me was the music. Sure they had a few good tunes, but most of the good ones 
 were remixes of old songs. That would of been fine, if they had other good songs as well. Most 
 of what they play sounds uninspired and repetitive. And some areas didn't have any music, just 
 ambient sounds, which is okay if it isn't over used like it was in this game. The sound effects 
 all work well, but not really remarkable.
  
  Value: Dispite any negative thing that I have said about this game, it is still one of the best 
 launch title any system could ever hope for. If you own a Wii then you owe it to your self to buy 
 this game.
  
  In closing, I would say that this game is a mix of remarkable moments counter balanced by some 
 disappointments. It's just sad to think about how great this game could of been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess gives players all that was expected and more. I believe it 
 to be the best game ever made - taking the crown from is predescesor Ocarina of Time. The story 
 is compelling, gameplay is stunning and the puzzels are some of the best in the series. Director 
 Eiji Aunoma and Producer Shigeru Miyamoto have done all they can to give us the best possible Zelda 
 experience. And they have passed with flying colours.
  
  Graphics - Ok, there not next-gen but Nintendo has put alot of work into the game and the artwork 
 is fantastic. It shows that good arwork can make up for lack of horsepower.
  
  Gameply - Flawless in everyway. It is edge of the seat stuff and wii keep you gripped right up 
 to the last battle and beyond.
  
  Sound - This is by far Koji Kondo's greatest musical score to great. It uses some of the older 
 Zelda music and refreshes it with some completely new music. Although it is MIDI it really does 
 not matter because this offers more depth of dynamics when required or not required, and it is 
 such a high quality score that it does not really detract from the experience.
  
  Value - Worth every penny and more. This game offers you at least 70 hours of gameplay and you 
 will want to play it again.
  
  Overall - Buy this game. Even people who are not fans of the series or the genre will love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess had a lot riding on it. It was to be a launch game for the 
 Nintendo Wii, a console being met with no small amount of skepticism, and was also under close 
 scrunity from those who criticized the previous Zelda game, Wind Waker. So it's with a great amount 
 of satisfaction that I can say it delivered. The game, as ever, follows a young man named Link, 
 who has to save the realm of Hyrule from a mysterious race of beings called the Twili and their 
 world, the Twilight Realm. Starting off in Ordon Village, the game walks you through the opening 
 stages of the game, teaching you how to handle your sword (a wooden one to begin with) , shoot your 
 trusty catapult, ride Epona the horse, and so on. One of the first things you'll notice upon entering 
 Ordon Village is how the game looks - it's beautiful. Water effects are perfectly rendered, Link 
 - especially in his Hero of Time costume - looks incredible, and the rest of the scenery in the 
 game is equally impressive. This is one game that *looks* next-gen. The sound is also one of the 
 major selling points. The score of the game is Zelda through and through, and sword clashes, battle 
 cries and the like all sound authentic.
  
  The story of the game can be rather confusing at times, but paying attention means it isn't that 
 hard to follow, and taking it all in yields a more rewarding experience. The tale twists in a good 
 few ways, and for a while you're not sure who your main foe is - although, in the end, they turn 
 out to be who you'd expect.
  
  Twilight Princess is one of the best, if not the best, of the Zelda series. If you own a Wii or 
 a Gamecube, it is imperative that you buy this game - so far it's one of the greatest titles to 
 hit either system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside5675
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess may seem a bit odd at first, but once you get your green tunic, sword and 
 shield the fun really starts. Unlike previous Zelda games, this one using the Wiis revolutionary 
 motion sensing. Whilst it does work well, it is a little basic. Simply put, you swing... it swings. 
 Alot of the shield moves can be tricky to pull off if you aren't in the right position, it's especially 
 hard for those of us who like to lean in almost laying position. The best part of the motion sensing 
 though is not the sword play, but rather the aiming system. You point your remote at the screen 
 to aim your slingshot, arrows, clawshot and a whole variety of different equipment. Overall, it 
 works well and I prefer it over regular controls - it could just use some tweaking.
  
  The dungeons are well designed but are a bit more straightforward then previous Zelda games with 
 little to no puzzle solving required. The bosses on the other hand are much, much funner then in 
 any Zelda game to date required a little more stratergy then usual. You will obviously need a special 
 item to defeat them, one of which can be found in each dungeon including the Clawshot, arrows and 
 ofcourse a new additon, a spinning top you can ride along walls. Some of the previous items have 
 gotten beefed up to, for example you can now use Bomb Arrows, Water Bombs and your Boomerang has 
 a wind like ability and can lock onto multiple targets.
  
  The graphics in this game are nice, although not really up to standards. There is also the lack 
 of voice acting which may be a little offputting at first but it works well for the Zelda series. 
 Would you want to hear, say, Marios voice in his games? It would sound a bit odd, huh?
  
  Overall it was a nice game but could have used a polish, but seeing as it was originally made for 
 the GameCube and not the Wii it is understandable.
  
  8.7/10 -Darkside 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmajora
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm going sound really cheesy but this game isn't just a video game. It's an experience 
 of a lite time. I've been a Zelda fan since Ocarina of Time and I think Twilight Princess dominates. 
 This game was close to flawless and just the right amount of time. It made me and my brother get 
 together and share a special bond. Since I got Twilight Princess I've been playing it for hours 
 like everyone else.
  
  Graphics: Not the best but still great
  
  Game play: Simply amazing
  
  Plot/story: Fantastic storyline
  
  Music: Heaven's music
 
  
  If you want to play a good long a little challenging game play Twilight Princess. This game is 
 special to me the Wolf part is awesome and the new Link just kicks ass. Probably best game yet 
 for the Wii. It's a must have Zelda fan or not you will love it either way.
  
  I feel the Zelda series is basically playing a book. Twilight Princess makes it a story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blablawhatever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a awesome game all the items except a few like bombs and arrows were amazingly innovative 
 especially the spinner but most of the boss`s were just to easy but the dungeons were the difficulty 
 in the midst of easiness (at least for me in the water temple it took me at least a hour to find 
 out were the boss key is then compare that to the boss once you figure out what to do but as i 
 said thats just me for some people it ay be opposite) all in all probably the best game i have 
 every played (though my gaming experience is a little on the bad side) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneakymofo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, here it is, the Zelda we have all been waiting for since Ocarina of Time.
  
  Graphics: Twilight Princess has some of the best graphics the gamecube has in its arsenal, but 
 more importantly is the superb art direction. This is an extremely artistic game. Such character 
 designs as the Twili and of course Midna herself do a fantastic job of setting the mood and tone 
 of the story. Another artistic master piece that must be mentioned is the Twilight Realm. The warm 
 reds and yellows used to create the hellish environment look as if they were straight out of a 
 digital oil painting.
  
  Gameplay: It is essentially the same Zelda engine from the past 3D games but slightly tweaked. 
 The left right and down d-pad are used to assign various items from your inventory, and the top 
 direction is reserved for Midna who acts as your guide along your quest. Despite the fact that 
 the sword motion is not mapped 1 to 1 on the Wii remote it still remains highly intuitive. The 
 remote speaker was a very nice addition unlike our biased reviewer Jeff . I have yet to have any 
 problems with the speaker. All in all the games controlls are perfect and the dungeons are perfectly 
 designed.
  
  Sound: The music is once again fantastic. Old melodies as well as new ones return. While the music 
 was great it is imperative that the next Zelda have a fully orchestrated score. Midi's just do 
 the game an injustice.
  
  Conclusion: This is the definition of perfection and is by far the greatest game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  TP is a terrific game and anyone who thinks otherwise is kidding themselves. It's long, it's fun, 
 and it's captivating... but it really just isn't zelda. It's too stereotypical that even with being 
 original, it just seems like it was formulated instead of created. With it's length, the dungeon's 
 are connected by few little tasks and at the end you'll be going, wait a minute, did i just beat 
 it? . The plot, however is tremendous, but the NPC's aside from Midna and maybe Zelda and Telma 
 just aren't integrated thoroughly. And the dungeon's toward the end really aren't tricky and end 
 up to becoming obstacles. That being said, however, the game is really massive and has one of the 
 most terrific plots a Zelda game has ever seen, and with a fluid control scheme, this game is great 
 not really as a classic, but just an overall good game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Zelda definitely isn't the perfect showcase for motion sensing, but the 
 wiimote+nunchuk combo gets the job done perfectly. Weapon switching was a fundamental part of dungeons 
 and battles and was handled so by the forest temple, you had it under control. Also, with arrows 
 and hookshots, the aiming was precise and very intuitive. Very good control.
  
  Graphics: One can barely complain when given a hugely massive field, no stuttering, and impressive 
 visuals by gamecube standards. The new art style is implemented perfectly and is very detailed. 
 Cutscenes are magnificent and plentiful and some of the best visual work gamecube has seen and 
 will ever see. Land and rock textures are very 64-esque, however, and keep the game from reaching 
 it's full visual potential. Sound: I gotta tell you, the sound bugged me. Not only was the Wiimote 
 speaker cumbersome and occasionally downright irritating, the midi tunes weren't very ambitious 
 either. The temples didn't have much background music or feel and there weren't any new songs beside 
 wolf howled remixes. The only thing that can be said for sound is the voice mumbles were handled 
 well and didn't scream no voice acting .
  
  Value: At approx. 42 hrs. of game not counting side quests, i'm not complaining. Not much replay 
 value though, and I doubt Zelda will ever have multiplayer. A must buy for your wii though, and 
 at launch those are few.
  
  Tilt: After waiting so long for the game, I was a bit dissapointed but thought it held together 
 fairly well for me and I definitely enjoyed it. A good experience all around.
  
  Edit: having waited awhile since playing it, i realized that now looking back, TP is definitely 
 a classic because it is so unique. Having written this review right after beating it, i couldnt 
 let it sink in how much i liked this game, i have many memorable moments now and revere it definitely 
 as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd like to start off with the good things about this game, and don't get me wrong, there 
 are many.
  
  Good:
  -The graphics... OK they were ported from GC, but they still look fresh and are a definite improvement 
 from OoT and in some ways Windwaker. More realistic, gritty, and fantastic.
  -The music... Hey, the music's pretty good.
  -The gameplay... Fresh and fun, its great because 
 it is new. When the Wii's novelty wears off, I'm sure this games popularity as a Wii title will 
 wane some.
  -The puzzles... Many and challenging they are, and they will keep you busy for a while.
  
  
 Now comes the negatives.
  
  Bad:
  -Gameplay is borrowed from Ocarina of Time. Tried too hard to stay close to the OoT formula. Using 
 Epona is the same, fighting looks and even feels similar, and you even use little reeds of grass 
 like an Ocarina to summon things like Owls. -Sound effects are the same as OoT and almost every 
 Zelda game since, and even the graphics feel oddly reminiscent although they are entirely new.
 
  -Link as a dog? Why??? It stopped being Zelda for me right then.
  -And what's with Link's little companion? Creepy-ass cat-demon thing with his weird voice, which 
 is virtually the only consistent voice in the game. If you played Okami, this guy sits on your 
 back (when wolfed) the same way Amaterasu's fairyish companion does when she shrinks. And they 
 have almost the same voice. LAME steal.
  -Sometimes the puzzles are so frustrating, and the Wiimote really isn't applied as well as you 
 wish it would be. Often, it makes things very frustrating. Don't be surprised if you find yourself 
 plugging in your old GC controller.
  -If you aren't some mindless fool who believes every hype, you will be sorely disappointed when 
 you play this game. It isn't a bad game, but it grips so tightly to its past tried and true formula 
 that it feels like an Ocarina Expansion Pack or something.
  
  In short, rent this game to determine if it is worth buying. Oh hell, buy it because we all know 
 Link rules. But when you buy it, brace yourself for disappointment and frustration as you realize 
 that everything I said is true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyboy191
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! This is the best zelda game ever i would definately recommend it if you are lucky 
 enough to own a wii (or should i say lucky enough to find one) then you must own this game! The 
 first thing is the control, its a lot easier to do things like special moves instead of memorizing 
 a bunch of buttons or holding something you just move the wiimote and nunchuck in a certaian way 
 the second good thing about the is all the extra features like fishing and other minigames are 
 much more fun than the game cube version (fishing is way more boring on gamecube) no offense to 
 anyone playing gc version but its true ive played the gc version at my friends house. Another thing 
 about the game is the graphics the game has the best graphics of any zelda game ever. probably 
 one of the best things about this game is the story it is amazing much darker and more cinematic 
 than any zelda ever it also lasts very VERY long ive been playing this game for over 40 hours and 
 im not even close to the end. The only thing i think nintendo could have done to make this game 
 perfect is VOICE ACTING!!! I think voice acting would have made this game a lot better but what 
 i did like about the sound is the speaker on the wiimote all the sound effects come out of it which 
 make you feel a lot more into the game. So i think this is the best wii game so far i dont know 
 why gamespot said warioware is better but i have played both and this is much better so if you 
 own a wii and dont have this game then stop reading this and go out right now and BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaveline
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  one of the best zelda games ever realeased for Wii! when i got my wii man i was sooo happy i did 
 like eric cartman in the south park episode when i beat the game on febuary 17 man i was sooo happy 
 to beat the game man this game is great the gameplay is sooo awsome even when u swing yur sword 
 i like the cave of ordeal's alot MAN that took me a full night then i went to bed then i beat gannondorf 
 on satureday on the 17 i like the game play machanic' s very well done the bosses are sooo realalistic 
 even gannondorf zomg! midna's evil smile is creappy so thats all i have to say p. s i like the game 
 very much NINTENDO! u rock us this year a 5 out of 5=100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatinbrains
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess is a pretty good game and is worth buying but here are the things i dont like. 
 It is target towards children with its childish characters and story and I dont know why. ( i doubt 
 any little kid can beat a game this challenging) The fighting controls are simplistic (nothing 
 special with the fighting) I would have like to see better use of the motion controls with the 
 sword instead of just shaking the controllers. I also hate the complete lacking of voice overs 
 .But it is a fun game , very challenging, and really long. If you like the zelda franchise this 
 is a good game to have. But what makes it worth buying is probably the lack of other good games 
 available for the wii ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmegasite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  I must say this Zelda game is one of the best in the series. The gameply is revolutinoary. The 
 Wii controller makes gameplay so much different and more entergetic, living you on your toes all 
 the time. The graphics are good. It would have been a lot better if they weren't ported from the 
 gamecube. But hey, graphics aren't everthing. I love the music. Especially in the beginning when 
 you watch the intro. That's probably my favorite. The in game music is good too, but somewhat lacks 
 from the other Legend of Zelda games. The value is definatly good. There are tons of this to do 
 in this game, that wiil keep on bringing you back for more action, and adventure. With a shocking 
 stroyline, this game is an all out winner. I hope that you found this review to be helpful on your 
 decision of weather buying this game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albinojokerman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is great, it blends exactly the right amount of innovation 
 and nostalgia to make a superb game. Going above and beyond its predecessors, TP is truly a worth 
 successor to such games as The Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask.
  TP starts off much like other Zelda games, and idealistic community is suddenly turned upside down 
 when evil assaults their cozy homes. You, as the spiritual successor to the ancient hero, must 
 save Hyrule from the blight that has beset it. The tried and true gameplay is intact as well, TP 
 will have you running through fairly linear dungeons in order to defeat bosses that embody the 
 evil that has manifested itself throughout you're homeland. However, there is a major difference 
 between this and previous Zelda games, Midna. This Twilii, a person from the realm of shadow, will 
 guide you throughout the game, offering assistance and eventually helping you to transform into 
 a wolf and warp throughout the land of Hyrule. Midna appears very early in the game and is especially 
 helpful when you are in wolf form, helping you to cross large gaps and dishing out some helpful 
 hints. The first third of the game is spent as either a wolf or a human, with very little power 
 over which you spend your time as. After you defeat the initial three temples however, you can 
 transform freely between the two forms. Initially, I got really fed up with playing as a wolf, 
 as this can be rather inconvenient at times, once you have the ability to change this gameplay 
 aspect is much more enjoyable.
  The Zelda series has always had a certain feel, somewhat whimsical but also immensely immersive 
 (nice alliteration) , TP keeps the feel while ditching some of the outdated aspects that were present 
 in earlier games. One of the coolest aspects of the game in my opinion, is the presence of all 
 the old-school sounds like those that accompany the opening of a major chest. While some gamers 
 apparently wish that these little bites of nostalgia had been removed, I think they add a feeling 
 of continuity, a nice touch that really reminds you that this is in fact the Legend of Zelda and 
 not some crummy rip-off.
  Many were skeptical about the effectiveness of the Wiimote as it has come to be called, however, 
 it performs admirably in this game. Swing your sword, shooting your bow, or the use of one of you 
 items is simple and surprisingly easy. The innovative remote definitely adds an immersive feeling 
 to the gameplay as you actually do the things that your character is doing. The built-in speaker 
 is really nice too, the twang that emits from it after shooting your bow and other such sounds 
 really make this a unique experience. These sounds add a great feeling of atmosphere, though they 
 can be a bit annoying and repetitive at times.
  Graphically, the game is great looking, with just enough of a cartoony feel to stay true to its 
 roots. The Wii, though considered underpowered, does a great job of making these characters come 
 to life. Some of the textures are a bit outdated looking, but this is exactly the kind of look 
 that Nintendo has, and the Wii will thrive on. The overall feel of the game is spectacular, graphical 
 quirks aside, the environment is great with a perfect feeling of being wide open without just being 
 sparse. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an instant classic, a true successor to the Zelda 
 dynasty, one of Nintendo's gem franchises. The gameplay, sound, and the Wiimote all complement 
 each other very very well. I highly recommend buying this game, and the Wii in general for that 
 matter. For those skeptics sure to read this article, don't knock it before you've tried it, though 
 not as realistic as such games as Gears of War or many high end PC games, TP is definitely worth 
 the buy and is a massive amount of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StargamerX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess brings great mind boggling puzzle, to the already adventurous 
 story. It makes great use of the Wii remote, although your actions with it just come out as designed 
 swings. The longer than average length of the game really makes it worth the money, and can add 
 up to over 60 hours if you complete everything. The minigames also add to the gameplay, by tying 
 into the story, and to help you achieve harder objectives. I recommend The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess to all Wii owners, especially those who did play the others. I give this game a 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelglkerley
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game. It was easily the best game I have ever played. Even the opening 
 hour of this game was excellent. The story is excellently written. I completed the game two nights 
 ago and it took me 40 hours to complete (but that is with searching for extras and doing side quests) 
 I enjoyed most of it.
  
  The Good: Very well planned storyline. Fantastic gameplay. Lots of extras to collect after completion. Puzzles 
 are good fun. Variety of moves and skills.
  
  The Bad: It doesn't completely copy your movements. One or two puzzles were frustrating.
  
  
 The Ugly: The first few times you are the wolf were very frustrating. If you do get the game ,which 
 I strongly advide you do, don't let these parts put you off the game they are only temporary and 
 the game is completely worth it.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a must have for anyone who owns a Wii.
  
  Just to 
 let you know I don't normally give 10/10 for any game and usually I think the people who do don't 
 think about it properly but if you play the game you will understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is the game that all Nintendo fans, and especially Zelda fans have been waiting for. Many 
 were disappointed that Wind Waker took a different direction, though it was a superb game in its 
 own right. When the first trailer of TP was shown, everyone was ecstatic. Then the name was revealed. 
 People were again, disappointed. But more trailers popped up and its following grew bigger than 
 ever. Despite a very rocky development process, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess turned out 
 to be a great game. Let's start out with what makes this game different from the other Zelda games. 
 It ditches Cel Shading in favor of an art style similar to Ocarina of Time. However, it does introduce 
 something else, the Twilight Realm. This is similar to the Dark World of Link to the Past, but 
 the graphical style is hazy, uses heavy bloom lighting, it truly looks like Twilight. The gameplay 
 has changed. The GUIs have been cleaned up for easier use. The combat system is similar to Wind 
 Waker but has been changed to be more flexible. Link can slash his sword while running, he has 
 more moves, and several different weapons. This has especially changed in the Wii version, I'll 
 get to that later. The game takes a decidedly darker and more cinematic feeling than Wind Waker. 
 In addition, some of the music is actually orchestrated. Link can also turn into a wolf, so he 
 can use his canine senses to sniff and dig. He can also talk to animals, though this potential 
 is quite untapped. The game starts out in Ordon Village. You're Link of course, and Rusl, the town's 
 best swordsman and blacksmith sends you on an errand to Hyrule Castle to deliver gifts to the Royal 
 Family (Zelda) . This is thwarted when some beasts attack, and Link finds out that a Twilight King 
 is taking over Hyrule. He gets help from Midna, which I think is the best supporting character 
 in the Zelda franchise. Link must clear the world from Twilight by reviving light spirits, being 
 in sacred wolf form while in the Twilight. Of course all of this gets much more complicated. ------------------------------------------------------
 
  Twilight Princess is a huge game. While the game probably doesn't span as much ground as Wind 
 Waker, there is more you can do due to the game not taking place on a big sea. There are a bunch 
 of environments, from rivers and fields to deserts and mountains. The draw distance is very far, 
 as in Wind Waker. The game itself is very detailed with some very small touches that might not 
 be important, but show how much work has gone into the game. Exploring Hyrule can take a very long 
 time, and still is a very rewarding experience. There are a bunch of dungeons in the game that 
 are all very large and tougher than most dungeons preceding Twilight Princess. In between each 
 dungeon you'll have to do some sort of sidequest which may range to delivering items, finding certain 
 individuals, proving your mettle to someone, etc. When you're not doing the main quest, there is 
 of course Hyrule to explore. Within Hyrule are many hidden grottos, caves, minidungeons, and obviously 
 enemies. You can run (rolling is still faster) , ride Epona, or warp around Hyrule. I personally 
 love riding around, as fighting enemies on boar-back while mounted is truly great fun. You can 
 do a lot more on Epona's back now, you can use more than your bow. In towns and villages, or in 
 other areas with NPCs there are bound to be minigames, and the game has a respectable amount of 
 them. -----------------------------------------------
  The game's graphics are sort of controversial. Though the game has a great art style, some people 
 may prefer Wind Waker's style. Though the game is an impressive technical achievement (Loads of 
 detail and great draw distance) , it still has muddy textures. Oh, and it IS a Gamecube game. However 
 despite all those issues, it's a very good looking game. The water effects are excellent, and all 
 the animations are up to snuff. The art style makes the graphics in this game. -----------------------------------------------
 
  As for audio, this game is a mixed bag. Some of the compositions are orchestrated, and some are 
 still MIDI. A lot of the tunes are remixed, yet many are new. Most of the music in the game is 
 very well composed however, it's a big shame not all of it was orchestrated. MIDIs allow the game's 
 music to be more easily dynamic, but sometimes this gets annoying, as a great background music 
 piece can be ruined by the repetitive enemy encounter theme. Like the style of the game, the game's 
 music is decidedly in an epic tone. The sound effects are fine, though the sounds coming out of 
 the Wii remote are mostly bad, you can switch them off. The lack of voice acting hurts this game 
 too, though Midna makes some adorable babbling sounds. -----------------------------------------------
 
  What makes the Wii version unique are two things, widescreen support, and more importantly different 
 controls utilizing the Wii's motion sensing controllers. These controls are quite simple. To swing 
 Link's sword, you shake the Wii remote. To point to certain things, you aim the Wii remote. To 
 do a spin attack, shake the nunchuck side to side. All these things show how simple motions can 
 be used in a long game like Zelda, and how they can free up buttons for other use. Personally, 
 I prefer these motions. I put in my Zelda Collector's Edition after some rounds of Twilight Princess, 
 and playing with a normal controller was just not the same. Also, fishing is much better with the 
 Wii's unique controllers. I have some gripes with the game. Twilight Princess has been a controversial 
 Zelda, some people love it and others are disappointed. By my score you can see that I really enjoyed 
 this game, but it wasn't what Nintendo promised. It's not a 70 hour game. I beat it in 41 hours, 
 doing some of the sidequests and spending a few hours just fishing, some more on horseback riding. 
 Yes, I used a guide at some points, but that would've only delayed me 3 to 4 hours at most, less 
 for just the main quest. There are not enough towns or NPCs, Wind Waker had far more quests to 
 do. I really wanted horse racing, or a pony express style quest. Hyrule's Castle Town is large, 
 but there aren't many doors to open or people to talk to. The ability to talk to animals and to 
 interact with them was expected to play a large role in the game, but in the end it did not. The 
 story is great for a Zelda game, but still has many holes in it. Finally, the game is way too easy. 
 Yes it's harder than Wind Waker, but the enemies do so little damage most of the time. It's strange 
 when you get hit by an arrow and only suffer minimal damage. Despite all these gripes, this is 
 a masterpiece of a video game. Everyone with a Wii or Gamecube should definitely check this game 
 out, and it'd be a good investment to get either console to play this game. Though you may be let 
 down because this game isn't perfect, it's far from being a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Ok, seeing as how words can't truly describe this game, this will be short and sweet.
  
  The graphics are perfect for this game. The entire world is beautiful, and the Twilight Realm is 
 as dark and creeapy as it's been made out to be.
  
  The story is epic, and well crafted. ( Hello direct sequel to Ocarina, its about time.)
  
  
 The sound is perfect, and it fits every part oof the game.
  
  The gameplay is unique due to the Wiimote, but it still feels like classic Zelda. All the new items 
 are all useful and fun, and the Wiimote allows for an even greater immersion into the game.
  
  Finally, the characters are the best Zelda characters you'll ever meet, and Midna has to be 
 one of the best character ever in gaming history.
  
  Buy a WIi. Buy Zelda. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsmaelGarcia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I've never played a zelda all the way throw the end. the wii version is the one that will change 
 that great controls, great control scheme very intuitive.
  
  The Pros : control are great, great story, learning curve is none its as if your born knowing how 
 to play. The Cons : muddy graphics dont push the wii to it full potential. where the heck is the 
 voice over its 2007 ever game has voice overs. a must have for the wii if a fan of the series or 
 not. i keep on singing the theme song at work its so dang catchy. how gamespot gave warioware a 
 better score than zelda twilight princess is out of my understanding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theace1983
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The more I play this game (I'm currently on my second time around) the more I'm convinced that 
 this is up there with Ocarina and Goldeneye as one of the best games of all time. It covers all 
 the bases and excels on every level. I can't even find a bad point to make this review balanced. 
 A purely brilliant game.
  From the moment you jump on to your horse, pick up your sword or turn into a wolf with earrings, 
 you are embarking on an epic journey and a plot worthy of a Hollywood blockbuster. The characterisation 
 is genius, the races are both traditional and innovative. There are a couple of things missing 
 from the older games, but only by name, and someone who has played the rest of the series will 
 be forever looking for various classic characters and tools that just aren't there. But the game 
 has moved on and these things have been smoothly replaced with innovations that bring new pleasures.
 
  It still has the dodgy camera action, but I'd hate for a Zelda game these days to be anything 
 else. And I am happy to report that visually, this game is dominated by the simply stunning twilight 
 world which is like a heavenly light and eerie feeling combined and covered with a Hitchcock-esque 
 suspense. It still has the really anal stuff which will have you running for your PC to scan the 
 internet (golden bugs and owl statues spring to mind) but these things only add to the gameplay. 
 Nothing is quick in Zelda but it feels so good that you really want it to last forever. At the 
 end of the day, it will always be held up to Ocarina of Time and some classicists will say that 
 the N64 classic (can't wait for it to appear on the VC) is still a superior experience, but the 
 more I play this game, the more I am being swayed toward the notion that Twilight Princess is even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel_rocks14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Terrific, Beautiful artistic graphics, epona is finally back, hyrule is incredibly massive, 
 new skill moves make gameplay more exciting, gameplay is more improved with wii remote, great storyline 
 with characters as well, same excellent puzzle/ dungeon design, very long and never boring, it 
 is very cool to play as wolf.
  
  Cons: the technical graphics look dated at times, sound out of microphone is very cheap like a 
 mcdonalds toy
  
  Reviewer's note: This is my new favorite game by far, not only because it is practically flawless 
 but because it succeeds in putting the original style and putting in new gameplay mechanics. It 
 is a masterpiece and it was worth more than the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajatu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I haven't touched a Zelda series since the snes, and frankly, this game makes me want to buy the 
 rest for the wii now. Though the graphics are not ps2 material (or w/e) it still is visualy stunning. 
 the environment is great, and traveling via anything is always a pleasure.
  
  battle system is really nice also. It makes good use of the wiimote, and the controlls dont seem 
 tacked on ( (in oposition to the gamespot review) . the story is great also! Zelda has come a long 
 way, and its really nice to see that they still have ideas flowing out of their brains.
  
  all in all, very nice, pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRIMSAGE
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall I was not that impressed with Zelda TP. It is in my oppinion the most linear of the franchise. 
 The combat also felt easier that the previous installments. The storey was pretty good but with 
 the more realistic look I was looking for a more adult and gritty story. The game needed more side 
 quests, more to explore and more freedom to roam. I am pleased that they kept many of the original 
 scores and the scrolling text for the game. Overall I will give this one an 8.1 Hopefully the next 
 Zelda scheduled will be up to my high expectations from my all time favorite game franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that this is a fantastic games. Having played through about 10 hours of gameplay 
 and I really have been enjoying it to no end. The graphics are amazing for the Wii and the length 
 of this game is longer then all of the previous Zelda games put together, clocking in at roughly 
 80 hours just for the main quest mode, and up to 100 hours total for all side quests. The controls 
 take a bit of getting used to if you are familiar with the previous 3D Zelda games. The story is 
 deep and there are tons of characters that you will encounter. The early dungeons are fairly straight 
 forward, most enemies are easy to kill and the weapons you obtain will be familiar to any Zelda 
 player. Some new items are obtainable and older weapons like the light/fire/ice arrows and the 
 Mirror Shield do not exist in this game. The wolf transformation is a rather interesting new addition 
 to the Zelda gameplay, giving you a different battle perspective in terms of strategy due to the 
 limited attack methods that you have, although the basic physical attack attributes are the same 
 as your sword attacks as a human. The dungeon layouts have the classic Zelda feel with the typical 
 item collection and boss fights, however each level has its own unique strategy requirements. Its 
 really hard to give a good review without having completed the game, but so far it has been completely 
 enjoyable and is definalty the best Zelda game since Ocarina of Time. While it has the same feel 
 and style of OoT, it is far more epic in story and more improved all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is definitely the greatest Zelda game ever created, and 
 a great Wii launch. Everyone with a Wii should get this as the first game. The game basically succeeds 
 in all categories. The graphics in the game are excellent, its not a Gears Of War but for Wii they 
 are excellent. The sound is very well done. I did not find any faults with the gameplay. The greatest 
 part of the game, in my opinion is the story and sheer size of the world. You could spend hours 
 on hours exploring the world, and that is just for sidequests. The story of the game has a large 
 amount of unexpected twists. After every dungeon you will be saying WOW. I have seen one problem 
 with the game though, it is not a major problem but it should be better in the next installment. 
 The difficulty of the game was really easy. The bosses looked great, but they were really short 
 because they werent a challenge. The game did have some difficult puzzles in it which really makes 
 up for the easy boss battles.
  All in all this game was excellent, YOU SHOULD GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXKINGPINXx
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  legend of zelda : twilight prncess is the best zelda game in the series and ocarina of time seems 
 a bug against tjis game .... u wanna know why ocarina of time got a 10 out of 10 ..... well becuse 
 when ocarina of time came out it was the best only in that time because that was the best they 
 could do in that time .... so if ocarina of time came out on 2005 probably the game wont get a 
 8 now i am saying a 8 because of the story ,,,,, the story of ocarina of time was one a kind ,,,,, 
 i mean wow what a great story.... and i am not saying that ocarina of time is a stupid game ....
 
  now the legend of zelda : twilight prncess is so frekin awesome starting from the graphics to 
 the gameplay it got every bit of ocarina of time in it and more...... and the story.... wow just 
 wow ..... now u know why ocarina of time got a 10/10 thats why.... thanks 4 reading the review 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game shows that Zelda is going back to the roots of Ocarina of Time. With nice graphics and 
 perfect gameplay it shows that this is the 2nd best game on earth. (I think it is) Sometimes the 
 controls are hard but its revolutionary at the same time. As in all the Zelda games you'll get 
 stuck sometimes and it's very frustrating and annoying. I had hoped at some better sound effects 
 from the Wiimote but it is not that bad... The story is nice and the wolf gameplay is cool, but 
 the wolf quests could had a little bit more inspiration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewii
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, for the Wii, was most definitely inovative as far as the use of the controls. 
 After playing this game, you will have a hard time going back to any other controller. The Wii 
 remote and the nunchucks use in combat make you feel as though you are a part of the battle. Yesits 
 true that you dont have to really swing it like a sword, you can just flick your wrist, but at 
 least you have to move to attack. You might even find your self standing up and ready to fight 
 when a towering foe starts coming your way.
  
  One spot where I felt that the game lacked was in the music. I didnt have a hard time with the 
 fact that there was only text dialog, but the music really seemed primitive. I think that the game 
 could have felt more dramatic if it sounded as though it were produced using something other than 
 a keyboard. They story did keep me hooked throughout the game, as it should, but it was sort of 
 predictable. The great game play and unique puzzles made up for every flaw.
  
  I had an awesome time with playing this game. When I finally saved the princess yet again, I was 
 disappointed in the fact that the game was over. Im looking forward to the next saga in the Zelda 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Hi Poe Tokoro again with the review of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. This time I'm switching 
 the scale around so here it is.
  
  Story: Twilight Princess is the most perfect game on the Wii ever created. I have never been so 
 addicted to a game's story like this one. As all Zelda fans know, most Zelda games end with 3 specific 
 characters, Link, Zelda, and Ganon. But Twilight Princess has the most amazing way of getting to 
 them. Links is a man who is well liked by the villagers of Ordon. Especially the children. When 
 a girl takes your horse you chase her to get the horse back and during the chat with the girl you 
 and the village get ambushed by goblins. Link chases after them and stumbles into a Twilight portal 
 and gets sucked and that's how it begins. There are no flaws in the story line, no cheesy lines 
 like I love you or believe in your friends the game is perfect.
  
  Gameplay: The Wii proves that all games can be shifted to wii controls, even Zelda. The game is 
 fun to play with buttons. but with the wii controls the game only gets better.
  
  Sound: The music is great, the grunts Link makes sound much better than in any of his old games. 
 There is way more one second voice sounds than ever but there is no voice acting which may make 
 new gamers mad but Zelda fans will understand why.
  
  Graphics: The game is magnificent. It looks beautiful and always looks great. Despite what others 
 say, I say it is perfect and is the most beautiful game ever made.
  
  -Poe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I found very few things wrong with this game. It is amazing. It 
 is one of the best games I have ever played and it is the best Zelda game ever.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: Twilight Princess is really fun and innovative. The story starts out slow in your 
 home village and then you earn a slingshot, fishing pole and a wooden sword. That's where it starts 
 to pick up. The controls are great you swing the sword using the nunchuck and WiiMote. You shoot 
 the bow and other items by aiming the wiimote at the screen. Also you have this on screen fairy 
 that you move around while playing. It is your pointer throughout the game. It takes a little bit 
 to get used to the controls but before you know it they will be perfect. The puzzles are expertly 
 designed in Twilight Princess and it's the same with the dungeons. There are 9 dungeons in this 
 game and all of them were pretty awesome. My all time favorite was the Goron Mines. The dungeons 
 are basically the same idea. You go in go through a few rooms get the keys unlock the doors eventually 
 fight a miniboss get the item and then find the big key after that you fight the dungeon boss. 
 All of the bosses were easy I have to admit but they were fun and unforgetable. They all made you 
 different things like flying through the air on a dragons back or pulling down a giant goron from 
 a chain. It just felt so awesome to fight those bosses. Eventually in the game you get to turn 
 into a wolf. This happens quite a few times and soon enough you can control when you turn or not. 
 It's okay to be a wolf but the human form of Link is way better. The wolfs attacks are basically 
 controlled the same also so it's not all that hard. He does have an advantage to finding treasure 
 because of his sense mode which lets wolf link find spots to dig and poes to kill. A few times 
 I did not like being a wolf but oh well. I do have a few minor complaints. One is that I felt there 
 could have been more sidequests. In Hyrule Caslte Town for example there were not enough sidequests. 
 There were like 4 or 5 there. Also you couldn't even talk to half the people in that town. Another 
 thing I didn't like was the tear collecting parts you had to do as wolf link. It was just a annoying 
 bug finding mission that got old fast. Back to the good things though. I forgot to mention above 
 that the Cut-Scenes in this game are Amazing. I loved all of them. Although there was no voice 
 acting (which I thought would have ruined the game) the cutscenes were still great. A lot of it 
 was emotional and depressing and some of it was exciting and suprising.
  
  Graphics 9/10: Graphically this game looks awesome. The art style is really neat it looks amazing 
 in most places. The vast open hyrule field and the large lake hylia and all the other stuff look 
 awesome. Although the game is a Gamecube port it still looks good. Some of it could be better especially 
 for a Wii game but it still looks nice. The character models are great and so are there expressions. 
 I did think Link needed a little more work on his facial expressions but oh well. Ganondorf in 
 this game looked really cool and so did Link. Although it's no Gears of War or Oblivion it still 
 looks great artistically and stuff. It's like a really good looking gamecube game or something 
 I don't know.
  
  Sound 10/10: The sound is so awesome in Twilight Princess. The music is great. It mixes old tunes 
 and new tunes. My all time favorite music in this game was the sacred grove music. The sounds of 
 the sword were really cool also. It comes out of the WiiMote speaker but it sounds a little choppy 
 and low quality but if you don't like it you can turn it down or off. Zelda games always have awesome 
 music and this one I think has some of the best. Some of the music is so great in this game I have 
 it on my iPod (lol) . It's sound is one of it's best qualities in my opinion.
  
  Value 10/10: Twilight Princess is the longest Zelda game yet. It took me a total of 62 hours with 
 lots of sidequests and the game finished. I still have the Cave Of Ordeals and a few heart pieces 
 to get. This Zelda will last you a long time. You will most likely have lot's a fun through the 
 long experience. As I mentioned before there are nine dungeons which makes it pretty long. I even 
 feel like going through it again some time.
  
  Overall 9.6/10: The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a an Epic Masterpiece. It does so many 
 things right. It's just amazing. I have no other way of describing it other than amazing. If you 
 do not own Twilight Princess you are crazy. Any Zelda fan should have this. Any Wii owner should 
 have this. Any Gamecube owner should have this. If you have a Wii and don't have this then go get 
 it now it's worth it trust me. In my opinion this is the best Zelda game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsan224
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Oh man, at first I was only a fan of first person shooters, racing games (well I only really liked 
 need for speed: most wanted) , and a lot of action packed games. Don't get me wrong though, this 
 game has a lot of action. So yeah I wasn't interested in the series, I played a link to the past, 
 and the origional zelda, kinda boring. But I never really played twilight princess. I looked at 
 the reviews, and I saw a lot of stuff about this game, and I thought it was ok. So after waiting 
 4 hours in like on January 21, 2007, I got the wii, and this game with it. The first 6-10 hours, 
 not so great. After that, it became awesome. The gameplay was amazing. I love how the wii-mote 
 was used in right ways. Like aiming a bow and arrow or the clawshot at something, by pointing at 
 the TV screen. And I love all of the sword moves, they're very cool. The graphics, for the wii, 
 are just mind blowing. I don't have any component cables, but the lighting and shadows are completely 
 realistic. And these were gamecube graphics! Think of if a game pushed the graphical power of the 
 wii! About the sound, when you wiggle the wii-mote, the sword swinging sounds come out of the speaker. 
 The characters don't talk, they just have words. Link doesn't talk or even have words of dialogue! 
 When you attack though, he screams a hiyah! . So the dialogue isn't a problem, some cutscenes feel 
 like a movie. This game took me about 65 hours to beat, and i got 17 hearts. The dungeons are long 
 sometimes and can get annoying (especially the water temple!) . But overall, they were not so bad. 
 It took me a while to beat, and this game is packed with tons of things to do. IMO, this is one 
 of the best zelda games out there. I'm glad I play zelda now. I'm looking forward to getting ocarina 
 of time on virtual console, if it's coming out, and I give this game a whooping 10 out of 10. Go 
 buy this game. Stop reading! DONT WASTE ANY MORE TIME READING THIS REVIEW!!! BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxmachine09
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  After Zelda's release had been pushed back twice, everyone had hopes for the next the chapter in 
 the epic series. However, as good as it may be, the game seems to fail to meet all expectations. 
 The basic game play hasn't changed since the days of Ocarina. For the first 10 hours, I felt like 
 I was playing a repeat. In this day and age, there needs to be a little more innovation.
  The Wii-mote fails to bring anything interesting to the table. Combat is nothing more than shaking 
 the controller back and forth, and aiming with weapons is sort of pathetic. The fact that Nintendo 
 failed to make good use of its own device is not very confiding. At times, I often felt so much 
 more could have been done with the Wii-mote.
  In terms of graphics and sound, the game does an okay job. The soundtrack is pretty nice, but they're 
 still using MIDI tracks (simulated instruments) and text dialog, which is another sign of the aging 
 formula. The scenery is very nice, but it doesn't look any different than a regular PS2 or XBox 
 game; the Wii doesn't have a lot of power.
  Aside from these flaws, the game is actually quite good. It's filled with nice puzzles, epic boss 
 battles, and overall great gameplay. However, a lack of any innovation prevents this from being 
 The Greatest Zelda Game Ever Made. The game is just as good, if not better, on the GameCube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, I supposed the best summation for this game is 'Wonderful . Is it a 10/10? No, it is not, 
 but it is simply a wonderful total package and a wonderful game to play. The characters may not 
 be as flushed out as the pinnacle of character development in the series (The Wind Waker) , but 
 they are none-the-less developed more than many fantasy games without overly bogging you down with 
 it. The gameplay is slow at first but picks up to a frenetic pace in no time, with so many elements 
 to choose from. From 'snowboarding' to transforming into a wolf to swinging a ball and chain, using 
 a bow and arrow, grappling hooks, lanterns -- it goes on and on! Just a solid and wonderful adventure 
 game.
  
  For those living under a rock, the story follows one of the longest running series around, that 
 of the Legend of Zelda. You essentially guide your trusty hero, Link, through many overworld trials 
 and underworld dungeons (oh, an even airborn ones) on a quest to save the Land of Hyrule, once 
 again, from the clutches of evil. Is there anything particularly new? Yes and no. There are a few 
 new items that add many fun to thrills to the game (the two handed hookshot and spinner, for example) 
 and the depth of the dungeons are much moreso this time... but also there are many traditional elements 
 that remain the same from other incarnations in the series (multiple dungeons with items in each 
 one needed to get to the next in a particular order that flushes out the story) . There are a number 
 of free-roaming side quests you can do as well.
  
  Is this 'more of the same' a bad thing? NO. There is more than ample originality here to get you 
 going, more than ample wow moments to keep you satisfied... plus amazingly in depth dungeons to 
 solve. These dungeons are some of the most imaginative fantasy/adventure dungeons and domains ever 
 experienced. Nothing is completely cut and dry, this works for everything. More than a few times 
 you'll do something and figure out the puzzle after pondering it for much longer than you expected, 
 the ah-ha! moment as they call it. And the best part is, the dungeons never got old. They were 
 a blast to explore and figure out.
  
  The controls worked well on the Wii I thoughts. There really wasn't much for a learning curve, 
 and they weren't difficult to use. On the contrary, I took them right off like it was completely 
 natural -- an amazing feat considering it wasn't designed originally to have these controls. The 
 fishing alone is almost worth the price of admission and the best fishing experience to be found 
 on the Wii thus far (an odd statement to be made, for sure) . Some people would have liked to have 
 real-time sword modleing instead of slashing mimicing a button press -- but that isn't how the current 
 incarnation of Zelda titles are played. Maybe in the future they will do a close third person on 
 first person version with real live sword fighitng -- but in this game it is only PART of the game, 
 not what the game is based on. All told, it works well.
  
  I've heard some gripes about the graphics not being much better than a great gamecube title. Well, 
 true enough, we're not looking at PS3 or XBOX360 level graphics -- but never once did I stop in my 
 playing and think Gee, look how pixelated that is, gee that just isn't as clear as I'd like it 
 . The graphics are actually good (especially in 480p) and never detract from the experience.
  
  So, if you have a Wii, are looking for an awesome adventure game to keep you enthralled, and 
 have about 40-50hrs to burn -- Zelda is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Freak87
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  i've been playing zelda ever since i could pick up a controller, i've loved the series for a long 
 time.
  and twilight princess has got to be the best one i've thus far.
  i don't see why everyones complaining about the lack of voice acting,
  so what? least it doesn't 
 have crappy voice acting. i'd rather have no voice.
  anyways, the gameplay with the wiimote is awesome. it plays very smoothly,
  although the speaker 
 on the wiimote does cut out and the sound quality on it is bad. it was a good idea but the speaker 
 is to small. i'd say replay value on the game is high if you're a perfectionist, because you could 
 go back and get missed heart pieces and side quest items and so on.
  but to sum it up, awesome artistic graphics, awesome music, awesome control and a very well thought 
 out story line. in short, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilafrica14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an epic tale of a boy named Link who, once again, is 
 on a quest to save princess Zelda. Except this time it's in an all new shape, form, and fashion. 
 Lets get down to the nitty gritty by going through the major aspects of the game.
  
  Gameplay: This Zelda game plays in my opinion extremely well on the Wii console, and the controls 
 feel pretty nice and fluid. Many of the aspects of the game are similar to the most popular Ocarina 
 of Time, and give this game a very nice touch. Many of the dungeons and enemy's have the same defeating 
 technique as before, which brings back a lot of memories. However, there are several new ones as 
 well. Twilight Princess is just plain straight out fun to play no matter what, and almost anyone 
 would love it.
  
  Graphics: One slightly less appealing part of Twilight Princess is the graphics. However, against 
 the hype of otherwise bad graphics, I believe Twilight Princess' graphics are pretty good. No HD 
 support for the Wii means no HD Zelda, but its still a solid GameCube graphics core game. Plus 
 it looks a whole lot better than the WindWaker and the N64 games. The graphics in mine opinion 
 were perfectly fit for the game.
  
  Sound: Zelda games have always had an intriguing and pleasant sound and music to their games, and 
 no doubt different in this game. Orchestrated music definitely would've given it a 10 on the sound 
 part, and maybe a little less clunky sounds on the Wiimote. Some of the same tunes come back and 
 some new fresh tunes as well. Zelda fans will not be disappointed.
  
  Overall in my opinion, Zelda: Twilight Princess is definitely a must have game for the new Wii 
 console. Dated graphics yes, but the gameplay is still there throughout the years, and to me that 
 is the key essence of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolan-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Before I even start, I should state that I thoroughly enjoyed this game. From a production standpoint, 
 it's near flawless. Does it live up to the hype? I'd say yes. It's a fantastic well-put-together 
 game that everyone should experience. With that said though, I --as a die-hard Zelda fan, can't 
 help but feel a tad disappointed with certain aspects of the game. I'll admit that this disappointment 
 has grown steadily as time has gone by since I beat it; Partially due to the fact that I've recently 
 started playing through Majora's Mask for the second time in a long while (fantastic game by the 
 way) . If I had written this review, say, two weeks ago, I may have been a little less critical 
 toward TP. Irregardless, even though I may seem to focus on the negative throughout the majority 
 of this review, keep in mind that I really did enjoy the game. My score should reflect that.
  
  First thing's first; The overworld. It's big. There's no question about that. This is without 
 a doubt the biggest Hyrule we've ever seen. Does it work to the game's advantage though? For the 
 most part, yeah. Riding through the field on horseback whilst plowing through enemies in your path 
 is an incredibly satisfying experience. Also, there's loads of goodies and hidden secrets scattered 
 throughout. Actually, this is one aspect of the game I really liked. For the first time in a 3D 
 Zelda game, it actually felt reminiscent of the overworld in LttP. The sense of exploration is 
 very apparent here, whereas it's limited in OoT/MM due to the not-so-huge hyrule/termina field 
 (comparatively speaking) . (I make no mention of Wind Waker because its overworld was drastically 
 different) . Unfortunately though, the sense of exploration kind of stops there. All things considered, 
 this is probably the most linear Zelda game so far. I'll talk about that in more detail later.
 
  
  Alright, assuming you haven't been living under a rock for the past 6 months, you know the basic 
 idea behind the story. There's a twilight realm. Link turns into a wolf. There's a mysterious figure 
 named Midna. If these are spoilers to anyone, just stop reading right now. Because it's only going 
 to get worse. I might at some point mention that the bow is in the game, or that the first dungeon 
 is forest-related. *GASP* But I digress. The story in Twilight Princess is solid. The game is actually 
 a little more story-driven than its predecessors. In this particular case, I think that's a good 
 thing. Not because the gameplay is lacking, but because all the cut-scenes and whatnot just add 
 a nice bit of mmph to the whole experience. I personally have no complaints in regards to the story 
 itself, or the ending. I actually really liked the ending. Some of the Zelda nutjobs (or extremists; 
 whatever word you prefer) would disagree with me on that one.
  
  Now onto what really matters. The dungeons; the backbone of every Zelda game. How are they this 
 time around? Well, mixed reactions from me. The major issue I have, which goes back to what I was 
 saying earlier, is the linearity. In just about every single dungeon, it's just A to B. Then C 
 to D. It's like: Go to room A, solve puzzle, get key, open door to room B, get map, go to room 
 C, etc, etc. They're just way too linear for a Zelda game. The puzzles are pretty solid this time 
 around, but I rarely had any difficulty with any of them. You know a game has a good difficulty 
 level when you feel accomplishment from solving a puzzle or completing a task, and I rarely felt 
 that. Even with all that said though, the dungeons were still pretty enjoyable, so that just goes 
 to show how well they're designed. There's also a good amount of platforming-esque action elements 
 (a lot of jumping this time around) , both inside dungeons and out, which are a very nice touch. 
 The boss fights, like most of the game, barely posed a challenge for me, but they're still pretty 
 fun and definitely creative. I'm getting a little tired of all the pots containing hearts scattered 
 around the edge of nearly every boss room, but what can ya do.
  
  From here on out I'm going to be focusing primarily on what I didn't like about the game, so, y'know, 
 if you can't handle the harsh reality of this game being anything less than perfect, you may want 
 to stop reading.
  
  Ok, let's talk about the side-quests (or lack thereof) . It's true that there are things to do outside 
 of the main quest, but unfortunately these are limited to a couple mini-games and fetch quests. 
 Most of which don't provide rewards worth the effort. Yes, as you may have guessed, there are a 
 lot of heart pieces, and much like WW, you really don't need them due to the EASINESS of the game 
 (it's not as ridiculously easy as WW, but I honestly wasn't challenged much at all) . Are they still 
 fun to find? Sure, but it honestly seems like they've been trivialized ever since Wind Waker. This 
 time around they're in dungeons too. I don't know, it just seems like they could have added something 
 else instead of just throwing in a bunch of heart pieces that you don't really need or have any 
 reason to collect, other than the sheer fun of it, or pursuit of a 100% play-through. Rupees are 
 also very abundant, but there's not enough use for them (granted there is something in the game 
 that kind of justifies the fact that the game throws rupees at you like candy, but it's really 
 just a gimmick at best) . I suppose the fact that the main quest is so big and involving makes up 
 for the lack of side-quests. But just barely.
  
  About the difficulty level. Yes, the game isn't very challenging. On more than one occasion I found 
 something to be very obvious, but the game would STILL give me an explanation of what to do or 
 where to go. There's not a single point in the game in which it doesn't tell you exactly where 
 to go next. Unfortunately Midna's always available to give advice about every single puzzle/obstacle/whatever 
 in the game. I know, it's not like you you're forced to talk to her, but just the fact that all 
 that dialog even exists is somewhat insulting to my intelligence. It's like you don't have to think 
 because the game does all the thinking for you. I'm not too thrilled about that. I'm fine with 
 the game being accessible to a younger/stupider audience, but give me a break. The whole retard-friendly 
 concept that the Zelda series has adopted recently is really wearing thin for me. Again, it's not 
 as bad as Wind Waker, but it's still a problem.
  
  The enemies in the game don't really help with the difficulty issue. Partially because of the the 
 new-and-improved z-targeting system (improved from the N64 days, I mean; similar to Wind Waker) , 
 and partially due to the fact that most enemies don't do enough damage or pose enough of a threat, 
 it's just too easy to mitigate damage and defeat monsters without breaking a sweat. Even some of 
 the tougher bad guys aren't really that hard, they just take a little bit of time to kill is all. 
 The bosses are generally pretty easy once you figure out what you're doing.
  
  There's probably a lot more I could say, and plenty of important things that I forgot to say, but 
 I guess I made my point. That point being: It's a hell of a game while it lasts. It takes various 
 elements from each game before it and combines them into one truly magical gaming experience. It 
 looks and sounds amazing, and it definitely does the Zelda series justice (I can't stress this 
 enough. I really was constantly amazed by the game) . But when it's all said and done, it's just 
 hard to look past some of the things that the game really could have done better, and what it lacked. 
 Interestingly enough, I was planning to only talk about the problems I had with the game in this 
 review, but I just couldn't. It's just not fair to the game because, again, it really is a great 
 game. If you haven't played it, what the hell are you waiting for? You won't be disappointed (at 
 least not until after you've beaten it, and you've had some time to reflect on what the game was 
 lacking. But worry about that when the time comes) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXXGMRXXXX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Despite several flaws, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess will have you mesmerized from start 
 to finish.
  
  1. Graphics: This game pushes the limits of the wii to produce beautiful results. The detail on 
 each character is remarkable and life-like. The landscape hits you as being something out of the 
 Zelda world. Every place feels exactly like it should, real. The desert is full of detailed sands, 
 the ocean sparkles with the light of the sun, and you can even notice things miles away protruding 
 in the back. Of course it doesn't compare to Xbox 360 or PS3, but it really doesn't need to. Well 
 done. 5/5
  
  2. Sound: Being from the Zelda series, this game features nice background music. The music is gloomy 
 when it needs to be gloomy and happy when it needs to be happy. It complements beautifully. Of 
 course, songs that Link had sung in the past are not too common in the game. You come across some 
 familiar songs and some new ones. A problem I had, however, was the lack of any voices whatsoever. 
 Nintendo makes an attempt to continue the subtitles as has been done in previous games. However, 
 voices would have added a new and interesting depth to this particular game. 4/5
  
  3. Gameplay: Need I even explain? The main game will take you awhile. There are plenty of goals 
 that must be completed. You will visit many temples, acquire new and unusual weapons, talk to strange 
 people, and, best of all, riding and fighting on horseback! This game will take you awhile. As 
 proof, I personally took about 45 hours to beat the game. 5/5
  
  4. Difficulty: The game features many difficult puzzles, many of which will blow your mind and 
 test the very foundations of your mental sanity. This is obviously the core of this series, and 
 the result proves beyond my expectation. However, the Zelda boss fights (my personal favorites) 
 are a complete let down this time. They are far too easy for most gamers. 4/5
  
  5. Replayability: The game features this in the short-run. After playing the game, you will enjoy 
 riding on horseback around the landscape, finding heart containers, and other things besides this. 
 One problem is that there aren't as many side missions featured as in other Zelda games. In addition, 
 it now takes 5 heart pieces to make a new heart, something that shouldn't necessarily have been 
 altered from N64 Zeldas. And as far as starting a second game, it would take plenty of time from 
 a gamer's schedule for it to pay off, and some would bore of the game a second time around. 4/5
 
  
  6. Story: Another incredibly improved aspect. You come across Link in an innocent village, and 
 from there you meet many children, adults, animals, and other beings. Link will liberate spirits, 
 and his saving of Hyrule and Zelda is shown the best and most dramatically in this game. The story 
 is long as well, and it keeps you involved the whole time. 5/5
  
  Final Verdict: 27/30: A-
  Recommendation: This game missed a few things that could have made 
 it better. I felt it also lost of some the older Zelda games' staples. However, the game is still 
 beautifully put together and should be the first and best addition to your wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razor_cc_atu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess gets my vote for the best Zelda in the series. When I bought 
 Zelda I decided to play through it as fast as I could and try to beet my friends beating times. 
 I was able to do that in 35 hours my first time through, but afterwards I talked with my friends 
 and there is so much more in the game. Every time I pick up my Wii-mote I find something new. Currently 
 I am riding through the lands of Hyrule Hunting down every thing that I have missed the first time 
 through. This is a perfect game and I believe that all gamers (and non-gamers) will fall in love 
 with this game.
  
  This game can be as simple as you want it to be or as tough as you want it to be depending on what 
 all you want to do with it. The game is a perfect blend of puzzles, fighting, and fun!
  
  Perfect game!! Must have for the Wii!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Swing the remote to swing your sword. Aim ranged weapons with the remote. Control an 
 annoying blue fairy. AWESOME! 10 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: On a nintendo scale a definite 10 out of 10. Goes back to the more realistic look from 
 the N64 days.
  SOUND: The fact that some sounds come from the remote and others don't at all is kinda weird and 
 sometimes a little scratchy. 8 out of 10.
  VALUE: Definenetly worth the 50$. Worth it all. 10 out of 10.
  TILT: This is my favorite game 
 by far so of course another 10 out of 10. And in all a great 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_rule
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best zelda games the interactiveness is very fun the fun part is that you actually 
 feel like you are part of the game. At the start, even before you play, you can imput you own name 
 and the horses name. which i think the game becomes more personal to the player i have already 
 played it for about six hours and i hope to play it more. eather i stink at zelda games, i like 
 at mess around or the game is realty long but i intend to play it longer. the game is kind of slow 
 at first but how else are you going to learn how to play without reading or flipping through pages. 
 Usually that is how all the zelda games usually start out the same way (slow at first and gets 
 better) usually when it gets better i get stuk so i stopped playing zelda for a while so one day 
 i desided to buy it and i liked it. so i advise you to buy this game (if you have a wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanadamurasama
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Twilight Princess I knew absolutely nothing about what to expect, I hadn't 
 read any updates about it and I hadn't watched gameplay footage. My first thoughts were the game 
 was kind of boring with the tasks they gave you. I soon realized that it was just making sure you 
 knew what you were doing. The game was all it was cracked up to be and I soon found myself pulled 
 into the story and I wanted to continously play. I felt the difficulty was just right. It wasn't 
 so easy that I won every boss like it was nothing and yet it wasn't so hard that you wanted to 
 pull your hair out. The puzzles were nothing short of what I'd expect of a Zelda game and I often 
 found myself stuck at a point but I finally figured out every puzzle and enjoyed the fact that 
 it had kept the challenge that I had come to love of Zelda games. The graphicsd weren't up to Ps3 
 or Xbox 360 standards but for a Wii game I felt it worked out perfectly. I enjoyed how the new 
 Wii controls were used to their full advantage and how the characters all had their each individual 
 personallities instead of other games where you come across games where all of the character types 
 were basically the same. The story was a great story that kept me wondering what was going to happen 
 until the end and I think that nintendo did excellent this time and I hope they keep this up for 
 alll fo their future work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This new Zelda installment delivers BIG time! The story, the action, the gameplay; all are awesome.
 
  
  The story is great. You start out as Link in this nice and beautiful town. It starts off slow at 
 first, because you are doing sort of menial chores for shopkeepers and such, but that's really 
 the way that you get the hang of the game instead of throwing you right into the action. But once 
 you get into it, you learn that a great and terrible power is rising in the forest. And now the 
 the entire realm is being enveloped in shadow. Later you turn into a wolf, which, although you 
 aren't Link, is still a lot of fun.
  
  The learning curve is a little bit to get used to because of the Wii remote and just the game itself. 
 But do not be discouraged by it, once you are used to it, it's a blast till the end.
  
  The Wii remote could not have been used better here. I always had fun swinging it aroung doing 
 slashes to the bad guys or doing tail whips with the nunchuck.
  
  Although the greaphics aren't that great, they are good enough. The best way to describe them is 
 Top of the line Xbox graphics . But you didn't buy this for good graphics. Also, the level design 
 in this is genius with caves and well placed waterfalls and secret passages and using your senses 
 when you are the wolf.
  
  The enviroments are somewhat interactive with being able to knock down bee hives and wooden planks 
 and the like.
  
  Not much is bad about this game. But one thing is the voices. There is NO voice acting. The characters 
 all speak in baby talk and jibberish so you have to read sub titles the whole time.
  
  All in all, if you are a Zelda fan or even never played Zelda before, you will love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshmilo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  How could gamespot get such an average score like 8.8? I wondering about this over and over again 
 and when i got my Wii together with the Zelda, on Christmas day. I must say i got hooked instantly. 
 The gameplay nails you to thwe front of the TV. The game offers gameplay that has yet to be beaten, 
 and it is a Zelda title. The only true i thought about the whole review was that the montion control 
 felt a bit slapped on , but all in one it is one of the best games i have ever played. The graphics 
 are so mature and i found myself thinking wow, link does look like a human The only slight thing 
 is that since i played a LCD Tv, the images arent perfect, howerver it doesnt bring shame into 
 the game at all. Nintendo once again made a time-less classic. I would recommend it to anyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was by far the best launch title on the Nintendo Wii. The gameplay was like nothing I've 
 ever played before. Simply amazing to say the least..... the only downside to the game is that it 
 is the same-old zelda....... I know, I know........ why fix something that isn't broken right? Next 
 Zelda game is going to see changes..... so we'll be seeing a new Link next time around..... will 
 it be for the better.... it's hard to say. But we have the LAST CLASSIC zelda.... and boy was it 
 ever a beauty. Link is a classic hero that we have all come to love over the years, and he lived 
 up to the hype. Even little add-ons like being able to fish with the wiimote was amazing. PLUS.... shooting 
 arrows has never felt better..... for any zelda fan out there..... this game is one to pick up and 
 play for sure!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  How does an excelent game like this get a 8.8? I wondered this through zand through when i got 
 my Wii together with the Zelda, last Friday. I must say i got hooked instantly. The gameplay nails 
 you to thwe front of the TV. Th fun the game offers has yet to be beaten, and it is a Zelda title. 
 The only true i thought about the whole review was that the montion control felt a bit slapped 
 on , but all in one it is one of the best games i have ever played. The graphics are so mature 
 and i found myself thinking wow, link does look like a human The only slight thing is hat since 
 i plaon a LCD Tv, the images arent perfect, howerver it doesnt bring shame into the game at all. 
 Nintendo once again made a time-less classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess has many of the same themes and gameplay elements as the rest of the Legend of 
 Zelda series, plus some new tricks and tools to help Link once again overcome the forces of darkness 
 massed against the gentle kingdom of Hyrule. As always, the intrepid hero rises from humble beginnings, 
 falls into the company of the enigmatic princess, and before long is wielding the Master Sword 
 against a mighty horde. Long-time fans of the series wont have any trouble figuring out the rhythm 
 of the game. Find a dungeon, crawl through the dungeon, face mid-boss and get a new weapon, face 
 off against the main dungeon boss, get a heart piece. Rinse and repeat. Twilight Princess throws 
 a new twist into the mix as Link faces off against a new enemy: the self-appointed King of Twilight. 
 This vicious foe has cast a spell across the kingdom of Hyrule, spreading a thick cloud of darkness 
 across the land. When Link encounters this darkness, he is turned into a wolf. Shortly after, he 
 links up with a strange being called Midna who guides him through this Twilit Kingdom and offers 
 her assistance in overthrowing the king. Shes the one who tosses out the infamous gather it up 
 quests that are such a staple of the Link diet, and helping her complete her own goals becomes 
 the focus of Links quest.
  
  While the formula of the game is more or less the same from what you can find in the first Zelda 
 game, the story veers away from what you may typically find. Ganon not only doesnt seem to be 
 your main focus this round, but hardly anyone even seems to recall the Triforce exists! Of course, 
 theres still the legend of the green-clad hero who always rises up to smashes the darkness, youll 
 wander the same sort of areas found in Ocarina of Time, and naturally someone has to tell you how 
 Hyrule was formed in the first place. The wolfplay element is also rather unique to this tale, 
 and learning how to control and utilize your bestial form is one of the more fascinating aspects 
 of the game. In fact, given the unique nature of the Wii remote and Nunchuk combination, the Wii 
 version of this game has a lot to offer you wont find in any other Zelda title. Suddenly the standard 
 Link attacks become a touch more complicated as you figure out how to wield your dual remotes. 
 In addition, an ancient warrior wanders the realm to teach Link new skills, provided that you can 
 figure out how to summon him . . .
  
  The story is fairly lengthy for a Link title, taking roughly 40 hours to complete. However, after 
 the game is over, there isnt much to call you back to Hyrule. There's a couple of minigames that 
 offer a bit of distraction, but the path of the game is just as linear as other Link games. After 
 all, you need certain items from dungeons in order to advance through the game, so there arent 
 any variances between game journies. Also, perhaps this title was released on both the GameCube 
 and the Wii, a lot of the graphics seem to have suffered. (Unless, as many are being to suspect, 
 the Wii is just not the graphical powerhouse of its next-gen compatriots.) A lot of the textures 
 seem blocky, while others  especially during the games cutscene sequences  are very well-rendered. 
 (The sequences with Link as a wolf are perhaps the best designed in the game.)
  
  The last thing to really note about Link is its sound. Like most Nintendo games as of late, the 
 games story is rendered by line after line of text, with the characters spouting out occasional 
 lines of gibberish to make you think that their lines are vocalized. Maybe its a personal thing, 
 but this effect is more distracting than anything else. A lot of the classic Zelda themes make 
 a reappearance, including the triumphant fanfare that sounds off anytime you open a door, find 
 a treasure, kill a tough enemy, or trigger a switch. A lot of the battle themes have carried over 
 as well, but as the GameSpot review points out, a lot of the music and noises get carried over 
 into the Wii remotes speaker, which . . . doesnt work as well as it perhaps should.
  
  Overall, Twilight is an outstanding game, although it doesnt carry very much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkeyboy21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda twilight princess is the second zelda game i have played other than that of 
 OOT (N64) so i am not experienced. The graphics for the game were quite good and the use of the 
 'wiimote' and 'nunchuck' were good. The story was ok but through it you were expecting a better 
 boss at the end. As the gaming time is quite long it is best to complete the game throughout , 
 and then go on catching all the fish bugs, Poes etc. when you get a new item it feels great and 
 that you're collection through the game feels complete. As you progress through the game it gets 
 harder and longer... This game is well worth buying if you have or are buying a Wii og GC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  the main gamin gameplay for link wolf link and horse controlls are no problem, but as soon as you 
 (spoilers) ride on other things the controlls are a little more difficult. But overall there is 
 not much wrong with this.
  
  Graphics
  
  I have seen better graphics in metroid prime, but they are still pretty good while they can still 
 be smoother like in some areas of the game and other areas are just fine.
  
  Sound
  
  pretty decent but Okami was better there was barely any sound in some parts of the game and the 
 speaker on the wii mote was not a problem for me.
  
  
  overall
  
  Great game the weapons are great but some you never even really use after the temple, but within 
 that the playing of the wolf was fine and not a problem. Also some of the story in the game kind 
 of comes out of no where, but the last boss in okami came out of no where just like this one did. 
 That for any gamecube or wii owner iff you like zelda get this game, if you do not like zelda why 
 bother. that raps this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, in my opinion, is the best Zelda game out there. I really haven't felt the past 
 Zelda games except Majora's Mask and Wind Waker (kinda) . What I like about this game is the save 
 system. You don't start where you last saved if you die. You start after the last cut scene or 
 checkpoint . This game is great and can get frustration is some parts but not so frustration you 
 quit. Well, not from what I've seen so far. I'm kinda far in (not really) but It's just so long. 
 I might finish it in like 2 years. This game rivals with Gears of War time. This game is amazing 
 from an artistic perspective. The bow and arrow and slingshot mechanic is great. The fishing mechanic 
 is fun too. The fighting is also unique in taking advantage of the Wii's new remote. It is pretty 
 well responsive ,but weak when it comes to depending on you nunchuck for spin attacks. Overall 
 this game is a super fun game filled with great combat, creative puzzles, and many temples and 
 dungeons. I tried staying away from Zelda games but this is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Finally a new Zelda, the last one i played was Majoras Mask, but that was so long ago so its nice 
 to be playing it again.
  The music is pretty good, for example the Hyrule theme, Kakriko Village, and Death Mountain are 
 all really good. The only problem with the music is that there is none in the dungeons. The gameplay 
 is so fun with the Wiimote because you can use it to manipulate your bow, clawshot, sword, fishing 
 rod, and more. This makes it much better than OoT.
  The collecting is pretty good once again, but it seems a lot easier than Oot time, in 40 hrs. I 
 had already gotten all the heart pieces and golden bugs, leaving only a few poes left to find.
 
  In the game you will not only get your usuall Zelda weapons but a bunch of new ones as well. All 
 of them are really fun and sweet looking. It's nice to be able to use things other than the classic 
 weapons.
  The story is good although it is somewhat confusing, but there are a lot of twists and turns to 
 keep you interested the whole way through.
  Overall this is probably the best Zelda game because of its fun controls and new items. With the 
 exception of a few minor flaws this game is outstanding. And if for some reason you still haven't 
 bought this game, you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zembrium
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game features some incredible gameplay, but I'll save that for later. The gameplay sound is 
 good, but you'll be disappointed by the lack of voice-overs and the Wii-mote sound effects. The 
 graphics are good, and that's all that can be said about them. Controls work suprisingly well and 
 make the game better for casual gamers and hardcore gamers. The game is very original by adding 
 bizarre monsters, intresting characters, interesting weapons/items, and updated Zelda themes. I 
 do have two problems with the gameplay however. Once you get the amazing and fun items from the 
 final four or five dungeons, you rarely get a chance to use them. The items are fun to play with 
 when you get a chance, but you never get to use them. Also, it is amazing how fast you can blow 
 through this game. Hardcore gamers could beat it in only three days. The best thing about this 
 game would have to be the integration of classic Zelda characters, monsters, items, ect. with the 
 fresh and original elements of the Wii. All together, this is a must buy game if you own a Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverRao
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9/10) - Regular Zelda controls, B to attack, A to jump, etc. They work well. You can also 
 use your horse to move faster throughout the game's many areas. Also, there are a variety of suits 
 and equipment to use to meet the environment's conditions. Great gameplay.
  
  Graphics (9/10) - The graphics are mind blowing. The faces of the characters look very nice, and 
 the background and scenery look beautiful. They did a really great job on the shading and lighting 
 effects of Link's wolf form too. Beautiful graphics.
  
  Sound (7/10) - The music is pretty attractive. However, there are some bad things here. The battle 
 music can get repetitive, and there is no voice acting. NO VOICE ACTING!?!? By now, Nintendo should 
 have voice acting for any game, even a Zelda one! Also, there is no orchestrated music. = (
  
  Value (10/10) - The value is tremendous. 60 hours of gameplay, maybe even + more if you choose 
 to get each and every single one of the extras and play every one of the mini games. That is a 
 lot of time.
  
  Tilt (10/10) - Overall, this game is a must buy. It IS one of the best of 2006, and even though you 
 may tempted to buy a Wii just for the Wii version, there is almost no difference at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorIng
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Before you read just know I just beat the city in the sky dungeon when I wrote this
  This is a great game I love swinging the sword all the puzzles it's great it breaks ground and 
 all that jazz it's the best game of the year it is long and fun great technical stuff no wiimote 
 errors I liked the new dungeon style like in yeti's house and the temple of time especially However 
 it just wasn't addicting it could leave it for a week and have to urge myself to continue but once 
 I get into a dungeon it's hard to put the game down and my biggest problem is the boss battles 
 weren't hard at all it was simply a puzzle not a fight like find the weakness and attack it three 
 times and it's dead BORING they should have had fights like Goht form MM or Gannondorf form OoT 
 or more fights like the warrior in the temple of time Back on the pros though the game certainly 
 keeps you guessing I don't know why people are all like it's so dark a storyline oh no the twilight 
 is scary crap the twilight was a great element I wish people would elaborate when they say this 
 game isn't ground breaking anyhow this is a great game and a must buy so get it I've been on 40 
 hours and I'm not done yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking193
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  twilight princess is a great game and its even funner and more fascinating for the wii. some parts 
 seem more difficult then the other legend of zelda games but I think game creators today are trying 
 to make games more advanced which adds on difficulty to the game but in a good way. for nintendo 
 wii owners this is a must have game that is fun for almost all ages. probaly one of the most fascinating 
 changes to this legend of zelda game is the beast form and how your the next chosen hero of the 
 twilight and that you get som of the items link used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2hot2rotvamp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  this game has solid gameplay, the fun factor, and the addiction that we all look for in a videogame. 
 with my new wii i had to buy this game. however... do not think i am a zelda geek because that is 
 not the case. i am not ussually a fan of zelda but this game has made it fun for me. i would not 
 recomend this game for young children beacuase of its difficulty level however it is a must buy. 
 i have played it for over thirty hours and none of it has been boring. however i have gotten lost 
 many times.
  
  hopefully this review helps you out.... :) remember.... happy gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmrules
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda Twilight Princess is a master piece. You start as a teenager named Link who 
 lives in ordon village and is a average goat herder. As you play the first 30 minutes you will 
 do a series of tasks leading to a epic event. Link's friends are captured and he goes to save them. 
 He is blocked by a viel of twilight. Link is pulled through by a creature and is transformed into 
 a beast in the twilight realm. THE ADVENTURE BEGINS This game uses the wii-mote to its fullest. 
 when you swing or shake the wii-mote link will swing his sword. You can also use it to target enemies 
 and objects with weapons. When you swing the nuncuk and Link will do a spin attack like in past 
 games. Link will have a much larger arsenal in this game . To the hero's bow to new garments and 
 the double clawshot. When you play as a wolf you will have basic attacks. From bites to spin attacks 
 to lunging bites. You will meet a new character named Midna. she will fit the profile of navy and 
 tael very well. Although she won't tell you how to beat enemies anytime you want, she can warp 
 you to other places and use her power when your a beast. Like in past games you had to collect 
 4 pieces of heart , now you have to collect five. This would make it harder to get new life.
  There are so many things to do in this game. The mini games are not uncommon. They are not just 
 point the wii-mote at the tv games. There is a full snowboarding game with a long coarse. You can 
 fish at the fishing hole, ride down zora river and many more.
  
  This game has been on the wii's top game list since it came out. If you buy this you will automaticly 
 become addictied to iis beauty and gracre and wonderful gameplay. Long live the legend of zelda 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanmanna
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Great game, only had a few problems which were-
  Didn't give me the same feeling as WW and OoT did.
  The sound was very bad from the Wii remote 
 speaker.
  Kind of wished it would have voice acting but it most likely would be very cheesy.
  Might have 
 been too short (or was that because I played a lot?) Other than that, this game was awesome! It 
 had awesome motion sensing features, great presentation and graphics, and awesome boss battles. 
 Link's different weapons were cool as well. Weird and wacky characters you come to expect from 
 Zelda (Tingle) . Hope the other Wii games will be this good in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess was one of the best zeldas I have ever played in my life and I have beatin 
 Allot of Zelda games. Graphics: Some people think the horrable but there so artistic and diffrent 
 this game dident focous on the graphics like allot of the games now days. But there isent to much 
 deatle in some places.
  
  Gameplay: The Total feel of this gameplay is amazing. People bought it for gamecube saying the 
 wii remote would take away from the experance but it really inhances it with the bow you can get 
 more accrute and aim faster. The combat feels relly good its really easy and they added seven new 
 moves to learn.
  
  Sound: The Music is great and the sound effects are good if you take out the wii mote sounds.
 
  
  Value: This game is worth just geting a wii. Its memorable. The best thing about this game is its 
 out of that sel shaded world and back into the world of ocarina of time. Its also allot darker 
 than any of the other Zeldas. Witch gives it a more mature feeling. One of the greatest things 
 in this game is the the new cinamatic cutseens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesmadboy93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  'The legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess', is a magnificent way for its makers to continue the series. 
 I think pretty much every 'Zelda' fan will definitly rate this Zelda as one of the best in the 
 series. I think this is the best Zelda of the series but I am almost certain that the majority 
 of Zelda fans will say it is the second best of the series leading after 'The legend of Zelda: 
 Ocarina of time'.
  
  Most Zelda fans will agree with me that this is a splendid way to continue this marvelous series.
 
  
  I have personally taken the liberty of testing both 'Twilight Princess' on both 'Nintendo Wii' 
 and 'Nintendo Gamecube' and I believe that the 'Nintendo Wii' version is better.
  
  Overall i'd just like to say any sensible person in the right mind would agree with me that i rate 
 this 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the much anticiapated Zelda title that has been delayed 
 numerous times. Does it live up to the hype, is it better than OOT. Well the answer is yes to all 
 of those questions but if you want to know why then read on. Gameplay-Perfect. The Zelda formula 
 has been used again and it does not disapoint in this area. But now there are wolf bits of the 
 game and while they do not live up to the adventures of the boy in the green tunic they are certainly 
 fun and worthwhile. There is a slight drag when you have the vessel of light but nowhere near as 
 bad as the Triforce hunt in WW. The story has also recieved some polish. There are fantastic characters 
 such as Midna who you do not know much about and most of the time you will be questioning her true 
 intentions. Also Zant is an awsome character who is really zany but his boss battle was dissapointing. 
 And the usual characters such as Zelda and Gannondorf. One thing that may slightly dissapoint is 
 the side quests which hold no relation to the mainstoryline. Graphics-Beutiful! The character design 
 is truly something to behold as well as the sprawling Hyrule field and Gerudo deasert, and as always 
 Lake Hylia does not dissapoint. One thing that did upset me is the art style which has changed 
 from a dark dangerous look to a slightly lighter tone. One thing that they did change for the better 
 was the Twilight Realm which is a gorgeous mix of strong, dark colours.
  
  Sound- This area is quite strange because to it sounds excellent and the Twilight music is really 
 unique. BUT they have taken tunes from OOT and put them into some daft howling areas, which are 
 no wher near as good as Ocarina sections. This is one area that may disspoint.
  
  Value-This is Zelda they are not going to give you a eight hour adventure and say it is worth 40 
 quid coughGearscough. Instead it took me forty hours to compleate not including sidequests. Definatly 
 worth your cash. Tilt-I love Zelda games so it is biased but I hated WW so I am up for hating some 
 of the games. But to realese a game of this high quality amoungst eight hour adventures with high 
 production values is like a breth of fresh air. This is a classic and if you have a Wii or a GameCube 
 the it would be a crime not to get it. Also the Wii controls further the immersion and I love'em 
 especially aiming which is really accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good. I've always been a fan of Zelda.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of time (Nintendo64)
  The Legend of Zelda: The Windwaker (Gamecube)
 
  The Legend of Zelda: Twighlight Princess (WII)
  
  Great game great controlls you really feel like and your slashing and dodging. It's just.. it could 
 of been better... it just feels like its missing something... something only The Legend of Zelda: 
 The Ocarina of Time had... Just classical towns with secrets everywhere and the temples and everything 
 was so rememberable... thats why it got 10 rating.
  
  This game is worth buying for your Nintendo WII.
  And totaly fun.
  
  I actualy kinda miss 
 the bad graphics and getting your horse later in the game and how the map was so small but so big.
 
  
  the story is okay its good when you get into it.
  
  i don't want to spoil things so i am keeping this brief. Zelda fans will like it. You play songs 
 go in doungeons and fight ganondorf and save zelda so its worth your time.
  
  to get deeper into controls and graphics:
  
  graphics are not a HD nexgen like ude expect but 
 its so much better then ocarina in graphics comparison.
  
  The controls are hard to explain. because either u hate them or love them. sometimes with the wii-mote 
 u get tired of moving ur hands and just want to sit down with a controller and if u want to do 
 that u could just get the gamecube version but u will be missing out on fishing firing arrows and 
 swinging ur sword in a revolutionary way.
  
  Zelda: Twilght Princess is a fun game and worth your time. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhudaurean
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  There is not really much to say about this one. Considering the game is trapped in the long shadow 
 of Ocarina of Time, and is really the true sequel (Majora's Mask strayed in terms of play style 
 and Wind Waker was radically different in graphical presentation) , the game is astounding. It trumps 
 Ocarina in every way, and is made far better with the Wii control system.
  
  It will take at least 35 hours to finish it going as quickly as possible. I took that long even 
 with a strategy guide. The great characters, epic quest scope, and innovative game-play make this 
 an instant classic and a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, like most Wii owners, this is the first game I bought for Nintendo's unique new console. 
 I've beaten every Zelda game that matters (not the Phillips CD-i game (s) but then again who has?) , 
 so naturally when a new Zelda game comes out I make every effort to get it a. s. a. p.
  
  After playing the game extensively, I have to disagree with anyone who thinks Gamespot gave TP 
 an unfair review.
  
  The bottom line is the gameplay is traditional 3D Zelda, not much different from Ocarina of Time, 
 Majora's Mask or Wind Waker, with very little innovation. What makes TP stand out are the exceptional 
 graphics, the more mature theme of the story (though personally I think its seriousness is on par 
 or even lower than Majora's Mask's world-coming-to-an-end theme) and the wolf aspect.
  
  Yes, at certain points throughout the game Link becomes a wolf with very different, very limited 
 abilities (compared to his human form) . The early portion of the game features the traditional 
 Zelda pattern where you have to become a wolf and solve a problem, then re-explore the region in 
 human form, where you can access the temples, find treasures and move forward. It's engaging, it's 
 enjoyable, it's Zelda. There's nothing wrong with it, but it's not evolving either, and as much 
 of a Nintendo fan as I am, even I have to admit I have some issues with that.
  
  I love the graphics, especially in the twilight portions. The ethereal haze over everything, the 
 creepy sounds that the enemies make (especially those birds) and the eerie music all create a great 
 atmosphere.
  
  As for the sound, well, the music is fine. It does the job. But with as much dialogue as there 
 is in the game, I find it deeply annoying that the flagship title of Nintendo's most advanced console 
 doesn't have any real voice work. No, of course I don't expect Link to speak. He's a silent protagonist 
 and should remain that way. But all the other characters have so much to say that simply reading 
 the words quietly on the screen feels archaic. I'm a speedy reader, so the game proceeds faster 
 for me that way. But I've played games that gave the player the option to mute, turn off or skip 
 past the vocals, and there's no reason why this game couldn't have had similar options, especially 
 since there are times you can't simply speed through the dialog. When the words are appearing on 
 the screen letter by letter, trying to establish that a spirit is slowly orating to you, and you 
 have no choice but to read it at the pace they show it, it just makes you wonder why they didn't 
 just include voices.
  
  Speaking of archaic features, what's with the game only having three save slots? In this day and 
 age, that's just plain crazy, especially since the Wii has more than enough internal memory. RPGs 
 and adventure games on older systems usually gave you as many save slots as your memory card would 
 allow. When I remember that the very first Zelda on NES gave the player three slots and three slots 
 only, I wholeheartedly agree with Gamespot's assertion that a lot of the game's presentation seems 
 stuck in the past. 
  
  Don't get me wrong though, I enjoy playing the game. The lack of innovation and the unevolved features 
 of the presentation are the only things I took off points for. The control with the Wii Remote 
 isn't at all strange or uncomfortable. You move Link with the analog stick on the Nunchuk, using 
 the C button for 1st person look mode and the Z button for the now standard Z-targeting feature. 
 The Wiimote controls everything else, the control cross for accessing items and talking to your 
 partner, the B button for using items, the A button for actions like rolling, picking up objects, 
 etc. and the +, -, 1 and 2 buttons for maps and menus. You lightly swing the Wiimote to swing your 
 sword (though sadly the sword doesn't swing exactly the way you do) and you shake the Nunchuck 
 slightly to spin attack. You also use the Wiimote's motion sensing abilities to aim weapons like 
 the Boomerang, Slingshot and Bow with a cursor. You can also do it the traditional way with the 
 analog stick by turning the cursor off in the menu if you want to, but I don't recommend it. It 
 all feels very comfortable once you get used to it, which only takes moments. You learn new battle 
 techniques throughout the game that aren't complicated to execute at all. The vibration and sound 
 that comes out of the Wiimote does a great job of bringing you into the game, and was a great feature 
 I'm eager to see used on future Wii titles, including third parties.
  
  The graphics and sound (except for the lack of voices) are really good and the gameplay will keep 
 you busy for many hours. It's a great game; definitely worth purchasing, it's just not as special 
 as Ocarina of Time or Wind Waker. Seriously, the closest they came to real innovation was using 
 the Wii Remote for the gameplay and requiring five Pieces of Heart for Heart Containers instead 
 of the traditional four. That's why I wasn't surprised at all when Zelda: Twilight Princess didn't 
 win Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamanu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really good! The zelda series never seems to dissapoint. The graphics were amazing, 
 the gameplay is unbeatable, and the story line was great too. The only problem i had with the game 
 is... you probably knew it was coming... VOICE ACTING!!!! all of these years of zelda and they 
 cant just pay a guy to speak. but besides that i like it for other reasons like that the gameplay 
 is challenging but yet easy to get a hold of, and the attacks are very easy to learn but hard to 
 master (that's good) . Overall this game really impressed me with all of its features that i mentioned, 
 and it is truly an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinkuDaisuken
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Hi there,
  
  Shinku here to tell you about what I think of Loz: Tp.
  
  Basically this game is the new zelda and from what I hear, the end of zeldas of this type (which 
 may mean gannon may get shafted for a new villain.)
  
  Now for you newcomers, this game is great and very easy to play, illl grade it on 4 levels
  
 
  Gameplay/Sound and 
  
  Gameplay: This zelda plays like the other zeldas, which I think is a good thing, one of the nice 
 features they added was wiimote aiming, which is a godsend to those who suck at using the analog 
 stick for aiming in previous games. They make swordfighting in this one more, strategic in this 
 one thanks to the various skills you learn in the game, i wont say how though because that my friends 
 is Spoiling. Gameplay will get an 8 because the wiimote is not utilized that well.
  
  Sound and Graphics: The sound on this game is decent, but it mostly is rehashed music from old 
 zelda games, Which would lead me to score sound a 6. The graphics on this game are beautiful though, 
 they look great, but if you zoom in to close youll notice some issues, but hey, this isnt a ps3 
 game so this is allowable. I think this games graphics are the beginning of the unearthing the 
 capabilities of the wiis graphics.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  Now ill mix this based on 2 ways,
  Newbie, and oldbie
  
  Newbie:
  This game is moderate 
 in challenge for you, but with enough work you can overcome it easily. Bosses look intimidating 
 but you can easily exploit their one weakness and beat them. Puzzles are hard compared to other 
 games if you havent played the past zeldas.
  
  Oldbie:
  This game is easier than mowing the lawn. The bosses barely ever do more than 1 hearts damage like 
 the old 3d zeldas, and the enemies dont get me started (i mean really, the iron knuckles in this 
 game are pansys to the iron knuckles in majoras mask and OOT which do like 4 hearts damage.) The 
 puzzles are decent on this, and require some thinking on them. Difficulty gets a 7 for newbies 
 and a 3 for oldbies
  
  Replayability:
  
  Sadly this drops the score a bit, The games lack of missions and other stuff aside from the main 
 quest, make this game not worth playing a second time, but if you want to prove your 1337ness to 
 people and do the 3 heart challenge, be my guest. It gets a 4 for replayability
  
  Now to sum it all up. Great zelda game which i would say should be in your collection if your a 
 fan of the series, if you arent then rent it since its fun to beat but its not fun to replay. The 
 game is too easy, as well as the fact it has less things to do than the n64 zeldas and WW, make 
 it a lacking buy for people who arent fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirtapk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best Zelda games I have ever played. It has great game play. You 
 go from one event to the next, and there is lots of action involved. It may not have gunfire or 
 the latest weaponry, but who doesn't love the good old sword, shield, and bow. The graphics are 
 fantastic and with the Wii controls, you have a full view of the action. The graphics are also 
 nice and smooth, and much detail is included within the scene. There is plenty of music, constantly 
 changing and never-ending. There is music for day and night, each area, and for boss battles. This 
 game is incredible. I have played it for hundreds of hours, and am close to collecting everything. 
 I have beaten the game, but there is still so much to do. This game is well-thought out in game 
 play, has great graphics and features, incredible music and sound effects, and has many challenges 
 to overcome. This just may be the best Zelda game yet...
  
  ... but maybe there will be better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex0wnz3Force
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Im going to say I enjoyed Wii version much more then Gamecube version. Why is that? 
 Because of the Wii remote, it made it look more interesting and with even more action and gameplay.
 
  
  At first i thought it was going to be okay... but when i started to get in there, gaining items 
 and clearing dungeons i started to like it more and more each day. This game its what you can expect 
 from every Zelda game, just one word: Amazing 
  
  I really liked the gameplay, as any other Zeldas, with the wii remote feature that made it even 
 better, the graphics were okay, i liked them a lot, the sound was pretty cool, all the soundtracks 
 and original Zelda sounds, it was okay but theres one thing that i didnt liked... there was no ocarina 
 or nothing you could play, those songs were pretty cool, in OOT and MM, you could play the ocarina 
 but in this one, all you could do its whistle with a flower.
  
  I can totally recommend you this game, its worth the wait and the money, and you will not be disappointed 
 of every feature that this game has to offer, such as fishing, collecting, shops, new characters 
 and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great throughout, from front to back. Twilight Princess brings us back 
 to all of those great moments and features we have seen in previous Legend of Zelda games. This 
 game also moves the series forward with the incorporation of some totally new features. When you 
 start the game you will be engaged into this totally new story. Throughout the begining you will 
 be subjected to small tasks that serves as a small tutorial. This tutorial is nice since it takes 
 abit to get full handle on the Wii-mote controls. The tutorial in the begining is spread out and 
 is not overly noticeable and does not take away from the game. I found the graphic utilization 
 of this game were pretty nice. They may not use all of the Wii's capabilities but I found that 
 in most all areas of the game had nice textures that were in immediate view of the players line 
 of sight. I was only able to locate two very small areas in the game that were located in odd areas. 
 On a whole I really liked the graphics and was very pleased with there presentation. Simply put, 
 a Legend of Zelda game has never looked better. The soundtrack and sound effects in this game are 
 extremely good. I really enjoyed the soundtrack that they used for different parts in the game 
 that set an appropriate mood. The soundtrack really compliments this game throughout from begining 
 to end. I found the sound effects of this game also quite exceptional. Since the Wii-mote has a 
 speaker the sounds it emitted for various gestures and actions gave the game a very new element 
 and a spin on video gaming. Though some of them were not of the greatest quality, they did add 
 this great feature. Sound effects from the game in general were also very good and realistic. Gameplay 
 seemed to flow without a hitch. Even though sword control is not 1:1 I quite enjoyed the gesture 
 controls. All the controls for the various weapons or events seemed to be pretty good. If the controls 
 ever felt to sensitive it was easy to tweak for seamless action. The incorporation of horse riding 
 and fishing was a nice touch. All in all you will find this game has alot to offer. This game will 
 keep you busy with varios tasks aswell as the main story which was fairly great. If you own a Wii 
 or Gamecube this a game you must own. no collection is complete until you have a copy of this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMar555
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  TP is a fantastic game in the LoZ series and in its own right. the use of the wiimote to play the 
 game is fantastic. the sword fighting is the best in all zeldas to date. the swinging of the wiimote 
 the swirling of the nunchuck and the different hidden skills are all great. the graphics are good 
 but not great but i as a gamer never tend to judge a game on its graphics seen as essentially it 
 is gameplay you should be looking for. the sound is good but poor sounds from the wiimote speaker 
 get annoying after awhile.
  
  one of my main criticsms of the game is that it didnt drag me into the other charactors in the 
 game as the likes of OoT did. as i said for me games have to have good gameplay and a good storyline 
 for me to like it. TP has a good storyline but it is not as good as OoT. when i had finished the 
 game i realized i didnt remember hardly any of the names of the other charactors let alone care 
 about them. i didnt feel the want to beat ganondorf in TP as much as i did in OoT. also i felt that 
 the game had too many reminders of OoT in it instead of going out there and trying to be its own 
 and not living in the shadow of OoT.
  
  In saying that i thoroughly enjoyed playing through zeldas latest installment. terrific game with 
 alot of good mini games and sub quests to keep you going after the game is completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arborescence
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This was my first experience with a Nintendo Wii. I had literally not even touched a wiimote until 
 I ran to gamestop one morning and purchased my Wii. That being said, I had no idea what to expect 
 and no idea what the system was capable of. When I first threw this game in, my initial gut reaction 
 was Wow, the graphics are... bad... Having an Xbox 360, I was used to the crisp, sharp graphics 
 of High Definition gaming. No doubt this was something that soured my initial interaction with 
 this game... but luckily for me, this was quick to change.
  
  I didn't even feel like this was a LoZ game until Link stepped foot in the Forest Temple for the 
 first time. Prior to that, as Link, you perform a number of tasks with the local villagers that, 
 more or less, are designed to get the player to be familiar with the Wii controls. From that moment 
 on, I loved the game, absolutely loved it. The puzzles are good, the level design was both challenging 
 and fair. The weapons, enemies, and bosses payed deep homage to the rest of the LoZ series, which 
 hopefully you have had the pleasure of indulging in.
  
  Before I continue, let me say that my favorite LoZ game is Link to the Past. It is a solid presentation 
 and, at the same time, maintains a certain degree of difficulty throughout the game. That being 
 said, my criticism of every 3D Zelda game has been the difficulty (in terms of enemy damage relative 
 to the amount of health you have.) Initially, TP can be downright difficult. This is especially 
 true when you're becoming familiar with Link's Wolf alter-ego. However, after you've logged around 
 10-12 hours into the game, it becomes almost impossible to die. I look for games to be a challenge, 
 and if they're not, they must have a very convincing argument of why I should overlook that. A 
 good example of that is Katamari Damacy. Nobody, I would think, would contend that KD is a difficult 
 game. However, the experience is extremely memorable and the concept is driven based on pure innovation. 
 LoZ TP is not very innovative, but it makes up for that by being very solid. For me, the value 
 of this game is that it is very much the sum of all the previous games, with small tributes to 
 every other game in the series. The sound of this game is also quite good. The music is taken from 
 the entire spectrum of games. The only point of contention here is that you better turn off the 
 wii remote speaker, because the lo-fi sound will get on your nerves after a while.
  
  Aside from this game being entirely too easy, I think it is a great flagship game for the new generation 
 of systems, and believe that it is a solid gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an AMAZING GAME. Certainly my favorite or at least tied for it of each of the Zelda games.
 
  
  I have been a fan of Zelda since NES and have continued on to be and will always be. This is an 
 amazing series and this game is unbelievable. And the best part is, Zelda: Twilight Princess is 
 filled with more action &amp; lengthy fun than any other's to date.
  
  I would say it is easier to play on the GC and using the Wii-Remote &amp; Nunchuk actually can 
 improve your hand-eye coordination being you really have to aim with certain weapons at items/enemies 
 you are not in a position to lock on to... so I certainly prefer this game on the Wii although 
 I'd buy it just as fast if I didn't have a Wii and had a GC (lucky for me I got myself a Wii) .
 
  
  GREAT GAME! 10!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I haven't played this game enough to give a full review but I have played it enough 
 to wish I had more time to play Twilight Princess! The only think I'd change is the camera and 
 make it more like the Marvel Alliance camera (rotate based on the tilt of the nunchuck) .
  
  If you own a Wii, this is a must own. If you're thinking about buying a Wii, this is the reason 
 to stop thinking and buy a Wii. This game rocks and I'm enjoying it more than Halo, God of War, 
 Final Fantasy, GTA, or any other game out there. Thank you Nintendo, this is how to make a game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princerouse122
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the latest chapter in the award-winning Zelda series. Its a great game and 
 it kept me busy for at least 50 hours (not counting the sidequests) . Its a port from the GameCube 
 version; therefore there isnt any graphical difference except for its 480p 16:9 settings that 
 you can only get only on the Wii.
  
  The controls for the game really do work well throughout the game. You will be using items by pressing 
 the B button, shaking the remote to swing your sword, shaking the nunchuck to do a spin attack, 
 and much, much more. After playing this game, I went back playing the Wind Waker, and let me tell 
 you, I wish that game had the same control scheme as Twilight Princess!
  
  The sound department does have some new sounds but most of them are actually from the Wind Waker, 
 especially the bombs, which really disappointed me. Most of the new sounds actually fit the game 
 pretty well.. except for the music, which is composed entirely in MIDI format. Most of the 
 games sounds (and I mean almost all of the sounds) will even come out of the Wii remotes low-quality, 
 mono speaker. Im not pointing out against the game because you can mute the Wii Remotes speaker 
 if you want to.
  
  What really got me hooked to his game was its scope; the game is as long as 40-60 hours if you 
 dont count the sidequests. Its possibly the longest game Ive played. And those hours are well 
 spent.
  
  If you own a Wii or a GameCube, you should definitely give this game a try. True, this game isnt 
 the best of the Zelda series, but who cares? I think this game is excellent in its own terms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chezers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The beginning starts off slow so you can get the hang of things. (hint: for fishing as soon as 
 the bobber sinks in the water pull up the controller to hook the fish, in case you didn't already 
 know) . But soon your get to tear apart beasts in your wolf form and hack away at monsters with 
 your stick/sword. The boss battles are sometimes easy but always fun to do. The new set of weapons 
 you get is pretty sweet as well. The battles are epic and after certain kills if u put away your 
 sword right after you slay one of the many creatures you do a pretty sweet move to sheath your 
 sword. The sound is the only major problem I have with this game. I recommend you turn off the 
 sound on your wiimote. Also the wolf howling songs sound kinda bad. Over all I heart this game 
 and is second only to Ocarina of time in my mind. Good job Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disworldsuckz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  After 3 years since the release of The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker, some gamers felt that they 
 needed a proper Zelda, not a kid in green clothes. Even though the game was controversial to some, 
 it was still great to play. Now, 3 years later, after release of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess, I can safely say that this game drew back the attention of gamers that didn't like Wind 
 Waker and those who just love the series. New to Zelda is the Twilight, an alternate realm of chaos 
 and despair. Along the way, you will meat intriguing characters, such as Midna and the mature Zelda. 
 What LoZ: TP nails right is the sense of adventure. A gigantic world is around you, and it's all 
 yours to explore. There are a lot of nooks &amp; crannies everywhere, so take the time to explore 
 them. Some people said that this wouldn't be as good as LoZ: OoT; others said the opposite. After 
 countless hours playing both games, I can say that TP isn't as good as OoT, but it's really close. 
 Graphics don't make a game, but TP's graphics are good. I say good because they aren't up to par 
 with the standards, such as Gears of War, or Resistance: Fall of Man. Nonetheless, TP looks awesome, 
 but don't get distracted by graphics alone.
  Now the bosses &amp; dungeons. The first few dungeons are fairly simple, but still require brain 
 power. Later on in the game, the bosses get a little tougher, but still fairly simple. This may 
 ward off traditional fans of the series, but nonetheless, are quite satisfying.
  Long story short, an awesome adventure, beautiful world, just graphics wise, it is not up to par 
 with standards. Nonetheless, an awesome game. There may be a few glitches here and there, and some 
 textures don't look impressive, but it's Zelda, so who's whining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaeKayLMNOP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to criticize a Zelda game, since they are generally all as close to perfect as you can 
 get. That being said, Twilight Princess did not come without its flaws. It had more positive aspects, 
 which come with every Zelda game, than negative aspects, but the negative aspects cannot be forgotten.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  -It is a Legend of Zelda game, and has many of the old characters, enemies, and places. This automatically 
 gets it a high tilt score.
  -The gameplay itself was very fun, and many of the dungeons were interesting, with unique attributes 
 and puzzles.
  -The new items in the game were fantastic, especially the Spinner and the Double Hookshot. These 
 were great additions. Also, the old items included in the game were very good picks.
  -The graphics, not in terms of new-generation, but in terms of art and scenery, were fantastic. 
 Places like Faron Woods, Like Hylia, and the Gerudo Mesa were very well done. It was sort of like 
 playing a game in a painting.
  -The game was very long, which is great. This gives the game a great value score, and really makes 
 the game an epic adventure. In total, it took me about 60 hours to complete, and I did not come 
 close to doing everything the game offered.
  
  The Bad:
  
  -The worst part about the game was its storyline. The storyline is probably the main reason I love 
 Zelda games, and the storyline in TP was pretty bad, to say the least. It was incohesive, incoherent, 
 and very difficult to understand. There was no clear central conflict. The character developement 
 was terrible, and there were really no interesting characters in the game that you could just meet 
 in towns and be able to identify with and enjoy. For example, in OoT, there were many characters 
 in Castle Town, each of which had his/her own unique personality. There was none of that in TP. 
 The ending did not make much sense to me, and the storyline seemed, overall, rushed and jipped.
 
  
  -The game was incredibely easy. There were probably a total of 3 or 4 challenging puzzles in the 
 entire game. Whereas in games like OoT I might spend hours on one puzzle in a dungeon, most of 
 the dungeons in TP were completely straightforward and non-confusing. The only hard puzzles were 
 the math-related puzzles, like the puzzle you have to solve to get the Master Sword. Some of the 
 puzzles were interesting, but there just weren't ENOUGH of them.
  
  -The lack of an instrument, like the Ocarina, which you could play songs on for a function, was 
 a huge mistake. This took away a lot of the Legend of Zelda character from the game, and it was 
 very noticable.
  
  -The sound was terrible. Old classic Zelda songs are basically gone, and you don't really notice 
 yourself actually listening to the music like in the old games. The Hyrule Field music is awful, 
 and the sound was the biggest disappointment.
  
  -The game didn't really seem to have the old, magical Zelda feel to it, where you enjoy going back 
 to play the game so you can meet the characters and feel like you're going on a true adventure. 
 This was caused by the lack of a good storyline, and little things like the lack of an instrument. 
 If anything blew the game for me, it would be this (even though I thought it was a great game) .
 
  
  So overall, it was a great game, and it should be played by everyone. However, it was not near 
 the best, not a Zelda game to really be remembered, and it won't rank among the top few Zelda games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapparee1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Like many of you.... I have bought into the flock and converted to the Church of Zelda..... this 
 is a great great great game..... go out and buy it. It works so well with the Wii Console... I recommend 
 to anyone that like who is a fan of the previous zelda games, platforms and quest style game... alot 
 of side missions which keeps you busy... game controls are great with the Wii the graphics and sound 
 are pretty good.... great story line too This Game ROCKS... I love this game The game does make you 
 think, but never made me throw my controller in a rage BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon376
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of the zelda series and I have owned every nintendo system over the 
 years. I can tell that Nintendo really took some extra time to perfect this game over the past 
 couple years. Nintendo doesn't rush games out there just to make money so I really respect that. 
 I was a little skeptical over the controls on the wii and i didn't think it would work well with 
 this game, until i tried it that is. Once I got used to the controls I found that I really loved 
 them and feel that they fit perfectly in this game. It feels much more natural to aim the wii controller 
 at the screen than use the gamecube type controller, It really made me feel part of the Zelda world. 
 If you have a widescreen HDTV like i do then i highly recommend getting the component video cables 
 from nintendo. The crappy composite cables that come with the system does not do this game any 
 justice. It is literally a night and day difference between the component and composite cables 
 in this game. That being said, I agree that the graphics in this are very artistic and beautiful. 
 I was blown away at the beauty of the woods when i was getting the master sword. The graphics combined 
 with the beautiful music gave me an unforgettable experience. I have around 40 hours so far in 
 this game and im not even close to the end yet. The difficulty seems just right, not too hard and 
 not too easy. This is one of those games that i wish would never end. Great job Nintendo, I cant 
 wait for the next game in the Zelda series to come out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodpzz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This Zelda game is not really any better than Windwaker, and it is no where near Ocarina of Times 
 perfection. The puzzles are intriguing and make you think. The graphics, I really like them. The 
 music is nice to listen to but the story line isn't that great. Midna is kind of annoying, but 
 the Twilight Realm was a very good idea and everything looks cool when you're in it. But the Twilight 
 Realm feels a little rushed. Some things are a little hard to figure out but are still fun and 
 never frustrating. This game is a must have if you have the Wii, but I know Nintendo can do better 
 (look at Ocarina) . Worth the money and the playtime. Not that much replay value. I like it a lot!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  It been since 2004 went we see Twilight Princess at E3. And it been on a long road since then, From 
 2004 to 2006 saying to be go the Gamecube to saying it coming out for the Wii and Gamecube! It been 
 a long road for Twilight Princess!
  And now when is out is it worth the wait? Well.... YES!!! this game being everything it say it would 
 being. And the Wii one is the best one because the Wii remote does bring the game to life! Indae 
 of the pressing the A button you give a fink of the Wii remote and the aiming is almost flawless!
 
  And the story is great you will get in to it! And the game take 40 hours or more to beat, and there 
 even more sufft to do that going to add up to you game time!
  The only bad thing is the Graphics it looks like as good as a High-Def Gamecube game and I think 
 the Wii could do better!
  Overall this game is a great a must-buy for anyone who own a Wii!
  That why I give it a 5 out 
 of 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is the Zelda game we have all been waiting for. Through all the delays, everything. It is 
 truely a great game, and in my opinion the second best Zelda game ever, right behind the legendary 
 Ocarina of Time.
  
  Now, for whatever reason, the more recent Zeldas have not provided as much as a challenge as the 
 2D games of old. TP is no exception. Link once again takes too little damage, and some of the puzzles 
 are a bit predictable and easy. This is compensated for by the sheer length and size of the game, 
 along with the creativity of some of the dungeons.
  
  This game takes a very long time to beat. It took me about 50 hours, and I didn't even do all the 
 sidequests.
  
  If you've played other Zeldas, you should be able to jump right in, even with the new controll 
 scheme.
  
  The gameplay is what you'd come to expect-and more. Many of the classic Zelda items and puzzles 
 are here, along with many new ones. Horseback combat and wolf-Link gameplay also make it feel fresh. 
 There are tons of mini-games, sidequests, and enemies to conquer. The gameplay is more OoT than 
 WW or MM, and the results are stupendous. The bosses can be easy yes; but they're sheer size and 
 creativity make up for this.
  
  The graphics...
  
  There are some really fugly textures. REALLY. Some look N64 quality. But that is the price of having 
 a really good frame rate and giant open world. There is lots of artistic beauty here though. Very 
 good lighting and fire effects, and argueably the best water I've ever seen. The game is beautiful, 
 despite bad textures at times.
  
  Now, there has been alot of talk about the synthesized music and lack of voice acting; it is dissapointing. 
 Reading text can wear thin. But the criticisms against the music, though understandable, are irrelevant. 
 The synthesized music provides a nostalgic feel, and brings some new tunes to the mix. Old songs 
 from Majora's Mask and Ocarina of Time make an appearance, which is very nice. There is lots of 
 value here. For $40-$60 you get at least 40 hours of extremely enjoyable gameplay. Can't complain.
 
  
  Overall, this game is wonderful. Though it isn't perfect. Jeff is right, at times it does feel 
 stuck in the past. Hopefully the next Zelda will be truely revolutionary, like Ocarina of Time. 
 Still though. This game was hyped to hell, and in some aspects was dissapointing. When you take 
 all the hype, Nintendo fanboy-ism, and irrelevant criticism out of the mix though, you are left 
 with a near perfect example of the fun to be had on Wii. This game is reccomendable to anyone who 
 loves Nintendo, Zelda, or games in general.
  
  May the way of the hero lead to the triforce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: like_always
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilght Princess Review Well Im going to start this review with the bad aspects 
 of the game although it does not affect the fun you'll have with it 1- You dont have any instrument 
 to play with. (A wand would have been a good idea) 2- Nintendo should have taken a risk in putting 
 voice-overs, at least should have tried to see how it would have turned out. (Just not at Link) 
 Now that the Bad aspects are done, lets take a look at the good aspects of the game. 1- You play 
 as a Wolf. (Nintendo you have my congrats on that) 2- The graphics although they are gamecube graphics, 
 they are a true art. If it looked more realistic in the aspects of face detail and everything or 
 even like the Zelda 2000 trailer that was released, it wouldnt be that good of an image, because 
 it just doesnt fit a Zelda game. 3- The music is beautiful and light and some of them alternate 
 versions of the Oot songs. (Like Song of Healing, and Zeldas Lullaby) 4- Zelda looks awesome and 
 way more adult. 5- The journey to finding the heart pieces is a long one and a very enjoyable one. 
 6- 5 pieces of heart to complete a full heart container. (Good thinking) 7- The controls are just 
 magnificent. Now i could continue to just point out more positive aspects, but it would reveal 
 some things that the people who hadnt played it would not want to know. So my Final Comments are 
 This game shall be remembered as legendary, because it surpassed its predecessor (TLZ: OoT) , and 
 will be remembered by many gamers as the best game EVER made. A Revolution. A Masterpiece. A must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  As a solid PC gamer to go to a console is at times hard to convert to. But Zelda Twilight Princess 
 won me over with being the major release title on the Wii. And from a PC gamers point of view the 
 game sets a new feel to the gaming world. Every man and his dog has played Ocarina of Time (if 
 not too shame) . And yes a lot of TLP has OoT in it, but this is due to OoT setting a new standard 
 to Zelda. But the game in a sense brings a whole new dark side to the series that we haven't seen 
 in the last games in the series.
  
  The new use of the Wii controller is of course a new style to get use to but like all things with 
 time and practice. The controller of course gives a accurate feel when shooting missile attacks 
 such as the Bow or Slingshot, this being a function not offered in the GC version. But in all the 
 new controller brings a new and exciting feel to gaming that most consoles can not offer with button 
 mashing.
  
  The Graphics on the game are very colourful and really look good for a console that dosen't have 
 the raw power then the other 7th on the market at the moment. But regardless the Graphics are very 
 well down with a good variety of lighting and shadows and that just make a anticipated zelda game 
 worth the wait. The game in a nutshell is a very very fun game. Like other Zelda games you fight 
 your way through dungeon after dungeon, get the master sword fight a Ganondorf and bring peace 
 back to Hryrule. But unlike the other games is a more in depth off-shoot mini-games that keep you 
 busy if you want to stray off of the plot, or have finished early and want to keep playing, there 
 is enough to keep playing for hours. Zelda Twilight Princess is not the best Zelda game that title 
 for me goes to Link to the Past. The release of the game on GC was a big shot in the foot, but 
 never the less TLP is a good game and one in which works very well on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  I have had an off and on love for Nintendo. I owned the original Gameboy and the Gameboy Color. 
 I did not buy another handheld until the DS Lite. For consoles, I owned the NES, SNES, and N64, 
 but I skipped out on the Gamecube. And now I own the Wii.
  
  It's essential that you know my history with Nintendo to understand my review of the game. I think 
 all to often, people that are passionate about Zelda inflate their score of the game simply because 
 the game carries the name Zelda . Many of the reviews that give this game a 10.0 are just not fair. 
 There have been better games in the past, and there will be better games in the future. Frankly, 
 I don't even think this is the best game in the Zelda series. Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker are 
 both better games in my opinion.
  
  As a Zelda game, Twilight Princess is a great title. It keeps the look and feel of the series and 
 it is a superb action/ RPG. Any Zelda fan will enjoy this game. I am a Zelda fan (not a fanboy) 
 and I genuinely enjoyed this title- its great to see Link again.
  
  But, as a game in and of itself, Twilight Princess has a few things that come up a bit short of 
 supposed perfection. The game really lacks meaningful sidequests, which is something that is really 
 important in an RPG game. Wind Waker had an excellent trading quest that took a solid 5-10 hours 
 which I found to be at least as enjoyable as the main quest. The story of Twilight Princess is 
 not the best story of the year when looking at all of the other games out there. I also found the 
 game to be a bit disappointing because there was nothing really new . The dungeons and the puzzles 
 are all a bit to similar to past Zelda games. While the Wiimote makes the game feel fresh for the 
 first 10 hours or so, after that, it simply becomes a different controller (it is a brand new console 
 after all) . There is nothing awe inspiring that really seems to be an genuine innovation. Now, 
 the saying goes, if it ain't broke, don't fix it, but in all honesty, it would have been great 
 to see the talented folks at Nintendo try something a little bit different. Essentially, Zelda 
 is still a AAA title, with game of the year written all over it, but there is just something about 
 this game that makes me think hmm, I wonder what the next Zelda will be like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bransblu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty solid. When I started playing it, I played for a few hours straight and kind 
 of got lost in the beginning. It has a charming start to it, which is a big part of why I have 
 loved Zelda games so much in the past; charm. So here are my thoughts...
  
  Pros: The Wii's remote and nunchuck take it to a new level. The story is linear (if you like that) . 
 Music is similiar to previous games, but just enough of a change to note improvement. Not too easy, 
 not too hard. Pretty funny from time to time. Some noticeably good art in the game. Some ideas 
 in a game I could never even think of ie. iron boots and walking on the ceiling... thought it was 
 brilliant.
  
  Cons: Got bored of slashing the remote when pushing a button would of done the job (through the 
 strectch) . The story is linear (if you like to explore) . The twilight zone thing, with turning 
 into a wolf, was a great idea that wasn't, whats the word, filled to it's potential. Just another 
 Zelda game.
  
  I had fun playing it, but glad I rented it on gamefly because I don't see myself wanting to buy 
 it. It is the best Wii game I have played, I guess I am just keeping my hopes for the limitless 
 potential of the Wii console very high! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOOMEDtoDOOM
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. It takes all the great parts of the preceding games and combines them 
 for a fantastic experience that cannot be missed. The storyline is fantastic, laced with characters 
 that are brilliantly designed (i. e. Midna) and a final battle that will make your jaw drop. It 
 feels incredible to control Link with the Wii Remote and remarkably easy, and the sword fighting 
 is natural when you see the enemies. The graphics, while at Gamecube levels, are among the best 
 you could find for the 'Cube, and I'm not complaining in the slightest. The sound fits the scenario 
 beautifully, especially in Hyrule Field. And now, on to the game itself. This is like Ocarina of 
 Time to the third power plus A Link to the Past. The Dark World makes a return appearance in the 
 World of Twilight, except we get to play as a wolf which is a fun experience considering we have 
 played as human Link forever. Nintendo obviously took more than a few cues from Ocarina of Time, 
 making everything fantastic. I see people criticize the graphics, but have you seen Lake Hylia 
 or Zora's Domain? These places look fantastic because they were based off the already great level 
 design of OoT and made even better! I put 35 hours into this game to beat it, and I feel that it 
 was worth every penny. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WheelKid890
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Do not rent this game! Actually, buy it. You will go into a craze and will not stop playing! It 
 will remain best for the wii and worse (but not horrible) for the Gamecube. This makes Zelda even 
 more legendary. If you know what to do it makes it a lot easier. The game is great and my praise 
 for it will not drop any time soon. It is not extremely fun at the beginning when you don't have 
 a weapon, and being a wolf is not the best on my list. Definitely buy this if you have a Wii and 
 with no doubt you will be satisfied. i guess if you have a Gamecube get it, but swinging the sword 
 manually. The wii has its own Characteristics which makes it better. no matter what zelda is on 
 the A list for me. Go for it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Ocarina of Time was by far one of the (if not the) best game ever made. It had everything, was 
 so long and made you think. This game is the true sequel to Ocarina of Time by being just as magical.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Zelda games have always been simple controls and this one is no different. Infact they 
 are even easier in my opinion (once you get used to them) . To swing your sword you swing the remote, 
 to aim an arrow you aim at the screen, simple eh! This really works as the wolf has the ame controls 
 human Link does so it means its just as easy except the wolf can dig and use his senses (see spirits 
 and follow trails) . This gameplay can not be more simple and cannot be beat.
  
  GRAPHICS: I know this game was meant for the Gamecube and that's the only reason it's graphics 
 are lacking. I know compared to the X-Box 360 the graphics are no big deal (kind of shoddy) but 
 considering the game is huge and that the game was intended for Gamecube they still do not disappoint. 
 I know people say its not that good because the graphics let it down but trust me they don't.
 
  
  SOUND: The sound on Zelda games are always brilliant. The sound on this game is just as good as 
 it was in Ocarina. The speakers in the Wii Remote work really well as when you open a new route 
 or Midna has help for you it comes through in your hand. The Wii Remote makes the sound a bit too 
 different form the TV though and it stands out too much.
  
  VALUE: Value! Are you kidding? Every Zelda game has had substance and so much to do within it. 
 This game is the same. Aside from the main story which takes at least a day of your life there 
 are extras to do. The pieces of heart make a return except this time you need 5 pieces to make 
 a full container. The poe souls are back form Ocarina but in a new unique way which is another 
 brilliance of the game. Take your time going for 100% then you can brag.
  
  OVERALL: In my opinion this is the best game ever released for a console (Don't argue it is) as 
 it will last you until a wider selection of games come out for the console (unless you play it 
 non stop) . The story is compelling and will make you want to know what happens next especially 
 when you first see...
  Don't wanna ruin it
  Only one more thing to say
  
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game has many pros and cons. I like the graphics, and the controls. The graphics remind me 
 of Final Fantasy 10 every now and then. The controls are neat. I like the remote functions. Aiming 
 the bow and arrow, fishing, and sword fighting is very interactive. The game is really fun, and 
 it keeps me busy for a long time. The game is longer than all the others. I have to say though, 
 the game is too hard. I have had to get help from the gamespot guide about 100 times. The game 
 can seem punishing due to things you would never figure out in a million years. Sometimes, enemies 
 seem way too old. The enemies are from all the different games. the items earn seem same old too. 
 (Iron boots, green tunics, Hero's bow etc. etc.) The sound can be repetitive. When you swing your 
 sword, fall or attack, it is always the same few Yahhs'! Or TYAKE! Other than that the game was 
 worth the money, and it was an overall good game. Any Zelda fan will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronco_bomb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  This is probally the best game yet for the wii with alot of full on interactivty and puzzles to 
 solve i makes it a must have for zelda fans or RPG fans.
  The difficulty is just right for either experiencend or first time players thanks to the well instructed 
 tutorials at the beggining. The feature were you turn into a wolf rocks also giving alot of thinking 
 and puzzles on theese levels. The bosses also take some time and figuring out but when you have 
 the hang of it they are pretty easy. The new fishing feature enthrusted into this zelda using the 
 wii remote also is fun and adictive trying to fill up your fishing log. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morkilla
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure that this is the first Zelda I've completely finished (unless i finished the original 
 few on my old SNES, but that broke so I have no idea what games I had) and i loved it. So here 
 are my thoughts with each category:
  
  Gameplay: This game plays very well, even better with the Wii's control setup. I can't describe 
 how heroic it felt to be riding Epona and shooting down various monsters knowing that i was actually 
 using my arm to aim (makes ya feel like you are really using a bow) . Same goes with the sword. 
 I'm sure that everyone wished that the direction you swing the Wiimote changes how Link swings 
 it in game, but it definitely doesn't take away from the gameplay. The gameplay doesn't even get 
 old after the 60 hours it took me to get everything 100%. I could go on for hours about how well 
 everything works on it, but I'd perfer not waste your time.
  
  Graphics: Obviously, this game's graphics don't compare to the realistic PS3 or Xbox 360 graphics, 
 but I don't think that the designers even wanted it to. I certainly don't care about seeing every 
 single strand of hair on Link's head or or Princess Zelda sweating because it's too hot (I don't 
 even want to think of that image...) . The designers were aiming for an artistic, different style 
 and that's exactly what you get. As much as I enjoy the cartoony feel of Wind Waker, I am glad 
 that they took a different approach and went back to the way Zelda was meant to be played (ever 
 since I started this game, i've been playing almost every other installment in the series) . Everything 
 from the glossy skies of the Twilight Realm to the desert plains of the Gerudo Desert are depicted 
 in such an artistic beauty that you will spend half the game just admiring the environment (not 
 to mention the fact that you can see across the whole kingdom if you are on a high enough perch) .
 
  
  Sound: So, umm, what is everyone complaining about? Seeing as the Wii version can be divided into 
 two sound categories; the Wiimote and the music, I'll review each differently. First, the Wiimote. 
 The only time I found the noise coming from it a little staticy was during Midna's little chimes, 
 but other than that, it was fine. Yeah, maybe it was an addition that didn't work out too well 
 for most, it definitely didn't take away from the game's atmosphere. Now for the music. Obviously, 
 this isn't all new material, but it still sounds great. My favorite addition to the series (i'm 
 pretty sure) is the song you here when you are adventuring across the plains of Hyrule. It just 
 gives you the feel that you are in the game and are truly in an epic adventure. Another excellent 
 score that falls in the same category is the song playing when **SPOILERS** you carry a weakened 
 Midna to Princess Zelda. You can feel the strings expressing the urgency that Wolf Link is in to 
 get to Zelda and the totally feeling of dispair that seems to be going on and it feels like Zane 
 (Ganondorf) may perhaps win and the whole kingdom is plagued in twilight. **SPOILERS** Overall, 
 this game has a beautiful score and I would really appreciate if anyone could give me a site where 
 i could find an orchestral or piano score for any songs from it.
  
  Value: This is definitely one of those games where you could play it again if you felt like it, 
 but there is definitely no need to play it again to unlock something. There are no minigames that 
 are accessible through the main menu, but there are a helluva a lot in the game. To really get 
 the experience out of it, suck everything out of this game the first time through cause it definitely 
 makes the experience alot better. I ended up finding all the poes, all the hearts, played every 
 minigame and beat it (except that rollgoal game, boy did that agrivate me) ., and anything else 
 I could do (even the 50 floor Cave of Ordeals!!!) . The only thing I couldn't do was catch all the 
 fish because I was terrible at fishing (videogames really reflect real life, lol) . The only true 
 replay value this game has is if you really want to relive the 60 hour adventure over again, which 
 I certainly would want to do.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: What is there to say about this game that already isn't said? It's brilliant! 
 An amazing masterpiece! It isn't a hard game (most deaths occur by an accidental fall or something) , 
 but it is a fun game, ever 60 hours of it. If you don't have a Wii, buy it for this game. It is 
 THAT good!! Of course, you can always buy the Gamecube version, but that version takes away from 
 the great new experience that only the Wii can offer. BUY IT NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyric_shekai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  A dark force has overtaken Hyrule, this time literally. Once again a young man from the forest 
 must rise to fend off the darkness. Thus another Legend of Zelda is born. Link is a young man who 
 spends his time goat herding and showing off his skills to some local kids. His life turns upside 
 down when an attack on his village leads him into a dark 'Twilight' realm. Transformed into a wolf, 
 he finds an ally who offers her help. If he will walk the worlds of light and twilight to find 
 sacred relics for her. The pact is made and Link soon embarks on a fateful journey of heresy, betrayal, 
 imprisonment, and sacrifice which will ultimately reveal just how much of a hero he truly is. Can 
 he win against an usurper of two worlds' thrones?
  
  The Legend of Zelda has been a staple in the nintendo library of games. Heck, most people, this 
 monkey included, would rate Ocarina of Time as one of the greatest games of all time. So with the 
 Nintendo Wii now out in full swing of the Wiimote, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the 
 headliner of the systems launch titles. Now lets get down to it.
  
  Gameplay: The Wii controller is the most instinctual control system ever. Back when the original 
 nintendo came out I remember jutting the controller to the right in an attempt to make mario get 
 his crazy mustachioed self a little farther when I jump. The ability to control links sword, to 
 aim your arrows accurately, to smash an annoying foe in the head with your shield is just so great. 
 This is how Zelda was meant to be played, the functionality, responsiveness and the combination 
 of motion and button is fluid. Graphics: The graphics capabilities of the nintendo Wii are not 
 as advanced as the other next gen consoles, but the job gets done. The realistic look of hyrule 
 and the techno realistic look of the Twilight creatures are beautifully rendered.
  
  Sound: The classic Zelda sounds return, to tell the truth if they ever change the sound of a rupee 
 hitting Links pockets I'll riot. The new sounds are those of the wolf and twilight monsters. The 
 static feedback type sounds of these nasty creatures cause your body to cringe, just the way you 
 would if you ever saw one coming out of a freaky whole in the sky. The wolf howling system is great! 
 in fact the best part of it is when you realize that some of the tunes you end up howling are songs 
 from ocarina of time. I loved that!
  
  Bottom line: This game is one of the best. Definitely up there with Ocarina of Time. If you are 
 lucky enough to get a Wii this game is a must have, go through it and complete every side quest 
 to get the full enveloping Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eilavamp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I'd been waiting for this game for a LONG time. Since way back in '06 when the Wii was still the 
 Rev, and there were only hints at a new zelda game. Being a huge fan of the series on the N64 and 
 Gameboy, I knew that it wouldn't let me down. At first it starts out like any other game, you start 
 off talking to a friend in the village, who happens to be of some use later on in the game, and 
 there is a long 'intro' as you ride your horse around, bump into things and generally try to get 
 the hang of the (surprisingly tricky) controls, such as fishing (still not a master of this) and 
 fighting (I think I'm competent enough now) . But once the real action starts, its well worth the 
 time you spent dithering around doing silly tasks around the village such as finding and returning 
 cats. The swinging of the remote which makes you swing your sword to thwack the bad guys is good 
 fun. REALLY good fun. Its totally new and fluid, but there is still that familiarity to OoT, or 
 MM. The environments are just as big as OoT, and I can assure you that you'll be putting Wolf Links 
 'dash' to good use.
  When I first transformed into a wolf, I'm not ashamed to admit it took me at least 5-10 minutes 
 to work out how to get out of that blasted cell. I was sniffing and digging for ages until I found 
 the way out. And then once I did, I almost kicked myself- but thats how the Zelda series has always 
 worked, seemingly near-impossible tasks, but really its very simple.
  A word of warning though- on some dungeons you might find yourself at the boss door, without the 
 boss key. Its not as simple anymore, they don't hold your hand all the way through the dungeon. 
 Its up to you to find the keys, and kill the bad guys. Midna isn't a great deal of help either, 
 although sometimes her hints hit on something that you've been wondering for a while.
  
  Oh and you won't listen to me, but don't buy the Magic Armour. It's not worth your money, honestly. 
 Just don't tell me you spent 500 rupees on a piece of rubbish that doesn't last long enough. I 
 won't be listening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaz-o-matic
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Miyamoto has done it again. He has done the impossible by outdoing Ocarina of Time -- one of the 
 greatest games of all time.
  
  Twilight Princess is everything I was excited about and more. With a deep story (not usually seen 
 in Zelda) and more amazing boss battles and cutscenes than you can shake a stick at, Twilight Princess 
 succeeds in every way every other adventure game has failed.
  
  With tormenting puzzles (Sacred Grove anyone?) , epic boss battles, amazingly beautiful art style, 
 and wonderful controls (Wii version) , this game has virtually no flaws.
  
  This game is the good ol' Zelda formula we all know and love. I mean, why wouldn't it be? Why fix 
 it if it isn't broken? The new Wii controls just add a whole new layer of depth to the game. Picking 
 off enemies with the Bow is so easy and quick and being able to run while swinging the sword is 
 a great addition.
  
  Music... Ah, Zelda melodies. We love you so. Running through Hyrule field has never sounded so 
 wonderful. The Twilight Realms' music is so pseudo and crazy, it really lets you know you're not 
 in Hyrule anymore. The only problem with the music -- MIDI. With the new Wii hardware, Orchestrated 
 music is a must. Other than that, is is the same amazing tunes we all know, and some new ones.
 
  
  This game will go down in history as another benchmark in perfection. Ocarina no more... The Twilight 
 is here.
  
  spaz-o-matic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  The first Legend of Zelda game was released over 20 years ago. The Legend of Zelda series has been 
 a popularity stamp to Nintendo, much like Mario. Spanning 20 years, it is not necessary to argue 
 that this is one of Nintendo's greatest franchises. Nintendo has come a long way, enhancing the 
 Zelda series, one step at a time. When The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time hit shore shelves in 
 1998, it literally changed the way we played video games. Calling Ocarina of Time 'good' is a direct 
 understatement. It was better than what you call 'good'. It was a complete accomplishment.
  
  Ever since Ocarina of Time left it's mark in the video game industry, gamers have been looking 
 forward to each and every Zelda game, wishing that the next game in the installment would be better 
 than the last. The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask hit shelves, and gamers eagerly took the time 
 out of their life to play the game. Despite the overwhelming disappointment of Majora's Mask, Nintendo 
 went ahead and released The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. The game overwent a plenary graphics 
 overhaul, and after due time, the cel-shaded game known as The Wind Waker was released.
  
  Now, after four years of a major Legend of Zelda game absence for Nintendo's consoles, Nintendo 
 cured the craving hunger of Zelda fans, by releasing the next installment of the franchise, titled 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Twilight Princess has a much more mature setting and atmosphere 
 that was not distinguished in the previous Zelda games. This is completely antithetical to Wind 
 Waker, which featured a more colorful atmosphere. Either way, this is inapt to gamers who enjoy 
 the Zelda games for what it is.
  
  Twilight Princess introduces a brand new control scheme, designed specially for the Nintendo Wii. 
 Aiming at an enemy with your bow is more precise than with a traditional controller. The first 
 problem with Twilight Princess is the amount of buttons that you'll be using for the game. The 
 game uses every single button on the remote. Your first experience with the controls will often 
 make you believe that the buttons are cluttered and unstructured. Fortunately, this problem can 
 be bypassed with time. Yes, figuring out the controls is partially inevitable in all games, but 
 Twilight Princess has a more difficult procedure with it's controls. Once you gain access to being 
 comfortable with the controls, you won't have much of a dilemma afterwards.
  
  Within the controls, you will instantly notice the old attributes that were found in prior Zelda 
 games. One of these features is Z-Targeting. On top of the Z-Targeting, the game also includes 
 the good ol' veteran weapons of the Zelda franchise, such as the boomerang and the hookshot. Newer 
 weapons would also include the spinner and the Hawkeye. All of these weapons have minor and/or 
 major uses in the game, which rolls into the next section.
  
  The setting, otherwise known as Hyrule, is a vast, ample world. There are an abundant number of 
 quests and side-quests that can be fulfilled, well after finishing the game. Some of the areas 
 will be familiar if you have played Ocarina of Time, but most of those areas have been expatiated. 
 The dungeons have also been remade, making you feel in familiar territory, but also making you 
 feel as if you are in a brand new environment. It will take a chunk of your time to explore the 
 world, and you'll always be left with something to do.
  
  Besides being Link, you can become a wolf upon entering the twilight realm. While in wolf form, 
 you can do exclusive things that your human counter-part can't. Some of these features include 
 talking to other animals, who sometimes reveal essential information, as well as smelling the scent 
 of certain villagers. Being in wolf form offers a prodigious view of the gameplay, but with time, 
 it is not as spectacular as you might think.
  
  The world of Twilight Princess is quite attractive and beautiful. From a view, the world of Hyrule 
 is almost as glamorous as watching the sunset from the beach. Up close, however, you might have 
 a different taste. Textures are often blurry and muddy, character models of the villagers look 
 a little less than detailed, but Link and his wolf counter-part look credible. Other minor graphical 
 details, such as trees and Link's sword are decent, but again, very minor. A rather decent excuse 
 for this has been that Twilight Princess was built as a game for the GameCube. Other than that, 
 it is possibly one of the better looking games on the Wii, and it may be just that for some time. 
 Surprisingly or unsurprisingly, whichever you prefer, there is no voice acting in this game. Instead, 
 you are left with sounds of laughter and screams from the villagers. If you recognized this from 
 the other Zelda games, you know what to expect. Midna, however, has her own little language that 
 she speaks, and again, it's impossible to figure out what she is saying unless you read the dialogue 
 given to you. While playing the game, you will detect old Zelda tunes, which are simply just rehashes. 
 It is a disappointment that there aren't many fresh tunes available, or something that is more 
 compelling than most of the older tunes. The speaker on your remote will generate sounds and noises, 
 such as shooting arrows and other weapons. In some instances, these noises are irritating and sometimes 
 detract you from the game.
  
  Twilight Princess has a wide array of objectives to take care of. Beating the game alone will take 
 approximately 40 hours, and exploring the world as well as doing quests will take longer. You are 
 always left with something to do, and that's what pleases me. You can work on your hunting skills 
 by poe hunting, or just relax and have some fun fishing at the vicinity. Whatever it is, you're 
 bound to have some fun with the extras Twilight Princess provides.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess may be the best game in the Zelda series since Ocarina of 
 Time. Whether you agree with that statement or not, you should have no problem agreeing that Twilight 
 Princess is a great game. Just because the title is stamped with The Legend of Zelda , does not 
 mean it is impervious to degrading features that hold back the game. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess definitely has it's share of flaws, which could have been ameliorated upon. Perhaps some 
 gamers thought that they would have never met the day that the words 'Zelda' and 'flaws' would 
 be used in the same sentence, and that is just ignorant beyond any boundaries. Of course, when 
 you dig deep into Twilight Princess, you're going to have to squirm through some depravities to 
 reach the gold, but when you do reach that pot of gold, you can discover that Twilight Princess 
 is an excellent addition to the franchise, and a solid game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenmachete
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  this is the type of game at can very get someones attention and keep. it is a very long game with 
 tons of interesting features. the lure fishing can get you tired though..............
  
  gameplay: excellent gameplay with a variety of moves, varying from sword slashes to arrow shooting.
 
  
  graphics: one of the best graphics nintendo has made.
  
  sound: sound is alright with the sound effects, but i thought it could have used more voice acting. 
 an occasional arrhhhhh!!! is all you get. but that does not bother the gamer much.
  
  value: very great deal for $50. will keep you interested
  
  i really enjoy playing this game. 
 with a combination of great qualities, this game is a must buy for the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaan88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game. To play it, a person needs one thing..... 
 A BRAIN!! The graphics are good, too. The water looks like water, the people look like people, 
 and the animals look like animals. It is also the only Zelda game that lets Link have two forms 
 It's like playing two games in one. There is wolf / beast mode where Link gets to do the beyond. 
 It's fun even in normal form. The best part is how you can do all these cool activities like fishing 
 in a canoe, swimming under water, playing a shoot the target game while going down roaring waters 
 and much more. The whole idea of this game is rocking the world! If you haven't experienced the 
 gameplay of the Twilight Princess, I suggest you did. For I have my own wii and I love it. The 
 best game I have on it is the Twilight Princess. It truly is a legend. And if you took your time 
 reading this review, read what I have to say next, only if you have the TP that is. Tips and tricks 
 on the TP.
  1. infinite ruppees-get all 60 poe souls and go to Jovani.
  2. Magical Armor- After you fix the bridge of eldin, Talo will open up a shop in Castle town, go 
 there to buy Magical Armor.
  3.60-arrow quiver-Complete the star game in castle town.
  4.100-arrow quiver-complete the 2nd star game in castle town.
  5. Hylian Shield-When the talo 
 mart in Kakario first opens up, go there to find a hylian shield which you can buy for 50 Ruppees. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slingblade1170
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  All these people who are giving it anything below a 9.6 has to be some kind of retarded. This game 
 is just so fun and orginial. Twilight Princess may not be in HD but so what it still is just beautiful. 
 The controls are good, the storyline is great, and so are the graphics. People need to stop complaining 
 about how its not as good as everyone says. The only people who hate Zelda or just this game is 
 retarded. They say all this stuff because either they haven't played it or they are a Sony fanboy 
 and they know that Zelda is kicking their ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, Twilight Princess was the flagship game for the launch of the Nintendo Wii. 
 It was originally announced for the Gamecube but was delayed to add stuff on so eventually it 
 was placed as a Wii launch title. This move was one of the best moves Nintendo has done in a while.
 
  
  Twilight Princess is a stunning game in all aspects. From its breathtaking artistic design to its 
 superb storyline, if you like a game to keep you interested for many hours on end and has a captivating 
 storyline, then Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game for you.
  
  You start off playing as Link, the hero of the Legend of Zelda series. You are living in a small 
 town and this is the start of an adventure which will lead you to one of the most breathtaking 
 stories a video game has ever taken you to.
  
  The story is absolutely stunning. With so many twists and turns in the story, it keeps you captivated 
 to the very last moment. It is a very emotional story which allows you to get very close to the 
 characters of this game, and this helps to add to the realism of the game. The story itself is 
 about 45 hours long, not including any of the side quests or extras which you can do, which will 
 add many tens of hours extra to the gameplay.
  
  The story takes you through the many different regions of Hyrule, each with its own meaning, twist 
 and set of quests that you must complete. And everything ties in with each other and everything 
 which you get and do has a purpose in the long run. As you develop through the story you will be 
 able to pass areas which you wouldnt have been able to before, adding to the longetivity of the 
 game.
  
  The graphical design is superb. The artistic quality of the game is second to none on the Wii. 
 Though it may not be as high-res as some of the other consoles, it certainly makes up for it through 
 its design and detail. The design of Hyrule and all the dungeons which you enter is just magnificent, 
 with each having a very distinctive theme which is showed to its full potential. Overall, the whole 
 design of Twilight Princess is just second to none.
  
  Some people were having trouble with static from the Wii-mote, but if you just notch the volume 
 off the top setting yo will be able to hear the crisp sounds which add to the greatness of the 
 game. The sound effects are very good quality and give the assumption that you are really the one 
 swinging the sword or shooting the arrow.
  
  As for the background music, all I can say is that it is the best I have heard. The quality is 
 exceptional, it is extremely catchy and truly emphasises the mood of the game. From the fast-paced 
 music when you are in battle to the great music as you gallop across Hyrule field, the music is 
 top-notch.
  
  I would have to say that this game is great value, though it is basically the same game as the 
 Gamecube version so I have to mark it down for that. Also I dont like to think of a game as perfect, 
 so I need to mark it down on something.
  
  Overall, the best game I have ever played in terms of the storyline and how it engulfs you with 
 emotion and wonder. Great artistic value and excellent sound makes for a game which is as close 
 to perfect as I am willing to put it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: U_Never_Know
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Considering the amount of time veteran Zelda fans have been awaiting the end all, be all edition 
 to the series, Nintendo was up against a lot of hype for Twilight Princess to be a classic, and 
 considering the innovative functions of the Wii's controller, more anticipation was built for the 
 game to be one of a kind, or an originator of some sort to the action adventure genre.
  
  The game begins with the reappearing Hero of Time himself conversating with what appears to be 
 his father, or guardian. Apparently, you must rest up in order to deliver an important gift to 
 Hyrule Castle the following day. From the very beginning, you are given the chance to learn the 
 game's controls, from adjusting to the Wiimote's abilities to becoming familiar again with plenty 
 of previous Zelda titles' nostalgic items and themes.
  
  Where Twilight Princess throws gamers for a loop is the ability to play as a wolf - Link's beast 
 form. As a beast, gamers are able to heighten their senses to see spirit beings and hidden objects, 
 dig into the ground for rupees or other key items, and fit into certain areas Human Link may not 
 be able to. At first, changing between wolf and human forms is left out of the player's hands and 
 into the story's. However, deeper into the game, the player will eventually be able to switch between 
 forms at their choosing, and is often necessary to complete dungeons and puzzles.
  
  Often times, playing as Wolf Link is more enjoyable than playing as Human Link. Unforuntaly, this 
 is usually the cause of outdated gameplay mechanics gamers may have seen too much of in the Zelda 
 series. Nostolgia is one thing; old and rusty is another. Though the game takes (somewhat) advantage 
 of the Wiimote's abilities, most of the gameplay functions are reminiscent of every single Zelda 
 game to have emerged in the past, and aren't updated or tweaked in any way. Might as well pop in 
 Ocarina of Time and replay that again.
  
  What may be considered a pro for some, though a con for others, is the game's lack of intermission 
 time between dungeons. Usually the game seems to jump from dungeon to dungeon too quickly, without 
 any use for environment exploration or character development for the very small supporting cast 
 Twilight Princes has. The first few dungeons themselves aren't very interesting until half-way 
 through the game, where they pick up in difficulty, as well as fun factor. And of course, any key 
 items evident in previous Zelda games make an apperance here as well, such as the Bow &amp; Arrow, 
 Hookshot, and Boomerang.
  
  Graphically, Twilight Princess doesn't do much to impress. It mostly looks like a fantastic GameCube 
 game. But, since this is the Wii, satisfaction is not met. Though the characters have much personality 
 in their facial expressions and actions, environments often look bland, and lack sharpness and 
 color. Where the graphics DO impress, is the boss fights. The enemies are large and detailed, and 
 give a great sence of epic warfare. Boss battles are usually placed in perfect-fitting environments 
 which suit it perfectly.
  
  Sound-wise, most of the traditional Zelda chimes and melodies make a return. It tends to bring 
 a sense of nostalgia, but almost completely drops the ball on quality. None of the music is live-orchestrated 
 (come on Nintendo, this is a next-gen console here) , and the sound effects produced by the Wiimote 
 are choppy and plain ugly.
  
  Replay value tends to mirror the same amount as most games in the Legend of Zelda series. Some 
 side-quests are available, each one quite lengthy in its own right, as well as challenging. The 
 length of the main story itself is decent.
  
  For what is said to be the finale of the Legend of Zelda series, Twilight Princess could have been 
 more than it is, especially considering its pushbacks, giving Nintendo more time to develop it. 
 But, nonetheless, it's a Zelda game, so greatness is inevitable. Its minor faults don't quite stand 
 up to its strengths and pure fun factor exhibited in all Zelda games, making Twilight Princess 
 a must-have for the Wii owner and Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  In this game, the adventure takes place at the same Hyrule, but much bigger and more in the future. 
 Up to where I am there are 8 temples. What's the difference with this game and ocarina?
  
  1. controls make the gameplay awesome.
  2. incredible map, very big and with existing places 
 that aren't even in it as sky and twilight place thingy.
  3. characters aren't the way they were before, the same in different places and saying nonsense 
 stupidities all around. Now the most important ones got their personalities, and the other ones 
 are aware of the situation, not as the retards in ocarina.
  4. FULL of new secret places always appearing, carrying the storyline in a great way.
  5. some 
 comic moments (lol stupid boss spider)
  6. really entretaining and some difficult games as the snowboarding and that game in the fishing 
 place.
  7. great attacking technieques that are gradually learned.
  8. etc.
  
  I won't give much details so thet the entretainment is not spoiled. I just will say that if Ocarina 
 got a 10 then this game deserves also a 10 since it is an awesome upgrade of that game, with another 
 story linked with that one of the past with ganondorf and all that. Simply great, makes you remember 
 great moment and live new ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathxxshark
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the first zelda game i've ever played, and it is the best game i've ever played. 40-60 
 hours may be long, and it almost stopped me from buying it cause i thought i might get bored at 
 20 hours, but there's always something new and fun to do throughout the game. The beginning is 
 really boring, but once you get into the story, that's when the fun begins. A must have for any 
 Wii owner. But if you want quick and short bursts of fun, Warioware is probably the game for you. 
 Oh and one more thing, the sound on the wiimote got a little choppy at times. And if all you care 
 about are graphics, then buying the wii was a mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPMX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Reviewness lolz
  
  Twilight Princess is the newest entry into Nintendo's Legend of Zelda series. Just to be fair, 
 I've never played an LoZ game before, so that thing with dated stuff wouldn't apply to me. Look 
 somewhere else. This is mostly for new players.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Come on. Did you expect anything else? You'll never get bored with the game, all the way to the 
 end. The game frustrates you with its puzzles but it doesn't make the game annoying. It's one of 
 the longest action/adventure games ever (40 hours) that I've ever played. The controls are fluid 
 and the Wii controls make you seem more in the game than ever. There is almost no faults with the 
 gameplay at all.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The game is very artsy in its presentation, providing a great effect that makes the game fit the 
 story perfectly. However, the graphics from a technical standpoint are standard, nothing special 
 graphics. They represent Gamecube graphics compared to some other systems, and not even pushing 
 the envelope when it comes to it. But, again, graphics are the least important thing in a game 
 in my opinion, and the very artistic look more than makes up for the sixth-gen graphics.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is another category that TP shows strength in. The soundtrack is beautiful 
 and really reflects the area you're in whether in the normal world or Twilight Realm. The music, 
 however, is something that won't get annoying and is good to listen to, but having it play over 
 and over in your iPod or CD player (yeah, I'm old school like that) is a little much. Some good 
 voice acting (*reminded of Elebits*) would have been better for the game (I'd be okay with Link 
 staying quiet) , but it doesn't take away from the feel of the game. It would've been icing on the 
 cake.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  With its look and feel, TP should get this full automatically, since just riding around on Epona 
 makes you feel warm and fuzzy inside. But with all the extra things you can do, plus the wealth 
 of hidden items, this is one you don't want to put down.
  
  Final Saying
  
  If you want to sum it up, if you don't buy this game, kittens will cry. It's beautiful, long, deep, 
 and filled with so much you'll wonder how they fit all this into a CD 1/16 of an inch thick.
  
  Final Score: 10/10
  
  Don't save in the cannon room or you'll be stuck forever, like Pauly 
 Shore is with a bad career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc345601
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  If I had to some of the game this is how I would do it. The game starts off as usual in a small 
 village. You are expected to do quite a few small tasks for some small rewards. The small rewards 
 turn into very useful tools along the way.
  The storyline is tried and true and weve seen it several times before. If youre a Zelda fan then 
 you already own this title but if youre a gamer that likes their money then youre probably trolling 
 this site in search for the answer to the ultimate question to buy or not to buy. Basically you 
 cant go wrong with a LoZ title but I warn you not to get your hopes up too high for this title. 
 I remember the day I got my hands on The Ocarina of Time. I couldnt stop playing and I even 
 played it through several times. There was something mysterious about the game where you felt very 
 submerged in the environment and storyline. If youre expecting the same long and sleepless night 
 that you spent with OoT then youll be sorely disappointed. The game is good and the progression 
 is also good but there is just something old about it that doesnt quite pull you in. Here is the 
 break down.
  1. Gameplay: The gameplay is good but not solid. I found myself very frustrated in certain situations 
 where my controls just werent responsive enough. I ended up learning to time attacks sooner than 
 normal in order for the control actuate. I felt that in a lot of cases the control actually inhibited 
 my gameplay experience rather than complementing it. I think I would have been more comfortable 
 with a button attack. The aiming for the bow and slingshot were great until we get on horseback. 
 I know its more realistic to lose control of the horse while youre using a bow but were talking 
 about fairies and magic here. I found my self overcoming the controls to complete a task rather 
 than over coming the task.
  2. Graphics: The graphics are great and very stylized. The lighting effects are fantastic and are 
 just plain pretty to look at. From a distance the textures look very sharp and clean but as you 
 get closer they get muddy. I think the Wii could have handled better textures but who knows. The 
 frame rate hums along at a pretty steady rate until you get to a well timed spin attack on more 
 than 5 enemies and the frame rate drops like a rock. 3. Sound: The sound is good with throw backs 
 to OoT and WW. My only complaint is that it could have been orchestrated. I believe that using 
 orchestrated music rather than Midi would have added to the next gen factor. But all in all its 
 good.
  4. Value: You get plenty of gameplay with it topping out at about 50-75 hours for a regular play 
 through. I found that I hit 75 hours when I went through the first time and picked up every single 
 item I possibly could get. There is plenty of value but not a whole lot of reason to replay if 
 you picked up every item the first time through. There is nothing special when you finish which 
 bummed me out.
  
  In closing if you dont own it and youre looking for a game that will take you at least 48 hours 
 to complete than I say by all means go for it. If youre a fan of solid controls then I would seriously 
 think about picking up the GameCube version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  When my brother first came home with Wii and Twilight Princess I didn't expect the Twilight Princess 
 to be a great game and up to OOT standards. Was I wrong. This game was amazing since the beginning 
 until the end. BUT every game has its good and its bad so i broke up the good and bad for you guys.
 
  
  The Good: Wolf form is a great new feature in Twilight Princess that is alot of fun to play and 
 fight as. The story line is great with two sides of it if you really know whats going on. If you 
 pay attention the one story line could be put into a personal one and a main one. Also whats good 
 is the new items. There are originals from the past zeldas but also some very clever new ones. 
 Another important item in TP that is good is puzzles in the dungeon. Many puzzles are very clever 
 and hard to get past. What i love most bout Twilight Princess is how it stays to the game mechanics 
 of Ocarina of Time. Many gamers and critics disagree with me and want change but i think this was 
 a great idea to keep it close to the mechanics of OOT. The reason i think this is OOT was probably 
 one of the best games ever to be made and why should u stray away from that concept. I am not saying 
 u cant think of new ideas and stories i am just saying the developers did teh right thing when 
 making this game. The bosses are really big and fun in this game.
  
  The Bad: This game also has some not very good moments. For example the enemies you fight are really 
 not that much of a challenge. I could keep my gu in a circle of enemies get up go get a drink and 
 be back with only 2 or 3 hearts down from where they were. There should of been a difficulty feature 
 which would of allowed different difficulties in the story. Also as i said earlier the bosses were 
 big and fun but that doesnt mean they were hard. The boss fights in this game are very easy and 
 its easy to see what you need to do. In my personal opinion they change hyrule alot and i think 
 it shouldnt of been that much different from where everything in OOT was. For example death mountain 
 was very different and so was kakariko which i wasnt please about.
  
  All in all this game was an amazing game and everyone should play it. No matter who you are. This 
 game has changed the way i look at wii. I can't wait for what other games nintendo will bring for 
 this next system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakie91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This Zelda may not be the best Zelda (second best) but shows nintendo still got it. From the start 
 i noticed that there where no voices which kinder turned me off from it, but then getting into 
 it (like 5mins) the game gets right into it which kept me playing. As gamespot said it seems the 
 controls where just stuck on, which i would disagree i think it makes the game better and the way 
 it should have been years ago, from aiming your bow, to unleashing the power of the sword on you 
 foes. This game is big, but not so big that makes you walk around for hours wondering where the 
 hell am I? The puzzels in this game aren't like mind-blowing but they are just right so they make 
 you think which are the best. In this game there are people that you would see in the 64 version 
 which give it a nice touch, but i was angry to see that there where not enough to bring back the 
 good memories like lon lon ranch and the girl from the woods Sarah which made me mad but soon got 
 over it. Anyway i could be writing all day about this game, but i will say this, got a Wii get 
 this game, if you don't have a wii well your missing out, get a wii then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Not since Zelda was in 2D has there ever been a Zelda this good. In the Zelda games on the N64, 
 the gameplay was really good, but the story just wasn't up to par IN COMPARISON WITH THE PREVIOUS 
 ZELDAS. Then with the game cube, the amazing story was a little dwarfed by the fairly repetitive 
 gameplay. Now, the perfect mesh has arrived. The story is enthralling as it should be with any 
 Zelda game, and the gameplay is equally good. I'm sure there will be those people that complain 
 about the graphics, but in all fairness not in the history of nintendo has the company ever focused 
 on graphics. Frankly, this game could look like total crap and I would still play because it is 
 fun to play.
  As far as the specifics of the gameplay goes, the puzzles are mentally challenging, and the wiimote 
 makes the fighting easy and interactive. No more complex button combos, now it is hand motions 
 coupled with a few button pushes that make link kick but. This also makes the game less repetitive 
 as now its not just pushing the same buttons over and over again to kill things. Now the player 
 really gets involved and becomes a part of the game. Plus the new features, like fighting on hoarse 
 back and the whole wolf thing, take the game up another notch as far as gameplay goes. Every single 
 Zelda game ever made has been a truly high quality game, and the same goes for this one. In fact, 
 I say it is one of the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Controls are amazing; Graphics and the rest remain strong...
  
  The Bad: Very unfortunate glitches can ruin a file, it's likely the result of transfering the GC 
 version to the Wii version...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Story: Same as the GC version. Check my review.
  
  Gameplay: The Wii intergration is flawless. A good flick of the wrist, and the controller will 
 trigger a sword swing for Link. There are tons of other ways to use this controller, like point 
 and shoot, fishing, and several special attacks. It works really well. Here's the issue; there 
 are game ending glitches here. If you save and quit in the wrong spots, you'll find your game impossible 
 to continue. Just make sure you don't quit in mid-event battles. The bird at twilight Lake Hylia 
 is one that will screw up your game.
  
  Graphics: All the same; brilliant.
  
  Sound: Same, just lacking a few desired elements.
  
  Value: Once I buy the Wii, instead of 
 playing my cousins I'm sure the lasting appeal will be high. It kept me up late already.
  
  Tilt: A Wii masterpiece. I look forward to more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Twilight Princess I was expecting a lot from this game. I've been playing Zelda 
 games for a while since the classic game that we all know on the N64. In a lot of ways this game 
 lives up to all the hype surrounding it, but it doesn't deliver on all its promises. All start 
 with the disapointments. The promise of up to 70 hours of gameplay was a big promise, and sadly 
 enough it doesn't live up to it. I did most of what you could do in Zelda and it took me around 
 30 hours to complete, and I didn't rush through the game like some people. I also found the graphics 
 were not all that good. I mean for next gen I think Final Fantasy 12 looks better than this game. 
 My last problem was the games difficulty. It was way to easy. Nothing in TP is really much of a 
 challenge. Sure you'll get stuck may be one or twice but other than that nothing in the game is 
 really all that challenging. While these are flaws in the game they are completly minor, I just 
 wanted to cover why TP isn't a perfect game. The gameplay, thanks to the wii-mote is extremly fun 
 and very satifying. From swinging your sword to using your finishing move, combat is very exciting 
 and tons of fun. You're probably wondering how Zelda controls with just one analog stick and a 
 remote and so was I. To my surprise the game controls really well, isn't that difficult to master 
 and will take you about 30 minutes to get used to.
  The only problem I had with the controls was controling the camera. When you can't see something 
 you'll have to press the c button on the nunchuck, manually look at it, and then the camera is 
 fixed. This can become a real pain, expecally when it comes to fighting bosses are trying to do 
 something that gets timed. While it's not a classic, it's a whole lot of fun and a must if you 
 get a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess is, more or less, just another zelda. As was pointed out in many reviews over 
 the past few months, this is by no means a bad thing, but, after replaying OoT recently in anticipation 
 of this game, certainly drained on the experience.
  
  In terms of graphics, the lack of high def does hurt TP a bit, and the textures and graphics do 
 look pretty average at times to anyone who plays 360 or PS3 on a regular basis, the sheer quality 
 of the game world's art direction makes up for this, providing amazing environments of huge variety, 
 with the twilight zones a particular standout area. The sound, on the other hand, while pleasant 
 and unintrusive, is downright crappy in some places, being a bit too nostalgic for its own good, 
 an orchestral soundtrack would've been far better.
  
  Other than the slightly more in depth story (slightly above that of Wind Waker in terms of quality) 
 and he new controls, nothing has really changed about Zelda for this iteration of the series, just 
 slightly increased in size. The dungeons, for example are all several hours a piece even for experienced 
 zelda players, and, compared to OoTs dungeons, are several times longer, although this varies from 
 player to player (I've heard of people taking 4 hours on a dungeon that I finished in 1.5) . You'll 
 also find that there is a whole lot more happening between the dungeons... but this wavers off 
 towards the end into almost instant progression to the next dungeon. Overall, the game took me 
 around 40 hours to complete, without even being very dedicated to my playing, and reports of a 
 70 hour long quest is either for 6 year olds or people who like to look at bad textures for extended 
 periods of time.
  
  Fortunately, one of the major initiatives of this zelda is the wide variety of fun, much more abstract 
 items that are accumulated over the path of the game. These items tend to work well, and could 
 only have really been any more original and awesome if they used the wiimote a bit more, but the 
 quality is so good it's not fair to complain. The use of the wiimote overall is a little dissapointing. 
 Although the controls are certainly on par with, if not better than, the controls of the games 
 predecessors, the potential was there for a bit more than a point and shoot application. ( (Fishing 
 is an exception, but is still not all that significant to the game as a never compulsary side activity) )
 
  
  As I previously mentioned, the same old, same old feeling is a heavy aspect of Twilight Princess. 
 Sure, the wolf form is there, and there are some wierd teleporting puzzles occassionally, but these 
 aren't really all that different to any other zelda game other than cosmetically and in a small 
 way, pace. After the first few hours of OMG!!! THIS GAME IS TEH UBER **** the experience gets a 
 bit tedious if you've ever played a Zelda game before. This said, there is nothing wrong with Twilight 
 Princess, the story is fantastic and long, the gameplay is solid and the graphics are nice. The 
 quality of the series stands strong, but could have easily been improved upon had the Wii been 
 utilised a bit better. I expected better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The wii-remote rocks. My roommate complains that it's gimmicky. But after playing with the system 
 (although the controller for some reason doesn't like him) he's relented to how its pretty cool 
 to slice and spin with a flick of the wrist.
  
  This is a instant classic, from the puzzles to the storyline, everything has been fantastically 
 done. You'll spend lots of time exploring nooks that this world has to offer, and will easily rack 
 up 30+ hours without even realizing it.
  
  Since you probably know whats great (from the thousand other reviews) , I'll spout out the only 
 thing that bothered me: combat was a little too easy. Temple Bosses, were well designed, but lacked 
 the umph of previous Zeldas. Aside from that, the game is gravy.
  
  Go out and get the game. It won't dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The greatest Nintendo franchise to date follows up with another perfectly done title that is more 
 immersive than any other to this date. Topping even Ocarina of Time (get the old N64 people off 
 of me!) , Link to the Past, Wind Waker, and even the original, it's... perfectness. The beginning 
 is rather slow and you'll find yourself wanting to call it a stinker in the first 2 hours.
  But once you get into the Forest Temple, all of these petty feelings are completely erased as you 
 float in bliss holding the almighty Wiimote (Oh gosh, I'm talking like Shakespeare now) . While 
 some of you might dislike the easiness compared to games like OoT ,LoZ, and AoL, the difficulty 
 was just perfect for me, and the bosses, while incredibly easy, are officially the funnest boss 
 battles since me and Minish Cap hooked up [my first Zelda :) ] .
  The game flowed smoothly all the way through, and the puzzles were so self-explanatory yet ingenious 
 at the same time that you barely have to skim over a walkthrough. But the highlights for me, were 
 the pwning storyline and great Wii controls. Shaking a little remote to swing the Master Sword 
 was a lot funner for me than having to press a drab old button. Seriously. PERFECT GAME.
  
  Rent it: HECK NO!!!
  Buy it: HECK NO!!!
  Unhealthily obsess over it: HECK YES!!!
  Die with 
 it in your tomb: HECK YES!!!
  
  A summary: PWNAGE!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_XSlashX_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  LoZ: TP The newest Zelda game out and there was a question that everybody kept asking and that is. Is 
 TP better then OoT? Well the answer is no because you really can't cmpare these 2 games cause they 
 were made years apart and the reason why Oot is still the best zelda game is because it was the 
 first zelda game that went 3D and it offered new and intresting gameplay. But im not saying that 
 TP is bad im just saying you really cant compare it to Oot. But anyways on with the review. This 
 is a very stunning game with great graphics and good gameplay. The gameplay is of course different 
 from other zelda games of course because of the Wii-mote instead of pressing A to swing your sword 
 you will swing the Wii-Mote. And u will also use the Wii-mote to fish and aim. And also the nunchuck 
 attachment will play a role too. But don't think this will make the gameplay easier cause sometime 
 when you are aiming at the screen and trying to hit somthing your hand make shake and cause you 
 to miss the target when u shoot your arrow or slingshot. When you shoot or swing your sword or solve 
 a puzzle the speaker on your wiimote will make a sound like you hear on the T. V. But enough about 
 the gameplay lets talk about the graphics. The graphics are gamecube standard but that is not a 
 bad thing I personally love the graphics. I think the sorrounding around you are beautiful and really 
 nice to look at... This game will keep you busy for at least 40 hours with the main quest and 10 
 more hours for the sidequest so there is alot to do in this game. And as for the sound it's really 
 good there is no voice acting but I perfer it that way. So overral I reccomend you buy this game 
 if your new to the Zelda series you can rent it from gamefly and see if you like and if you want 
 to buy it you can buy it for a cheaper price on there. So I hoped you enjoy this review this is 
 my first one so yeah thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rossgath
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  In my 10 years of gaming i have never wanted a game more. I was blown away at the very first announcment 
 back in early 2004, i couldn't wait! As the release date drew near i was worried about over hype, 
 but there was no overhype here.
  This game is excellent, the wii controls took me 5 minutes to get used to, if that. Alright the 
 aiming of the bow takes a little longer, but it was very easy to pick up and play. The story is 
 ace, and has more depth than previous zeldas. The game is more challenging than wind waker, but 
 not as solid as majoras mask. This game is JUST RIGHT! I The locations, the characters, the graphics, 
 the enemies, THE BOSSES! ALL BRILLIANT! This game definately has the best ending boss battle in 
 Zelda history and even tops the extrodinary ending boss battle. Zelda Twilight Princess is a must 
 have. Addictive, immersive, exciting gameplay that will make you want to keep coming back. I have 
 completed it twice already, and i'm ready for a third. The only let down about this game was the 
 sidequests weren't as story based, but more for collection purposes, and they didn't have much 
 too them.
  
  However this game is awesome and worth more than any other game i've played. This game is 10/10, 
 don't let the oppurtunity to play it go to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiegod1982
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  HIT
  + The Wii controls work very well for this game... it feels almost natural
  + Link looks fantastic in this installment
  + Darker storyline compared to past titles
  + Controls 
 don't change from human to wolf form
  
  MISS
  - It takes a little time before you actually obtain a sword
  - Simple Wii-mote action linked 
 to the Gale Boomerang
  - Still no voice acting (a little would be nice)
  
  As with every Legend of Zelda title in the past, you assume the role of the green tunic clad hero, 
 Link. As with every other Legend of Zelda title in the past, you are on a quest to save the land 
 of Hyrule from impendning doom. In this particular installment, Link starts out as a young man 
 in Ordon Village with very simple tasks - herd cattle, save baby cradles from monkeys, and show 
 children how to use a slingshot. Simple enough, right? Well, Here is where the story starts to 
 unfold. Link is asked to deliver a special tribute from his home village of Ordon to Hyrule Castle. 
 Before he can start out on his quest, he is assaulted by a group of goblins on boar-back. The goblins 
 make off with the children of the village while Link is laid out in a spirit pond. When link finally 
 sets out towards Hyrule Castle, he is sucked into an alternate dimension where Hyrule has been 
 decimated and the Princess Zelda seeks out the one who will restore her kingdom. As Link arrives 
 in this strange new world, he is transformed into a wolf and is under the supervision of a strange 
 female creature known as Midna. As well as every Legend of Zelda title in the past, you must destroy 
 huge bosses in a variety of temples before meeting up with the franchise's most popular bad guy, 
 Ganondorf.
  
  The screen layout this time around is fairly easy to comprehend. At the top left, you have your 
 life meter, which is gauged by hearts. You begin the game with 3 but by exploration and defeating 
 bosses you can earn up to 20. The bottom left portion of the screen houses the Minimap. On the 
 bottom right, you will be able to view the total number of monies you currently have in your purse 
 (known as rupees in the Zelda series) . The top right portion of the screen is laid out with a direction 
 pad format. Here you can place items in your inventory to respective buttons for easier access 
 in a particular area. One item can be assigned to each direction. Just below the direction pad 
 you will find an illustration of the controller's A and B buttons. B will be used for sub-weapons 
 and items while A serves as an action button for inspecting and other such actions.
  
  Controlling our hero has never felt better than it does on the Wii console. This particular game 
 makes use of both the standard Wii-mote and the Nunchuck extension. With the Nunchuck extension 
 you will perform such moves as Walking/Running, Swimming and Jumping all by moving the extension's 
 analog stick. A standard roll, sidestep or backflip can be performed with the A button on the Wii-mote 
 and the Z button on the Nunchuck, depending on which direction is being executed on the analog 
 stick. The Z button on the Nunchuck extension is also used to target enemies or villagers, as well 
 as defending, all depending on the situation. The infamous spin attack that started out in A Link 
 to the Past also makes it's return to the series. It can be executed by simply waving the Nunchuck 
 side to side. Now for the best part... the Wii-mote. As stated earlier in this review, A is basically 
 used for actions during exploration as well as some attacks. The basic attacks however are executed 
 by waving the Wii-mote side to side. This will cause Link to perform a series of sword slashes 
 if done properly. Link's horse Epona is controlled via the Nunchuck extension. Basic movements 
 are mapped to the analog stick while galloping is done by pressing A on the Wii-mote. Wolf transformation 
 attacks and defenses thankfully do not change from the button mapping for Human-Form Link.
  
  Graphically, Twilight Princess has shapped up to be quite impressive. Link has taken on the 
 look he was given in Ocarina of Time and Majora's mask - a much more realistic look than he was 
 given in the cel-shaded Wind Waker installment. (Not like that is a bad thing) There is a lot of 
 detail that is immediately noticable with Link's signature green tunic and matching hat as well 
 as the rest of his garb. Environments look amazing even far off... a feature that wasn't exactly 
 the best on the Nintendo Gamecube. Particle effects from detonating bombs and falling rocks look 
 astounding this time around and give the game a far more realistic feel than any of the previous 
 entries. Lighting and shading is also very well done on the Wii version.
  
  Twilight Princess' soundtrack is something you'd expect from the Zelda series ever since the release 
 of the original Legend of Zelda in July 1987. The trademark theme is also in this installment, 
 but has been given a bit of a remixed sound to make it a little more fresh and not so outdated. 
 Sword slashing sound effects and the infamous You've uncovered a secret tone heard through the 
 speaker on the Wii-mote also sound very good, providing you don't have your controller volume turned 
 up past the halfway mark. I picked up Twilight Princess on launch day and tried it out briefly. 
 I picked it up again a few weeks ago and actually decided to start a serious file. While I was 
 kind of irritated that it took so long to pick up a sword, I was quickly amazed at how well the 
 Wii-mote handled the motions and reflected them onto the screen. I have noticed at times the camera 
 can go in directions you're not exactly intending it to go, but is otherwise pretty responsive 
 as well. I have found it better to locate my sensor bar above my television for the best results 
 on this title. Legend of Zelda has always been an astounding series and bringing it to the Wii 
 as a launch title, I feel, was a huge draw on Nintendo's part in getting the console out to the 
 public. I especially like the added feature of upgraded moves learned from the Stalfos Knight at 
 different times throughout the game. It certainly gives you a little initiative to find all 6 of 
 the scrolls and learn the attacks. I'm also hoping that this game will end with a good sword battle 
 against Ganondorf. There is one thing I am certain of and that is the fact that a Zelda title has 
 never looked for felt better than Twighlight Princess. If you're looking for a fairly dark story 
 and lots of swordplay the this title may just be what you want to check out. On the downside, however 
 I must say that the first 30 to 45 minutes of the game may have you second guessing it's value... 
 seeing as how you haven't been given a sword to hack at enemeis with at this point, but it's well 
 worth the time to play afterwards. I would've liked to see a better motion action for the Gale 
 Boomerang - maybe a side-arm flinging motion with the controller to simulate throwing a real boomerang? 
 (The DS title, Phantom Hourglass boasts full control of the boomerang via the stylus) . I'm also 
 hoping in future installments to the series, Nintendo considers giving Link and it's 'big role' 
 characters a voice of their own. I don't mind the reading... but I think an extremely popular franchise 
 could use some voice (I don't personally see how it could hurt them any)
  
  SCORECARD: (via www. enterthezombiegod. com)
  9 (Concept)
  10 (Gameplay)
  9 (Visuals)
  8 
 (Sound)
  9 (Value)
  9 (Tilt)
  FINAL SCORE: 9
  
  (Please check out EntertheZombiegod. com for all my videogame reviews!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remy_Labue
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  History was made when Nintendo released The Legend of Zelda internationally in 1987 for the Nintendo 
 Entertainment System. A vast world, open-ended gameplay, and a battery autosave function made it 
 one of the most advanced console games of its time. Thus began a franchise with no end in sight. 
 
  
  Link.. the most underappreciated hero ever. Never the same man twice, hardly known for his world-saving 
 deeds, and never gets the girl or the Triforce. The goddesses of Hyrule are lucky they didnt select 
 me as their hero, because I would have stayed in bed. 
  
  This time around, Link is a Cattle Herder in the town of Odin. The children look up to him, the 
 town idolizes him, and his closet hates him. The game opens with him wearing what is quite possibly 
 the worst outfit design in the history of gaming, with combinations of skirts, tights, shorts, 
 sandals, vests, and one-sleeved shirts. Luckily, you wont be wearing that outfit for long, for 
 the land of Hyrule is in trouble again, and it will soon be time for Link to dawn those green tights 
 we know and love. 
  
  The land is being merged with the alternate universe of the Twilight by an evil-doer named Zant 
 and its up to Link, yet again, to take down a maniacal, power-hungry, psychopath.
  
  For anyone who is keeping count, this is the 12th time Hyrule has almost bit the dust. That officially 
 makes it the worst vacationing spot in existence. Why havent these people moved yet?  This time, 
 however, you wont have to do it alone. Youll travel with a companion named Midna, a twilight 
 dweller whose intentions arent very clear at first. Shell refer to you as her slave, ride you 
 like a horse, shell stalk you as your shadow, yet for some reason, youll put up with it. 
  
  After Link enters the twilight the first time, hell be transformed into his pre-ordained beast 
 form. Not only is this one of the coolest scenes in the game, it is also the most painful-looking 
 transformation I have ever seen, as he screams at the top of his lungs in excruciating agony. Much 
 like Wolverines claws though, hell soon get used to the transforming process. As a wolf, youll 
 be able to use your heightened senses to see things not normally visible by the naked eye including 
 scent trails, hidden items and dig spots, the undead, and the true forms of spirits. You will also 
 be able to talk to animals including your horse, Epona. However, this does not come without a price. 
 You wont be able to use any items, climb ladders, vines, or nets, or talk to humans. In fact, 
 humans will be afraid of you. 
  
  The greatest improvement on its predecessors is the darker tone the story has taken. Link doesnt 
 just drown, he gasps desperately and reaches for the surface of the water. He doesnt just fall 
 into lava, the lava sizzles as he sinks toward the bottom with his hand outreached. Our hero also 
 learns ten new moves along the way, including a violent downward stab through the chest of a fallen 
 enemy, after which he back flips off the carcass, just to twirl and flip his sword before sheathing 
 it. Its undeniably awesome to see our childhood hero grow up to be such a badass. 
  
  You know the franchise is changing when Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is reminiscent of the 
 Silent Hill series. Seriously, you know what will happen when you stick your head in that dark 
 hole in the wall. Theres a fine line between curiosity and stupidity. 
  
  The environments and dungeons have a spookier, doomed aura to them. In particular, the Arbiters 
 Grounds was a wonderful surprise to me. Traps are in place to release swarms of scarabs, which 
 will crawl all over you, not to mention suffocate and slow you down. The image of Link covered 
 in jittery scarabs will haunt my nightmares for weeks. Another great example is in another room, 
 Link will walk as if hes being weighted down. It took me a bit to figure it out, but if you transform 
 into a wolf and use your heightened senses, youll see yourself covered in ghostly, undead rats, 
 gnawing at ever inch of your body. 
  
  Oh, I get it.. Instead of lighting all four torches to open this door, Im supposed to put all 
 four out with my boomerang. Ingenious. 
  
  The biggest downfall to the game is the gameplay itself. Its the exact same thing as this franchises 
 successors. If you have beaten Ocarina of Time, Majoras Mask, or Wind Waker, than you can easily 
 decimate this game with very little trouble. All of the puzzles are the same as those found in 
 previous installments, with a few new twists thrown in, just not enough of a twist to make them 
 challenging in any way. In fact, I can only recall one puzzle that made me think.  This game 
 is definitely the longest in the series, finishing out in about fifty hours. A few new mini-games, 
 and a few wiimote-heavy sequences help add some much needed uniqueness to what seems like a cookie-cutter 
 franchise. Sequences like piloting a twilight demon bird, kayaking, fishing, and snowboarding. 
 
  
  Twilight Princess is also the finest looking Zelda in the franchise, paying extra attention to 
 the facial expressions of each character. You can tell the emotion they feel at any given moment, 
 and the game has the innate ability at times to project that feeling onto you. Im man enough to 
 admit that there were a few scenes where my eyes started to tear up a little bit, especially when 
 Link saves one of the children from an ogre. The environments have been wonderfully rendered as 
 well, with waterfalls and forests looking as beautiful as ever. However, the graphics just dont 
 live up to what the other platforms are doing. This game is flawed in the same way all of the Wii 
 games will be flawed; it looks about as good as the best looking GameCube game. Adding to the downfall 
 is the HUD. The control pad, A, and B icons are huge and take up more space than they should. Youll 
 get used to them, though, about ten hours into the game. 
  
  The musical scores throughout the game go well from scene to scene, yet none of them stand out 
 enough for you to hear it in your head later. Some scenes are done better than others, for example, 
 the transformation into wolf form, or the final boss battle in the game, however they are few and 
 far between. They had some high standards to reach when compared to The Ocarina of Time, and they 
 just didnt reach them. Just as in every Zelda game before it, Twilight Princess doesnt have spoken 
 dialogue. Instead, it has bits and pieces like Hey!. Your companion, however, does have spoken 
 dialogue, albeit in a non-existent language. 
  
  With a story and gameplay that makes up for its mediocre graphics when compared to other consoles 
 of this day and age, this is easily the best Zelda game yet. While it may not make major leaps 
 and bounds like the original did, it takes the well known formula of past Zelda games, and adds 
 a darker tone, a lot of hidden items to collect, mini-games that use the controls of the Wii to 
 its fullest capability, and over fifty hours of gameplay. So, if youre a fan of the franchise, 
 then you shouldnt let this one pass you by. However, if you didnt like any of the other games 
 in the franchise, then avoid this one, since its basically a rehash of its predecessors. In the 
 meantime, I have some advice for Link. Next time, just stay in bed and let those lazy Hyrulians 
 solve their own problems for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwest305
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Zelda has always been my favorite series. Call me fanboy. Whatever. You see there's a reason why 
 I'm a fan of this series and that is because every game I've played has been excellent. This series 
 has earned my respect and I don't see what's so wrong with that. Because of that I also have high 
 standards for every installment of this series. First off this game is innovative do a degree. 
 The combat is improved, there are quite a few new features, and the world is far larger than before. 
 Its definatly less reveloutionary then Ocrina of Time, but it does imporve on its predecessors 
 in almost every way. My only two major complaints are -The music is lacking when compared to the 
 previous 3-D Zelda
  -Link takes too little dmage in battles. The fights can be challenging but it takes forever for 
 even the strongest foes to take you down.
  -It definatly is an improvement but doesn't do anything to truely revolutionize the series.
  
 
  Best Features
  -Brilliantly designed puzzles
  -Feels Epic
  -Well designed creatures and characters
  -Longest installment to date
  -Gameplay evolves with 
 your progress
  
  All in all it is one of the most enjoyable games I have played to date.
  
  Note: I'm judging its graphics based on the fact it was built as a GC title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have kept LOZTP on the shelf since November. Yes, I was one of the fortunates that had it on 
 November 20th (One day after launch) , but I had so many games that I needed to finish first that 
 I put Zelda aside. I had to finish Baton Katos (an Epic game) and Mario Bros in time. I did not 
 want to start another long game. Today I broke the seal on LOZTP! I was a big fan of Wind Waker. 
 I really enjoyed link portrayed as a cartoonish child. The stares that link gave to the Red Lion 
 and to other people were hilarious. I liked the puzzles as well. But Wind Waker was a light hearted 
 story, and I knew that LOZTP was going to be something different. So when I started to play, I 
 was not sold on it at all... I was not starting the game as a fan of this Link. I The game starts 
 out slow, allowing you to get used to the controls and your character through simple tasks. I am 
 glad they took this approach. It allowed me to get used to links more mature profile. I really 
 was caught by surprise when I realized that I enjoyed riding the horse and corralling the goats 
 (who would have thought I had that in me?) . I thought the fishing would appeal to me, but it did 
 not, in fact it was a little boring, but when I got pulled into the dark world, the game really 
 opened up to wide possibilities as to what your character can do as a Wolf! Pretty cool twist that 
 the Wind Waker link did not have!
  I am only six hours into the game, but from what I have seen so far, this game is very well thought 
 out, Excellent graphics and just a lot of fun (Layoff Minda!)
  Anyway, I can honestly give this game at least an 8.5 so far! Hats off to Nintendo on this one, 
 it is well worth the price.
  One thing worth mentioning.....
  I have a Flat screen 37 inch tube TV and LOZTP looks great on it. Yesterday, I saw LOZTP being 
 played on display on a plasma screen TV in the game store and it did not look nearly as nice as 
 it did on my Tube TV. I have no idea why my $800.00 Archaic Tube TV from 1999 would look so much 
 better than a $1,500 Plasma. Is it that since Wii is only 480dp that it suits my TV Better? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fox12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This was one of the best Wii games I have ever played. I would recommend this to anyone who loves 
 to fight more with the sword rather than with Link's other items that he gets during the game. 
 I also like the new Zora suit. It's like when you go underwater he's like Counter Strike Link. 
 For those people who say that this game is a waste you should stop trying to be different and tell 
 the truth. This game is so awesome I have played through the whole game and beat it like 4 times 
 and it's still fun. Fishing is like one of the funnest mini games on there. I just don't like catching 
 all of the poes. For anyone who loves Zelda as much as I do then you definitely need to get this 
 game or you will just be missing out on the whole Zelda storyline. The only flaw about this game 
 is the Magic Armor. I mean, yea it's cool looking and all but after all of that hard work of searching 
 for like 3598 rupees (that's the total amount for all of the donating and buying) you would expect 
 the Magic Armor to be a lot better. Well it's good, I would just like to only drain my rupees when 
 I get hit to protect me rather than drain my rupees to wear it and then also drain my rupees to 
 get hit and having the monster doing a lot less damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: facit_90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  You start off as Link, as usual, in a village called Ordon where you will be introduced to the 
 controls for an hour or two. Then you will be dragged into a magnificent adventure, as usual. We 
 have seen the frames of the game many times before, but still we love it. I have eaten a lot of 
 cake through my years, but I love it anyway.
  
  This game will let you wield the legendary wii-remote, using it for fireing arrows, slashing with 
 your sword or go fishing. The controls will be easy to master after a while and they are so well 
 made that you might forget that it is your own hands you're moving, not Link's.
  
  The graphics are really nice with detailed character designs and beatiful landscapes featuring 
 shifts between day and night that works really well. Everything one could wish from the Nintendo 
 Wii, and still not exagerratedly advanced details. I can't really see anything preventing this 
 game from top-ranking in graphics.
  
  The sound effects is another thing adding up to the feeling of being inside the game, especially 
 with the speaker in the remote. Alongside with the marvelous music throughout the game the sound 
 effects will encourage you to keep on playing, just to hear a little more of it. Well, not really, 
 but it works very well and the music is really good.
  
  One could get disappointed by the small amount of dungeons in the game, after all the rumors of 
 it being a gigantic game, but with all the sidequests and everything you do outside the dungeons 
 it all adds up to probably +50 hours, if you don't run through everything and skipping all conversations 
 and movies.
  
  All the hype and stuff made me kind of... indifferent while playing it and the stupid japanese 
 humor is one of the most annoying things I know of, nut still... while I play it I understand that 
 this game easily makes it to the top three of all Zelda games. If you get a wii, and you should, 
 you should get this game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega_link2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  After the long wait, the newest installmant in the Zelda series is here and its quite simply the 
 best one yet! Gameplay: This game is the perfect way to showcase the Wii's awsome controls. They 
 are so much better and really immersive. Aiming things like arrows feels so fluid and natural you'll 
 never be able to go back to a regular control pad. Also swinging a sword is so much cooler. The 
 dungeons in Twilght Princess are works of art and more challenging than ever before with out being 
 as cruel as the Water Temple in Ocarina of Time. The story in Twilght Princess is one of a kind. 
 Never before has a Zelda game been so plot driven or have such a dark story and it works.
  Graphics: This is a gamecube game but that doesn't stop it from looking amazing! The enviornments 
 look absolutly amazing. Also think of it this way this doesn't even display the Wii's true graphic 
 capabilities.
  Sound: While the graphics are good the sound doesn't hold up quite as well. I'm not complaining 
 about un-orchestrated music I'm complaining that some of the music sounds like it came right from 
 other games without anything new added to it. Luckily this only is in one place and it still sounds 
 good along with all other classic Zelda sounds and chimes.
  Value: This game is absolutly HUGE! Hyrule field is immense and the game will last you at leats 
 50 hours playing through the main quest. and its totally worth every minute!
  Tilt: Twilight Princess is for any Zelda fan or anyone who loves a good adventure game. If you 
 are planning to buy a Wii this game is a perfect match and it won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjvegito137
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the trailler to this game, like all zelda fans, i was jumping for joy, it looked, 
 and was hyped to be the Oot beater, but after a while, you can clearly see that this game, wil 
 not be better than Oot, infact, its the most dissapointing Zelda game i have ever played.
  Saying that its definatly not the worst zelda game i have ever played, the fact that this game 
 was hyped so much meant that it was really impossible for people not to be dissapointed, before 
 i get into the main part of the review im going to say what is bad about the game, firstly the 
 world map is to be and it feels like that its just there to make the game seem more epic, but it 
 really hinders the game, also, there arent enough side quests, i was hoping for the type of side 
 quest you would get in oblivion, but i was wrong, all you have is some random bug cathing side 
 quest which reminds me alot of hte golden skultas of Oot. now onto the review
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Perfect, the wii remote makes the feel of the game, well just perfect, i cannot 
 actaully fault the gameplay on anything, the dungeons are perfectly designed, and the boss fights 
 are the best in any, yes ANY zelda game
  
  Graphics: 8
  Great.... for gamecube, but average for this gen and the wii can definatly do better
  
  Sound: 
 8
  Nice music, nothing memorable tho, and some is reused from ocarina of time like sarias song
  
 
  Value: 9
  A really big game, but yuou cant help but feel dissapointed from a zelda game
  
  Conclusion: 
 Although great, it falls short of its expectations in a few area and lacks those memorable zelda 
 moments from games such a alltp and Oot
  
  Score 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_Time
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Twilight princess is one of the best games I have ever played. Being someone who was new to the 
 Zelda Franchise I was thoroughly impressed from start to finish. During the whole game there was 
 an intriguing story of legendary proportions with perfect continuity. You start the game as a humble 
 goat farmer and end up being the savior of the world. This game has a rollercoaster of emotion 
 in it and the player will go through them just as the character does through a great use of facial 
 expressions and a well-written dialogue with the use of SUPERB music. This is a must-have for all 
 Wii or Gamecube owners but I believe owning it on the Wii would be superior as the controls were 
 immersive and accurate in all screen aiming sections.
  
  Gameplay: This is classic zelda style and the gameplay is a mix of expertly made puzzles and an 
 in-depth battle system. The gameplay is so great and it really controls well with the Wii's controls. 
 My only gripe with it however was the fact the game was too easy. Zelda: Twilight Princess gave 
 me an epic adventure why couldn't I also have an epic difficulty which would allow for alot more 
 satisfaction after beating the challenges. Still the mechanics were so well designed I immediately 
 started a new game after finishing it a first time.
  
  Graphics: Zelda boasts an enourmous view distance with great lighting effects such as Bloom and 
 HDR and the Twilight realm is particularly beautiful. However the effects of being a Gamecube game 
 are showing in the textures as they are sometimes blurry but this in no way detracts from the fact 
 Zelda: Twilight princess is a beautiful game due to its impressive art styles and technical achievemants.
 
  
  Sound: Wonderful music and sound effects. I found Twilight princesses music so enjoyable that it 
 was in fact one of the better highlights during Zelda's more cinematic moments.
  
  Value: Roughly a 50 hour adventure and there are many side quests. Definately great value.
  
 
  In conclusion Zelda: Twilight Princess is more of an art form than a game really. It boasts almost 
 perfectly constructed Temples, an engaging dialogue and storyline and an enjoyable experiance through 
 the entire game. I really reccomend picking this game up as you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumjoose
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Folks, once people look at the name Zelda they automatically give the game a 10. Im sick and tired 
 of this kind of response. I've played better games, the end. I've played a lot of games that I 
 enjoyed more than Zelda: TP. It's still a a great game, but it is NOT INCREDIBLE (I find Ocarina 
 of Tima, Majora's Mask, and Link to the Past better examples of Zelda) . The gameplay is wonderful, 
 the sound is that good Zelda sound, but it could be a lot better, uh, orchestrated. Temples are 
 long and tedious and are completely ridiculous. I stand outside the Temple and I say to myself, 
 Ugh, do I have to? It's a chore! Temples should be a part of the game not seperate, and yes it 
 feels that way. Okami is a perfect example of when you don't even know your in a duneon because 
 the game flows into and out of them, and there is no seperation in gameplay between the missions, 
 and the dungeon missions. I'm sick of the puzzles in dungeons. I want gameplay that is realistic, 
 something that you dream about in your sleep, something that makes you hold your wiimote before 
 you turn your wii on and say to yourself, could this possibly be the hand of God? . I want the 
 temples to be less based on puzzle but more based upon real life puzzles , using stealth, using 
 strength, using everything possible. Besides that, the story is insanely good, the gameplay is 
 good, everything is good. But, it's simply not as engaging or entertaining as other games. In my 
 case, these are some examples: 1) Ratchet and Clank series 2) Jak and Daxter series 2) Final Fantasy 
 XII 3) Okami. When I play a game, I go by my feelings, by my body, how am I really enjoying this? 
 It never lies. Zelda: TP is worth anyone's cash, but it's not a game of epic proportions. Game progression, 
 and Level Design, and Dungeon Design could be a LOT better. Majora's Mask is my favorite, it also 
 has the least amount of dungeons :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaconBallz1337
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Totally pumped for this Zelda title, much like I am for practically every other one in the series. 
 I purchased this title even before I had my Nintendo Wii (I shall remember this title as the first 
 game to ever be played on my Nintendo Wii) .
  
  Like most Zelda Games, this title follows the same basic storyline, although like every Zelda game 
 known to man... the title does have it's own modified direction, this time round you'll be fighting 
 to save Hyrule from being consumed in what's known as the Twighlight . Along the way, you'll meet 
 and pair up with certain folk, who will guide you around most corners. Although the game's difficulty 
 does become ever greater the further you get through the game... it was never to a point where it 
 became extremely hard, which I guess is one of the only problems I see with this stunning title. 
 It never really grasped me like other Legend Of Zelda's did, instead the game seemed to run into 
 parts where you felt like you where completing task's for goal's that I didn't feel rewarding enough. 
 Although that's not to say that defeating the final boss (which I think many of you fans out their 
 know exactly who I'm talking about) didn't feel rewarding. Like always completing a Zelda game 
 and destroying delivering that final blow is a huge and spectacular feat. But unfortunately the 
 game seemed to lack enough engaging and interesting story/game play to keep me always wanting more.
 
  
  Graphic wise this game on Gamecube is mind blowing... whilst on the Wii it still looks great, but 
 I am very eager to see what Miyamoto can produce next time round. Sound, this is a very debatable 
 subject, to which I feel that comparing to the N64 Title OoT, LoZ: TP falls short. Not to say that 
 the sound isn't terrific, I've just come to expect more from such a title in this day and age.
 
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda Twighlight Princess is, and always will be remembered as one of the 
 greatest Launch title's ever. Although for me the storyline felt a bit weak about 3/4 of the way 
 through the title. LoZ: TP is a must for all Wii owners. Next time round, I cannot wait to have 
 the Wiimote acting as a true 1:1 Master Sword :D 8) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uzumaki41
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game? It's perfect! There aren't any words to describe the sensation 
 of travelling trough the kingdom of Hyrule! The graphics are......... beautiful. The sounds! How 
 can i describe Midna's laugh coming from the wiimote? It's just...................... (no words) ! 
 The commands are easy to understand the learning curve is 30 to 60 just because of some puzzles 
 (specially in the goron mines) that can be quite annoing if you are not familiarizeted with the 
 game. Well, then mix beautiful graohics with interesting new sound features and a perfect gameplay..... Ta-da! 
 In a 1 to 10 rating this game deserves a  
 is more than a reason to buy a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Jedi33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  For the Wii or the GC, it's one of those titles that becomes an instant classic. It's a must own, 
 from it's fantastic gameplay and design, to it's amazing dungeons and side-quests. It takes us 
 back to a time and setting that we all love and grew up with, and adding some new elements all 
 the time. When comparing Twilight Princess to classics like Ocarina of Time, or even Majora's Mask, 
 you have to look at how much deeper you delve into the world of Hyrule. Each level you enter is 
 as unique as the last, and there is a never ending supply of puzzles, and fights that will keep 
 you thinking for hours on end. Not to mention the shortage of items either, each one, new and old, 
 helping you get one step closer to the level boss. Like in most Zelda games, the item you pick 
 up in the level helps you beat the level boss, and the fights just keep getting more intricate. 
 There were several new features added with this Zelda game that haven't been used before. As you 
 progress through the game, you learn new and ever more evolving combo and fighting techniques. 
 Adapting your sword-fighting arsenal to face the toughest opponents. The Twilight Realm is a new 
 addition entirely, and is the new face of evil in Twilight Princess. Like you have in the past, 
 you have a guide in Twilight Princess, though it's not the helpful little fairy that wants to talk 
 to you ever five minutes. Instead you get in interesting creature named Midna from the Twilight 
 Realm. And during the beginning it seems that she is just intent on harassing you, but as the story 
 progresses you find that her help is more than necessary. Not to mention the newest and most interesting 
 feature, the Wolf. During the game you find yourself trapped in the Twilight Realm not quite as 
 you once were. By using new skills and completing new tasks set only as the Wolf, you being to 
 see the world of Hyrule as you never have before. Character development is great in Twilight Princess, 
 and you even begin to gain a bond with those around you. But, from rupee diving to monster smashing 
 to dungeon conquering, Twilight Princess is a must have game for long time fans of the Legend of 
 Zelda series, and players looking for an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_mirow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I started playing Zelda on the N64, and was wowed by the quirky humor, great graphics, score, and 
 timeless storyline. Majora's Mask was a worthy sequel, but in some ways lacked the punch that OoT 
 had. With the addition of the Wind Waker, I wasn't blown away (namely by the Cel-Shading graphics) , 
 and I wasn't sure where Nintendo was going with the Zelda series. Luckily all my fears had been 
 put to rest with Twilight Princess, where everything just feels... right.
  
  The storyline is definitely full of twists, turns, surprises, exploration, and action-packed fights. 
 While I was skeptical about the Wolf Link, I soon found that it added another interesting aspect 
 to the game that works seamlessly into the gameplay experience. The overall game experience is 
 more or less Easy, but the sheer amount of things to accomplish adds a healthy amount to your puzzle 
 solving skills.
  
  These first-party Nintendo games really know how to get the Wii-Mote and Nunchuck combo right. 
 Swordfighting is natural and entertaining, Fishing is a blast, and once you get used to it, First-Person 
 projectile attacks are intuitive and just plain fun. The only thing lacking is the ability to easily 
 turn the camera while moving (basically a 2nd analog stick's function) but it really doesn't get 
 in the way, and the z-targeting system certainly helps to alleviate this. Also, the Wii-Mote's 
 built in speaker is subtle, but adds to the overall experience.
  
  As always, the musical score is really, really good. I would have loved to give the sound a 10/10, 
 but I would have LOVED an actual orchestrated score and voice-acting as opposed to the MIDI and 
 text-based-conversations. Another thing that I miss is the musical instruments - the wolf howling 
 is alright, but could be deeper. However, I love the music and the sound effects are truly spot-on.
 
  
  The overall experience is just as memorable and epic as I had hoped, and I couldn't be more pleased 
 with this intuitive, captivating, and truly prefect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormydog1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This was the main reason I bought a wii in the first place. I have played every Zelda game except 
 for oracle of ages, (Hey cmon, its the same as seasons!) and this would probably be third on the 
 list of my favorite zelda games. First would be A link to the Past, then Ocarina of Time, then 
 this. First of all, the game play is exactly the same as Ocarina of Time, and the story has a stark 
 resemblance to A Link to The past ( my favorite game) . It is a much darker then any Zelda game 
 I have played. But instead of turning into a rabbit when going into the The Dark World like in 
 the ALTP you turn into a wolf, which is a pretty good representation of Link. Although Link spends 
 waay to much time in wolf form, and it can get quite annoying turning in and out of wolf form. 
 And whats with the extremely easy enemies? I dont think I would have died in this game at all if 
 my brother wouldn't have died while playing. Alright, remember, this is a GAME CUBE port, not originally 
 made for the wii. If you remember, Nintendo started this game before they even started brainstorming 
 for the wii. The graphics are obviously gamecubeish, but it still looks pretty good in most places. 
 The Twilight world is where it really shines. Some textures look fuzzy, but overall its good.
 
  
  Ok, for the sound. WHY DID YOU NOT PUT ORCHESTRATED MUSIC IN?? If they would have put the Dark 
 world over heme into TP I would have peed my pants. Instead I have to put up with Wind waker fight 
 music, which I hate. All the sounds are synthesized, so it gets old after a while, especially in 
 dungeons. And whats with the extremely strange weapons you get? I mean cmon, the spinner? Yes, 
 I will use a spinner to defeat the forces of evil! If i was Link I probably would have put THAT 
 back in the chest.
  
  Well, now having beaten this game completely, except for all the heart pieces (cmon, I already 
 beat the Ordeals, give me a break!) I had a great time. Until next time, Link! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cip4200
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  this games is awseume it is the best game i have ever played for any o the next gen consoles. The 
 use of the wii controls are amazing. the game is just amazing. A very in depth story line with 
 the new twist of a dark world where u probly already know that u can turn into a wolf. the game 
 is just amazing the game is just amazing the game is just amazing the game is just amazing the 
 game is just amazing the game is just amazing the game is just amazing the game is just amazing 
 the game is just amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyben
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This games is an amazing and incredibley exciting!! As any old Zelda there are of course a long 
 intro leading towards the main story line but when you get to control your character (Link) you 
 will soon take your mind off the introduction. Through the start of Zelda you willdo some quite 
 fun activities such as fishing goat herding and doing mini quests for fellow friends though out 
 your village. This is by far the best graphical game through out the zelda era. After a while of 
 the starting mini quests then you will soon get your origanal outfit yes the bright green suit 
 and you will of course take part in the biggest change of Zelda which is being able to transform 
 into a wolf. As Hyrule has been taken over by twilight each time you enter there you will enter 
 the age of turning in to a wolf. The wolf isnt a really exciting character as it has cracked up 
 to be yes he is fast and furious but his moves can be weak and he takes a while to get used to 
 but still that does not change how great this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pudlis16
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This is an Amazing game! I bought it in New York for the Wii. I later stood in line for 3 hours 
 to get the Wii itself! I am so addicted to this game. I own every zelda game for the gamecube ( 
 except for the four swords) , the N64, and now the Wii! I am a total Nintendo Fan. The Story is 
 cool. It is longer than most Zelda games which is one of the things I like most about it. I get 
 so addicted I sometimes play for 4 hours continiously. Nintendo spent 4 years making this game 
 and it really payed off. Zelda is an amazing game series and Miyamoto is a genius. I am a forever 
 fan of Zelda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgamer24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Here it is, folks. A brand new way to play videogames. Be prepared to be thrown into the action 
 like never before ---and all with what will be called one of the greatest games to ever hit this 
 planet in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  This game is, simply, the best game since its predecessor, Ocarina of Time. The gameplay is the 
 best in any game you'll ever find. So complex with the Wii remote and the hacking and slashing 
 you actually HAVE to do, but yet so easy at the same time. Granted, it does take a while to get 
 used to, but once you are used to it you'll feel like you are hacking goblins and whatnot. It truly 
 is the greatest idea any videogame company could have came up with. Shoot flying bats by aiming 
 your Wiimote. Stab by thrusting towards the screen. Spin Attack your enemies into submission or 
 Jab with your shield with a simple movement of the nunchuck. It's that simple, and yet it is so 
 great.
  
  Graphicly, you can't get much better than this. The presentation is top notch ---this is the first 
 game that I've ever played that has had no glitches, no hinderences, no slow downs, no nothing. 
 NOT ONCE. Looking into the environment of Hyrule is almost as great as Final Fantasy XII's world 
 of Ivalice, and the battle animations are incredible. The sound is not dissapointing either, as 
 when you are on horseback you get a great brass section that honks out a new, yet awesome tune 
 for hyrule field.
  
  As with any other zelda game, the game takes a tiny hit with its lack of replayability. The game 
 is the longest in the series ---roughly 40 hours ---but you won't have that pull to want to complete 
 it again for quite a while. The Cave of Ordeals was a great idea, but it only lasts for so long. 
 All in all, you won't find a better game out there. This is the standard. This is the bar set for 
 what gamers would like to call that perfect game .
  
  If you want a perfect game, here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  I'm going to get straight to the point and say this right away so I can be flamed for this by Nintendo 
 fanboys. This game is overrated. Now that that is over with, this Zelda title is by far the best 
 in the series. Ocarina type gamplay with the Wii remote is classic. While the graphics are really 
 bad from a technical standpoint, the artistic design is amazing. Everything looks like I imagined 
 it to be when I was 6 and playing Zelda on the NES. The score is your same oh classical bit, but 
 great. The controls are really, really, good. I wish some of the other launch titles were this 
 good in the control department, cough.. RED STEEL.. cough. The storyline is one that you will remember 
 and the ending catches you by surprise. The side quests and minigames are pretty fun but once you've 
 rolled through the credits, it feels like a job to run around and play all the side quests. I enjoyed 
 the game a lot, I'm a true Zelda fanboy when it comes down to it, t-shirts and all, but if Nintendo 
 doesn't start reinventing the wheel with this series, I might start to lose interest. I'm playing 
 FFXII right now and the more I think about it, the more this game is a whole lot better than TP. 
 Was getting a Wii and waiting for this game worth it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xg_knightmare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Being first in line at the midnight Wii launch and having a pre-order for Twilight Princess that 
 dates back to late 2004 says quite abit about how much I had been anticipating this game. From 
 the very first minutes on launch day to the final cinematic over a month later, Twilight Princess 
 has been one amazing ride yet there are some things which could have been done better given the 
 game's long development period.
  
  If you've come this far, I'm pretty sure you've gotten the jist of the story so I'll cut to the 
 chase about the pros and cons in each major area:
  
  Hours taken to complete game: 45 (I'm a very experience gamer so I breezed through most of it)
 
  
  Gameplay: 10 ===============================================
  
  Pros: + Fun (most important) + The Wii-mote is used exceptionally and the new controls are intuitive. 
 + The dungeon design is excellent as are the implementation of new items. + Sword play and other 
 new gameplay mechanics are excellent. + Gameplay elements introduced over the last three 3D-Console 
 Zelda games have been greatly improved.
  
  Cons: - Wasn't as challenging as I had hoped it to be.
  
  Graphics: 8 =================================================
 
  
  Pros: + Excellent art design. + Solid frame-rate. + Despite being a Gamecube port, Twilight Princess 
 still looks spectacular as a game.
  
  Cons: + It is evident the game was designed for Gamecube first so the graphics are not what you'd 
 expect from a next-gen Zelda. I can't wait for a Zelda specifically built from the ground up for 
 the Wii. + Rough around some edges. + Less colourful than some of the previous Zeldas - quite a 
 bit of dull browns and greens.
  
  Sound: 8 ===================================================
  
  Pros: + Great sound effects. 
 + Excellent melodies and cues. + Orchestrated tracks are grand. + That little hint of nostalgia 
 with the revival and remixing of older Zelda tunes.
  
  Cons: + I wish the entire score was orchestrated. + Wii-mote sound effects are evidently low quality 
 at times.
  
  Added notes: + I didn't feel that the lack of voice acting hurt the game in any way. Voice acting 
 would have changed the game drastically in the sense that while it would bring it up to today's 
 expected standards for sound, it would detract from the feel of the game. Personally, I like text 
 based storytelling as it lets you interpret the characters and their emotions.
  
  Value: 9 ====================================================
  
  Pros: + The game has more 
 variety than meets the eye in terms of game-play and things to do. + Enough to keep you going for 
 40+ hours which is a god-send seeing how short most games are these days.
  
  Cons: - While the game will take you over 40 hours to play, it's unfortunate that most of the secondary 
 activities are more collection based. Would have loved to see more actual sidequests and additional 
 mini-stories.
  
  Tilt / Other criteria: 10 ========================================== + A deeper and more mature 
 story than previous Zelda games displaying clear links to the previous games. + Both nostalgia 
 and new-ness in a nice package + Meets and in most cases surpasses the expectations of a Zelda 
 fan. + Best final-boss battle in the series. - The ending was good but still could have been better. 
 While Twilight Princess takes the title for best Zelda game, Ocarina still holds the title for 
 best end cinematic and credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izecream
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS
  All right, i am a huge zelda fan. Please be aware that i tried to make a nonbiased review but it 
 is still my opinion and this is still a great game. All right. TWilight princess. wanted this game 
 so badly, thought about it every day. bought it. put it in my wii. it was godly. but sadly its 
 not a legend. Despite all the hype about this game, i had my hopes much higher than most. but it 
 was dissapiointing.
  Graphics
  All right these graphics are alright for a gc game, although metroid prime 1 and 2 along with RE4 
 hold the top, but this is pretty close. also please be aware that i played this without component 
 cables. the art is nice and the lighting and effects are amazing, but the edges of most leaves, 
 mountains, trees, etc. look to edgy and tend to take away the experience.
  Gameplay
  the gameplay is wat u would expect from a zelda game. however, the sword slashing sucks. just wave 
 the wiimote any where and ull do a combo. this gets really repetetive and sumtimes i wished they (nintendo) 
 had left it to one button. however, aiming and pointing are much better thana gc game and make 
 aiming easy. THe dungeons in this game look nice, but they are way to easy. sure there are a lot 
 of them, but most u can finish in an hour to an hour and a half. also many of the puzzles are way 
 to easy. where as in windwaker, the dungeons are long and hard these are short and easy even of 
 there are more of them. also the bosses are way to easy, and i never died against one. while they 
 looked cool they were to easy. for example in the final phase against you-know-who, u can get like 
 5 hearts and a fairy making u invincible. the exception is the second joust against the bour rider. 
 However, wat bugged me the most about this game was the sidequests. they are way to short and simple. 
 where as in windwaker a lot of sidequests involved mayn things such as tijme if day, etc. , these 
 only reguire you to maybe blow up a rock or walk throught a tunnel and light some candles. broing. 
 also after u beat the game there isn't much to do except get the rest of the hearts which are to 
 easy to find, fish (which is insanely fun) , collect some bugs for a pointless reward, go through 
 the mildly challenging cave of ordeals which also give u crappy rewards, and collect poe souls 
 for crappy awards. there is also a sidequest for magic armor, but all it requires u to do is donate 
 money. the wolf form is cool and adds some new game play mechanics such as sense, digging, and 
 howling for awesome new sword attacks. THe story line is actually good for a zelda game, althouigh 
 most of it revolves around midna. Sound
  the sound is great from creature cries to sounds such as casting with the wiimote (which by the 
 way does not sound all that bad) . the music is great although it couldve been better and it should've 
 been orchestrated.
  value
  if u like zelda then buy this game. despite what i said it is a fun lengthy adventure for all video 
 gamers. Overall so yeah theres my review of twilight princess. it was good but couldve been better. 
 let's hope that the next zelda will be all that this wasn't as well as wat it was. now onto metroid 
 prime 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shotfire20
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is amazing. a 10 easily. the sword swinging with the remote is genius. the use 
 of the wiimote i think was awsome for all of them. The puzzles were smooth running and fun to figure 
 out. and after you got it you were like 'whoa that was smart'. The boss battles were amazing. The 
 items were the coolest yet. The smooth swordplay was awsome too. The wolf controls were neat also. 
 The one thing I didn't like about it was collecting the tears near the begining.
  
  Graphics: I dont why people said the graphics weren't good. I thought they were amazing.
  
 
  Sound: Some awsome songs in the gam. like the midna theme and what not. but needs to be orchestraed 
 for next game. as well as voice acting needs to be in next game.
  
  Value: Must own. for every gamer. bottom line.
  
  Tilt: The storyline was amazing. The gameplay 
 was awsome. Loved the darker theme. I thought it had the wonderful storyline of ocarina of time, 
 the abiltiy to change forms like in Majoras mask and the smooth gameplay like as in wind waker.
 
  
  the difficulty was awsome and the ending kept me waiting for the next zelda to come out. I cant 
 wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digijim2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I want to start by saying this is an extremely long Zelda game. This game took me 56 hours 
 and i did a good pace and tried to do it fast and did some side quests. It had a great storyline, 
 best i have ever heard. I was so involved into the game at the end I almost cried. The Wii's capabilities 
 felt a little rushed (which it was) . If Nintendo had developed Twilight Princess for the Wii from 
 the beginning then this game could of been a perfect 10... seriously. It was a little scratchy 
 at times when using the sword. But aiming with the bow and hookshot and boomerang did feel more 
 natural as well. The sword (which is most of the game) felt awkward because you could swing the 
 wiimote any direction and it will always do the same kind of swing not going along with the move 
 you did. I am hoping for the next Zelda to have more in depth controls and better feedback. I truly 
 think that was the only thing holding this game back from a perfect 10. I think on Gamespot and 
 all other websites this game was WAY UNDERRATED!!!! An awesome story, great game play... for the 
 Wii graphics were good. I mean i think people are also comparing the game to much to the 360 and 
 PS3 were graphics stand no chance. Believe it or not the Wii has graphics's in between this and 
 last generation. But as long as companies make great games like Zelda, the graphics can stay like 
 Gamecube and I could care less. All together this game is awesome and EVERYONE should purchase 
 it if you have a wii or gamecube. This game made me realize how much i truly loved playing Zelda 
 games and the story to the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When you were a kid (If you aren't one now) didn't you ever dream about games that would be played 
 virtually where you could use a sword like in real life? Well here you go! This game is near perfect 
 in every aspect. It definately is, the best Zelda game EVER. Gameplay: AMAZING. Almost everything 
 you do is used with the wiimote. Fighting never was so much fun. Fireing a bow never felt so accurate. 
 This game is Perfect in game play. Graphics: The graphics are breathtaking for the gamecube and 
 amazing for the wii. It got a 10 because it looks better than most wii games so far. Sound: I love 
 the music. I could care less if its midi. The sounds on the wiimote are also great. Value: This 
 game is very long for a zelda game lasting around 50 hours. The only reason value is getting an 
 8 is because this game had NO sidequests! Sure it had bug collecting, poes and heart peices; but 
 where the hell are the sidequests! Hyrule town has never been so boring! No one in that town does 
 anything (the people outside) . Overall yes, this is the best Zelda game ever. The only thing that 
 stoped it from getting a 10 was that it had NO sidequests! I love sidequests how can it now have 
 any like Majoras Mask and Windwaker did *tear*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cia0815
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  When i first played it, I knew that TP would be as good as expected. After the third dungeon I 
 realized, that maybe it was even better than that. And now in the second walkthrough, I know it.
 
  
  The story is just so beautifully told, that (up until the fourth dungeon) it just feels like you 
 are in a perfect movie, because it carries you from one location to another with excellent storytelling. 
 After the fourth dungeon, you might eventually think about leaving the path to fullfill sidequests. 
 Get some bottles, fix the broken world and open shortcuts within it, or play some mini games.
 
  
  It's indeed a great world Nintendo created, and I didn't realize how much it has to offer until 
 the second time I started a new game. It's then that you can begin feeling familiar with every 
 new location you reach throughout the journey. You really get the old Ocarina of Time feeling. 
 The feeling that you know every corner of the map, every house, every person. This feeling was 
 missing in the first round, and that's why I was questioning wheter TP was the better game or not. 
 But now I'm quite confident: It is better and an improvement in every possible way. There are so 
 many little and great things to explore, so many possibilities. The huge world just doesn't let 
 you realize that, because it feels so immens at first.
  
  Ten thumbs up for this masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davesy22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Ocarina of Time and Link to the Past have maintained themselves as the crowned jewels of the Zelda 
 franchise. They have been considered to be two of the greatest games of all time. Link to the past 
 established Zelda as the franchise it is now and Ocarina took that formula and put into a phenomenal 
 3D world that captured all gamers imagination. After Ocarina, Nintendo recycled the visual formula 
 and added certain elements to make Majora's Mask, but did not manage to capture the same magic 
 created by the previous installments. The follow up changed the view of the game, but still did 
 not manage to capture that magic. Well Zelda fans, I present to you the heir to the throne. Twilight 
 Princess is the best Zelda game since Ocarina and can honestly have the rite to be considered not 
 only one of the greatest of Zelda games, but one of the greatest game sof all times. I must admit, 
 that there were many things about this game that made me upset. The beginning is too slow, the 
 dungeons and bosses are way too easy, and there are too many pieces of past Zeldas being incorporated 
 into this game which make sit feel more like a Best of Zelda than a new Zelda. However, this game 
 takes the best elements of every Zelda and puts into a fulfilling and riveting experience. While 
 Ocarina and Link tot eh Past maintain a constant state of greatness, this game starts slow but 
 gets better and better. The dungeons feel rehashed, but there are enough twists and turns to make 
 this game feel so awesome. Not to mention, the Wii controls work really well with this game. The 
 aiming is top notch. Aiming in Zelda can never be the same again. The Wiimote makes aiming a bow 
 feel very natural. The sword swinging is a bit odd at the start, but you get used to it after a 
 bit of playing it. But what really places this game above and beyond is its story. YEs, it is recycled 
 from previous Zelda games, but its presentaiton is phenomenal. It feels like a real movie. The 
 cinematic cutscenes are also topnotch. Which leads me to the look of the game. the Game borrows 
 from Ocarina, but creates its own world and image. It is simply, the Best Looking Zelda of all 
 time. In addiiton, the game has so much depth. The Dungeons are full of exploration. Instead of 
 the typical, find the map, key, and item, u can also search for chests and heart pieces. Rupees 
 have a greater significance in this game. There is fun bug-catching and Poe searching is also deeper. 
 But the extra sidequest that makes this game remarkable on Wii is fishing. There is nothing more 
 fun than just fishing. There is no real purpose, but it is plain and simple fun. All in all, this 
 is the game that everyon's been anticipating for so long. It is the most massive and plot driven 
 Zelda. It looks greats, plays better, and ends on a sentimental note. Buy it. The Wii has one good 
 game. This is it and it is worth the 250 that come along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game amounts to possibly being the best of the Wii's library, even though it is a launch title. 
 The world is gigantic, full of places to explore and things to do. When you meet up with Midna, 
 the real adventure begins. You go around the world in wolf form finding the necessary items to 
 return that portion of the world back into the light. Then you change back into Link's normal form 
 and progress the game by going to a dungeon and defeating one of the epic sized bosses. The game 
 is really long, even if you dont take the time to get all the items. Twilight Princess is one of 
 the greatest games of all time.
  
  Gameplay 10- Epic, truly epic. Stunning in every respect. Having to use the Wii remote as a sword 
 and shield is great.
  Graphics 9- Admittedly... I would have like to see better graphics, but Zelda nontheless has a 
 graphic style that is truly breathtaking.
  Sound 10- The legendary score that makes this series stand out returns.
  Value 9- Lack of any 
 New Game + gives little reason to play through it again for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krn_jpn
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I first picked up this game at blockbusters as a rental. Personally, I never really liked the zelda 
 series, but this game slowly grows on you. At the beginning I wasn't having a good time with this 
 game. Because this was my first time playing a zelda game for over an hour, it was a little tricky 
 to get used to the controls. As I was playing, I was annoyed at just running back and fourth with 
 little missions or repeating little things. But as the story progressed and bigger missions arrived, 
 I found myself enjoying this game. Despite the horrible graphics (for a 3rd gen gaming machine) , 
 and cheesy sounds from the wii controller, this is an enjoyable game that deserves a chance. I 
 am actually quite surprised at enjoying a zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickler2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I've never played any Zelda game before so I have no fanboi hype holding me back. The opening scene 
 was so disappointing as soon as I saw all the text flooding into the screen with their mouths flapping 
 away with no intangible words coming out I felt I had been ripped off already. How hard would it 
 be to get some voice actors and take the game out of the 90's when adding voices was to hard for 
 Nintendo because out the limited space out their media cartridges. Voice sound adds so much to 
 a game in making the characters come alive. Graphics... cinematic menu scene of Link riding his 
 horse along a cliff edge was almost laughable. The huge solid polygon shape was like Super Mario 
 64 but with textures larger then 4x4pix. Nintendo's RCA s-video cable only makes this worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's get right to it, shall we? How does Twilight Princess stack up? Is it a worthy Legend of 
 Zelda sequel? The short answer is yes.
  
  There are a lot of things this game did right. The classic 3D Zelda formula shines through, and 
 it really gives this game a strong kick of nostalgia. Trust me, its for the better. Despite this 
 game's slight departure from the classic Zelda storyline, it still plays out like a classic... 
 with lots of secrets tucked in every corner, challenging dungeon puzzles, boss monsters of impressive 
 scale, and an enourmous cast of endearing characters. There's always something to do... minigames 
 galore, and sidequests too. Every once and a while you'll happen upon the random mini-dungeon... 
 a great new addition. What used to be a one-room hole with some fish in it turned out to be long, 
 winding corridors filled with monsters and chests. Treasure hunting is now a viable carrier choice 
 in Hyrule. I must say I'm pleased.
  
  Perhaps the absolute best part of this game, which sets it apart from those that came before it, 
 is the story. I was really impressed with the more cinematic tone this game took, with new characters 
 and charged emotion over top of a dramatic conflict.
  
  The music was also spectacular. Though they opted for the synth-style tracks you might have found 
 in generations past instead of digital recordings, it definently fits with the game. I'm going 
 to go ahead and say this game has the best soundtrack of any Zelda I've played ever... and a better 
 one than many that I've played recently.
  
  So, all is well and good right? Great game, pretty (if dated) graphics and sound, a new adventure 
 and a new story... what could be wrong?
  
  I'm going to say it... the worst thing to happen to Twilight Princess was Wii.
  
  The control 
 scheme had it's moments. It was fun at first. As I played on, however... I began to realize that 
 the Wii controller on this game was holding me back. I thought back to Ocarina of TIme and Majora's 
 Mask... how I could dart and roll about in combat, switch items without worry, and shoot with pinpoint 
 accuracy on the draw. Even after extended play, these tasks are impossible in Twilight Princess. 
 First off, the swordfighting is executed by physically swinging the Wiimote. The direction or speed 
 really has no bearing on the execution of the attack... you just wiggle it and you go. Ok, not 
 too exciting... but the problem is that it was slow. There always seemed to be a noticeable delay 
 between my wiggles and the sword swipes. All too often, I'd get clobbered in the face by a bat 
 that snuck in while I was fidgeting to draw my blade. Most other attacks are executed by moving 
 the Nunchuk in some fashion. Again, easy enough, but the problem here is that sometimes I might 
 gesture for one attack and produce the other by mistake. The delay is also apparent here too. My 
 frustration led me to making short, sharp thrusts with the Wii controls, which really didn't seem 
 to help but tired out my wrists. Simply put... attacks should have been assigned to buttons. Aiming 
 with the pointer was cool. It seemed to work well, but again it had problems. After all that sword 
 swinging and shield-thrusting... the odds of your cursor being pointed at the screen as you draw 
 an item in the heat of battle is about zero. When this happens, Link will freeze in place and a 
 POINT WIIMOTE AT SCREEN message will persist until you do so. In your clamor, you will wildly aim 
 all over the screen before you get your bearings, and by then it will be too late. Z-Targeting 
 saves you in this department... however, the maximum radius of Z-Targeting is very small. As you 
 move about in combat, you disengage very frequently, which can be disorienting and frustrating.
 
  
  It is a blessing inside a curse that the vast majority of combat in Twilight Princess, like any 
 other Zelda game, is extraordinarily easy. After you've aquired some extra hearts and healing items, 
 you will be nigh unstoppable for the remainder of the game. The only real challenges in battle 
 will be the particularly crazy fights, where you forget exactly how a particular enemy or boss 
 situation is to be handled. Personally, I would have liked to see more challenging combat... but 
 I say that about every Zelda. Thankfully, the rewarding elements of exploring the dungeons and 
 occasional exciting miniboss fight help keep you on your toes somewhat.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a worthy followup to the 3D Zeldas before it. It 
 improves on the Zelda formula in some ways, and does not fix what isn't broken. For fans of the 
 franchise, at times it will be nostalgic, at times it will be rehash, but far and away it will 
 make you remember why games like this are so cool.
  
  Fans of fantasy games should definently give this one a try. The Wii controls are certainly new 
 but not always for the better. This is hands-down the best Wii game so far, and should be a part 
 of every Wii owner's collection. If you are not fortunate enough to have Wii yet, you could pick 
 this up on GC... which I almost wish I did. The Wii controls don't add a significant amount to 
 the experience, in my opinion. I would have preferred a more precise control scheme as opposed 
 to one that thinks flailing your wrists wildly is an engaging way to emulate swordplay.
  
  +Classic 3d Zelda gameplay returns
  +New story is a cut above those before it
  +Excellent soundtrack
 
  +The new dungeons are extra long and puzzling (as they should be)
  -Combat is too easy
  -Graphics and sounds, though great, are somewhat dated
  -The Wii controls add nothing to the 
 experience that the occasional frustration does not take away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diflogeit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I dunno where to start. At first, I thought that this game was going to be great. Then, a bunch 
 of people who got the wii early, said it had dissapointed them. But now that I have it, I realize 
 that they are complete morons. this is one of the best games ever. Playing as a wolf is fun, and 
 easy too. It uses similar controls as playing as a human. aiming with a bow or slingshot is one 
 of the better features of the game. The only annoying part is midna's laugh. It comes from the 
 wiimote, it's extremely annoying. also using the sword by swinging the controller can become tiring. 
 Overall, it's a pretty good game. It is a great successor to the windwaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milskad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  i think the legend of zelda twilight princess will live up to everyones expectations. It is a brillliant 
 adventure and all the fans will enjoy it, but non zelda fans might feel left out. I think tp is 
 one of the, or even the best game ever made with a beautiful story line and good graphics but it 
 hasnt shown the best graphical potentila of the wii. So if you have a wii get this. But there still 
 is a down side too it it might be a long game it is still quiet easy. And you might even fell that 
 you are still playing the legend of zelda ocurina of time, but still if you have a wii get this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpicle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Zelda games have been around since the good old NES days and its popularity has not run out yet 
 . I am glad to announce this game brings all the goodness of the original and mixes in new elements 
 to make the best Zelda ever. This game was four years in the making but now I know why. The game 
 is longer than must of the other Zelda games combined (you will probably put at least 60+ hours 
 to beat the game entirely (not counting sidequests) so you will have a long time with this game.) 
 This game brings some new things to the table with all the old goodies along the way. You will 
 fight incredible enemies, colussal bosses, and solve challedging puzzles while going through the 
 emense world of this Zelda game. So, move over Ocarina there is a new game in town, and its name 
 is Twilight Princess!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke_is_cool
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is called the Legend of Zelda: Twilight princess, and it is amazing. You start out in 
 a small village as a shepherd boy, but as the game progresses you become the hero of Hyrule. Though 
 many people could already expect many things from this game, master sword, arrows, and bombs, the 
 game still delivers new experiences to already familiar items, the clawshot (which is like the 
 hookshot) , iron boots (walking on magnetic fields) , and the boomerang ( which shoots out tornadoes) . 
 Probably the most revolutionary thing about the game is the controls, the controls work almost 
 perfectly in the game, aiming the bow is easy, swinging the sword is a snap, and this system of 
 controls make the first person mode much more easier to look around. the only problems that I have 
 with the game are that the sounds that come out of Wii-mote sound cheap, and though the graphics 
 are great, the textures could be better. all in all The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a 
 superb game that is probably one of the greatest launch games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnislash_13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  OK, first thing is first, this is a user review, and this user has different opinions than other 
 uses so don't take my words as definitive fact and also don't argue with them.
  
  GAMEPLAY - I've played Zelda on the NES, SNES, Gameboy, N64 and Gamecube and never before have 
 I found the the gameplay to be this good. Considering the quality of play from OOT onwards that 
 is a strong statement but honestly the amount of things Link can do in this game is staggering, 
 honestly, TP Link beats other Links in battle hands down. The Hidden Skills add a layer of play 
 absent in the past, they make you feel like you can truly handle yourself in a one-to-one sword 
 battle but even without them there are enough unique new items and twists on classic ones to equip 
 you for any situation. Playing as Wolf-Link is a great new twist and the controls work really well, 
 it feels really different than any incarnation you've had before. The horse-related gameplay is 
 better than it has ever been with horseback combat allowing for some great open-field encounters. 
 I also like that you can now take damage whilst on your horse, unlike the N64 games where hopping 
 on Epona saved you from any and all dangers. It would take me forever to break down all the different 
 ways you control actions in this game but to keep it short it is truly immersive and intuitive.
 
  
  GRAPHICS - In virtually every review you will find of this game you will hear comparisons to the 
 Gamecube version and word is that it is visually identical. I say word is because I have not seen 
 the Gamecube version in action myself but I own a Gamecube and have seen the graphical limitations 
 and I would be very surprised if the above statement is true. I say with confidence my Gamecube 
 is not capable of producing the visuals you will see in Twilight Princess. Every detail is thought 
 of, in the past things like Hyrule Castle have just been distant renders that offer no interaction 
 but now it is a fully fledged, incredibally animated fortress. There are a great deal of moments 
 in this game that will leave you blown away, for example leaping the roof-tops of Hyrule Castle, 
 in which you won't have time to put it into comprehensive thought as the action is so high but 
 trust me you will be stunned. The cutscenes too are incredible and because of these visuals the 
 game feels more epic than any Zelda has before. Character models are the most impressive thing 
 though, Link has such detail in his design instead of a single shade of green.
  
  SOUND - Another common complaint is the sound from the Wii-mote but it sounds fine to me. I don't 
 want THX coming out of the thing, as long as the effect is created and I think it is. I was more 
 concerned about the non-adjustable (as far as I know) volume as I found myself playing this game 
 in the early hours of the morning whilst my family were asleep. As for the television related sound 
 effects go this is a masterpiece. There are endless effects and a great deal of musical themes, 
 some familiar and some new. It's what you expect from Zelda. Every game so far has had one or more 
 old themes or effects re-used or re-mixed and it keeps them feeling Zelda. With Wind Waker this 
 was one of the key things that made you say to doubters of the cel-shading It feels like Zelda 
 . Finally I swear I could swing for the next person who says Zelda should have voice-acting. It's 
 never had it, it never should. I have played many games that are ruined by voice acting and if 
 we ever got a person playing Link you know there would be uproar as everyone perceives Link in 
 different ways.
  
  REPLAY VALUE - Well it's a Zelda game afterall, it has tons! Side-quests add a good 20 hours to 
 the game if you want to TRULY complete it. If you're happy just playing to the end then you will 
 be left with a feeling of emptiness when it's over. For a few days you will say to yourself that 
 you won't start over again for a long time but give it a week and you will miss it and long to 
 play it all over again. It plays like a movie, no a trilogy of movies. You are compelled to continue 
 and this does not fade the second time through. I will grant you that there are parts you would 
 rather not do again but there are far more that you would trade a limb to play again. And who doesn't 
 love fishing?
  
  STORY - I have touched on this already but I'll say it again, this is the best story in the history 
 of Zelda, possibley all games. Heck, it's better than most films I've seen recently. The new darker 
 theme makes it feel all the more epic and some of the cutscenes are so memorable you will clammer 
 for some kind of theatre option to replay them, probably a clever ploy to make you play it again, 
 not that doing so will bother you. This Zelda feels more polished, like they took Ocarina of Time, 
 a basically perfect game, and asked how they could make it better. The final fight for me is the 
 best of the series as you get a feeling closure lacking in the past. You feel you really went toe 
 to toe with the bad-guy, though it should be obvious to all who it is, I won't spoil it.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS - For me this is the best game I've ever played. I don't remember being so addicted 
 to a game before. I don't remember one that got to me on such a deep level like this did. It felt 
 like something special that I felt unworthy of. I would have paid the price of the Wii for this 
 game alone, NO JOKE. Everyone compares Zelda games to Ocarina of Time to judge how good they are 
 and I'd say that's fair, it is the best game ever made. Well in my eyes that changed Decemeber 
 8th (Europe) . To me this feels like Ocarina of Time+. If they were to remake OOT for current consoles 
 it would resemble TP. The gameplay, story and visuals make this a distant winner for game of the 
 year. COME ON, IT'S ZELDA, DID YOU EXPECT LESS?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philie22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome and a must buy game! its like ocarina of time never finished and carried on 
 but the graphics got better and so did the gameplay! brilliant and so far i have no downside on 
 this game!
  Fishings amazing too!! the wii controller makes it so fun and addictive! characters are cool and 
 so are the dungeons ive been to so far! midna is a cool character too! this game keeps suprising 
 me! so many twists and great side missions too! if your unsure about getting a wii this game a 
 lone is worth it!!! plus the other games ive played so far on the wii are great fun! just purchased 
 warioware smooth moves another game thats such as laugh!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sketchbaz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Sections- This is where people are generally split, Zelda doesn't possess high resolution textures 
 or high poly models. But it makes up for that by miles with the incredible art style, and the frankly 
 mind blowing effects. When I say that I mean it seriously, the water effects and blur rival anything 
 I have ever seen in a game. This is a beautiful looking game, don't listen to what some people 
 say.
  
  
  Frankly here, if you've played one Zelda, you've pretty much played them all. So it's a pretty 
 good thing that they all possess astounding gameplay. TP is no exception, it will hook you.
  
  
  The only problem here really is the lack of voiceovers for the characters, which I will 
 not lie, would be nice. Link of course would be better without a voiceover, but I really think 
 it could have benefited. I also seem to be in a minority who doesn't mind the music, sure properly 
 orchestrated music would be a huge improvement, but it does it's job nicely.
  
  Other than that the wii remote's speaker is a little tinny, but lowering the remote volume fixes 
 that problem.
  
  This is a game WELL worth your money, I advise anyone who can buy it to buy it, although it isn't 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Zelda game of all time. It is a must have game.
  I guess all I need to say is, their is nothing bad about this game.
  
  BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY 
 BUY BUY.
  
  Actually the only bad thing was in th storyline. Gannondorf came into the story to late in the 
 game. It would have been nice to have him as a known bad guy earlier then we found out. However 
 I was glad that Vant wasn't the only bad guy. Vant fights you like a crazy drunk drug dealer and 
 he is possibly the weirdest of all characters in the history of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame458
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Besides this, the only zelda I played was ocarina of time. Graphics: The first thing I noticed 
 about this game was the graphics. Many areas the graphics are nice, some areas the graphics are 
 okay. The character you play as and all the other characters were done great graphics wise, however 
 the scenery was quite last gen
  
  but hey, its the Wii, it was made for gameplay. Gameplay: Now the gameplay really makes up for 
 everything. The gameplay was great and I was amazed. Yes there are puzzles and parts which get 
 you tired that you just want to quit, but then when you go back to playing the game a little bit 
 after and let your mind relax, you finally get everything and finish up. There are bosses which 
 are fun to fight and several smaller enemies to keep you having fun practicing newly learned sword 
 moves. Yes throughout the game you learn sword moves. It really gets addicting because of the wii 
 remote. Throughout the beginning of the game, I was a little bit tired of being a wolf because 
 you play as a wold for like the first 10 hours of the adventure ( depending on how good you are 
 at video games) . But after that, you really get interested because you become a human again.
  
  Weapons: There are couple of weapons throughout the game that really add fun to finding out 
 more and more ways of killing your enemies. Some you buy and most of them you find throughout your 
 journey. This game has the infamous master sword and the fun archery bow ( named hero's bow in the 
 game)
  
  The game lasted me quite over 60 hours to beat 100%. This game is totally worth it ( however many 
 people have different gaming likes and dislikes) . This game really gave me hope in the future of 
 the wii and really occupies your time. The wii controls really add a great touch. And after you 
 are done beating the boss, there are many side missions and medium time missions that keep you 
 from being bored. You can win prizes or go back to places and find things that you missed from 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeblink182
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying... this Game Is AMAZING. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 has been in development for 4 years and delayed several times, and let me tell you that it was 
 totally worth the wait. When The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was first announced, it was 
 announced as a GameCube game. But later on when the Wii was announced the team decided to make 
 it a Wii game also, with enhanced controls and more feedback . The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess's 
 story line is amazing from beginning to end and full of surprises. This game is huge, there is 
 over 50 Hours of game play. Puzzles in the Zelda series has always been common, and no doubt there 
 are puzzles in Twilight Princess, some of can be very frustrating (omg trust me Iv gone through 
 them all) and on the other hand some of them are very logical. The biggest surprise in the game 
 (in my opinion) is when you find out who the twilight princess is! The game play in this game works 
 great for the Wii remote. Controlling Link in this game makes use of the nunchucks analog stick 
 to move around. To swing Links sword you swing the Wii remote like you would swing a real sword. 
 And the best and most useful control in this game is firing weapons, all it takes is pointing at 
 the screen and letting go of the B button. I have to admit I was slightly disappointed in the graphics 
 in this game. This game is basically a GameCube port with enhanced controls. There is jagged edges 
 on some of the places in the game and there is blurry textures in some of the Hyrule field. But 
 besides some of the graphical blemishes this game looks fantastic, never has Link looked so good. 
 In a artistic perspective the game looks fantastic, the folks at Nintendo are really talented. 
 From the technical specs on the Wii, I know that the Wii is capable of doing much more. The music 
 in this game is wonderful. I noticed some tunes from the N64's Ocarina of Time and some from Wind 
 Waker, and some (but not alot) of new ones. Overall this game is a must have for the Wii and a 
 necessity for any new or old Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman8012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to give kudos to the people at Nintendo at another successful 3-D Zelda game 
 as this new Zelda is one of the best to date next to Ocarina of Time which in my opinion was and 
 still is the best Zelda game to date. But that is getting out of the subject of what I am writing 
 about. The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess game review.
  
  I find this game to be interesting as to how it is told and the feeling to it. With LZTP (The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess) it has a grittier feeling than most of the other Zelda games. Don't 
 get me wrong that is not a bad thing but very much so something on the positive side. With the 
 new revamped graphics from the last Zelda game the game feels so real like you are in the moment. 
 I don't know why some people keep on saying that the graphics don't look great because they do. 
 The graphics on this game are amazing and what some people don't realize is that Zelda is supposed 
 to feel like a realistic fantasy cartoon.
  
  There are lots of gadgets and do-dads this time around as what would not be a Zelda game without 
 those. But the only problem I found with that is the fact that once you work so hard to get one 
 of those gadgets and get the gadgets yoiu end up only using one or two gadgets throughout the whole 
 game. Like for example you use the clawshot, bowand arrows, and bombs so much but never use the 
 really fun items such as the Dominion Rod which is the one where you control the statues. That 
 is a fun item. So is the clawshot but you use it to much.
  
  Only two other problems occur with this game otherwise this is perfect. The first one is that you 
 receive the horse call way to late in the game than you should. I found myself to many times stuck 
 in the middle of a field with no horse grass nearby and I can't find any and need to get to Zora's 
 Domain from Kokariko Gorge.
  
  The other problem that occurs is sometimes the noise receiving into my wii mote doesn't always 
 register and make all the noises. but of course this may not be the game it may be the controller 
 or the system so this isn't proven.
  
  Now to let you know this review was set on all of the negatives everything else about this game 
 is perfect. That is my review style. If you have any questions send me a post.
  
  Have Fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haggard_korn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is Nintendo's latest Zelda game. And it is also the best. 
 Twilight Princess gives a whole new look on the controlls since it is on the Wii. Shooting the 
 arrows, and using the other items that you usually aim with, you will now use the Wii remote. Most 
 of the weapons are some that have been used in the series before, but they do have a different 
 look. Link also has a different look, this time he looks more realistic than ever before. There 
 are plenty of dungeons in Twilight Princess. Some might even make you think. Most of them have 
 the same names as the ones in Ocarina of Time, I thought this was actually pretty cool, since Ocarina 
 of Time was great. A few of the dungeons are new as well. The fighting is as good as it could be 
 with the Wii remote. This time you actually have to swing the Wii remote to make Link use his sword, 
 the other controller will be used for movement and the shield. This stays cool from beginning to 
 end. Link will also be able to transform into a blue eyed wolf. You will have to be the wolf to 
 solve certain puzzles, and to defeat certain enemies. Being the wolf in new and cool. As the wolf 
 you also have a really cool attack, if you are surrounded by enemies just press and hold B and 
 a circle will form around you, when you let go any enemies inside it will be attacked instantly. 
 If there's more than one enemy you will combo attack them, which is even cooler. All in all, Twilight 
 Princess is a definite buy for the Wii, and definitely a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I did really like the game.
  Don&acute; t have problems with the move sensor as in other games.
  Really great game and story.
 
  Nice side quests and minigames.
  Have someone found all the golden bugs without help ?
  I did not like the story end ( it was like, it is just this ? and what happen when ?) and I did 
 not like the Zelda in this story, she was a bit useless. Midna is a great character, I hope to 
 see her in some other Legends of Zelda.
  The graphics are really great, really diferent from the Wind Awaker. I did really like the wolf 
 graphic and Midna. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dododo902109
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game has changed the way we play Zelda, with it's stunning visual graphics, great story line, and 
 how you play the game, with motion sensing controls of the Wii. This game is probably the best Zelda 
 game since Zelda OoT was released in 1998. Even if you've never played Zelda in your whole life, Try 
 it, I think it'll be great for any Zelda fan or if you've never played one from it's series. It's 
 also a Flashback from OoT with the master sword and so many cities from OoT. So many charachters 
 you will meet again like Epona, Gannondorf, And of course Zelda, but as well as some newcomers such 
 as Midna that has an epic effect in the story line, teaming up with Link, Trying to save Hyrule and 
 the rest of the World from the Evil Growing Twilight Realm.
  Also stunning Boss Battles and Dungeons you wouldn't even belive. New Weapons such as the Clawshot/double 
 Clawshots, The Gale Boomerang, that of which you can target on five targets at a time, even target 
 one item 5 times if you want.
  
  Anyway, I would absolutly recommend this game to any of you, rather on Wii ot Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_jus_in
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game cause it's just plain fun. It isn't to hard to play and not to easy eather 
 what is genius. There are some rumours about a redisign of Zelda but I hope it will always stay 
 like: The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess. I also enjoyed every temple in his own way and the 
 bosses were magniffisant. And everybody who dares to complain about the graphics just needs to 
 *** up cause the graphics are exactly like they should be and are perfect for a zelda gameIf every 
 Wii game was like this one then Microsoft and Sony woudn't exist anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  The last Zelda released on a non-handheld console was 'The Legend of Zelda : Wind Waker'. This 
 took a new turn for Zelda with its cheeky and cartoonish graphics and lengthy adventure. However, 
 2006 saw the arrival of Nintendo's newest addition to infamous Zelda franchise.
  
  Twilight Princess is a wii-launch title and had been delayed for several months before it was released 
 alongside the revolutionary Nintendo console. Boasting great graphics, amazing gameplay and wii-mote 
 intergration, a 40+ hour story and brilliant sound effects and theme tunes, Twilight Princess, 
 although highly awaited, has not let down in any way and never ceases to pull you in further into 
 its incredible adventure!
  
  Once again you star as Link ( but you'll probably call yourself something else ) and once again 
 you must save Hyrule from Disiaster. This time, an evil sorcerer has captured the light within 
 Hyrule and you must win back the light from the regions of Hyrule that have been plaunged into 
 darkness (or Twilight) . However, this new game sees you turning into a wolf when in the Twilight 
 zones and you are aided by the mischevious Midna - a former resident of the Twilight world who 
 is seeking your help to banish the evil sorcerer who has engulfed both Hyrule and the Twilight 
 world. When Twilight engulfs a region of Hyrule, everyone is transformed into souls and it is your 
 job to retrieve the droplets of light from the servants of the Dark lord!
  
  When not in the Twilight regions, you are Link in human form ( however later you get the ability 
 to transform between Link and the wolf thanks to Midna's power ) . As a wolf, you can use your senses 
 for all sorts of necessary actions such as seeing the souls of the people and following scents 
 of things... e. t. c. However, you will be as link for most of the game and you can do all of the 
 skills seen in previos games and much more.
  
  Now, the wiimote and nunchuk play a vital role in you adventure and both are used well and in many 
 different ways. The wiimote is used for actions such as sword fighting, archery, fishing and much 
 more and nunchuk is used for movement and some other fighting actions as well as looking around. 
 Sword fighting works extremely well and you really feel as if your in the fight, but some times 
 you can feel as if you just flicking the wiimote to fight and there's no real skill. The nunchuk 
 is used to spin attack and this is very responsive and so is the wiimote with it's fighting actions.
 
  
  Now, you can expect to see everything you have seen in previos Zeldas and more. The whole world 
 that the game takes place in is vast and extremely enjoyable to be in. The game sees you exploring 
 everywhere and that's when its best to have aid from Epona ( your trusty horse ) or to thrash about 
 in wolf form! As expected, there are many dungeons to explore and progress through and the difficulty 
 of these increase as you further through the game. Most are very un-linear which is great and it 
 can take some time to complete a dungeon un-helped. However, one of the main things about Zelda 
 is how rewarding it is. It is such a great feeling to complete a dungeon or find a new weapon or 
 item, however, this can be bad for when you actually complete the game as it can be quite saddening! 
 lol.
  
  Twilight Princess takes around 40 hours to complete ( but these fly by ) but it can take longer 
 if you branch off exploring and such. I completed it in just under 50 hours and it was worth every 
 second!
  
  Graphics and sound wise, Twilight princess surpasses all expectations with brilliantly detailed 
 visuals and it is excellently accompanied by some of the best music to be found on a game, although 
 it is hard to find music that hasn't been heard in previous games.
  
  Overall, The legend of Zelda : Twilight Princess is, in my view, possibly the greatest adventure 
 game and boasts features that any gamer can love and cherish! Anyone who says otherwise is either 
 stupid or just looking for attention as noone can blemish this truley staggering piece of gaming 
 art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shred_master
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, Kind of. Let me start by saying, I've been waiting for this game way back in '04 when nintendo 
 first released the trailer on their website. So after counting down the hours, and enduring multiple 
 delays, let me say I was not dissapointed. This game is a huge rush of nostalgia, just as I hoped. 
 It has the classic bluebrint of OoT, with some new, exellent features. The wii controls work well, 
 though it may take some getting used to, and the wolf/twilight aspect is a great breath of fresh 
 air. These new features, along with The exellent graphics and sound (Which is what the zelda franchise 
 is known for) , crown this game as an true next-gen classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyttyn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  First off i must say, WAT THE HELL WAS THE GUY WHO WROTE THE OFFICAL REVIW's FRIGGIN PROBLEM?!??!?!?!?!? this 
 game is WAY beyond whatever his sick mind though! I mean COMEON! how the hell can you say this is 
 bad? I would be playing it right now if i hadent lost the numchuck atachment! stil looking for that 
 dam thing... well anayway, even if you say OMG LIK ZELDA IS THE WORSE!!111oneoneone PICK THIS UP 
 FANBOYS-and girls-! It rivals OoT! if only geting a Wii for this game, then get a wii for only this 
 game! BURN THE PS3s! NINTENDO SHAL RULE! ALL HAIL NINTENDO! ALL HAIL LINK!
  well i need 100 words to submit this, soo... might as well finshup. Zelda&gt; your  
 in the universe&gt; Sony AKA the bastards who stole nintendos ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_hho
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Now this is the new one for the zelda series and its the game where everyone is waiting for. I 
 gota tell you its a good game buts its too easy but it isnt the **** Compare it to Ocarina is pretty 
 low but its still great game to play and a good start for zelda noobs. This game epresents the 
 darker side of zelda and theres actually blood YAY! This game is more darker side than any other 
 zelda game and a lil bit more violent. The most favourite thing i like about this game compare 
 to the storyline, action, new sequels: is Hyrule because it is huge and more like hyrule than Ocarina's 
 big circle. The place is huge as hell and it takes foever to walk across the whole thing and dont 
 even try it. pce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  It's innovative controls, vibrant and detailed visuals, pleasing audio and generally well-written 
 dialogue make it a truly immersive and entertaining gaming experience. It's got a beefy storyline 
 that's fun to follow, and plenty of enjoyable characters as well. For the most part, it's generally 
 quite an easy game (once you get used to the new controls, that is) but it's a long journey, that's 
 for sure! Expect it to take you anywhere from 20-60 hours to complete, depending on what kind of 
 gamer you are. Point is, if you own a Wii, you MUST own Zelda. Don't even rent it first! It's definitely 
 worth your hard-earned $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomdisasta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Zelda: The Twilight Princess, one of the most anticipated games, is back. This time he is in his 
 real time form just like in the n64 version. Everything in this game is amazing. The graphics are 
 sharp and crisp especially the big and spacious world to explore through. The monsters are unique 
 and detailed. However, there are at times where there are rough edges visible to the eye, which 
 brings the whole graphical achievement. The sound is awesome with great tunes but not as great 
 as the past Zelda games. There are not many memorable tunes in this one. The best thing is the 
 game play. It is a 40+ hour game if all the side quests are done. It takes a huge amount of time 
 to go through one dungeon after the other. The puzzles and riddles are back in this game. It can 
 get frustrating at times when you cannot solve it. There is some replay value in this game. You 
 can go and collect all the hearts, bugs, etc which can take some time. There is no real meaning 
 of beating the game again after that. Overall, this game stands as one of the great Zelda games 
 to launch on this system. With the new Wii controller scheme, it makes it more unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amtentori
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Lets get easy things out of the way first....
  
  controls: I believe they work well enough for the sword fighting and the aiming is amazing. What 
 would have made them better is if the movements actually matched what you did with the wiimote... 
 not one to one but at least horizontal, vertical and stab motions. Even though the game is motion 
 sensing you can be lying down on your couch comfortably while playing it without getting tired.
 
  
  Speaker: I believe it is not used well. For some sounds it works... for others it feels overused. 
 The shield clashing clings, the bottle cork closing, the puzzle solving Zelda chime work and ADD 
 to the experience. To sword slashed and some of the claw shot sounds for example sound horrible 
 and bothered me a lot. Its not a big deal because turning the speaker volume down or off fixes 
 the problem. I played the game with a low speaker volume and it solved the problem. The speaker 
 didnt have to work to hard to get the loud sound out and so it actually sounded a lot better and 
 wasnt annoying. I believe the speaker functionality overall feels a bit tacked on and so a Zelda 
 built with this in and will actually make a better use of this feature. No fully orchestrated music: 
 couldnt care less... the music is great... especially daytime hurtle field...
  the only problem is the reuse of some old ocarina of time songs such as saria's song .... too familiar 
 but not classic enough.
  
  Voice acting: although the game could have benefited a bit from good voice acting for the non-playable 
 character I dont feel it affected the game as much... I dont even think it would need to be English... 
 midnas gibberish makes it feel much better than nothing..... and this way we dont have to complain 
 about Zelda characters not speaking hylian etc.
  
  Graphics: I liked Windwakers; I like these as well... artistically impressive. From a technical 
 standpoint I believe the graphics could use a bit more work... even for the game cube... link looks 
 great but some enemies look very jaggy, polygonal, and undetailed and some textures are 64 quality. 
 No for the hard part.... how good is the game overall?
  
  First of, let me say... buy this game... buy a wii for this game. if you havent played any Zelda 
 games so far you will love this game so much... if you have played other Zelda games youll really 
 like this game too, but I feel this game would feel amazing had I not played so many Zelda games 
 so many times before.. Lets discuss the number first 8.8, which is a bit on the low side for such 
 an expected game.
  8.8 as a Wii launch game: good score... We dont know what the standards of the system are and 
 we know the game did not push the hardware.
  
  8.9 as a gamecube game: not so convinced here.... this means that pikmin 2 and windwaker are better 
 games overall for the gamecube and I have to disagree. Windwaker is a great game but was a bit 
 more disappointing for a Zelda game because it was too easy and too short. I think 9.3 was a little 
 too high. I would rate Twilight Princess around a 9.1 and Windwaker around a 9.0 for the cube.
 
  
  8.8 as a Zelda game: if ocarina was a ten then 8.8 is spot on. Why?
  
  Twilight Princess Flaws: difficulty: combat is a breeze. Bosses are a breeze. Bosses are amazing 
 but hey are so easy to defeat its not satisfying at all and its very disappointing. If you play 
 Ocarina of Time now you might find them easy now, but because it was the first time you were fighting 
 Zelda bosses in 3d if felt new, exciting, and challenging. The boss fights in Twilight Princess 
 are amazing and feel epic, but then you look at your life meter and realizing that you only lost 
 2 hearts is a turn off. I'm surprised how little damage enemies do.... if an enemies strikes you 
 with a sword on the head you only lose a quarter heart.... What the heck? Honestly. I know that 
 miyamoto likes thinking of nongamers but if that were the case then at least the difficulty would 
 incrementally go up as you get into the game.... Im sure that by the time you reach the 5th dungeon 
 boss you are probably not a useless nongamer anymore.
  
  Familiarity: the game does everything better than Ocarina of Time and yet the overall experience 
 is not as good... why? been there done that feel.... I believe that taking away the gorons, zoras, 
 death mountain, etc would actually make the game better. In Ocarina of Time you were discovering 
 a new world.... in Twilight Princess you are playing a redesigned version... it makes the game 
 feel like an expansion. These are design elements but the biggest problem is the reusing of some 
 gameplay elements that really ruin the experience. The lost woods like parts, the Poe fires in 
 arbiter grounds, bouncing the energy balls in the last battle, way too familiar... feels unoriginal, 
 uninventive and disappointing for someone who has played Ocarina of Time about 5 times through. 
 This is why if I feel this game will feel amazing if you never played ocarina.
  
  emptiness in some areas: although castle town and kakariko are big, there are few shops, people 
 with problems, things to explore, people to talk to, people to help, etc. this was something ocarina, 
 majoras, and ww did a lot better than Twilight Princess. weapons like the spinner, gale boomerang 
 and rod are neat, but you barely do anything with them. You use them in the dungeons you found 
 them and that is pretty much it.... they should be more extendable and have more uses. A general 
 lack of small secrets in the game, this makes it uninteresting to visit places again... examples 
 ordon, kakariko, the graveyard, the hidden village, snowpeak. Too many rupee chests, too few collectibles. 
 the bugs are fun to collect but they are few and easy to find. All you get for them is coins until 
 you get the last one which makes it a little boring and predictable. Poes are a bit harder to find 
 which is good but you dont get anything exciting either. You get to keep your ordon sword and 
 shield but why? There is no reason to use them... so if we are going to keep these let us keep 
 our ordon clothes and the wooden sword as well.....
  
  Personal wants that have yet to be fulfilled in a Zelda game: a better inventory system where its 
 actually possible for link to carry all that he does... ball and chain anyone? For example when 
 you get a quiver show it on link, make link carry a small bomb bag or something on his belt... 
 I dont know.... just a personal little craving.
  
  Anyhow I do believe that this game sets the bar extremely high for Zelda titles to come and so 
 Im very excited to see the next game. To end in a good note: things I believe this game did well.
 
  Horse combat: awesome, need I say more? Double claw shots: does anyone dislike Spiderman
  zora suit and magic armor: pretty nifty
  link having a more personal story inside the big picture... 
 I really did like the feel link had in this game... being a humble farm boy who really cares about 
 his friends and gets wrapped up in saving the world somehow. Did you notice that farmer boy link 
 doesnt even have a magic meter? I dont know why but I like it. The only thing Im not a fan of 
 is how link got the green clothing... windwaker and ocarina did a better job at that with the kokiri 
 and birthday thing.
  Dungeon design: probably the best in the series, the new puzzles are really clever. Only complaint 
 is the reuse of some old elements and the fact that previously acquired weapons are barely used 
 in other dungeons.
  
  Ok Im done...
  
  The biggest fans are the harshest critics.
  Why is this game not the best Zelda game ever? Because it was released after Ocarina of Time and 
 fails to differentiate itself enough which is why Twilight Princess will inevitably fall under 
 the shadow of its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Zelda Ocarina of Time is the best game ever made. With its fantastic atmosphere and classic Zelda 
 feel it set the top bar for how good the next gen 3D games could be. Though no game has reached 
 that bar since, there was huge tension around the release of the new Zelda Twilight Princess for 
 the Nintendo Wii. Having said that, this game was originally made for the Gamecube, but converted 
 onto the Wii. It doesn't fully take benefit of all of the machines features, but still... This 
 works! Many questions has been going around. Is this the best Zelda game ever? Is it long? How 
 many dungeons? I'll gladly answer those questions, just keep on reading.
  
  The graphics are very good. They have gotten some bad reviews, but that's mainly because of the 
 huge competition out there. Gears of War is without question a better looking game, but still I'm 
 very satisfied with the graphics. It never bothered me at all, but rather impressed me at times. 
 Nintendo is aiming for good gameplay, not awesome graphics. Which turns out to be a very good strategy.
 
  
  The Zelda games has always had excellent sounds. The music is very familiar but there are still 
 a ton of new tunes here, and they all sound like Zelda tunes should. But this is where the biggest 
 down side of Zelda TP comes up. The music is mainly in midi quality, which is quite disappointing. 
 It sounds kinda dated at times, sounding like a keyboard. It would have been awesome hearing the 
 music fully orchestrated. Neither does the game feature any voices, so you'll still have to read 
 through the whole story. This isn't much of a minus considering it being sort of a Zelda thing 
 now after all those games, but still, it would have been cool hearing Link's voice. Zelda Twilight 
 Princess begins with this young man at a ranch. After some friends of him gets kidnapped by trolls 
 he's off to save them. But the world is being absorbed by this dark world called the Twilight Realm, 
 and saving those he love is going to be very hard, and take a very long time! I won't tell any 
 more of the story cause I don't bother. The story is great and quite much darker than before. The 
 game is also very long. The first three dungeons will take quite some time to get through, and 
 that's when the game really kicks of. Many games are being stretched out towards the end just to 
 make it last longer, but Zelda TP does no such thing, actually quite the contrary. The game is 
 quite slow in the beginning and speeds up towards the end, and I was quite surprised how fast you 
 go from one temple to the other later on. There are 9 temples in all, and they are all incredibly 
 good. I mean, even better than in Ocarina of Time!!! The second, fourth, fifth, and last temple 
 are just incredibly. I won't spoil their name, nor where they play out, though I'll just say that 
 they are breathtaking. What makes the temples so good is that they are quite different from what 
 you'd expect, and that the new weapons are awesome and that the bosses are insane! Many will be 
 remembered as the best fights in Zelda history! Twilight Princess also feature several side quests, 
 and a lot of heart pieces for you to collect. The town is filled with life and Hyrule field is 
 huge. It took me 45 hours to complete the game, and I was totally 100% devoted to it through the 
 whole story, which makes it quite unique. I sometimes lose interest halfway through because of 
 tedious gameplay or stretched out parts, but Zelda kept me going all the way though. Fans rejoice! 
 This is the Zelda game you've been waiting for. It's one of the very best games ever, and it's 
 the best Zelda game of the century!
  
  +
  The game is very long and you'll even want to replay it! The gameplay is excellent and feels very 
 much like Zelda games should. The atmosphere sucks you in, and you wont go away until it's over. 
 The dungeons are awesome, and the bosses are fantastic. It's easy and satisfying to use the Wii 
 controller. The graphics are good enough! Fishing is great!
  
  -
  The music is mainly in midi quality. The game speeds up towards the end and therefore you don't 
 spend very much time exploring anymore, like you do in the beginning of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eden9914
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Don't Tell Me That Somebody Who Plays Video games Don't Know The Zelda Series.... (ok Maybe A Few...)
 
  Everything In This Game Is Perfect Starting From The Story That It's A Little Bit Darker Than 
 The Other Games (if You Consider That It's A Game From Nintendo) And Also It has A Little Bit Violence 
 Than The Other Games... The Sound Of The Game Is Classic So Everyone Will Find It Nice
  Now For The Controls The Only Thing I Have To Say Is That It's A New Experience That Everyone Will 
 Enjoy...
  The Value Of The Game It's Pretty High If YOu Consider That all The Zelda Games Were Big Enough 
 With A Lot Of Side quests And You'll Need At Least 60-70 hours to complete it and 90 to finish 
 it finding everything in the game...
  Finally I Believe It's Better Than Ocarina Of Time For An Inch But For Some Reason I Believe That 
 The Second Zelda Game For Wii Will Be The Top Of all Zelda Games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is truly a marvelous game. Musically, Graphically, Physically, 
 there just isn't a real negative part of the game that brings down the quality.
  
  ** Possible Spoilers Ahead, Read At Your Own RIsk **
  
  One of the huge advantages the Wii 
 version of TP has over the GC version is how you swing your sword. Rather than just pressing a 
 button, you swing the Wii remote left and right to swing your sword accordingly. You can also swing 
 your nunchuck to perform a spin attack. Using the B button, along with the left, right, and down 
 directons on the D-Pad, you can use different items that Link (your character) picks up on his 
 journey.
  
  You start of in Ordon Village, which is your hometown. A series of events leads to you chasing 
 after three of the village children, as they chase after a monkey that's been vandalizing the village. 
 At the end of your chase (you've already met up with two of the kids) , you find one of the kids 
 trapped in a crate along with the monkey. They're surrounded by monsters. This is just a small 
 part of the many trials and events that Link must go through in order to complete this game.
  
  In most of the Legend of Zelda games, the main character is Link, Zelda, or even Ganon at times. 
 In this game, the main character is actually Midna, who is infact the Twilight Princess. As you 
 advance through the game, the story seems to reveal Midna's true self more and more until at the 
 end of the game, she returns to her true form as the princess of the Twilight Realm.
  
  Midna is also a key help in this game. When you first meet her (as a wolf) , she decides to help 
 you. Basically, Link's world has been blanketed in Twilight and he's determined to stop it. But 
 what's Midna getting out of this you ask? Fused Shadows. The weird fixture on her head is one of 
 them, and within the next three dungeons lie the other three. As you could've guessed, the bosses 
 of said dungeons hold the Fused Shadows.
  
  But that's enough story telling for now, onto the many other features of the game.
  
  The dungeons 
 in Twilight Princess were created with the right mind set, but the difficulty level just isn't 
 there for most of them. The first dungeon that I really had trouble with was the City In The Sky 
 dungeon, which is the 7th out of 9. Unfortunately, the two after that were hardly long enough to 
 be considered dungeons. That's not to say the previous dungeons were boring because of their lack 
 of difficulty. As a matter of fact, my favorite dungeon was the second one (Goron Mines) . While 
 you didn't have many weapons, hearts, or in-game experience for that matter, it was still a fun 
 dungeon to trudge through.
  
  Chances are you'll be playing as human Link throughout most of the game, but the Wolf form plays 
 a big role as well. For the first three dungeons (those Fused Shadow dungeons I was refering to) , 
 you have to play as Wolf Link first and collect the Tears of Light from each area. If you do so, 
 the Twilight will be lifted from the area so you can play as human Link.
  
  Howling Stones also play a role in this game. If you come up to a Howling Stone as a wolf, you'll 
 hear a melody and have to howl it back to the stone (kind of like when you learn a melody in previous 
 LoZ games) . If you do it correctly, a Golden Wolf will tell you to meet him at a certain location 
 once you become human again. That location will be marked on your map. When you do see the Wolf 
 as a human, he will teach you a skill. There are 7 hidden skills in total, and each one will help 
 you in different circumstances. Some enemies can only be defeated using certain skills. I think 
 these skills really added to the game, to help make sword fighting less repetitive.
  
  Puzzle solving is also a big part of this game, as in most Zelda games. Like with the dungeons 
 though, most puzzles were pretty easy to solve, and only had you thinking for a minute or two at 
 a time.
  
  Since the world of Twilight Princess is so massive, warping is also a big part of the game. In 
 certain parts of the game, it will randomly skip to a cutscene (I call them warp-scenes) were you 
 see a hole form in the sky. Out of the hole will come shadow beings, which you have to kill. Once 
 you do kill them, the hole will become a warping spot, so you can return there whenever you please.
 
  
  One thing you would expect more of in a game this massive, would be sidequests and minigames. One 
 of the minigames is the 'STAR' game, which can be found in Castle Town. The goal of the minigame 
 is to collect these glowing orbs that are scattered around this cage. To complete this game you'll 
 need the Clawshot. The first time around, the man who runs the game will give you the Big Quiver, 
 which holds 60 arrows. If you come back, the man will have a second version of the minigame in 
 which you will need the Double Clawshot to complete. If you do complete it, the Giant Quiver will 
 be yours which holds 100 Arrows. Iza's Rapid Ride, is another minigame. When you first find Iza 
 she'll say it's closed. But once you walk away, one of the warp-scenes I told you about will occur. 
 After defeating the shadow beasts, Iza asks for your help. Thanks to an avalanche, rocks are blocking 
 the river rapids. Iza gives you a bomb bag full of bombs, and presumably a bunch of arrows (since 
 you have an unlimited supply for the time being) . Using bomb-arrows, you need to clear out the 
 rocks so that Iza's Rapid Ride can re-open. If you do it successfully, you'll be able to keep the 
 bomb bag once you're finished (this should be your second bomb bag) . If you go back and play the 
 minigame, every one of your bomb bags will double in size when you win.
  
  Wait, did he just say second bomb bag? Yes he did. As a matter of fact, there are three bomb bags 
 available in this game. The first bomb bag, you can buy at Barnes Bombs in Kakariko Village. I've 
 already told you how to get the second bomb bag. And the third bomb bag can be found when you bomb 
 a rock at the bottom of the Royal Chamber in Zora's Domain. But how did you use a bomb under water, 
 you might ask? There are also three different kinds of bombs in this game. The first, would be 
 traditional bombs. The second, would be Water Bombs. These bombs work the same way as regular bombs, 
 but can also be used underwater. Lastly, there are bomblings. Depending on the direction you place 
 the bomb towards, it will walk until it either explodes or hits something.
  
  But these aren't the only new items in the game. Also making it's first appearance in Zelda games 
 is the Double Clawshot. This adds a Spiderman sort of feel to the game, as you can grapple onto 
 consecutive things without touching the ground. There's also the Hawkeye, which allows you to zoom 
 in on your prey before making your move. Also, when you attach it to your bow, you can shoot things 
 at a distance with more accuracy.
  
  Two other sidequests in the game are collecting bugs and poes. Bugs, more accurately known as golden 
 bugs, can be found all around Hyrule. If you catch them and bring them to Agitha (in Castle Town) , 
 she'll reward you. When you bring her your first bug, she'll give you the Big Wallet, which holds 
 up to 600 ruppees. With every bug after that she'll give you either 50 or 100 ruppees. Once you 
 give her every bug (24 I believe) , she'll give you the Giant Wallet which holds 1,000 ruppees.
 
  
  Poes aren't as easy to collect as bugs though. When you find a poe, you'll need to transform into 
 a wolf and use your sense instinct to attack it. When you defeat a poe, you'll get the poes soul. 
 Bring those poe souls to Jovani (you'll need 20 for your first reward) , and he'll reward you with 
 an empty bottle (one of four) .
  
  While not a large part by any stretch of the imagination, fishing does at least play a minor role 
 in the game. While bobber fishing can be done anywhere (with your fishing rod) , lure fishing can 
 only be done at Hena's Fishing Hole. To fish, you simply hold A and swing the remote foward, as 
 if you we're really fishing. To reel your line in, just rotate the nunchuck. If you crave action, 
 fishing probably isn't your thing, but if you don't mind relaxing a bit then you'll probably enjoy 
 this part of the game.
  
  Twilight Princess for the Nintendo Wii, is certainly the best game they've released for it thus 
 far. Personally, I also think it's one of the best games in the series. Ocarina of Time is my favorite 
 game of all time, and while playing through TP I thought it might have a chance at being de-throned. 
 But after completing TP and looking back at the two of them, I've learned that TP, nor any game 
 that I can think of, will ever be the OoT like game we expected. But TP is still one of the best 
 games I've ever played, and certainly worth it's $50 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayfx007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game and all I can say is that it is simply amazing. I loved everything about 
 it. The graphics where great, the music was well orchestrated and the game play was awesome. The 
 wiimote controls where quite easy to get used to and I found it to be somewhat easier than a normal 
 controller. Though some might say that this game lacks originality, i believe that some things 
 shouldn't be changed (if it ain't broke, don't fix it) . I found myself constantly humming along 
 to old tunes from other games such as the Hyrule Castle music from the SNES LTTP. I believe that 
 the nostalgic value in a series such as Zelda, which has spanned across several systems, plays 
 an important role in a series. This game was full of little things that you would recognize from 
 older LoZ's. The dungeons and bosses where what you would expect from a Zelda game, not to long 
 or drawn out but just right. Even after you beat this game, there are still several hours to be 
 had just doing mini-games and side quests (fishing kept me busy for hours) . I felt as though the 
 ending could have been a bit better and i wish the game could have been a bit longer, I beat it 
 right under 40 hrs and that was messing around most of the time. Other than those two things, I 
 thought that this was the best game of the series. Bottom line: if you own a Wii, do yourself a 
 favor if you haven't already and go buy this game. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Long intresting story; Brilliant artistic graphics; hard, but simple puzzles; play as adult 
 link and a wolf; atleast 50hours long; many intresting mini games; fab music; Best Release game 
 on any platform; lots of casts; Hyrule is bigger than ever; More of a mature zelda game;
  
  BAD- Sound spoils it from being another perffect zelda game; Bosses are easy.
  
  GAMEPLAY-
 
  It plays a mixture of Ocarina Of Time and Wind Waker, Ocerina terms becuase you play as the 16-17 
 year old link with his oridginal weapons and dungeons, Waker terms becuse theres more moves to 
 pull, and on this one, the moves are the best than any other zeld games!, during the game you''ll 
 notice small tumb stones across hyrule, if you approce them as wolf form and howl at them and silver 
 wolf will appire at the other side of Hyrule, if you go to it in Human form you'll be transported 
 to a white world were you'll learn awesome looking moves that are easy to pull off and works well 
 with the Wiimote, You dont have to learn them all, but it'll help you defeat dificult enemies, 
 plus they just look awesome when you pull them off, You play as Adult link from Ocarina of time, 
 and i preffer Adult link than Kid link so that made me want to get more than ever, and during the 
 game theres dark places called the Twilight across Hyrule, if you enter in the Twilight you'll 
 turn into a Blue Eyed Wolf, this will give you abbilties that Human Link did'nt have, like Sence, 
 which will track down things you want to find, and helpfull for fiding Poes!, also dig, dig will 
 dig up rupee's and hearts and helps you enter places that Human link cant get too, Plus Wolf Link 
 runs faster, But Human link has his trusted Steed called Epona which you can call when you blow 
 into an Housegrass!. The dungeons in the game are brilliantly designed, No one can make a better 
 puzzle game like this!, There exstreamly long and difficult, there well putten together, i find 
 them even better than Ocarina Of Time, and i though i'd never say that!, You start in the forest 
 dungeon then the Fire dungeon then the water dungeon, then you; ve done the first part of the story, 
 then you'll go onto the second partt ect, theres tons of different styles of dungeon, Like other 
 Dungeons in other Zelda games, your objectives are find Small keys to open doors, solve the puzzles 
 in the room, pick up a new item and find the boss key, then fight the Boss, each boss has different 
 characturistics, so exspect to fight bosses alot different from the last one you fought, they fight 
 differently and they go down differently, but the bad point in the gameplay is that the bosses 
 are a tad easy. The wiimote works exstreamly well in this game, its usefull for many things, like 
 slashing your sword, just a simple swipe, if you use the Knunchuck you'll spin around, use these 
 in combo to pull of the new moves you learnt from the silver wolf guy, the bow is awesome, you 
 just aim you wiimote at the screen and let go, its feels awesome!, the best use of the Wiimote, 
 i think, is the Fishing, Near Zoras domain you can hair a boat were you can catch many different 
 types of fish!, you fish like you would in real life, just cast, hook, and real and fight with 
 the fish when its hooked!.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are bloody fantastic, in an artistic way, they dont look realistic but its how there 
 drawn and they are perffect, you have cool looking cutscenc's that aint in any other zelda games 
 like this one!, and awesome looking backgrounds and characture desgins, Link has also had a make 
 over and looks cooler than ever! there's no frame dropping, bugs, nor glitches, the graphics are 
 perffect.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is great, but the sound spoils it from being another perfect zelda game, you have awesome 
 melody style music annd music in dungeons with different kind of moods, the main thing that spoils 
 it is that link or any other charactires STILL dont talk in it, this is the Next Gen and theres 
 no voice acting?. and the sound effects coming from the Wiimote aint realy that great nither.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  Theres no reason not to buy and love Twilight Princess! Its a game that god himself made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess carries on the successful Zelda series and once again Link 
 is back to save the day. This is my first 3D Zelda I've play as i have missed out on Nintendo's 
 past console and only got a few glimpses of Ocarina of Time. The game starts off in a small, quiet, 
 peaceful village of Ordona which is a sly tutorial to how games like Zelda are played and how the 
 new Wii Remote is used to control our hero. You start off with no weapons and no items, and you 
 have to go and around and do certain tasks around the village to acquire different items which 
 you will end up using throughout game. Once you get your first sword, the fun really begins. The 
 three children who you teach how to use weaponry run after a monkey which has been terrorizing 
 the village and soon get lost and it's up to you to find and save them. You will soon meet Midna 
 a new addition from the Twilight Realm who helps you along on your quest. By pressing up on the 
 d-pad you can get hints from Midna if you forget what to do. This comes in handy but it does seem 
 a little like cheating in my eyes, but thats just me. Midna is in your shadow when Link is in Human 
 form and rides on your back when in Wolf form. and turn into a Wolf when you enter the Twilight 
 Realm.
  
  The Wii Remote works well as a game remote, and i don't think i could go back to the normal remote. 
 The controls feel natural and easy to use, to get your sword out you give the remote a quick shake 
 and to attack shake the remote again or target with Z and press A to do a diving attack. The Remote 
 really shows off when it comes to firing you bow, all you do is aim at the enemy on screen and 
 press B simple yet very effective. The Nunchuck is used to shield bash and a swirl attack. This 
 works well about 90% of the time but sometimes the Nunchuck doesn't pick up the movements and doesn't 
 respond which is kind of lame. However that aside the controls work with ease and can be used by 
 any age group.
  
  Twilight Princess has a great story which keeps the player interested, and keeps the same formula 
 as previous Zelda games, outside to dungeon, get new item, beat boss with new item, get outside 
 again, go to next dungeon. But don't get me wrong this is still excellent, the formula not being 
 change is a good thing, however the latest big change is Links wolf form. Links Wolf form controls 
 the same as the Human form but Wolf Link has several advantages like, sense which allows him to 
 use the wolf's sense to find objects and people, which normally wouldn't be seen by Human Link. 
 Wolf Link also has a special attack which Midna helps him do, she creates a large circle by pressing 
 and holding B for about 5 seconds around Wolf Link and release B to kill all the enemy's surrounding 
 you. The wolf addition is a good add on to the Zelda series and varies the gameplay well enough 
 to keep the player enjoying the experience. Twilight Princess looks great, although the Wii is 
 not as powerful as say the Xbox 360 it still can create stunning visuals. The graphics are detail 
 and have lots of different effects. You've got lot's of particle effects and weather effects that 
 look fantastic, the rain is very dramatic. There are no camera angle glitches and no gameplay stopping 
 glitches. The main thing which annoyed me the most was that his floppy green hat went through his 
 sword and shield when they were on his back, but this doesn't affect the game, and I didn't notice 
 it till near the end of the game but still bugs me. As you play you will notice some blurred textures, 
 this is because the Wii cannot handle sharp HD textures. Hyrule is huge and will take you around 
 45 minutes to run from top to bottom. The really good thing I like was the short loading times, 
 between large areas of the map, the longest loading time was around 3 or 4 seconds which is great 
 and keeps the game flowing.
  
  Another new addition was the use of the Wii Remotes built in speaker. Which overall was OK, it 
 was great in some bits while awful in other situations. It added the real feeling of being there 
 and definitely would be missed if it wasn't there. You would hear the string being pull back and 
 the twang of the arrow whipping by your ear and a thud on the TV, amazing! Other sounds like the 
 clawshot sounds got on my nerves because there the same sound each time and what annoying sound 
 it was! The downside of the speaker was that sometimes it crackles or was very quiet, and sometimes 
 never made any sound at all, which is kind of lame.
  
  Twilight Princess really could have done with a full orchestra soundtrack instead of a low-fi cheap 
 soundtrack. Though all the Zelda sounds were there, but this is still not what you would expect 
 from a game from the 21st Century. The other miss was no voice acting, the closest thing they had 
 to voice acting was sounds to represent voices, which weren't annoying. The text wasn't bad, in 
 fact the text was very well written, and i enjoyed reading it. It was written like a well written 
 book, and it's didn't ruin the game by being text.
  
  The game itself takes around 35 to 45 Hours to complete this doesn't include all the side quests 
 and things to collect. I have been playing for 60 hours now and am still playing. You will find 
 yourself just riding around on Epona firing arrows at Moblins, exploring the land, findings chests, 
 buying new things, collecting bugs, finding Poe's, and just having a good time all over again.
 
  
  Overall i had an excellent experience playing Twilight Princess and you should really pick this 
 up whoever you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyinfinity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This is def a great zelda game. It gets frustrating at parts, like most of the titles, but you 
 really SHOULDNT need a strategy guide for it. This is worth the playthrough without using a strategy 
 guide and ruining spoilers. This is a pretty long game, i finished with about 55 hours logged on, 
 but it can be finished in about 35-40 if you dont mess around. The graphics are pretty good, the 
 water is probably the best looking, but the gameplay it self it amazing. Plenty to do and explore. 
 A must have for wii owners, or even gamecube owners. DO IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rev06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Among the many new games to appear the previous holiday season, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is among the few that stick out like huge diamonds in lumps of coal. All similes and metaphors 
 aside, this is definitely a game that is to be owned by anyone who has a Gamecube or a Wii. While 
 the game is, unfortunately, near perfect, like every other game, it has its share of downsides. 
 One reason being is the sound. Unlike Ocarina of Time, the sound was not orchestrated, which was 
 a downfall. The bosses were more fun, but the difficulty of the bosses, for me anyways, was, unfortunately, 
 slightly too easy. The many upsides can include: more challenging dungeons, great storyline, and 
 so many others that all combine to make this game, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, an excellent 
 game for all gamers to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlyinM_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess follows the footsteps of its 3-D predecessors and offers 
 gameplay unsurpassed by any series to date. It offers large dungeons, numerous gadgets both new 
 and old, and challenging puzzles that'll want you to chuck your Wiimote in frustration especially 
 near the endgame. TP uses the Wiimote extremely well, swinging for sword attacks, and pointing 
 for aiming items like the bow and clawshot.
  The aiming is a little wonky at times, and occasionaly the nunchuk attachment can't tell the difference 
 between a spin attack and a shield attack, but it all never gets to the point that it gets in the 
 way.
  That is partly because the game is pretty easy combat-wise. Bosses are impressive, but once you 
 figure out the pattern they are just eye candy.
  The music is great, always fitting the mood, and the game looks fairly solid.
  The game will 
 take about 50-60 hours to beat the first time around, and all of the extra side-quests and mini-games 
 offer at least another 15 hours of play.
  I personally found the story to be very interesting but the ending did leave a lot to be desired, 
 but that happens with pretty much every zelda game anyway.
  This is a must-have for the Wii, and a excellent game overall.
  
  9.3, get it. You won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAMeye
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  No, i think this game deserves a 9.5 but........
  Gamespot thought I cared about GC graphics and MIDI sounds.
  I don't but it could have been better.
 
  
  So why did I reduce points on reviewers tilt?
  Because I though MM ruled.
  Because i miss the sidequests that you would do for something.
  Even if it's just for a heart. 
 And why did I need 2 make like 10 times the amount of rupees I would have needed in the game? I 
 don't know.
  In fact it's just irritating. But if you like a linear game without having 2 do anything else but 
 the main quest, you probably think this game deserves a 10 and I agree with you on that point.
 
  This game has a strong story (Not as good as tales of ..... that GC game)
  But still it has great dungeon's (maybe a little too easy) But there plenty of them
  And some 
 quality mini games.
  
  So I hope they make a remake of this game called.
  
  Zelda: Twilight Princess: Master Side-quest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killertediz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess offers once again excellent gaming. As you should already know it is the 
 sequel to Ocarina Of Time and it is the best Zelda so far. Using the Wii Remote to swing your sword 
 is a brilliant idea the will never grow old. I gave it a 9.8 because of it's amazing gameplay and 
 story line that no other Wii game to date can beat. It has some old, some new weapons and moves. 
 The old moves even though seen before have been greatly improved by the Wii's new intuitive gaming 
 style and the new moves, well what can you say they rock. One of the best new additions to Zelda 
 is being able to sword fight while riding Epona, this I think adds a whole other level to the game, 
 riding through Hyrule Field on Epona while sword fighting hordes of enemies is just brilliant.
 
  
  This is a must buy if you have a Wii and if you dont have a Wii then I suggest you go out and buy 
 one just to play The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess for Wii... the greatest game ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammaren
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda twilight princess is the best zelda game ever. it works perfectly with the 
 wii remote. what did gamespot smoke it owns 8.8?
  it's the game of the year it could have been half the good and still be game of the year. the game 
 play was fantastic it's so good that i can start over on a new save file. and the graphics are 
 real nice they lokk like some 360 games. the sound was classic zelda. and you get real value for 
 your money
  it's kinda weird cause when you've finished the first trhee temples and got all the fused shadows 
 zant just drops by and take them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuxie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  +++ This is one of the best games I have ever played. A very good history and an amazing ending. 
 The best final fight. A perfect use of the wiimote, great music, graphics, character's gestures 
 and the unique touch of all the Legend of Zelda games makes it a must have for all fans! This is 
 the master piece of Nintendo and I just can't wait for the next release of this fantastic series! 
 I hope to buy the art book and the soundtrack of this game very soon. You will have about 50 hours 
 of fun guaranteed. Totally recommended! +++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyxxPacCrack
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the game was awesome and definitely worth owning or purchasing, I mean the 
 puzzles were very nifty and sophisticated and the boss battles were incredibly well done, some 
 of the strategies necessary to reign victorious were unique and fun to do. The story was very interesting 
 and a bit complex at first but gracefully comes together as the game goes on. The graphics were 
 outstanding, it really had a mystical feel to it, the designers did a fascinating job at complimenting 
 the concept of being stuck within the realm of twilight.
  
  BUT...
  
  I gotta say, this game reminded me too much of OoT, the chronology of events, people, items etc... 
 were all too similar to OoT. LoZ has a reputation of always providing a game of an Alpha status 
 with it's own outstanding sense of style. Twilight Princess presented the same fundamentals that 
 were once used for OoT. It was also too long, an objective could take up to an hour and a dungeon 
 would last more than two hours, than the process towards the next dungeoun. It grew repetitive, 
 and by the end of it I was glad it was over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoennhyruleguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  After reading all those promises in Nintendo Power, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess did 
 not disappoint.
  
  The story is great. I'd tell you about it, but I'm sure most of you know and and not the greatest 
 at articulation. I do enjoy that fact you can name Link AND Epona, which in retrospect, I wished 
 I named her E-pwn-a.
  
  Using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk gives you a very natural and extremely fun game-playing experience. 
 You move your wrist to swing the sword and to rotate your other wrist to perform a spin attack. 
 In fact, I went back to play The Wind Waker and just pressing the B-button to swing the sword felt 
 odd and pretty boring, lol. In some instances, it was harder.
  
  The graphics are amazing if you take them in a context. From what I've noticed, people are just 
 ignoring the fact this game was in development for the GameCube for two years, giving it GameCube 
 graphics. People saying the graphics are weaker due to the Wii's capabilities is rubbish, plus 
 graphics for games early in a system's life are always weaker anyway. In 480p, the game looks even 
 better, although fog effects seem oddly sketchy.
  
  The sound, and the big source of controversy. An orchestrated Zelda would have been great, but 
 MIDI can help make sound more dynamic. The classic Zelda tunes help maintain the spirit of Zelda. 
 This is a series of games after all. Stepping into the old Temple of Time was nostalgic and I wanted 
 to play Ocarina of Time again. The Hyrule Field Theme is maybe the best song ever in a video game. 
 It's just so epic and catchy. Some times I'll use Ooccoo to leave a dungeon and go to Hyrule Field 
 to listen to it, lol. Despite GameSpot confusing review, this game IS the best game out for the 
 Wii (and one of the best of 2006) overall) and should be played. You've got a baseline of about 
 40 hours, and for an adventure game, thats very long. There are many sidequests, such as bug-collecting (which 
 is fun in an Animal Crossing sort of way) and Poe's Souls collecting. There is the usual Heart 
 Piece collection, except now it takes 5 pieces to form a Heart Piece, instead of the norm of 4. 
 Add these on and you get another 10-15 hours of fun. lol. One bad thing is no way to control the 
 sun, other than going to the City in the Sky and returning (which always makes it day) .
  
  Midna's sarcasm and some of the civilians antics lead to some comic relief, which is always great 
 for a good story (Stargate SG-1, anyone?) . Twilight Princess has got it all, and y'all should get 
 it too.
  
  I think a bad trend has developed over the years is that if a game doesn't revolutionize the series, 
 It's not perfect. I certainly can't find a heck of anything wrong is Twilight Princess. Comparatively, 
 Twilight Princess out does Ocarina of Time in everything except that it came after OoT. The innate 
 production quality leads to a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coollizy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Words are hard to find to describe the feeling fans experienced over the many years that this game 
 took to develop. It would pop up at E3 with just one more bite-size morsel, usually followed by 
 the announcement that the game was being delayed. But, of course, what Miyamoto game isn't?
  
  In the end, the wait turns out to be well worth it; but at the same time it also serves to 
 date the game.
  
  Link's newest epic adventure pits him on one of, if not the, biggest overworld in the entire series 
 (bar Wind Waker, of course) . When you finally make your way to the new Hyrule field, you can't 
 help but gasp with excitement and the urge to explore every corner of it. Then you look at your 
 map and realize that this is but a tiny portion of the world, and there's so much more to see! 
 The graphics are crisp and clean and, though sometimes washed out, have an especially inviting 
 style to them that is both realistic and stylistic at the same time. The characters are enjoyable 
 and, as with most every Zelda since Ocarina of Time, the NPCs are fleshed out more than the main 
 characters of many an RPG. Side quest are abundunt, exploration is rewarding, and the boss battles, 
 though considered easy by some, are nonetheless nothing short of epic. Link's little flourish when 
 he sheaths his sword after defeating certain enemies is like the icing on the cake.
  
  Unfortunantly, the game has more than its fair share of faults. The first is that the game feels 
 too much like Ocarina of Time 2.0. Majora's Mask and Wind Waker both distanced themselves from 
 Ocarina of Time, sometimes to a fault, however Twilight Princess sticks too hard to the tried and 
 true to the point that many puzzles and story elements can only be described as recycled. 
  
  The Wii controller is another source of frustration. Although the controls are pretty tight 
 and responive and the controller and nunchuck themselves feel perfectly fine, the control scheme 
 does feel tacked on, probably because the game was designed with the GameCube controller in mind. 
 The best example of this (or worst, depending on how you look at it) is Link's new move where he 
 can jab his shield at the enemy by pushing the nunchuck forward. Unfortunantly, doing this tends 
 to make Link do a spin attack instead, often leaving him open to attack against certain enemies.
 
  
  One thing that must be noted is that the dungeons in this game are exceedingly long, possibly some 
 of the longest in the series, to the point where I had to go back to Ocarina of Time and Majora's 
 Mask just to make sure I wasn't imagining things. For some people, this is pure delight (a friend 
 actually told me that the dungeons were too short) , but for me personally it made them almost unbearable; 
 especially since I like to make a run through a dungeon, grab every treasure chest, explore every 
 room, and defeat every boss in one sitting. I like short dungeons, but if you don't, you should 
 run out and buy this game NOW.
  
  There are a couple other issues: No voice acting (though it's almost as if there should be since 
 the characters are actually lipsynced... to nothing!) , the music sounds a bit more synthised and 
 thinner than it should (regardless the newest rendetion of the Goron's theme is still an instant 
 classic) , and the Wiimote speaker tends to cut out. To me, these are all forgivable compared to 
 the other problems.
  
  When you get down to it, Twilight Princess is still an excellent addition to the series, and if 
 you like action-adventure games with plenty of puzzles and exploration, you owe it to yourself 
 to pick up the game. However, it's not as good as it could have been and, dare I say it, should 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Zelda... tyhats a name you hear alot when it comes to game of the year nominations...
  but this is the first game i can state that is THE game of the year,
  
  it does not do anything 
 to progress the genre of Action Adventure
  But the WII instead does the advances, the Wii mote to me worked almost flawlessly.. the almost 
 is in the nunchuck... which i found a bit hard to do shield bashes and spins.
  
  The soiund in the gam eis quite good, though the quality of the Wii remote speaker isint great.... 
 it aint as horrible as what the other people say.
  
  The nostalgic feel is the key to Twilight, it just keeps that great feel of you doing somthing 
 form the old games, only with great graphics (for the Wii's standard)
  Artisticly this game beats out any other game... why do i choose this over Okami's Art style? well 
 its quite simple... it was hard as hell to do such realistic art style on Zelda... since Graphicly 
 the game focused on realism with the fantasy touch... implimenting that Style must have been a 
 pain in the buttocks.
  
  overall i belive that not only is Zelda Twilight princess the best Zelda ever.. it is also the 
 Best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the best games for the Wii. This game revolutionizes 
 the way a real 3D sword game should be made. Ocarins of time also changed the way 3D sword-playing 
 should be but, on Twilight Princess it changes it. Of cousrse everyone know what changes it. It 
 is this, THE CONTROLS. It is pretty interactive and better than sit on your butt leaned-back and 
 mashing buttins. The controls are much more better b/c you can raelly get in the game and concentrate 
 more. This game still is no Ocarin of Time but if we compared it to OoT thien i think evry Zelda 
 game would be a 8 or lower so that's what I'm trying to stay away from (unlike Jeff) . Now onto 
 the really important stuff. The game as another great storyline and you really get into it. First 
 Link is a Farmer (or cowboy, whichever you prefer to call him) and you begin to just learn the 
 basic controls. (I'm going to skip a lot of stuff that you must do in the beginning) You eventually 
 wind up in a spring where a young girl and her younger brother are kidnapped by monsterous looking 
 creatures on horse back. Link is knocked out and when he awakes and is sent into the Twilight relm 
 where you first turn into a wolf. Ok, I'm gonna stop there cus no one wants to here the whole story 
 line, but to sum it all up, It's up to you and a strange imp looking thing named Midna to Save 
 Hyrule AND the Twilight World.
  Gameplay: Doesn't get much better than Zelda right? I don't think it could've gotten much better
 
  Graphics: Ehh... I think they could've been better consiering this is supposed to be a next-gen 
 game
  Sound: Zelda has great music of course BUT (one of the only things Jeff was right about) sometime 
 the sound that comes out of the Wii-remote is staticy and kinda cheap
  Value: definatley worth the money. Go buy this game now
  Reviewer's Tilt: The Game was Great 
 and I highly recomend you go and get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: False_Reality
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Even though I have only played Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker, and Four Swords before I bought this... 
 I would have to go out on a limb here and say that this is the best Zelda game I have played. :D
 
  
  First of all is the storyline and gameplay. Yes, it may get repetitive being Midna's servant because 
 she is the only one who can help guide you in Wolf! Link form, and having to search for the Shadow 
 Fragments (or, whatever they're called) for her and then the mirror shards, but as long as you 
 take a break every now and then it never gets boring and tedious. The Wolf! Link form is another 
 new addition to the Zelda series. At first, you are unwillingly changed into this form whenever 
 you transport into the Twilight. But later on, around the time you get to Arbiter's Grounds... 
 you'll be able to tranform at any time (which, trust me, does come in handy at points) . In the 
 wolf form, you can dig for things, howl at a howling stone and find out where to learn new manuevers, 
 and... basically, do everything except climb, ride your horse, or use your shield and sword.
  
  The only thing that prevents this game from being so great would, remarkably, be some of it's 
 uses for the Wii remote. The sword swinging part of it seems plastered on at the last minute (which 
 it probably was from news of the new remote) and the sounds that come out of the speaker of the 
 Wii remote can get really annoying because they can be very loud and distracting, at least to me.
 
  
  Overall, this game deserves at least a 9.2 score, in my opinion. The graphics are great; they may 
 not be as good as the PS3 or Xbox 360 but, they're great from a Gamecube to Wii sort of game. The 
 sound made me take off a few tenths of a point because, well, it isn't mind-blowing or anything 
 like that. But to sum this game up, it's a must-buy for any Zelda or Nintendo fan, or any action/adventure 
 and platformer fan. For others, I'd suggest you rent it first, and see if you were up to the 40+ 
 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbie_morpheo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Is one of the best adventure games of the year... but if you're expecting a 
 revolution like OoT... keep waiting, this game just get things a lot better than OoT, great graphics, 
 great history and awesome combats... but... is not OoT, is not as surprising, and emotive as Oot, 
 but it is the Best Zelda game ever created. And the temples are just amazing, all surprisingly 
 good, this is the best Wii game to the date, and if you havent try it, go for it. You wont regret 
 it. It has a 40 hours lenght to finish the main quest I said, but doing all the game complete, 
 should take about 50 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few games that transcend beyond greatness and into pop-culture phenomena. These 
 elite few games consist of the likes of Super Mario, Halo, Madden, Final Fantasy, Grand Theft Auto 
 and of course, the newest addition, Gears of War. These are the types of games that youll actually 
 find people talking about on the street at any given point in time. But theres only one series, 
 when mentioned, that can cause the entire world to stop and pay attention to it; a series so big, 
 that not even the full title needs to be mentioned for it to be recognized by all. The only thing 
 that needs to be said is a single name: Zelda.
  
  Twilight Princess is the latest entry in Nintendos flagship series, and what could be considered 
 the most popular game series of all time, The Legend of Zelda. It all begins in a small farming 
 village where a young rancher who looks like Link has been tasked with taking a gift to the Princess 
 Zelda. Youll spend a good few hours going through the basics of the game in the intro sequence 
 solving the problems of your fellow villagers on your day off. But not everything goes as smoothly 
 as it would seem, as trouble begins brewing and evil spreads across the land a hero is chosen to 
 combat the onslaught.
  
  The most shocking thing that many people will notice upon playing the Wii version of Twilight Princess 
 is that the Wii remote actually works. As crazy as it may sound, the blasted remote actually works 
 properly. This isnt to say that the Wii remote controls are better than standard controls for 
 Twilight Princess; its more like the Wii remote controls work just as well as standard controls. 
 In the end, there isnt any real difference in how well the game controls, so it really wont matter 
 which version of Twilight Princess youre interested in buying since both offer the same experience.
 
  
  Twilight Princess retains the same formula found throughout all Zelda titles and never really strays 
 too far from the tried and true Zelda gameplay. Youll find yourself trying to solve puzzles that 
 seem devious, but in hindsight, were never truly as difficult as you made it out to be. Solving 
 these puzzles is the most fulfilling part of the Zelda experience, so torturing yourself to figure 
 them out usually makes them all the more rewarding.
  
  Combat in the game however, lacks any true depth; most enemies will fall before you after a few 
 hits. To top it all off youll be attacking the same way for most enemies. In the latter half of 
 the game youll be introduced to stronger foes, either in armor, or capable of flight. Naturally, 
 combat in the game ramps up as you begin employing different tactics to defeat the more menacing 
 foes.
  
  The designers also tried to deepen the combat in the game by offering seven hidden-skills that 
 can be learned. They add variety to the combat, but if you dont want to learn them then you dont 
 have to. This isnt Ninja Gaiden or Resident Evil 4 where the combat takes center stage; in Zelda, 
 the puzzles always define the most memorable moments in the games.
  
  If one true complaint can be found in Twilight Princess combat portions, it would have to be the 
 boss battles. Historically, Zelda has always delivered the best boss battles this side of Metroid. 
 However, recent releases in the action adventure genre have already eclipsed the newly released 
 Twilight Princess. Whether it be the screen-filling giants of Metroid Prime, the  
 bosses of Ninja Gaiden, or the deformed monstrosities of Resident Evil 4, all have delivered some 
 of the greatest boss battles ever. Unfortunately for Twilight Princess, it pales in comparison 
 to these games in the boss battle category. Sure, the bosses are pretty big, they usually take 
 up most of the screen, but theyre actually ninnies. Yes, ninnies. They just go down far too quickly, 
 and their weak point (s) are far too easy to find. The game never truly makes you work to defeat 
 the bosses, and in some cases, even the mini-bosses are stronger than the main bosses.
  
  It should be noted however, that flailing your wrist around, with Wii remote in hand, adds to the 
 intensity level of battle. Whether youre fighting droves of moblins surrounding you or one of 
 the screen-encapsulating bosses, youll at least smile when flailing your wrist around in those 
  moments when you hatch on to some aerial foe and climb on 
 its back to stab it continuously in its weak spot. Sure, the combat may lack depth, but it doesnt 
 mean it lacks intensity.
  
  Much of the gameplay takes place within the dungeons where youll be solving many of those puzzles, 
 fighting all of those bosses and gaining most of your equipment. The problem is that, each dungeon 
 will always have you fight a mini-boss and then obtain an item after you defeat said mini-boss. 
 Naturally, the boss within that dungeon is usually going to be defeated by using your brand new 
 item. Its really a shame that the game never really tries to mix up the formula. It may be working 
 fine for now, but recent releases are already trying new things and succeeding in big ways.
  
  Much of the equipment found throughout the game is usually underutilized throughout Twilight 
 Princess. Theyre put to great use in their respective dungeons, but outside of them you really 
 wont use them at all. In fact, youll only find yourself really using them in brief portions of 
 the game to find some secret or in some small portion of another dungeon, but chances are that 
 if you find an item in a dungeon, youll be using it most in that very same dungeon. Once again, 
 this is a shame. Using multiple items could have made for some truly amazing puzzles, and would 
 have helped make the boss battles far more epic, or at least longer lasting.
  
  Twilight Princess also contains many side-quests that can be taken up during the course of the 
 game. However, completing these side-quests is rather pointless, if youre one of those people 
 who just have to complete everything in the game then go for it, but the rewards just arent worth 
 it for most people to even bother completing them. Although they do add a good ten to twenty hours 
 to the games length, and with the main adventure clocking in at around thirty to forty hours for 
 most gamers, that adds up to a hefty amount. If you truly want to experience everything in Twilight 
 Princess it will take you at least a good sixty hours if not more.
  
  Throughout those sixty hours youll also be treated to one of the best Zelda stories ever. Naturally, 
 its the same basic plot used throughout the entire series, but this one is just darker and more 
 thought out than the other tales. Midna, the amusingly condescending imp that aids you throughout 
 the game truly steals the show in the game, and helps end the game on a very high note. There are 
 also various other side stories in the game that also provide extremely satisfying conclusions.
 
  
  The biggest problem with the plot of the game however is the lack of voice-acting. The subtitles 
 are fine, but at times, you may find yourself giggling in one of the more intense moments because 
 of how, at times, the subtitles look like bad anime subs. The plot is great, but voice acting is 
 sorely needed. A game of this caliber can never be taken as seriously as it should be without voice 
 acting. Drama is a fine thing, but hearing it is so much more dramatic than putting a word into 
 caps.
  
  The major kink in Twilight Princess armor is the visuals. Technically speaking, they look like 
 Gears of Wars, well, toilet droppings. If you have been playing games on the Xbox 360, PS3 or 
 a super-charged PC then you just wont be impressed with Twilight Princess visuals. However, I 
 cannot fault Twilight Princess visuals because the Wii is underpowered. At this moment Twilight 
 Princess is the best looking Wii game available, and it looks great in 480p. If you hate ugly graphics 
 then youll have to pay around $30 for component cables. Theyll make the game look a lot better. 
 However, technical graphics arent always important, great artistry can always make an ugly game 
 look beautiful, and Zeldas art style is as charming as ever. Some moments look as if theyve been 
 taken straight out of a Miyazaki film, others look like Tim Burtons re-imagining of the Zelda 
 universe, and some moments just scream of Peter Jacksons Lord of the Rings movies.
  
  The sound, like the visuals, is also a mixed bag. The Wii remote speaker is utilized far too often 
 for one thing. Midna laughing through it is fine, but some of the other stuff its used for just 
 doesnt work. Youll more than likely cringe after hearing Link roll into a wall. The sound effects 
 that dont utilize the Wii remote speaker arent exactly sterling either. Should an explosion occur 
 in the game youll barely notice it.
  
  The music on the other hand is just amazing. Yes, Twilight Princess deserves orchestrated music, 
 but instead, it got stuck with MIDI. However, the actual musical tracks, aside from the annoying 
 one found in the seventh dungeon, will always envelope you in the game and wont let go. The new 
 overworld theme alone is probably the best one yet in the Zelda series, its absolutely epic.
 
  
  So far, Ive listed a lot of reasons to not enjoy Twilight Princess, but despite all the complaints 
 listed here, I can honestly say that Twilight Princess was one of the best games released in 2006. 
 Yes, the bosses are easy, the items are under-utilized throughout most of the game, the graphics 
 arent the prettiest to look at, and blah, blah, blah. In the end, I finished this game with a 
 big, goofy smile on my face.
  
  Its all thanks to those Eureka! moments in the game. At one point, after spending an hour trying 
 to solve a puzzle with my mother helping as well, I finally figured it out. But I didnt solve 
 it right away. Instead, I just had this grin on my face, a grin that didnt go away for about ten 
 minutes. I actually stopped and explained the process to my mother and grandmother who were watching 
 me play. Then I proceeded to show them what I had just spoken of. It was followed by, Oh wow! 
 Yes, they smiled as well. Moments like that define why people play games, and Twilight Princess 
 is filled with them.
  
  After I completed Twilight Princess, I started listing all the reasons why people should hate the 
 game, and then I smiled again knowing that it doesnt matter how many reasons you list for a game 
 like this, it just cant be hated.
  
  Grizzled Zelda veterans who have been playing since the original Zelda was released in 1986 may 
 not love Twilight Princess as much as someone younger who started playing when Ocarina of Time 
 was released, like myself, but regardless, this is still one solid action adventure game that both 
 Zelda fans and newcomers alike will enjoy. If youve never played a Zelda game, Twilight Princess 
 is a great place to start, and if youre already a Zelda fan than you more than likely dont need 
 any convincing to buy the game.
  
  Twilight Princess is a true-blue Zelda game, and while the formula does need to be changed a bit 
 for the next, inevitable, release in some two or three years, Twilight Princess is still an amazing 
 game from Nintendo. Is it the greatest Zelda ever? Not even close, but it is one of 2006s best 
 games and it instantly justifies the purchase of a Wii, or if youre into saving money, is a fine 
 way to say goodbye to the Gamecube.
  
  Although, I do hope that there is a directors cut or re-release of the game sometime soon. But 
 the only thing I would really want changed would be the final line spoken in the game. It should 
 have been: I love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentay0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This is my reveiw for The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess (Which will now be known later as LOZTP) .
 
  
  Gameplay-Truly classic, although near the end of the game human form is much more powerful than 
 wolf form.
  
  Graphics-Truly gorgous this is what the Wii is truly capable of.
  
  Sound-Classic sound, but in my opinion you should turn off the Wii-mote's sound (if you don't know 
 how to do this hit the little blue home button in the middle of the Wii-mote and then click on 
 the bottom of the screen where the Wii-mote is and hit the minus button near the little volume 
 bar) .
  
  Value-This game is worth every cent.
  
  Reveiwer's Tilt-Completely Great!
  
  OVERALL-IF YOU OWN A WII (you should have one and if you don't get one) YOU MUST OWN THIS GAME 
 PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I loved the ocarina of time i thought it was one of the best zelda games i had ever played mojoras 
 mask i liked, the wind waker was ok... then i got this game and all i can say is wow.. this game is 
 amazing i can't seem to turn it off i played so many hours and those hours literally flew by this 
 game has a decent story and awesome gameplay also it works perfectly with the WII some things i 
 do i can't imagaine doing it with GCN controller the Wii controller seems very fluent with the 
 motions of your hand i love this game i can't stop playing it idk when i was this addicted to a 
 game maybe since i played animal crossing if your a zelda fan and have a Wii you MUST get this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  it is good but it is repetative i mean weve played it 3 times before needs to work on this game 
 the next one will be better for wii running on wii engine.
  this games graphics are awesome for a port from gcube.
  the sound is outstanding except for the 
 wii mote speaker needs work.
  sword slashing feels weird like he doesnt do what you do but it will be better in the nextr one 
 aiming is amazing so precise. the game is lengthy about 25 hours for a normal complete a 100% takes 
 about 40 hours a speed run is by my time 16 hours and 23 mins. trying to beat it but its hard.
 
  the bosses are easy overall its a normal zelda nothing new the next one will be better the flood 
 is near. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest Zelda games ever!!! To be honest I would pick this game over Gears 
 of Wars any day. Nintendo definitely knows how to keep a gamer satisfied.
  
  Gameplay (10) : The game is really innovative. I will never be able to go back to the old way of 
 playing games now that Twilight Princess has come out. There is also soooooo much to do beyond 
 the main quest. You can search for heart containers, play fun minigames, collect bugs, go fishing, 
 and much more. Truly amazing.
  
  Graphics (10) : The graphics are spectacular because the artistic design is great. The game has 
 a lot of bright beautiful colors and a lot of dark and gloomy colors to balance it out. There is 
 nothing else to say about the wonderful graphics.
  
  Sound (9) : The sound may have the only flaw in this entire 65hr-70hr game. The music is great. 
 but the game would be a lot better if the music wasn't made off a key board and if it were made 
 by a real orchestra. Also since the characters don't speak the game becomes pretty dull because 
 you can't hear the expression if they are sad or not. Once again you have tho read the dialogue 
 on the screen. Otherwise the sound is pretty good.
  
  Value (10) : The game is worth every penny. Most people will complain that the game is $50 but if 
 it were made by Microsoft or Sony the game would be $60. So thank Nintendo for making this game 
 cheaper than what it should be. As for replay value, this game has a lot more reply value than 
 Ocarina of Time. You will be playing this game over and over again.
  
  Tilt (10) : The game is pure awesome and I hope that Nintendo makes more games like this.
  
 
  This may be the best game Nintendo has ever made. This game may not surpass Ocarina of Time on 
 the best games of all time list but this game definitely made it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  If you think any game could top this one. you must be on somthing cause this is the greatest game 
 in the exsitence of mankind. The amazing visuals are dark and creepy and make this game so amazing. 
 The detail and hardwork that was put into the shadow world was absolutly breath taking. heck basicly 
 all the visuals in this darn game is breath taking. you wont find a game more artisticly creative 
 as this one. The controls are so smooth and sleek you actually feel like your link in hyrule slashing 
 away at the evil demons from the depths of the shadow. with a flick of the wiimote the sword slashes 
 away at your opponets cutting them up. and you can do a sword spin with the flick of the knumbchuck. 
 you walk with the joystick that is on thwe knumbchuck and just feels really good in the hand. and 
 riding epona is as smooth as silk. nothing can go wrong with the awsome controlls of this game. 
 Usally most video games out these days dont really have the amazing sound and music as some do 
 now but i think twilight princess has changed that. The music in this game is a huge full orchrestra 
 of wonderful music of strings, brass and persussion all in one amazing game. even the sound effects 
 are hardcore. with the sleek noise the sword makes everytime you slash it and the huge earth shattering 
 boom you hear from the bombs are just amazing. and you can even hear some of the sounds right from 
 the wiimote. so you can say that this has pretty good sounds. Now for the amzing part. the gameplay. 
 but just to warn you this section may be a little bit long so beware if you dont like to read. 
 while you are exploring this huge vast land of shadow and light you will find many amazing secrets 
 and endless posabilatys. The sword combat action is amazing and just plain fun. you fight all these 
 amazing and cool creaters with your trusty wiimote. you swing it all around to destroy the monsters 
 in your path. riding epona is breath taking because epona has never ever been this fast before. 
 if you make her sprint she will run fast just like the wind and topple over all the baddies with 
 a single stomp. and the awsome thing is you get epona as soon as you start the game. This game 
 is filled with so many puzzeling dougeons just like in all the other zelda games. there are so 
 many puzllez to do like climbing the big magnet walls in the fire temple with your metal boots 
 and saving all the monkeys in the forest temple. The enviroments are always interactive so always 
 expect somthing amazing when you explore a temple. also the world is so vast and huge you usally 
 get off task and just have fun exploring the beutiful landscape of the most amzing zelda game of 
 all time. So by now you can see how much I really enjoy this game. and if you try this game out 
 trust me you wont be dissapointed. It will be a huge revolution to your gaming life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the only reason why this game has not recieved a 10 from me, is due to the fact that 
 some of the music in the game has been recycled from Ocarina of Time. Yes the music is brilliant, 
 however a new brand of music should have been applied to the game. Thats my only quabble.
  
  This game is what i would label as a masterpiece, the plot, the music, the artwork, everything 
 is top standard, and has only been improved by implementing the functions of the Wiimote and Nunchuk.
 
  
  The world in Twighlight Princess is the perfect size, not too big and not too small, and easy to 
 navigate. The little nooks and crannies, sidequests are also top notch. There are no faults with 
 the storyline, the story flowed well, and never really diverted of track then, merged back into 
 the story again, it was consistant and also consistantly challenging.
  
  The character personalities fit in well with their looks, and although modern gaming has basically 
 turned to speach, Twighlight Princess has very well revitalized the classic text box style of communication
 
  
  The 'bosses' were challenging without being incredibly hard, which made for good gaming.
  
 
  If you own a Wii i strongly recommend getting this game... and if you dont have a Wii get it for 
 the Gamecube, or go out and Purchase a Wii and Zelda, because this game is a must have in any gamers 
 collection.
  
  WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR GO AND PLAY IT!
  
  Thanks for your time
  
  - Paul James 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsoni
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Great story lines, awesome controls, sweet graphics, great music/soundtrack/sound 
 effects! It is a must-buy for the Wii. Once you get started it will be hard to put down. It will 
 be hard to stop playing this game until you've beat it, and that may take a while. However, the 
 wait is well worth it. When you think you're done collecting everything; think again! Long gameplay 
 made this the most worth-while 50 bucks I've spent in a long time! Nintendo has done it again! 
 They are freaking wizards over there. Buy this game and you will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_515
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Link has returned and this time he is packing a punch. The series has returned back to its normal 
 style (Wind Waker was Cell shaded) , although this time its more artistic and has better graphics 
 and a better control scheme. The controls are easy the Nunchucks analogue stick moves Link forwards 
 backwards etc and with one simple swing of the Wii mote you pull out your sword and more swing 
 and your away baby. With the new controller there comes new motion and sound, the sounds that come 
 out of the controller are amassing, really there is no other word for it, every time you pull out 
 your sword of anything from your inventory there will be a noise that comes from the controller 
 and when you swing your sword and throw objects, it just brings so much more immersion to the game 
 it's unreal. The sound that comes out from the controller is slightly muffled but if you turn the 
 sound down 2 slots and this is soon cured and a good volume of sound is still coming out.
  
  Naturally when I got my Wii this was the first game I dived for, because of the massive amounts 
 of hype surrounding the game and because ever since my first Zelda game I have been hooked. As 
 you start playing this game you soon begin to realise this isnt just any game, this my furry friend 
 is Zelda and after a few hours playing and your used to the controllers and you get your first 
 sword it makes it all worth while and you realise this game lives up to the hype and much much 
 more. You get your faithful horse Epona, double claw shots which used to be called the hookshot, 
 gale boomerang and loads of other new gadgets that you will slowly unlock through out the course 
 of the game. Like the older versions there are loads of puzzles as standard, but these ones are 
 more complex and you will need to take full advantage of all Links new toys in this game to get 
 through. Sometimes these will take a while to figure out and be quite hard because sometimes there 
 not in the most obvious spots. As well as all the new content and levels the graphics have been 
 upgraded too and I think they look great, in some cases better than some of the games on other 
 consoles. Probably because the characters havent really got great textures but thats what makes 
 them them. Also as well as the graphics for them being upgraded the interactive deign is a lot 
 better, remember on the old Zelda the ocarina of time when you turned around on the horse and it 
 stayed stiff, now as you turn on the horse on the twilight princess, the horses head moves first 
 then the body follows as link pulls the rein to tell Epona what way to turn, its silly little 
 things that you pick up as hard core Zelda fans that makes this game so amassing and great for 
 new Zelda fans to play. Although these new graphics are great but the hat still remains glued to 
 his head, what glue is he using Im sure if he tells us he come sell it on and make millions. The 
 slogan could be In all types of weather and terrain you hat will still stay on and long as you 
 use my super glue even if you are battling your way through a storm with the iron boots the hat 
 just wont budge or dangling upside down your hat will still stay on. I think there may be some 
 cheating going on here, I think some one is stitching his hat to his hear so his hat stays one. 
 What would new gadgets and great graphics and levels be without a legendary storyline eh. And 
 how better to tell then that the good old fashioned text with voice overs, which by the way are 
 amassing on this one you cant really understand the full impact of it until you talk to Midna 
 then you will understand everything. You start off as a farm boy and you do silly little things 
 like herd the sheep etc until one day your friends get attacked and thats when the story really 
 comes into its own, so naturally you do the hero thing and go after them to get them back. But 
 you find out this wont be so simple as you get dragged into the twilight realm and transformed 
 into a wolf. This is only the beginning just wait until you get into the real substance of the 
 game. Every time you do something its constantly getting better and you think this is cool theres 
 no way any thing could beat this then you find your self saying the same thing five minuets later 
 when the best better more exciting move or gadget comes into play. Theres so much to do on this 
 game theres about 40 to 50 hours game play for you hardcore fans out there and if thats not enough 
 for you, theirs loads of side quests and minigames for you to take part in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game a few days ago and I think that it's not really any different from other Zelda 
 games. At least from the OoT, the storyline has stayed the same, collect items at begining, lose 
 them, collect more items, defeat Ganondorf. The hardest battle in LoZ: TP is that when you have 
 to fight the beast side of Ganon. If the people of nintendo wanted to be different, here's a suggestion: 
 Get 10 items, go through a longer Hyrule Castle, then beat many Ganondorfs. But as the apocalypse 
 will do, there is a good side to this review. The graphics, gameplay, and sound are excellent. 
 Minda looks cooller as a pricess that a Twli. You don't start of in your pajamas. Wii remote + 
 Legend of Zelda + someone better than Navi - people who hate Link = The second best LoZ (OoT is 
 still my favorite)
  
  
  Best game that started with the Wii launch!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muthaug
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This was one of the best 60 hours of my life, I spent this time beating the whole game included 
 the side quests, such as heart pieces and golden bugs etc... Me and my brother spent over 3 years 
 waiting for this game, it was totally worth it. I have played Zelda since 1998 when i was six years 
 old and I cant wright in words the feeling I get when i play the old OoT, I remember those good 
 times when i ran around on Hyrule field and got pwned by those enormous flying helicopter monsters, 
 thats and awesome feeling, and thats almost the same feeling I get when I play TP. THE best Zelda 
 since OoT which is the best game ever everyone knows that offcourse :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, What can I say about this game, well maybe its the best adventure game Ive ever played, Maybe!? 
 actaully it IS the best adventure game ever. Im not some hardcore Zelda fanatic, (Actually this 
 is like the 4th Zelda game Ive played) so I cant be overrating this game. For anyone British reading, 
 remember the M&amp; S adverts for Food that made chocolate cake into pornography!?, well this game 
 is like the nudey mag under your bed of games. Its sexual, you cant get enough and even when your 
 stuck on a puzzle, you dont care, you play on anyway until you reach climax 
  
  For you see, maybe its the Wii mote and its excellent reponses to playing the game, a slight twist 
 of your wrist draws the sword out, swinging the nunchuk allowing a spin attack, its all motionally 
 perfect, falling off a high platform just inst down to poor mechanics that usually become problematic, 
 its your own patheitc skill to blame. The games story does take a while to kick, but you do get 
 a good sense of the controls and the puzzles your expected to face, in any sense its a nice introduction. 
 Beautiful backdrops that bring a artistic tear to the eyes and riding your very own horse is simply 
 a pleasure that a game rarely finds to do.
  
  Twilght Princess is no way shape or form a small game, its so huge that even running around takes 
 forever, but you dont hate this, you love it, seeing every little detail come to life as you wander 
 vast plains and explore caves and mazes.
  The world has been turned into darkness and Link and some annoying thingy that turns into a shadow 
 have to save the world from the king of twlight, but entering the twlight turns Link into a wolf. 
 Playing as the wolf was admittingly cool, but rather grew boring at first, Preferably staying as 
 Link made more of the moves and weapons availble, and simplying using heatvision (sense mode for 
 wolfy link) is something I've done a thousand times. Playing as human link is so much better with 
 all the cool weapons at hand.
  
  The games diffuculty is hard to say, it depends on you. the gameplay isnt really that hard, swing 
 your sword and defeating enemies isnt hard as such, but rather the boss fights do supply a heathly 
 challenge. The puzzles themselves are the point of the diffuculty, some puzzles are obvious and 
 some are so hard to find. it depends on how quickl you notice things.
  
  Like I said before Zelda is Amazing. I cant comprehend how much you should own this game, the Wii 
 would be terrible without and with no more decent games coming out for it til Mario Galaxy and 
 Smash Bros, It'll keep you occupied till then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puckswack12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  The Zelda franchise has been around since the golden age of NES. It has brought people back over 
 and over again for the same reason they loved the previous ones so much. It's a fun, classic adventure 
 game. Rescue the princess and save the world. What more can you ask for. LoZ: TP doesn't stray far 
 from the original formula that made this series such a hit.
  
  The game starts like most of the others do. You're a striking young lad in a small village who 
 is different from everyone else in one way or another. One thing leads to another and before you 
 know it you've been burdened with the heavy task of rescuing princess zelda and saving the world 
 from pure evil. So it is. So it's always been.
  
  The Wii remote offers some ideas for aiming and swordfighting and in the end they really just add 
 up to a fancier way of getting the job done, not necessarily better. But if your playing from the 
 GCN then you should feel right at home.
  
  Gameplay: The tried and true method of the Zelda series is alive and kicking in this "next-gen" 
 game. You'll be exploring dungeons, helping strangers and doing all sorts of crazy crap that for 
 whatever the reason we've all grown to love. It's not amazingly deep but it does offer a wide variety 
 of new ideas and things to do. It's fun and enjoyable, theres no question about it. Not exceptional 
 but by no means is it any lower than "good"... 9
  
  Graphics: The hardest part about grading graphics at this point in the Wii's stages is that theres 
 not much to compare them to. Zelda has the best graphics on any launch Wii Game so does it deserve 
 a 10? but it's the same as the GCN from the last generation so should it be around a 5? Well, the 
 graphics are pretty good either way and they certainly show the world of hyrule in the beauty that 
 it is... 8
  
  Sound: Possibley the most disapointing part of this game was it's audio. Not only was the music 
 a bit lacking compared to Ocarina of time (which was from the N64, mind you) but also the overall 
 sound quality from both the game and the wii remote were somewhat displeasing. It was tollerable, 
 but it just hurts to know that it could have been exceptional... 6
  
  Value: This game is a 40 hour game, give or take. Some people baet it in 30 hours, others are yet 
 to see the end at 60. It took me 40 hours, and i did many side quests and things like that... almost 
 all of them in fact. It's nothing special and compared to games like Oblivion (no that i am) it 
 is a bit lacking, and most disapointing from a zelda game. You barely have enough time to really 
 enjoy the world before it's over. If you just stick to the main quest you'll get around 30 hours. 
 For those who try to get most of the secrets (not secrets like in ocarina, just little unnecessary 
 side quests) then say 50 hours. But all in all don't expect more that 40 even in that sense. The 
 game doesn't let you save once you beat it so technically you can play forever, but there really 
 isn't a point... 8
  
  Tilt: I'm not really sure what this means actually... So i'm just going to go ahead and assume 
 it's there to include all the little things that made aslight difference, if that makes any sense... 
 It's a great game, what you expect from a zelda. But you look at games like ocarina and you start 
 to think if this was really the best they could do? They do have many characters that you grow 
 to love, but you don't really get to know them. The wolf idea is really entertaining, they did 
 that right. They did a lot of things right with this game and overall it is really fun and refreshing. 
 It deserves to be played and in no way was disapointing... 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkANDWander
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Zelda is a remarkable series that has lived on while other series withered and died. I personally 
 Pre-Ordered this game 2 &amp; 1/2 years ago b4 the Wii even was a thought bubble. It is a remarkable 
 game that goes on the shelf next 2 OoT and MM ,but was not long enough to be worth the wait. I 
 was pleased with the story line but the lack of musical instrument was disipointing. Over all the 
 controls ROCK, the story ROCKS, the graphics ROCK, and its an awesome game. The biggest flaw was 
 the difficulty. Any Zelda veteran would find this game too easy. They should have included a hard 
 difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_mak123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda Twilight Princess is the best Zelda ever created with the wiimote its an instant 
 classic!!! The graphics are great even if they are gamecube graphics. If you liked any other zelda 
 this one blows them away. People say its more of the same but its not. It has aa way darker story 
 line thats keeps you interested through the whole game and the puzzles are very difficult. The 
 controls are absolutely amazing. The wiimote works perfectly with shooting arrows and swinging 
 your sword. If you own a Nintendo Wii this game is must buy and i think gamespot underrated this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrimsonblur
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a game that many of us have been waiting for since the 
 N64 days. It delivers exactly what diehard Zelda fans want, and it is even appealing to newcomers 
 in the series. The game blends good action elements with some interesting puzzles to create a gameplay 
 experience that is to be remembered. Indeed, all Wii owners should own this game.
  
  The game's story is the most interesting of any Zelda game to date. The Zelda series isn't particularily 
 known for an engrossing storyline, but Twilight Princess is really an exception. Midna is a fantastic 
 new addition to the Zelda series; her character is particularily appealing. But, really, the story 
 for any Zelda game would be nothing without the three main characters in the series, Link, Ganon, 
 and Princess Zelda herself. The characters were brilliantly remastered, particularily Ganon, to 
 the new, darker theme of the game. You will truly be stunned the first time you see Ganon on the 
 Wii, his character is done flawlessly. Link, on the other hand, could have been done better. He 
 is a bit bland this game, and all of the emotions and hilarity we saw from him in the Wind Waker 
 is gone. In this game, there really is no attachment to Link, but instead, to the characters around 
 him. Link is just a bystander for the majority of the cutscenes. At times, Midna feels like the 
 true main character in the game, and not Link. But, considering how well the developers made her 
 character, there is nothing wrong with that at all.
  
  The gameplay feels great. The skills you get along the way cause you to really believe that you 
 are getting stronger as you progress through the game. You do not stick to the same moves from 
 the beginning of the game to the end. Link becomes a rather formidable foe by the end of the game. 
 The swordplay improves as the game moves on. At first, you are stuck with just slashing your sword 
 around. But, as you get new skills, weapons, and abilities, you vary up your playstyle to match 
 a given situation. There are some really satisfying situations in the game. Situations like rolling 
 behind a foe, popping him with a bomb arrow, causing him to fall over, and then jumping on him 
 with your sword are what really make this game great. The game has truly perfected the Zelda formula, 
 and that is a great achievement indeed.
  
  The wolf form works pretty well too, but its combat is definitely shallower than Link's human form. 
 Also, the wolf doesn't get many boss battles, but instead is the focus of many of the areas in 
 the beginning of the game. As the game moves along, you will transform even less; the wolf is really 
 only used early on. Also, you never really upgrade the wolf like you do Link's human form; his 
 role in the game could have been brought out more. But, overall, the wolf form is a fun aspect 
 of the game; some of your adventures as it are some of the best parts of the game.
  
  But, combat has never really been the focus of Zelda games, the dungeons are. This Zelda is truly 
 a textbook example of brilliant level design. The puzzles are very logical, and never too hard, 
 so you don't get stuck for extended periods of time. But, when you do get stumped, it is really 
 satisfying to solve the puzzle. These occurances are rare though, and the game, in general, could 
 be a bit harder, especially in its combat. It is definitely harder than Wind Waker, and even OoT 
 and Majora's Mask, but it is still too easy. As I have said earlier, Link is incredibly powerful, 
 but he is possibly way TOO powerful. The enemies have a hard time denting your character, but while 
 that might sound bad, at the same time, that is one of the most enjoyable things in the game. You 
 just feel like a badass hero who can destroy everything. Yet, still, during a particularily hard 
 puzzle, respawning enemies feel more like distractions rather than assets to the game. An easy 
 game is not a bad game, it is just less nerve-wrecking.
  
  The boss battles are great. Some are definitely worse than others, but the memorable ones are fantastic. 
 There is an intricate puzzle in defeating the boss itself, and some can be quite complex. The bosses 
 get harder as you weaken them further, adding suspense and difficulty as you fight, culminating 
 in a climax with your final blow. Link then does his awesome victory pose, undoubtingly bringing 
 a smile to your face.
  
  The only real complaint that can be made about the gameplay is the fact that the swordplay is not 
 1:1. But, the waving of your wiimote does affect how Link swings his sword. You can make him poke, 
 horizontally slash, vertically slash, diagonally slash, spin, or thrust his sword. This gives enough 
 variety to keep you engaged, and you never feel as if your actions do not affect Link. All in all, 
 the swordplay is the best in any Zelda yet.
  
  The game is brilliantly paced. You are a wolf one minute, performing an escort mission another, 
 tackling a dungeon the next, and then fighting a boss battle. The game might be long but it definitely 
 makes sure it is not boring. And, at any time, you can do one of the games many sidequests. Twilight 
 Princess does not really have any branching storylines or extensive sidequests, but it does have 
 plenty short sidequests that are very rewarding. There are some really interesting minigames that 
 you may want to come back to as well, including a snowboarding and fishing minigame that are so 
 good that they could honestly be their own standalone games. You can easily spend upwards of 15 
 hours collecting everything in the game, and thats only if you know what you are doing.
  
  The environments in Twilight Princess are brilliantly varied. Hyrule field is enormous, and every 
 corner of it looks different. There are 9 dungeons in the game, but there is also a sequence before 
 every dungeon in which you explore an area that fits the general theme of that particular dungeon. 
 Before the ice dungeon, you will have to roam around as the wolf in a snowy iceland. Before the 
 fire dungeon, you will have to scale a dangerous volcano. This sort of pacing makes the game interesting, 
 and adds length to an already long game. If there is a fault in Twilight Princess it is that it 
 doesn't take advantage of the Wii's true power. The game looks like a Gamecube game. The developers 
 could have put in a bit more effort to juice up the graphics and sound to nextgen quality but it 
 seems that they simply were not given enough time. The sound particularily, which is a sad composition 
 of midi tracks. There is also a lack of voice acting.
  
  But, the gameplay is so good that it is hard to dwell on these faults, especially considering Twilight 
 Princess is still the best looking Wii game to date. If you own a Wii, you should get this game. 
 If you own a Gamecube, you should get a Wii and this game. The gameplay improvements are enough 
 to warrant it, trust me. After all, isn't putting down the money for a new system worth it for 
 one of the best action games in years? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_xii12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is a review for the graphical power of the wii more than of twilight princess. Many of my 
 friends will come over to check out the new game system and immediately ask to see the new Zelda 
 game. The first thing out of their mouth is that the graphics aren't very impressive for a next 
 gen console. Then i have to inform them over and over again that this game was initially designed 
 for a previous generation platform. Of course the graphics for this game don't sport those of a 
 next gen console because it's not a next gen console game. Nintendo declared this game as the flagship 
 game for the Wii because it had been so long in the making that people were starting to loose hope 
 of ever getting to play the game. Rest assured despite the previous gen graphics i played all the 
 way through the game and found all but a few of the extra quests and absolutely loved it all the 
 way through. it's one of those games that I will piick up again later and play through with the 
 same amount of joy that i had the first time. just scrolling though the text a little bit faster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is a franchise that has made us laugh, cry, and angrier at Ganon every year 
 and now its finally out! The killer-amp, the golden disk, the sweat enducing, butt clenching, unlastable 
 wait is over!
  
  The story I don't want to divulge so I'll just say this... ITS FORKING AWESOME!!!!!
  
  gameplay 
 uses the wii-mote like a dream. With every wave a monster's life is cut to a end and with any shake 
 a whole group is taken down. Targeting with the wii-mote takes some getting used to but for lazy 
 bums there is a curser remove option. The motion capibilitys is amazing and will make you wish 
 link was ALWAYS left-handed.
  
  Graphics are... well it makes you feel kinda dirty to go back to the gamecube cause after playing 
 you feel wierd playing anything last generation. But as far as anything goes the graphics are up 
 to next gen standards but could give a little more.
  
  The music is wonderful! The remakes of music past, the new music made for the game is great! Think 
 of dragon quest 8's music score and double it. It's easy to get in the mood with this much work 
 done in music quality.
  
  Now should you wait in line for 42 hours to get a console and this game? well if you are reading 
 this review than you already might be inline so enough said.
  
  Nintendo and Link can still crank out one heck of a game and we hope that this stays in the vault 
 next to OOT as a legendary experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxic180
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  The Zelda franchise have been one of the most important games in the industry and the release of 
 a fresh start to the franchise is welcoming. The game starts off with Zelda (Link) as a young boy 
 waiting to be a destined hero. His home town is full of tasks that need to be completed like for 
 example, your neighbours has gone missing, so with your fishing rod and this is where the importance 
 of the Wiimote comes in. As you progress through the game you will receieve new upgrades for your 
 armour and attack moves. The controls for the game are ace and the layout for the controls for 
 the game are very comforting. For example, the nunchuk is to control the movement and the Wiimote 
 is for fighting like slashing. The gameplay gets switched round very dramtically for the controls 
 when Link turns into a powerful wolf. Link has some amazing moves to show off but the wolf has 
 such devastating attacks that would make you scared of your own dog!. The visuals for the game 
 are very, very beautiful even from the forests waterfalls to the dark side of cities. The graphics 
 look a bit washed out but nontheless it wont put you off as you will be having too much fun to 
 realise.
  This is an amazing experience for the start of a new year for the nintendo wii. Many game developers 
 will follow the footsteps for what the wii can do.
  Enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryustruck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Its been a loong time coming. Rumor after rumor, delay after delay. And now we finally have what 
 some people are calling not only the best Zelda game of all time, but The Best Game of All Time. 
 Im sorry, but this game defines the saying close but no cigar. Twilight Princess is essentially 
 everything good about The Legend of Zelda franchise, balled into one installment. While a very 
 very enjoyable game for both long time veterans and newcomers, to the latter it can feel very, 
 familiar, and not in a nostalgic kind of way.
  
  The controls on the wii version work simply enough. Movement is handled with the analog stick, 
 freelook and targeting are on the C and Z buttons respectively. The remote is used as the sword, 
 the dpad and b buttons are where the weapons are mapped to, A is used for contextual situations, 
 and the plus and minus buttons are used for menus. After having played through both the Gamecube 
 and Wii versions i must say that the wii controls are superior, however it does take a bit of adjustment. 
 Now the visuals. I understand that this Is a port of a Gamecube game, and that it is a Wii launch 
 title. But still, the character models look very static, showing next to no emotion other than 
 how they were constructed, and alot of the textures look like they were pulled straight from OOT 
 itself. However the art direction is impeccably implemented and its able to make everything look 
 epic to the teeth, and it suceeds in that aspect. The last boss fight is a real visual treat. The 
 sound is just as youd expect from any other zelda game, the familiar scores, sound effects all 
 make their rounds here. but alot of the times once youve opened a chest for the thousandth time 
 youd rather ignore that DA DA DA DAAAAAA 
  
  Overall compared to previous Zelda's there arent many sidequests to partake in once the quest is 
 finished with, but the quest alone will take you at least 30 hours to complete even with a guide, 
 and trust me, ive only gotten a slight percentage of the extra heart containers, extra wallets, 
 bags, other collectables and ive only logged in 50 hours. The only real problem with Twilight Princess 
 is that it feels too similar to all other Zeldas. Theres the traditional Starting Town, the Orientation 
 minigames, the Forest Temple, Fire Temple, Water Temple, the retreival of the Master Sword, then 
 3 or 4 more dungeons then the end of the game Dungeon. The formula is beginning to wear thin, and 
 i know that Its Zelda but Majora's Mask strayed these conventions and managed to be an excellent 
 game. For anyone thats played Ocarina of Time or A Link to the Past, do yourself a favor and play 
 this game, if not youll have fun with it regardless. Twilight Princess is a game thats enjoyable 
 for longtime fans as well as newcomers, and the few faults it does have wont have that much of 
 an impact on your enjoyment of the game, and is a must have for any Wii or Gamecube owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candyman4x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this could very well be the best Zelda to come out for Nintendo. 
 What makes this game so good is how YOU play and how YOU enteract with it. I think that is awesome 
 in that you can control how fun or boring (which Zelda is far from) is. First off, the game starts 
 as they always do. You poke around in a town doing things and just getting started but here is 
 the cool part. From there the game just takes off soaking you into a fast pase high intensity adventure. 
 Along the way, you meet new chacacter and fun creatures as you try to save the world from the princess 
 of darkness (hense the name twilight princess) . I thought that what the graphics lack, the game 
 play and the storyline make up for. I would agree in saying that the sound is a little weak in 
 that there are still no character voices and that the controller sound is weak and not really realistic. 
 I think this is a must buy game for just the fact that this is probably the best game out for the 
 Wii right now and. Games after it will have to live up to a big role. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NATATO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps people have forgotten how good The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time was. The first 
 game to get a perfect 10 on Gamespot, an achievement only three other games, out of the thousands 
 that have come out in the past decade, have been able to do. It is considered by many to be the 
 best game of all time, and deserves every bit of praise it gets.
  
  But this review isnt about The Ocarina of Time, it's about The Twilight Princess. But if you loved 
 The Ocarina of Time, Twilight Princess delivers the same outstanding game play, with the great 
 innovation of the Wii Remote. Even though it was dubbed a AA score by Gamespot, it deserves better; 
 and those who loved The Ocarina of Time will find it hard to run from the latest addition of the 
 Zelda series. I dont think I need to ramble on whats so great about Zeldas game play, but I 
 will anyway. Zelda has such a great fighting system, arguably the best combat system in any action 
 series ever made. Its so simple, and yet so satisfying. Unlike RPGs that get people tangled up 
 in using the right spells or using the right move at the right time, Zeldas real time combat system 
 makes it natural (even more so than before with the Wii remote) to dodge an enemys attack and 
 then slash them. If youve played a 3D Zelda game, you know what I mean. TP keeps that same system, 
 but spices it up a little bit by adding unlockable moves and a slew of new weapons (like a Ball 
 and Chain, and a Gear skateboard) . Theres no reason to change up Zeldas combat system, its 
 one of the best; Nintendo just keeps it fresh (which is the right think to do) . The new wolf 
 game play in fun as well, and adds a new dimension to how you explore dungeons and solve puzzles. 
 And I dont care who you are, there is nothing more satisfying than completing a three hour Zelda 
 dungeon that has stumped you several times, but nevertheless, you conquered it. Despite a re-deliverance 
 of some of the greatest game play ever designed, The Twilight Princess does have it's short comings; 
 if it was just as outstanding as Ocarina of Time I would have given it a perfect 10. Although technically 
 longer in main story line hours, Twilight Princess lacks all those extra mini games that were so 
 much fun in Ocarina of Time. Although Twilight Princess has some mini games, it doesn't have nearly 
 as many as Ocarina of Time, and that's something that I miss from it's N64 predecessor. But don't 
 think this game is short and not worth playing, you'll get at least a good solid 40 hours out of 
 playing this game. Twilight Princess also lacks in the sound department as well. The essence of 
 it's sound isn't very good. The Wii Remotes sound effects, though a good idea, come off sounding 
 more cheesy than effective. The synthesized music, although better composed than some games with 
 orchestrated music, is easily detected and Nintendo should seriously consider changing their games 
 (even if it's only Zelda) over to orchestrated music. However, the synthesized music pays off in 
 some ways because Zelda's music could be considered interactive which would be much more difficult 
 to do with orchestrated music. What I mean by that, the music will change depending on what you're 
 doing in the game. I'm not talking about changing from fight music to normal music or visa versa 
 (which most games do anyway) , but rather depending on what you're doing in the actual fight, the 
 music will interact. So as when you take damage during a fight the music becomes more frantic. 
 Or in boss fights, when given the opportunity to slash a bosses Achilles Tendon with your sword, 
 a heroic horn tune (though synthesized) will start playing adding to the urge to completely slash 
 this boss that just will not die apart. Although subtle, the game designers put good effort into 
 really incorporating their sound track into the game.
  
  If you've been crying Graphics!! 9/10? throughout this review, here we go.
  
  Zelda's graphics 
 are not as good as a game like Oblivion or Gears of War. It's on the Wii, and it's obvious Wii's 
 graphics are just not as good. But for a Wii game, the graphics are just fine. The artistic aspect 
 of Zelda's graphics are extremely intriguing and some of the dungeons in the game (like a flying 
 city, or a mansion owned by the Abominable Snowman) have some really unique looks to them, not 
 just from previous Zelda games, but all games in general. Quite frankly though, the difference 
 between Zelda and a game like Gears of War is definitely obvious, but when I turn on Zelda after 
 playing Gears, I'm not completely blown away in disgust like I just turned on my N64 after playing 
 three years of Xbox. No, the difference is present but not mind boggling, and if you think it is 
 you're letting all this system wars BS get to your head.
  
  But that argument is for system wars, and let's leave it at that.
  
  Overall Twilight Princess 
 IS a superb game and deserves no less praise. It's a shame that people begin to see Zelda as an 
 inferior game because it only got a AA score. It'd be a shame if an Ocarina of Time lover over- 
 looked this game, and deserves to know the TP is just as great as any other Zelda game in the series. 
 So in short, if you loved Ocarina of Time, theres more flap jacks on the table, 40 hours of them 
 to be exact, and passing them up is only missing out on some of Nintendo's best cookin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megathrowbot2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is Nintendo's latest installment in the Zelda saga, and this 
 time it's featured as the Wii's killer ap launch title as well as one of the GameCube's final games. 
 The two versions have two major differences though- they're mirrored, that is, the directions are 
 the opposite of what they are in the GameCube game, and the controls due to the Wii's controller.
 
  
  Twilight Princess, according to a interview found in Nintendo Power, takes place between the games 
 predecessor, Wind Waker, and Ocarina of Time. In this game, as in all of the others, you play as 
 the hero Link and this time you have to stop the twilight that is engulfing all of Hyrule. The 
 story provides you with a few emotional moments, perhaps a slightly darker story and a great ending, 
 but most of all it sticks to the same plot techniques as previous games. Not that that's a bad 
 thing- the story is wonderful. There's also a great variety of dungeons, the highlight of any Zelda 
 game, most of all this one. There's not a single dungeon in Twilight Princess that's not a joy 
 to go through. They all have their own theme and music making them very atmospheric. Dungeons is 
 one of the many things this does better than the other Zelda games. The music in this game doesn't 
 measure up to Ocarina of Time's, but there are still very many pleasant tunes
  
  This time around the world is massive leaving you plenty of places to explore. There are many different 
 environments across Hyrule, and due to the beautiful art style of the game your eyes will be pleased 
 while doing it. Unfortunately, because this was primarily a GameCube game ported to the Wii the 
 actual technical graphics still just look like a really nice GameCube game instead of a game for 
 the Wii, but the graphics are still wonderful and doesn't take anything away from the game.
  
  Twilight princess plays like your typical Zelda game- you get items in every dungeon, collect 
 heart pieces and rupees, and solve difficult puzzles. Well, maybe not as difficult as I would have 
 liked. This game is perhaps just a bit harder than Wind Waker. There are quite a few puzzles that 
 will stump you, but the enemies for the most part will fall under your blade with little problems. 
 What sets this game apart from the others is its controls. It makes great use of the Wii Remote. 
 If you swing it, Link will swing his sword; draw your bow and aim around the screen to aim the 
 bow, and you even use it and the nunchuk while fishing- a minigame which can be very addictive. 
 This isn't all though, as in what seems like a call back to A Link To The Past there are two worlds- 
 the normal word and the Twilight Realm where your utilize Link's new Wolf form which gives him 
 abilities such as sniffing out and following a memorized scent. This game also sports a lengthy 
 adventure giving you 35-40 hours to complete the main quest and as much as 60 to complete all of 
 the side quests!
  
  All said and done, Twilight Princess offers the player a wonderful, lengthy story with a beautiful 
 art style. This is certainly one of, if not the best Zelda game to be released yet and it will 
 entertain its players for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Im amazed, this has to be the single-handedly most amazing thing in the histroy on console gaming. 
 And I though Metroid Prime was impressive! HA! Not compared to this.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess puts you in control of Link, who this time is a farm boy 
 in the village of Ordon. The village is corrupted with the Twilight, a dark world controlled by 
 the ruthless Zant. Link is turned into a wolf, his child friends are kidnapped, and Link is found 
 and helped by a mesterious guide named Midna. The gameplay is beautiful, it fits perfectly with 
 the Wii's unique control. I have always sucked at aiming a bow in Zelda games, but Twilight Princess 
 makes it easier with it's precision aiming technique that requires you to aim with the remote. 
 That is AWSOME! And the sword combat is now 10 times more entertaining, with a simple flick, or 
 a killing slash of the Remote, Link will swing his sword back and forth, performing horizontal, 
 vertical slashes, and stabs. The graphics make it look like a high end gamecube game... but WHO 
 CARES? It is still a really pretty game. The water effects are incredible. The tiwlight realm comes 
 out from it's original Black and white style to an odd warm colored style that really shows the 
 fact that all hell has broken out.
  
  The Music... wow... I cant get enough of it, all of the soundtrack, from the quirky sounds of Castle 
 Town, to the Sonic the Hedgehog sounding backround music for your final battle with Zant. This 
 is most likely the plain best part about this game.
  
  All in all, if you have a Wii, get this game. Even if you hate RPG's with all your heart and soul, 
 you will love Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taris772
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  It brings the Wii's remotes full potential out. Because while playing this game you will have to 
 hack and slash your way through great masses of enemies. Traveling back and forth between the Twilight 
 realm brings that much more depth into the game. IT is a must buy for the Wii and if you don't 
 have a Wii but you have a gamecube you should definitely still buy it. Aiming at first is a little 
 tricky but you get used to it. It is a long game but well worth it. It's a good game for Zelda 
 lovers and casual gamers alike. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprigain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since we've seen a Zelda game of this calibre. Many people became inpatient with 
 the amount of times this game was delayed, but it was all worthwhile.
  The New Legend of Zelda sports incredible and highly detailed graphics, some great game play and 
 an interesting storyline, but is forced to compete with the not so great sound and sometimes difficult 
 controls.
  Another thing about Twilight Princess is that it sports new ways to play, new towns and new weaponry, 
 such as snowboard on a sheet of ice, transforming into a wolf, combining bombs with arrows, calling 
 your horse and birds with pieces of grass to help assist you in the vast land of hyrule, the list 
 goes on.
  Playing as a wolf was enjoyable as you can speak to other animals and scare locals in towns and 
 help restore peace in hyrule all at the same time. While you won't find musical instruments in 
 twilight princess a'la Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, it is a great game, no matter what console 
 its on, I suggest you play it, it helps reminisce the times players had with Ocarina of Time and 
 Majora's Mask the game is awesome but i felt like it was to easy at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggshnyne
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great new controls, that didnt make the games series lose its feel in anyway. It has 
 a little over 70 hours of game play. Plus the art design in this game looks as if it should be 
 hung in an art gallery. The Bad: Our fairy loving friend Tingle was replaced in this game by 
 Droopy, and a gay guy and I dont mean happy when I say gay well I guess he could be happy as 
 well Plus, theres one more thing, when Link puts his sword away the cool way, (after you defeat 
 a bunch of baddies) you can see the sword handle go through his hat not only that, but you can 
 see his hat go through his shield at other times
  
  And the Replay: Like all Zelda games, the replay value is very high.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess has been in the making for quite some time, and it was supposed to hit store 
 shelves last fall, but due to extra work Nintendo wanted to do on this game, it got delayed for 
 a whole year! And that made a lot of fans like myself disappointed, since many had been waiting 
 for this game since they first heard about it. (And that was a long time in itself.) The question 
 we all ask now is, was it worth the wait? And the answer to that question would be, yes!
  
  The games story is about a young farm boy named Link. And he is skilled at many things, from herding, 
 to using a sling shot, and even at using a sword. Not only is he skilled at many things, but he 
 is well trusted and loved by all the villagers of Ordon (especially by the children) . But not all 
 is good, for this peaceful village is attacked by monsters, and the children are taken. And when 
 these monsters attack, Link is knocked unconscious by them. When Link awakes, he sees that the 
 children were taken! With that, Link goes out to find them, but of course he finds himself on a 
 much bigger adventure then planned, for the land outside Ordon is covered in twilight, and when 
 Link comes near this twilight, he is suddenly pulled in. When he enters the twilight world, he 
 is suddenly transformed into a wet-nosed dog *cough cough.. Um* I mean wolf. He is then taken 
 captive by twilight creatures.
  
  Later, Link finds himself chained behind bars. As he chews at the chains, he ends up meeting a 
 pointy-eared big-headed twilight creature named Midna. In the game Midna works as your guide, like 
 Navi in OoT. Midna then helps Link out of his predicament. Then she tells him to take her to the 
 twilight princess, that is in this castle, (Hmm I wonder who that could be ) Later in the game, 
 Link begins to find out what the twilight world is, and soon after that he figures out that hes 
 the hero chosen by legend, and with that, he is the only one that can save the land of Hyrule from 
 the evil that threatens it. One thing I really loved about this game was how much it reminded me 
 of Ocarina of Time, with the landscape, the art design, and with Link being an adult. Again, just 
 about everything in this game screams OoT. But on the other hand, it was a lot like Majoras Mask. 
 With the twilight world, it reminded me of Majoras Mask story with its weirdness and Links ability 
 to transform. And even the music at times sounded like something that would be in MM.
  
  There are also a lot of cool new and old items that are in this game, such as the Claw shot, (which 
 is like the Hook shot) and the Gale boomerang, which is pretty neat since it works like the Boomerang 
 and Deku leaf from TWW, combined. Theres also two other tunics to get in this game. Along with 
 the Bow/Arrows and Bombs (and thats just a few of the items you get) , the Iron boots make their 
 return. Not only can you stand your ground with these things, but you can walk under water with 
 them again, and you can even walk on magnetized ceilings with these babies.
  
  And boy, its just great fun to point at your TV to use some of those items you get in the game, 
 such as the Bow/Arrows. Plus the first time you get the wooden sword in the beginning of the game, 
 will make you love this game alone. The controls in this game are just great, its completely new 
 to a Zelda game, yet its very easy to learn, just point, shake and swing. Plus once you make it 
 to the fishing hole later in the game, get ready to be hitting yourself with that Nunchuck in the 
 face a lot, when your reeling that fish in. Plus whenever I fish in this game, I get extremely 
 exhausted! In the good way though.
  
  And let me tell you one thing, I have never got bored while playing this game, it has a good amount 
 of side quests, along with its long main quest. And it is supposed to have over 70 hours of game 
 play, so expect to have a super fun time with this launch title, for the Wii.
  
  This game has all the action and tough puzzles you would want in a Zelda game, and a lot of times 
 youre more than likely to get stuck on a simple puzzle for hours, but let me tell you, once you 
 figure it out its very rewarding, till you get stuck again! just like any other Zelda game. Plus 
 like I said before, this game has the elements of OoT and MM, so with that I would have to say, 
 Ocarina of time + Majoras Mask, and you would have yourself a perfect game, if it werent for 
 the hat glitch. So, as much as I wanted to give this game a perfect score, I couldnt due to this 
 glitch, but the glitch doesnt affect the rating dramatically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This may not live up to the 70+ hours promised but it is still better than I expected! Bringing 
 it to the Wii as a launch title was a good idea as you get used to the controls rather quickly.
 
  
  Once you get used to it you are drawn into the story, this Zelda is the most thrilling of them 
 yet, with the Twilight realm and the evil king who rules it. With your companion who you get an 
 hour or so into the game, plot twists begin to rise and you are constantly guessing who and what 
 your eneimies are. There are loads of side quests so you can collect heart pieces, golden bugs, 
 upgrades for your equipment and poe souls.
  
  The more you look at it the more this game relates to the excellent game on SNES, an evil realm, 
 an unknown enemy and a sacred grove. Unfortunatly there are some problems such as when you perform 
 a spin attack rather than a shield bash especially when you face the knight in the temple this 
 can quickly become annoying. Also is the fact tat the mini- bosses in the dungeons are harder than 
 the guardians themselves, once you know how to beat them you are laughing as they are pretty much 
 useless. Just about every boss is a joke, and your shield is far too effective, which is annoying 
 since in OoT it was great dodgin your enemies attacks. br /&gt;
  
  The puzzles however get extremly complicated and you feel proud of yourself as you crack them, 
 its even better if you get a heart piece for your effort. Although once you finish there is nothing 
 left to do except find the rest of the poes of try the Cave of Ordeals, which you may attempt to 
 complete fully once you have the Double Clawshot and it gets tricky towards the end but you feel 
 good for finishing it and reaping in the (minor) reward.
  
  This is a good start for Nintendo's latest console, but could of been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauron649
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Great! 10/10! I just beat it not two minutes ago and it was one, if not the, best game I've ever 
 played. It has the perfect mix of puzzles, action, and mystery that make a Legend of Zelda game 
 a Legend of Zelda game. Some of the items are very strange *cough* Spinner *cough*, but that just 
 makes it all the more while to play. The puzzles are not too hard. The end is kind of sad, but 
 good, so don't turn the console off during the credits. There's quite a bit of shocking moments 
 also, but I won't tell any of them because that would just ruin it. But back to the point, this 
 game is, without a doubt, the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodydragoon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Zelda game in the series without a doubt. It reinvents the title exellently 
 and stays true to the name. The swordplay is just as fresh and intuitive. I always thought swinging 
 a sword w/ the wii mote was gonna be really stupid but ever since i tried it it was the funnest 
 thing since the original mario!! The new aiming system is easier than ever!!! The best part of 
 the game has to be the boss battle's! Once you beat the first boss you'll feel like you've accomplished 
 a great task like back in Ocarina of Time!!! There's absolutely now downsize to this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1sweety17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  You just gotta love this game! Link has emotions! I loved that part. Its cool all the emotions 
 love,  more. Its just to good to be true. I also like the characters 
 in the game. I like to point out the Midna (even though she went throw a lot) she's one of the coolest! 
 Some parts are so sad in the game i just had to cry. The game was defiantly worth playing! More 
 than what you could ever dream of there's no other way to say it. Its an all out fun experience. 
 I felt like i was really there playing it. You can't get any better than feeling like you where 
 really there. This game is just to good no to incredible for words to explain. I highly recommend 
 this game! I hope all of you who play it will have the best time ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChowChow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  It has the same crazy mystical music dungeon puzzles and amazing cool creatures, except it has 
 better graffics too, and better story, and while your going through the dungeons they make it more 
 meaningfull to do what you're doing. Its also more entertaining each dungeon has unique creatures 
 for it, and say if you're ina mountain there would be lots of boulders or lava and such, and in 
 a forest you would be like, up in the trees. all the fun stuff, still in the game, the boomerang 
 has an element, the old bottles you use to fill stuff up. They have a new add on, a hawk you call 
 to send him to fetch things for you. The only thing I dont like, that they put in this game, or 
 took out was that they didnt have the Ocarina of time. And that didnt help because the Ocarina 
 of time was really fun, how you got to conduct your own song or blow other songs it was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The latest game in the critically acclaimed Legend of Zelda series Twilight Princess is a launch 
 title for Nintendos seemingly untouchable Wii console. Ocarina of Time reinvented the console 
 action/adventure genre by taking the hugely popular Zelda franchise and taking it into the next 
 dimension. Of course this game was critically acclaimed, frequently receiving awards as the greatest 
 game of all time, yet it could also be Nintendos biggest downfall as obviously every game has 
 been heavily compared to Ocarina ever since. Twilight Princess is the first game to capture the 
 same artistic style and revolutionary gameplay of Ocarina so of course it is one of the most hugely 
 anticipated titles ever.
  
  The basic story depicts a young goat herder named Link who must overcome evil to rescue the Princess 
 Zelda. I can tell you now this game is no different, but it puts some unique twists on a classic 
 tale which makes for some great playing. The setting is the land of Hyrule where a mysterious dark 
 shadow called the Twilight is shrouding the land making the world and its citizens depressing and 
 dark. You end up getting caught up in all of the conflict and take it upon yourself to once again 
 rid the world of evil and become the hero. Of course, the story is a much more complicated beast 
 than that with many plot twists and turns throughout the game which come as real surprises yet 
 in areas feel clich&eacute; d and forced. Overall, the story is one of the real treats in Twilight 
 Princess Nintendo was never renowned for its storytelling, but the emotion and dialogue found in 
 the game would make anyone want to save the world. When this game was first announced for the Wii 
 at E3 in 2006, many people were skeptical about how a game primarily designed for a joypad would 
 translate to the Wii's infamous controllers. The answer is that it works surprisingly well, movement 
 is controlled with the Wii's nunchuck with the remote being reserved for selecting items and attacking. 
 The attacking system uses the same Z-targeting system made famous by Ocarina of Time and to slash 
 a simple flick of the remote is needed and for the most part this works as it should, but simple 
 niggles in the control scheme like the remote failing to respond at times makes the joy pad have 
 a slight advantage in the practicality department, but sword fights are no where near as fun with 
 a joypad as they are with the Wii controller. The A button is used primarily as the action button 
 used for pushing crates pulling switches etc, the control scheme works well and is a refreshing 
 way to play the game.
  
  Enemies are a blast to fight and are varied in difficulty and style. Some battles require you to 
 simply flick your wrist a few times to win, others require more thought and precision often making 
 you roll behind them, jump over them or use a special technique to exploit their weak points. The 
 boss battles take place at the end of every dungeon and are an epic sight, they are usually huge 
 beasts that tower above you. These are some of the best battles in the series so far, they are 
 fluid and play with such intensity that you will remember the best ones for a while to come.
  
  Something unique to Twilight Princess is the ability to transform into a wolf when confronted 
 by an area of Twilight which are the dark areas of land that need saving. Quite unsurprisingly 
 the controls of the wolf map exactly the same onto the remotes as the human form, with the only 
 changes being, in wolf form you can sense different scents which you can follow opening up different 
 aspects of the story. The land of Hyrule itself is lush and littered with exploration, first stepping 
 out into the world is an awe-inspiring scene as you see at first hand the scale of this monstrous 
 game. While the map is huge by todays standards, there just isn't a lot you can do in Hyrule making 
 it feel like a huge baron waste of space, with little desire to traverse its entirety. Instead 
 of travelling across the huge world on horseback a more efficient warping system has been introduced 
 which involves the character being beamed up with sci-fi like glow where he breaks down into small 
 black squares and is transported. This looks very cool and will be the way youll want to move 
 around Hyrule, rendering the horse virtually useless. Nintendo should have concentrated more on 
 side-quests which could have added a meaningful couple of hours to the games length and make the 
 overall atmosphere of the world more lively and realistic. Most of the time will be spent in one 
 of its eight dungeons which provide a rather familiar experience for anyone who has played a game 
 of this type before. There are the common fire, ice, and water dungeons but a few new ideas are 
 shown in the form of the sky and church dungeons. The dungeons are packed with exploration and 
 puzzles which have been expertly designed by the developers to give you just the right amount of 
 difficulty. Expect pretty much the same puzzles found in previous games solved by the familiar 
 line up of items found in previous games, including boomerangs, bow and arrows, bombs and the good 
 ol' Master sword. Ocarina of Time was acclaimed by critics so its hard to fault Nintendo for not 
 changing its tried and tested formula in favour of something more riskier, but in areas, it really 
 feels like imagination is lacking and Nintendo have merely sought after everything good in that 
 game and used it in a different setting.
  
  From a graphics view it looks good but not good enough. As it was originally a game designed primarily 
 for the Gamecube it looks like a great Gamecube game should, although this is for the Wii and with 
 both versions looking identical and its slightly worrying. The graphics on their own aren't revoltingly 
 bad, the draw distances and character models are easily the highlights of the game, but muddy textures 
 and some weak animations really spoil what looks fabulous. Everything runs very smoothly which 
 is pleasing, and even when youre travelling pretty fast shooting arrows surrounded by multiple 
 enemies the game-play does not stutter. Musically the series has always been praised for its killer 
 soundtrack accompanied with awesome effects and atmosphere. This is ultimately the biggest disappointment 
 in the game, not only are the songs near identical to those found in Ocarina, but they are still 
 in the low quality midi format which became dated with the turn of Cd's. The music is slightly 
 varied from Ocarina which is a blessing and a curse. People will remember the great music of that 
 game, and they will once again see it here, played slightly differently. The music veers from nostalgic 
 to just plain lazy using most of the melodies from old games, showing once again it just feels 
 like Nintendo are relying on games of the past to carry them through the next generation. There 
 is also no voice-acting in the game, you'll here murmurs or a laugh here and there, but besides 
 that, its a strictly text-based affair, which doesn't allow for the same emotional affect as a 
 cast of real people. Voice acting isn't a new thing to video games its been around for more than 
 10 years, but to see Link speak in a Zelda game might shock some people and offend the die-hard 
 fans of the series. Zelda is full of little jingles which are nice and provide a more immersive 
 experience then the dated soundtrack, these little touches are provided through the Wii controllers 
 built-in speaker. When you aim your bow, you can hear the string tighten with pressure and the 
 sudden release of the arrow through the speaker is a fresh experience however the speaker itself 
 is quite low quality and if the speaker is turned up to a volume higher then the average setting, 
 the sounds will become distorted and will crackle. For the average player you should get a good 
 50 hours or more from Twilight Princess, which is great value especially when most of those hours 
 are action packed with epic boss fights and dungeons although very occasionally the game will bog 
 you down with tedious chores that really make the experience feel more disconnected. As the difficulty 
 of the game might offend people of new, there are a few mini-games snuck in but not nearly enough 
 in comparison to previous games, but they should entertain you while you think up a way to get 
 past a certain gate. Theres fishing, flying, shooting, collecting and most importantly extra which 
 should keep you entertained for a few minutes or so. The lasting impression many people will get 
 from Zelda is the same, its an amazing launch game with an engaging plotline, fantastic battle 
 sequences, plenty of things to do and a killer map size its just a shame Nintendo haven't moved 
 with the times and has not given the fans what they deserve: a true next generation Zelda game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightchylde3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Twilight princess is no Ocacina of Time. And I think Windwaker was a little better. A little. 
 But when you're talking about The Legend of Zelda, you know that all these games are in a league 
 of their own. And Twilight Princess is no different. For lack of a better description, this game 
 (on it's own) is amazing. I had a little trouble getting over the muscle memory of button smashing, 
 to embrace the Wii remote swing action for the sword. The nunchuck for the shield. But after awhile, 
 it was second nature. Did I say this game is amazing? Well worth the wait. Now I'm just waiting 
 for Phantom Hourglass for the DS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diego_M
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Damn great game, amazing graphics, cool storyline, nice gameplay, great sound it is worthy of a 
 9.7 or even better. It took like almost a decade for Nintendo and the Zelda franchise to finaly 
 release a game that can be as good as Ocarina of Time and that brings the Zelda's glorious times 
 back to us. Gamespot's review is so dissapointing and somehow wrong. The main topic of their review 
 is that Twilight Princess is like a flashback of Ocarina of Time, and its true. But only because 
 of that it isnt worthy of an 8.8. First of all TP is like an improved remake of OT but with better 
 graphics, a more enjoyable game and a different storyline. The thing is that Gamespot only concentrated 
 on the stuck in the past issue, and if you play the game, thats the last thing you can think of. 
 The game is enjoyable, it has lots of new and great things, and yes it has similar things to OT, 
 but Zelda is Zelda what more can you expect. The game is great, its a masterpiece, it is greatly 
 done. You are not playing a lame game, everything on it looks perfectand for a regular person to 
 play it its just amazing. But to the Gamespot analyst it seems stuck in the past i hate that... 
 lol I highly recomend the game. Thnx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgalindo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, the things I like most of this game are the boss fights specially the final 
 boss fight, is great, this game gives some news twist the zelda games, but not to much (also why 
 change a game that is great) the parts were you transfor in to a wolf are great, the new weapons 
 are great also, and the twists that they put on some weapons make a nice change.
  
  The Gameplay has always been great on zelda games, the new part were you play as a wolf are great 
 and also the parts were you are fighting on the hourse are great, the new gameplay that gives you 
 the use of the wii-mote is great, it makes you fill more in the game that if you didnt have the 
 wii mote.
  
  The Graphics arent awesome like in gears but there are more artistic and still the game looks really 
 great, I cant ask for more.
  
  The sound is great, but I think that greg is right and it could use some voice acting, but I do 
 like the sounds that come from the wii mote, also make you fill more in the game.
  
  Well this game is really great, the only way to hate this game, is that you dont have pacience 
 and cant stand to solve the puzzles and all, but even if you havent like the other zelda I believe 
 that you will like this one. zelda is a must have if you have a wii or gamecube 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jessicurr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is an overall great game, amazingly designed graphics and sound but sometimes 
 the game could be a bit of a hastle because of the fishing at the beginning of the game. I would 
 recommend Zelda for the Wii because it is an instant classic, even though there is some tunes or 
 characters that may seem like one of the old Zelda's. It is quite a long game but if you love adventure 
 and classic games like Zelda, you should buy this game. For those who have mixed-reactions, I consider 
 you rent it first. But overall, I would recommend Zelda to all those wii owners and Zelda fans, 
 it IS the best game on the Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h410m4573r_117
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  You know, when I first got the Wii for Christmas, i was a little skeptical about it. I thought 
 I was going to be a Microsoft fanboy forever, but this game completely changed my mind. It starts 
 off a little slow, but once you get into it, I was literally unable to put it down. The graphics 
 are technically and artistically amazing, not just on the Wii, but on any console. The sound is 
 amazing; the music captivates you and drags you into the world of Hyrule. The gameplay is awesome; 
 the controls take a little getting used to, and the Wiimote is a little too sensitive, but this 
 game redefines the Fantasy/ Action-Adventure/ Platformer? (I guess) genre with Its interesting and 
 somewhat intuitive puzzles. This game is worth buying the Wii for, put bluntly. This game is a 
 must-have for anyone who truly appreciates video games: old-school Legend of Zelda fans or fans 
 of modern action-adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pow1149
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  I've gotta say, for someone who has never played a Zelda game before, I now know what i've missed. 
 It's all 'cus my dad got me a ps2. I had to at least pretend to be happy, but now I don't regret 
 it so much considering how well gamecube has now done. No matter, I became a nintendo fan when 
 the ds came out and I now own my very own WII!!!!!! When choosing games (2) zelda and red steel 
 were the two obvious picks. My first play at this game I was, well, slightly bored. At the beggining 
 its rather crap. It started to look good as soon as I entered the twilight. The graphics, WOW, 
 the sound, well as long as its not coming from the wii controllers speaker.... WOW. And from that 
 point it just got better and better and better. If you own a wii, but you don't own Zelda, wat 
 r u waiting for?! I'm not going to spoil the story, that is for you to discover, but don't just 
 stare at this review, you should be running to the shops by now, run, RUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alleus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  There is not really much to say here, just that this game is a masterpiece, a truly wonderful game.
 
  
  When I preordered my Wii from the local toystore here in my shop there weren't really a question 
 what game to buy with it, Zelda was the only thing in my mind for a really, really long time.
 
  
  And when I finally got my Wii I tested Wii Sports first just to see how it was. I played that for 
 about 10 minutes then I couldn't take it anymore, I HAD to play Twilight Princess! And I've got 
 three words for you: Best. Game. Ever.
  
  The storyline is very well made, but I won't tell you anything more about that. You gotta see that 
 for yourself! Controls are wonderful and aiming with the bow, slingshot etc is a blessing. Fortunatly 
 you don't control movement with the Wii Remote, you use the Nunchuk with the control stick to control 
 movement. Nice.
  
  As I stated before there is not much more to say, just that this is a MUST for all (or soon too-become) 
 Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikEhn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  First i thought The legend of zelda TP will never beat Ocarina of time .
  The time went and for every E3 i saw that maybe Zelda twilight princess will beat ocarina of time. 
 Now when i have test Twilight princess, i realized that it was better then ocarina of time. The 
 whole games starts whit a superb cut scene there Link and his master (I think it is his master) 
 sitting on the ground and talk about something that i don't know.
  Actully i don't know the story etiher. I don't listen to the dialogs in the game.
  Im so upset 
 that i just want to play the game! Sometimes im getting really bored of the dialogs that you must 
 read.
  I like more the wii version then the gamecube version.
  press the buttom! boring... Swing your arm! This is so amazing.
  The world it's much more bigger 
 than the other zelda games.
  I really loved the wind waker... But sometimes i almost fell into sleep.
  It was tiny islands 
 and a big blue sea.
  When you have cleard a temple in the wind waker.
  You had no other choice than take your boat and go to the other island.
  That was a big misstake 
 of Nintendo.
  But here in Zelda twilight princess, they did a giant world and a really good game. I actully love 
 everything in Twilight princess (Not really) .
  The fights, the story, the grapich, the sound, the music and most of all the abnourmus Zelda feeling 
 :D i strongly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  What? An M rated Zelda! Inconceivable! No, it's right here on the cover in a big blue box. Sure 
 there is no blood or decapitations and they use terms like 'ending blow' instead of 'killing blow' 
 but for the most part the game it feels very mature from the characters, dialogue and even the 
 artwork has a much darker tone than its predecessors. There is also the whole wolf thing and the 
 Twilight realm that would probably make a ten-year-old boy wake up with wet sheets. The game starts 
 with a supposedly ordinary boy named Link in a small village who is preparing to take a gift to 
 the king of Hyrule. Suddenly portals to the twilight realm are opening up across the land with 
 creatures emerging to wreak havoc and entire villages are consumed by twilight. Without ruining 
 the story all I can say is its pretty good due mostly to the excellent cast of characters. The 
 entire game is riddled with them. Every corner you turn you meet someone that makes you smile and 
 that goes along way in helping to emerge you in the world. The expression on the faces and the 
 excellent dialogue make you feel as though you can imagine their voices as you read the text. Yes 
 that's correct. Text. There is no voice acting in the game besides a few moans, grunts and hey's. 
 It's a little sad in a way because good voice acting would have brought the characters to life 
 even more so and made the story that much more special. We all know a good game can't get by without 
 a good story alone. Thankfully the gameplay is everything you would expect from a Zelda game and 
 more. A lot of the settings feel as though you have done it before, though the level design is 
 reminds you you're playing something new. The dungeons themselves are expertly designed and extremely 
 well balanced. Every dungeon gives you a new funky toy to play with and assists in solving puzzles 
 from there on. Some of the weapons are the same as you have seen before and others are completely 
 new, while many are new and improved versions of what previous games offered. Not only are the 
 dungeons brilliant, so too is Hyrule in general. There are so many secrets hidden throughout the 
 land and things to do, it never gets boring or frustrating. The Wii remote handles extremely intuitively 
 throughout the game, whether slashing with your sword or aiming a bow. The best use I have seen 
 is fishing; once you go to the fishing hole and get to use a real rod, you just feel completely 
 at home. The art design and music really add to the atmosphere and remind you you're playing something 
 amazing. Occasionally you spot a blurry, horrible texture, particularly in the rocks and dirt, 
 though its not enough to hamper the overall look. Most of the characters, Link especially, look 
 great and the art style especially shines through here. This is a fine example of the pinnacle 
 in gaming, where all aspects are highly polished into one big shiny gem. An absolute must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited installment of Nintendo's long running epic The Legend Of Zelda has finally come 
 upon us. Twilight Princess is with out any doubt one of the best games ever made for a multitude 
 of reasons:
  
  1: I bought this game at launch and I finished it about 2 weeks ago with a total playtime of about 
 120 hours because I went crazy with exploring the amazing depth of Hyrule.
  
  2: The wiimote's control layout is done so well after a few hours with the game you'll be throwing 
 your boomerang or swinging your sword with out thinking about it. And as physical as the sword 
 swinging may seem you can do the same moves with the wiimote in hand resting on your lap as you 
 can standing up throwing you arms about like a crazy person.
  
  3: Graphics are very lush and considering up until a late point in development it was only going 
 to be a Gamecube game it really shows how powerful the gamecube is and I can wait to see how power 
 the wii can be.
  
  But..... there were a few things that bugged me...
  
  1: The Soundtrack did not seem to fit in with epic tale that is Twilight Princess.
  
  2: WTF 
 no voice acting all text at this point in gaming history that a really lame thing to do but it 
 is extremely well written and it's not as bad once you get into the story because you'll want to 
 read it like you would a good book.
  
  3: At times the little speaker on the wiimote sounds really bad when it makes noises but not all 
 the time.
  
  On Wii or Gamecube there is no reason why you should not play thing game because the story is so 
 well written and so much like any good legend will keep you interested until the end, there is 
 always something to do and it will take you sometime to get bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsunami2012
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been playing LOZ games since I was 4 years old. I first played the original for the 
 NES and even though I was very young I loved it. I played it all the time. I've played just about 
 every LOZ game and this is basically the best, next to Ocarina Of Time. I keep hearing from people 
 that the graphics suck compared to other next gen systems but the Wii has one huge thing that makes 
 it stand out from them. Its something called ORIGINALITY! I also hear a lot of crap about there 
 being no voice acting... I'm not saying it wouldn't be nice to have voice acting, but with this 
 game you just don't need it. A LOZ game just wouldn't be the same with voice acting. I don't even 
 like thinking about what Link would sound like... The way the environment throughout Hyrule looks 
 is great. Its no 360 or PS3 but its still got what it needs. The graphics and sound may be good, 
 but its the gameplay that makes it truly stand out. The Wii remote really makes the game feel so 
 much more alive. You really start to feel involved in the game. Aiming your bow is so much more 
 accurate with the Wii remote. Shaking the nunchuck is a great way to use the spin move. With the 
 original gameplay, this game will keep you hooked for hours. The bottom line is that this game 
 is just fantastic, maybe not as good as Ocarina of Time, but it still stands out as one of the 
 greatest video games ever. Really the only thing I found that was wrong with the game at all, was 
 that the sound coming from the Wii Remote didn't always seem to fit the action on the screen perfectly. 
 Other than that, the game is so good that there are no words that I can think of to describe it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rechain
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I have only played 4 hours until now... the games is a really great game and I will give it 9.5 
 Amazing - I have not played the older Zelda games (too bad) - but im happy to start with The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Nintendo Wii) - Sound/graphics/gameplay in the game is really neat 
 and is a pleasure to see/watch... just a few minor problems after my opinion. The game is just so 
 great that all (even none zelda gamers) should try the series. On the Nintendo Wii, the way to 
 play it just seems so right to me. Its giving the game a new good touch I just like. Nintendo Rocks 
 - Zelda - Twillight Princess = 9.5!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  /Rechain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_goku69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This would have 2 be 1 of the best zelda games out. It rivals if not surpasses the occarina of 
 time. This is the true sequal to the occarina of time. There are a few bad thngs about this game. 
 firstly its boring just swing the mote around. if theyre not gonna let you do exact movements they 
 might as well just make u press a button 4 the attack. secondly the sound isnt great. I very much 
 preffered the hyrule field music in the occarina of time. but besides those 2 things its a good 
 game. the gameplay is good the storyline is good the graphics r pretty good and ts one of the best 
 games ive played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphager4225
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is great and i've only played it for 6 hours at my friends house. this is the game that 
 is making me get the wii. amazing playability and story line. the graphics are fine! what are u 
 talking about, calling it a high end gamecube game. I rest my case... no i don't. I Have been playing 
 the legend of zelda series since i could like walk but i was a little disapointed with the wind 
 waker's graphics. If i had to pick a LOZ game that sucked the most, i would have to pick WInd Waker....... now 
 i have to waste words to have this turned in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game i thought to myself meh time for some wii sports but after 
 i started playing this more it was just a couple more minutes, mom . Im hooked, this is an amazing 
 game and i love the storyline. The game may be a little slow at first but after you get into it 
 i gaurentee you will love it. By far the best wii game to date and best in the Legend of Zelda 
 series. If you have played previous Zelda games you will love Twilight Princess as it adds an intriguing 
 storyline and fresh new controls. Controls for other games are not very good but Twilight Princess 
 controls are very responsive and added with the nunchuck gives you a variety of attack possibilities. 
 I believe it deserves much more than an 8.8 seeing as how, based on statistics 84% of people who 
 bought wii's at launch also picked up a copy of Twilight Princess and the rest were probably sold 
 out. Great game and i would highly reccommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmck
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I wonder how many times Nintendo can remake the same game and keep me interested. I have 
 to say, this time it does work.
  This game excels exactly where it needed to and improved the Zelda series imensly. Anyone who puts 
 an older Zelda game over this one is either insane, or living in the past.
  
  Gameplay: 10. The way this game uses the Wii Remote system is great. I will say the little fairy 
 that shows up on screen can get annoying, but it helps show you were you are aiming your weapon 
 (that and you can turn it off) . I loved how the weapon system works, esp. how the B button is used 
 for easy access to weapon use (compared to the old C buttons) . The Story line is very developed 
 and interesting. The weapons are well developed and the new weapons to the series are fun. Overall, 
 the only issue may be the difficulty in bosses once you figure out how to beat them, but, personally, 
 its an improvement over some of the past games that frustrate the heck out of you, even if you 
 know how to beat them. Besides the bosses, the AI is pretty good for the other enemies. Graphics: 
 10. The graphic and attention to detail in this game is great. Look at any of the temple bosses 
 and it makes my point. They may be easy, but when you first see them, you have to take a second 
 to really appreciate they greatness. The people look good, so do the Enemies.
  
  Sound: 10. Now some complain about the music because of its dated sound. I love it. I like the 
 remake of all of the old songs and the additions to the old tracks with new ones (esp. the song 
 played at night in Hyrule Field) . The sounds out of the Wii Remote sound alittle funny, but overall 
 add to the game.
  
  Value: 10. This is a game that you will spend some time on. The Puzzles are very well done and 
 you will have to wander around and think about many of them. Tilt: 10. I love Zelda games. Alway 
 have, Always will. This game is no exception. When I am at work huming the theme songs, and my 
 little brother is having dreams of defeating Gannon weeks before we got the game, you know we are 
 excited. This game lives up to the expectiations. Period, and is definatly the best game out right 
 now, esp. for Wii. This game might be the best one I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When Zelda was announced for the Wii, many people thought this would be the killer app that would 
 set nintendo on the right foot for this so called Next Gen War. Well, I must say, Zelda definitely 
 steps up, and has turned into a must-have for Nintendo Wii owners. The environment is immersive, 
 and the side-quests and what not are difficult, but fun in the meantime. The graphics are great, 
 although this game was just a GCN port. I have one problem with the game, though. The sound from 
 the Wii Remote is VERY loud. I know this can be changed, but why couldn't it start with a little 
 softer audio? Anyway, if you have a Wii, and do not have this game, GO GET IT!!! It will be a game 
 you won't regret buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astaroth_14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since we've seen a Zelda game of this calibre. Many people became inpatient with 
 the amount of times this game was delayed, but it was all worthwhile
  The New Legend of Zelda sports incredible and highly detailed graphics, some great game play and 
 an interesting storyline, but is forced to compete with the not so great sound and sometimes difficult 
 controls.
  Another thing about Twilight Princess is that it sports new ways to play, new towns and new weaponry, 
 such as snowboard on a sheet of ice, transforming into a wolf, combining bombs with arrows, calling 
 your horse and birds with pieces of grass to help assist you in the vast land of hyrule, the list 
 goes on.
  Playing as a wolf is enjoyable as you can speak to other animals and scare locals in towns and 
 help restore peace in hyrule all at the same time.
  The Puzzles were very old and similar to the older zelda game puzzles. Another thing is this game 
 doesn't have a large number of fun side quests to do and keep you entertained for ages and also 
 has no magic power like all the other zelda games. While you won't find musical instruments in 
 twilight princess a'la Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, it is a great game, no matter what console 
 its on, I suggest you play it, it helps reminisce the times you had with Ocarina of Time and Majora's 
 Mask. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniac196
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a great game, The gameplay is sound and the graphics are the best that have 
 ever been in a Zelda game, the sound from the t. v. is great, but the sound from the Wii remote 
 is kind of cheap sounding, and annoying. The storyline is fairly interesting and involves Items, 
 quests and kidnapped children. The story is also very long it's longer than any Zelda game before 
 it , it is longer than Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker and Majora's Mask. it has about 9 dungeons in 
 the whole game. So, if you are looking for an involving, fun and lengthy game go pick up a copy 
 of Twilight Princess for Wii of for gamecube right now it is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthus8888
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game that I have played thus far. It delivers 
 on every promise and will keep you interested throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay: The intro is a bit too long for my tastes, but I mostly excuse the lack of true action 
 because it does an excellent job of letting you get used to controls and building up the story 
 line. From then on, everything else is extremely enjoyable, from exploring, to temples puzzles, 
 to fighting. My one major gripe is a formidable boss. All look very intimidating, yet after having 
 beaten Ocarina of Time, I haven't gotten close to dying on any boss. However, the fights seem to 
 be increasing in increasing in difficulty if you leave out the Lakebed Temple boss. Still, I find 
 the boss fights fun, because you still have to figure out how to defeat the boss first and first 
 time players of Zelda should have some difficulty. (9./10, -1 for the boss fights and ok intro)
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics didn't blow me away, but the amazing look of the twilight realm and artistic 
 style helps to make up for the lack of power in the punch. Also, as someone else pointed out, this 
 IS a Gamecube port.
  
  Sound- The sound's pretty good. The attack effects and sounds from monsters are well done. But, 
 reading text is annoying. I'd prefer Link to say some things besides oof and ahh. The wii remote's 
 speaker crackles sometimes during gameplay, too. Still, this doesn't detract too much from the 
 overall game since text doesn't occur too often and the speaker is usually consistent. Lastly, 
 the remixed Ocarina tracks are pretty cool and a lot of the songs do a good job of setting the 
 mood. Some tracks are weak though. (9/10, -1 for weak tracks, crackling remote, and text)
  
  Value- This isn't questionable. The value is amazing. A great game for a great price. (10/10) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperial_Colone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Do not get me wrong, Zelda games are always fun, well, at least the SNES-Wii ones. Zelda TP on 
 the Wii however (Wiis only launch hope) is basically a gamecube game with a $250 controller, that 
 being the wii. This game is alot of fun, and it will grow on you, but it wasnt exactly as revolutionized 
 as it was supposed to be by use of the wii controller. Alot of commands seemed tacked on or sometimes 
 forced. As the old clich&eacute; goes, if its not broke dont fix it . But Nintendo continues to 
 always go the different path, first with minidisk and no DVD playback on the gamecube, now a remote 
 for a controller. If you currently own a gamecube and you have or have not played Zelda games, 
 than you should definitely rent this game. The only problem with purchasing it is that once youre 
 done with it you probably wont want to go back and play again for a while. TP has a pretty good 
 soundtrack, but its still MIDI-based. Also lack of voice from characters makes this game feel 
 dated, but thats the way Zelda has been. My only question to Nintendo is, with Zelda graphics, 
 non-symphony soundtracks, no voice acting, and lack of strong cut scenes, why dont you actually 
 work a little on fixing the few problems that holds this game back from being perfect? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grognard
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I've seen this far too many times before. The professional gaming journalists leave their standards 
 at the door in fear of backlash from the revival tent fanboys of a particular franchise (MGS, GT, 
 Zelda, FF) . At least in this case it has only taken a few months to hear them speculating aloud 
 whether they may have over-scored this one. Yes, they did. Let me start by saying that this is 
 a good, solid game which is quite enjoyable - nothing more and nothing less. This game fails to 
 move the genre forward at all and stubbornly clings to its outdated gaming conventions and cliches 
 as if the industry never evolved since Ocarina.
  
  Here we are in late 2006 and the game still has extremely limited voice acting, rudimentary sound 
 effects, brain dead A/I, linear level design and an atrocious game engine not even capable of meeting 
 last gen's graphical standards. In addition, the game is very poorly paced. I get the distinct 
 impression that Nintendo desperately padded the game by about 20 additional hours knowing this 
 would be a launch title that would have to hold over early adopters for a few months during the 
 inevitable post launch drought.
  
  Even many fans have written that the game doesn't start getting good until about 5 hours in. When 
 compared to shorter, modern games which offer an enjoyable rollercoaster ride experience from start 
 to finish, how can Zelda get comparable scores when it doesn't even start to get good until after 
 5 hours? I would rather play a great 12 hour game than a 45+ hour game with about 15 hours of good 
 content.
  
  The immersion is hampered by frequent level loads, including every time you enter a small one or 
 two room building. This might be excusable if that building was filled with detail and interactive 
 items but instead you are greated to a blurry, low res texture with maybe one interactive item. 
 The world of Zelda is still curiously populated by grass blades which spout out magical healing 
 abilities and valuable gems. Given that, haven't any of it's inhabitants figured out that lawn 
 mowing would be a lucrative trade in this world yet? In the Morrowind universe the characters may 
 have figure that out, but in this world the characters are static and scripted with only a few 
 phrases. Basically, they're a visual interactive menu rather than providing you with a sense of 
 a vibrant, living world.
  
  Anyway, there is some old-school fun to be had here and a sense of that endearing Nintendo charm. 
 While the graphics can often be painful to look at when compared to other current offerings there 
 is a nice aesthetic sense to the art style which is commendable. Sadly, the soundtrack is far too 
 limited for a game this large, although what is there is pleasant, and the sound effects are straight 
 out of the 16 bit era.
  
  If you don't play any other systems and are limited to only a few titles each year this game represents 
 a good value, but if you are fortunate enough to sample all that the gaming industry has to offer 
 you'll realize that this franchise is treading water and was surpassed years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful the sword movement by swinging can be a tad corny but who cares. The sound 
 is superb with the Wii mote speaker making it all the better. The storyline is deep like all Zelda 
 games and hyrule is huge. The graphics are probably still the best on the Wii so far and they look 
 really good with component cables. They added many cool new things like items, horse fights, and 
 wolf Link. This is a great addition to the Zelda franchise and I cannot wait until the new DS game 
 comes. The only negative thing I have against it is the sword moves shaking the Wii remote is not 
 all that diffrent from pushing a button and I feel they could have utilized it a bit better. It 
 is a long game but doesn't get boring at all. If you are a Zelda fan this is a must buy, and if 
 your not WTF is wrong with you?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarac2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is back with a bang. Zelda: Twilight Princess has a great story and a fun game for all Zelda 
 fans alike.
  
  The Good: The controls are fun, the story is great and epic, Link is back on a new generation console, 
 new and old characters to meet, fun combat system
  
  The Bad: The graphics are a little choppy sometimes, controls can get annoying sometimes
  
 
  This game was well worth the wait and this is probally the game that will make the Wii very popular. 
 If a Nintendo fan, buy this game on either your Wii or Gamecube.
  
  The graphics are a HD Game Cube, so don't act dissapointed, play for the gameplay and the story. 
 Everything in this game that talks, is shown in subtitles, so you will hear no voice acting. Don't 
 let that stop you from picking picking up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega_DBZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game was created in order to follow the saga with tremendous Storyline without taking out 
 the real stuff that make the legend of zelda. this game hav everything that u look in a game, the 
 storyline is bangin, link is not alone now, theres no more navy (fairy) that can help u, now u little 
 friend Midna take that spot, its bangin how u can go to 2 different time, the twiilight world and 
 the light world.
  
  Story line:
  give u what u expect 4 a Zelda game.
  
  Graphics:
  the graphic r pretty good, the water, the weapons, all ur item hav a good design, the way u change 
 u armor, ur horse (Epona) is bangin and ur enemies , all the boss, and how the made Ganon was bangin.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  what can i say, THE BEST THING EVER MADE WAS PLAY ZELDA WITH THE WII REMOTE is a bangin idea by 
 nintendo, u can do a bunch stuff with the remote and help u a lot, its make u think that u r inside 
 the game.
  
  Sound: the sound was ok, but if u noticed u can heard all the song from Ocarine of time, thos bangin 
 song that u like r in this amezing game.
  
  to end this u hav to play it to see how bangin this game is, plus all the new puzzle that they 
 put, its gonna make u enjoy pretty good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Ocarina of Time was by far one of the (if not the) best game ever made. It had everything, was 
 so long and made you think. This game is the true sequel to Ocarina of Time by being just as magical.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Zelda games have always been simple controls and this one is no different. Infact they 
 are even easier in my opinion (once you get used to them) . To swing your sword you swing the remote, 
 to aim an arrow you aim at the screen, simple eh! This really works as the wolf has the ame controls 
 human Link does so it means its just as easy except the wolf can dig and use his senses (see spirits 
 and follow trails) . This gameplay can not be more simple and cannot be beat.
  
  GRAPHICS: I know this game was meant for the Gamecube and that's the only reason it's graphics 
 are lacking. I know compared to the X-Box 360 the graphics are no big deal (kind of shoddy) but 
 considering the game is huge and that the game was intended for Gamecube they still do not disappoint. 
 I know people say its not that good because the graphics let it down but trust me they don't.
 
  
  SOUND: The sound on Zelda games are always brilliant. The sound on this game is just as good as 
 it was in Ocarina. The speakers in the Wii Remote work really well as when you open a new route 
 or Midna has help for you it comes through in your hand. The Wii Remote makes the sound a bit too 
 different form the TV though and it stands out too much.
  
  VALUE: Value! Are you kidding? Every Zelda game has had substance and so much to do within it. 
 This game is the same. Aside from the main story which takes at least a day of your life there 
 are extras to do. The pieces of heart make a return except this time you need 5 pieces to make 
 a full container. The poe souls are back form Ocarina but in a new unique way which is another 
 brilliance of the game. Take your time going for 100% then you can brag.
  
  OVERALL: In my opinion this is the best game ever released for a console (Don't argue it is) as 
 it will last you until a wider selection of games come out for the console (unless you play it 
 non stop) . The story is compelling and will make you want to know what happens next especially 
 when you first see...
  Don't wanna ruin it
  Only one more thing to say
  
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmac_2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played Wii sports, Wii play, and this fantastic game.
  
  This one has been the most intense, most exciting, and has the best storyline I've ever experienced 
 during my gaming years.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I love the gameplay, it's so innotive, so original, and takes advantage of the Wii remote and nunchuck 
 effectivley.
  Aiming with a Bow/Boomerang/Slingshot has never been so great, it is a lot better than Duck Hunt's 
 way off shooting, you can get more precise shooting from this way of archery, instead of having 
 to use an inaccurate anologue stick.
  The wolf style of gameplay is also amazing, with Midna's magic to get enemies in an attack zone 
 is a lot easier than having to kill them once at a time.
  
  In gameplay, i give it an overall of 10/10. Graphics:
  
  Although it doesn't match up to the 
 PS3's or Xbox360's powerful graphics, these graphics are still awe inspiring and lush.
  The water effects in this game are superb, one look at it and you'll be dazzled by the water's 
 shiny display.
  
  And the use of bloom smartshading in this game makes it look darker and grungy.
  
  In graphics, 
 i give them an overall of 10/10.
  
  Sound.
  
  Once again, nintendo haven't provided voice-acting for the characters, but i say, Good, after watching 
 a Legend of Zelda cartoon, i've realised why.
  The music in this game catches my ear, the music is stunning.
  Once you go into Hyrule Field, 
 you're presented with amazing music, the best overworld theme in the Legend Of Zelda series.
  The music when you are in the presence of a twilight zone creature enemy is evil and has a beat, 
 this is also a good thing to listen to.
  
  I reccommend this game if you haven't already bought it, this game features a long time of gameplay, 
 and it doesn't take too long to learn the controls.
  
  Review wrote by George Marshall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  For so many years Zelda, Link and Ganon have graced our beloved Ninty consoles and every time havent 
 failed to deliver a gripping storyline, excellent puzzles, mind boggling temples and lovable characters. 
 This time round is no different from any of its predecessors. Gameplay-: It may seem alienated 
 at first with the Wii-mote and quite hard to get to grips with but give it time, it plays really 
 well when your into it and when you are you think where was life without the Wii-mote? 8/10
  
  Sound-: As usual LOZ has its very own unique music, its epic and orchestrated and you may 
 recognise some old classics in there as well. 7/10
  
  Graphics-: Seeing how this is a port from the GC version the Wiis power is not explored fully 
 yet, but even the still LOZ looks really nice on the Wii and if you are lucky enough to have HD 
 or even an RGB on a flatscreen helps that little bit extra, all in all the graphics are not disappointing. 
 8/10
  
  Value for Money-: Definitely Im 20 or something hours into the game and Im only almost halfway, 
 also Wii titles arent as full bodied price as of that of the 360/PS3.
  9/10
  
  Whether you are a hardcore Zelda fan or not LOZ: TP is worth having a look at if you own a Wii 
 and is definitely the top Wii title out just now, Ive strongly recommended this game to 4 of my 
 friends and none of them have been disappointed, dont think about it just get it, if you own a 
 Wii you must own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrophoboe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  As it is, I'm about 40 hours into the game and I'm on the very last dungeon. I haven't really gone 
 out of my way to collect the heart pieces, but I did spend some time doing so and the side-quests 
 were solid.
  
  Gameplay:
  Stellar. This, without any doubt, is the true deserver of Gears of War's GOTY award, and I think 
 very few moronic FPSers would disagree with me if they actually set some time aside to play it 
 (which they would regularly spend decapitating some moron online) .
  The game begins in a Kokori-esque village called Ordon where a plot soon unfolds involving the 
 Twilight World. Your girlfriend is captured by orcs and hauled off into the Twilight Realm. The 
 orcs, however, do not stop there. They proceed in harassing Ordon at night and taking ALL of Ordon's 
 children. Now it's time to kick some ass, but first -- you must infiltrate Ordon -- Solid Snake style ---so 
 that you can get Ordon's wooden sword and shield. All of it is spent in wolf-form, which is not 
 as bad of a mode as I thought it would be. I would have preferred a more straightforward Link versus 
 this, but since Majora's Mask alter egos seem to be Link's favorite thing nowadays. That isn't 
 to say it's a bad thing, because it isn't. In fact, in some cases I liked it better than Link. 
 For instance, in one scene a bridge is lit afire at opposite ends and you actually have to jump 
 off the side of it before it burns -- all the way into Lake Hylia (yes, OoT places make appearances 
 quite often through-out the game, but they look nothing like the OoT versions) .
  
  Here's the real con about the gameplay, though. Swinging your sword is done with the slight movement 
 of the Wiimote, which can be a little nerve-wrecking when you are trying to jump from platform 
 to platform only to meet your doom because you accidentally moved the Wiimote. The archery and 
 aiming system with the Wii control is very imprecise, but it's not near as bad as Gears of War's 
 one-button action for various maneuvers. Thus, these issues aren't really that big of a deal. It's 
 like complaining about Oblivion's interface when the rest of the game is completely solid.
  
  Graphics:
  The art design is phenomenal -- it's like a mix of Majora's Mask and Ocarina of 
 Time. Nostalgic factor ftw.
  
  Value:
  It doesn't cost an insane $60 to purchase and it lasts longer than 6 hours. Oh, the game as a whole 
 is much better, too.
  
  Sound:
  No orchestral music, but a lot of the tunes are still awesome.
  
  Tilt:
  Like I said, I'm 
 40 hours in and I have yet to finish the last dungeon, which will likely add another 1-2 hours 
 given the length of other dungeons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braingoo2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This has been by #1 favorite game this holiday season. Its even kept me from playing my #2 pick 
 gears of war for the past couple of weeks just to collect all the odds and ends this game has to 
 offer. Since I am now nearing the end of this game think its appropriate to write a small review 
 on it. The main thing that makes this game so intriguing is the new control system. It makes the 
 game so much more fun to play. You can really get into the action. Some other games that lunched 
 with the Wii are fun in their own right but some don't feel as complete at this game does. I love 
 this game as well because me and my girlfriend can sit down and play it for hours. One plays while 
 one decides what to do next. Took us forever to find all the heart pieces. When in doubt however 
 ask the fortune teller, about your love life. I hope thats not a spoiler. Anyway this game is great 
 I have had a massive amount of fun going through this adventure and am sad I am almost done with 
 it. This game is worth the price of the Wii and I hope that everyone that buys it gets this game 
 you will not be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Zelda is a franchise that has captivates fans like few, if any other series can. The very title 
 being dropped, without any screenshots or movies, is enough to steal the floor at game expos. Originally 
 announced at E3 in 2004, was no exception; and fans were immediately interested. The game faced 
 delay after delay however, with promises from Nintendo that it would allow them to improve on the 
 game. News of the delays consistently upset fans, but the delays were worth it. Nintendo's promises 
 have been entirely fulfilled. Released along side the Wii as a launch title, Twilight Princess 
 sets a new bar in gaming. Described in one word: Perfect.
  
  The game starts of kind of slow. You take control of Link in the village of Ordona. You'll do some 
 horseback riding, practice with a sword a bit, do some fishing and talk to some people. But once 
 you get out of the town, which doesn't take too long, things quickly start to roll and they don't 
 stop. Before you reach the first true dungeon of the game you'll have played as Link in both human 
 and wolf form -- and both have excellent controls and are fun to play as.
  
  The classic Z-targeting is back, and is better than ever. You'll be making use of both the nunchuk 
 and the Wii remote in the fighting. To swing your sword, you'll have to swing the remote. You can 
 perform spin slashes by shaking the nunchuk, and block by pressing the Z button again while locked 
 on to an enemy. You'll also have the ever popular jump slash, as well as a variety of other helpful 
 and fun maneuvers that you'll be taught throughout the course of the game. These include a shield 
 bash, a rolling jumping attack, and a vicious helm splitter attack. This all works surprisingly 
 well, giving perhaps the smoothest controls of a Zelda game to date.
  
  Additional weapons and items will also take advantage of the features of the Wii controller, which 
 also works well. One example of this is of course the aiming you can do using a Bow and Arrow. 
 You aim the Wii remote at the screen, pull the string back with the B button, and then release 
 to fire an arrow. It sounds simple and theory, and it is. It works great though, and is much more 
 amusing than you'd first think. Hearing the sound of a string pulling back from the remote, and 
 then the sound of it bouncing back and the arrow flying off for the very first time was really 
 cool. And once you get used to the controls, you'll be amazed at how fun it is (and how easy it 
 is) to hold up your shield -- maybe take cover behind a box -- while you wait for an enemy archer 
 to drop his guard, then immediately take aim and drop him with an arrow. That's an experience that 
 doesn't get old. Other items also take advantage of the remote in interesting ways, and you'll 
 definitely have fun testing them out when you come across them.
  
  Things quickly shift upside-down when you first experience playing the game as a wolf. The first 
 time you take control of Link in this new form, you'll meet up with a strange imp-like character 
 named Midna. She'll help you for the remainder of the game, especially while you're in your wolf 
 form. True, you can press up on the D-pad to talk to her at any time -- like Navi or Tatl from 
 previous Zelda games, except without the incessant whining -- but she also plays a deeper role. 
 A special attack will allow her to bind enemies in place while you perform a combo on them. She 
 has many other tricks that will help you progress as well, but half of the fun of Zelda games are 
 discovering such mechanics. All of this is just the tip of the iceberg, however. As a wolf, Link 
 can use a wolf sense that allows him to see spirits and particular scents, as well as dig in certain 
 areas to uncover hidden passages or items. Like the controls of human-Link, these controls are 
 smooth and responsive.
  
  The true Zelda experience really kicks in when you reach the first dungeon. The dungeon employs 
 many new types of puzzle elements while at the same time showcasing many classic ones. This is 
 a theme that carries on throughout the entire game. In every new dungeon you go to you'll uncover 
 a new item or weapon that will help you to solve puzzles and continue onward. In addition, each 
 dungeon has it's own separate theme. As you can expect, you'll find the inevitable incarnations 
 of the classic ones: A fire temple, a water temple, etc. However, without spoiling anything, you 
 can also expect several completely new dungeon-types. The same can be said for the items that you'll 
 find. Yes you can expect the bow and the bombs, but there's a huge supply of brand new weapons, 
 and some great twists one past ones.
  
  As fun as the dungeons are to explore though, it is perhaps even more fun to complete them. Searching 
 out the big key in each dungeon, and seeking out the boss door is fun, but slaying the beast that 
 you spent so much effort hunting down is even more enjoyable and satisfying. Not only that, Twilight 
 Princess offers one of the best collection of bosses to come to mind. You'll face them in different 
 types of environments, and you'll be required to use vastly different strategies to defeat each 
 one. No two bosses are the same, and to beat any of them you'll have to use your wits rather than 
 brute force.
  
  The game is far from being a random dungeon crawler though. Between dungeons, you'll explore the 
 vast, vast land of Hyrule, performing all sorts of events as the game calls for. These include 
 visiting the home of both the Zoras and the Gorons (sporting brand new designs) , protecting a carriage 
 from monsters on horse back -- with the brand new spectacularly designed mounted combat system 
 -- and exploring the Twilight Realm: a world parallel to Hyrule, shrouded in mysterious twilight. 
 Not only do these areas hold things to do, however, they are simply wonderful to look at. While 
 it's no secret that Twilight Princess can be easily trumped in the number of polygons it has, there's 
 not a game out there that can touch it as far as art direction goes. The entire game is beautiful. 
 The first time you find yourself wandering in the twilight realm you'll be amazed. The way the 
 sun illuminates the area in such an unnatural way makes the realm beautiful, and yet oddly perverse. 
 As you continue you'll find that all areas of the game are able to perfectly capture your emotions 
 in a similar way. The soundtrack is simply phenomenal, and really helps to absorb you into the 
 game. The first area you'll experience as a wolf, near the beginning of the game, is a prison cell. 
 The chambers seem so empty, and dreary, and the music really enforces that notion. When you first 
 see the outside world, after leaving there, the atmosphere seems even more wrong. Sorrow is arguably 
 the best emotion that this game portrays. However, there are many light-hearted scenes to put a 
 smile on your face with their humor, as well as scenes which perfectly capture the feeling of accomplishment.
 
  
  A game with such amazing dungeons, items, and controls seems only fit to have an amazing story 
 as well. Twilight Princess is definitely no slouch in that department. Twilight Princess delivers 
 what is not only the most complex story of a Zelda game to date (with no distant second in sight) 
 but a compelling one all on its own. To say any more than that would be denying you, the reader, 
 the joy of watching all of the events fall into place. Rest assured, however, that the adventure 
 of Link and Midna, as it unfolds, is a masterpiece. Not only that, it is a masterpiece that culminates 
 with one of the most satisfying and epic conclusions yet witnessed in a video game. It can also 
 lay claim to being one of the rare games where you'll actually give any care whatsoever to what 
 happens to the characters; and clocking in at over forty hours to beat -- without paying much focus 
 to sidequests of any sort -- it should keep you busy for a while.
  
  With all the praise I've preached for this game, I still feel like I haven't done it justice. The 
 game is simply that good. If you choose to get one game this year -- if you choose only to own 
 one game, period -- make sure it is this one. Perfect in virtually every category, this is a game 
 that will be remembered for years to come. Many have already hailed it to be better than Ocarina 
 of Time (an example of gaming excellence) . Believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda TP is the best game now avalable on wii and stays true to the zelda formula. 
 Gameplay: Swinging the controler to swing your sword is quite satifying however it would have been 
 quie neat if they had managed to simulate the sword with your hands movement, however useing the 
 bow is as quick as ever and quite accurate.
  
  Graphics: lets keep this short this is a Game Cube game and on a HD tv with component cable its 
 looks quite good for last gen.
  
  Sound: one word fits this all, Classic!
  
  Value: If your like me and love to fully engoy this game you must go trew all the side quest with 
 extends the game to 70 hrs minimum.
  
  I an left wordless after the game waiting for the next Zelda on wii, and was suprisingly left with 
 an after taste thats mid bitter sweet. Hopefully the next instalment will fully use the wii mote! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggywade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  As expected, another great game in the Zelda line. If your a hardcore Zelda Nut or new to the series 
 this a buyer! The recycling of Hyrule is acceptable due to the drastic change in the environments 
 and the characters looks. Everything will look and feel very familiar, if you have played Ocarina, 
 but still fresh. Gorons look largely the same but the Zoras have a fresh look as do the other locations 
 we know and love from Ocarina. The story line is solid, albeit much darker than previous installments. 
 As always it is filled with the puzzles that made previous installments so great, although these 
 seem to be a tad easier than others. The combat system, including horseback combat, is done pretty 
 good with the Wii remote. The Nunchuk however can sometimes be a pain! Shield Bash is especially 
 frustrating since many time you go for it you will end up doing your 360 swing. Other than a few 
 Nunchuk hang-ups however the controls work very well for all situations. Good luck in Hyrule, beware 
 the Twilight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spokeydoke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Zeldas Back! On the Wii now, this newest installment blends the best elements of the previous games 
 together, with a rich new storyline, to create one of the best Zeldas yet.
  
  Im going to go through each factor of the game, Starting with storyline.
  
  The storyline in 
 this game is much darker then previous Zeldas. You of course play as Link, a young man, who is 
 about to depart into the land of Hyrule. However, your world becomes taken over by Shadow Creatures, 
 Who beckon to the King of the Twilight. Yeah, sounds pretty stupid, but its quite an experience.
 
  
  Ok, action now. The combat in Zelda is similar to previous games. Still as great as it was, with 
 a new twist on the combat controls. For example, swinging your wii-mote, swings your sword. Aim 
 to fire bows, slingshot pellets, etc.
  
  Now that brings me to the controls in general. They are very well done. Of course, nunchuk is to 
 move, Z to target... Well, im not going to go through each aspect of it. But at this point, you 
 should expect great controls from a Zelda game.
  
  Now, the dungeons are here, for those of you familiar with them. Confusing, annoying, and a frusturation 
 magnet, bringing you up to the point of smacking your friend sitting next to you in the head with 
 your Wii-mote. Please, if you anger easily, dont play Zelda games in general, because most likely, 
 youll end up with a broken Wii, broken Wii-motes, and possibly a broken tv.
  
  Oh yeah, and graphics are great, despit what some people may think.
  
  Ok, now, im going to 
 go over a couple things that have been said. 1: Gamespot, you were far too harsh on the game. Same 
 elements? Who cares! Thats what made Zelda great in the first place! What do you want? A First-Person 
 Shooter?
  
  2: People, stop complaining about the sword-play. Yes, swinging your Wii-mote erratically does 
 work, but, that cant be worse then constantly pressing a button, can it?
  
  And who could forget the Bobbing fishing. Yeah, youre gonna hate it, but alot of people arent doing 
 it correctly. When a fish hooks, pull remote up when green area hits the water on your bobbers 
 feather. It takes time, but youll get it. All in all, an amazing experience. I didnt even play 
 Zelda up untill this game. Best Wii Game so far, without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NM306
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever! The controls are awesome, it's so realistic, and the graphics are not 
 that bad. The storyline is great and will keep you thinking of what will happen next. The sound 
 is great. It gives you feel like your right there. The graphics are just right for the game. The 
 controls are awesome!!!!!!!!!!! The sword attacks are great and the bow and arrow attacks are so 
 cool!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Plus my personal favorite, relistic fishing. There are no negative things 
 about this game and I recommend this game to all Wii players. A definetly must have and the first 
 thing on your wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llamadude47
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game! It has tough puzzles, fighting, and a good story. This game is so awesome!! 
 If you have a wii or gc you need this game. It is the 2nd best zelda game ( Ocarina of Time is 
 best =-) so... GET THIS GAME &gt;=D!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 111 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !E X C L A M A T I O N P O I N T. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab0o
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever, and not only in the zelda series.
  Nothing in this game gets old. The thing with the wolf transforming is amazing, the dual clawshot, 
 the wall climbing thing. The gear is hot this time.
  
  But one of the best things about this game is that it's a mix of the other two gold games in the 
 series, Ocarina of Time and Link to the Past . If you got a Wii its a most have game, if you havent 
 got it buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
 buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
 buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
 buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
 buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
 buy it! buy it! buy it! buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pnero_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to give it up for Nintendo and especially the Art directors for this game. It's one of the 
 most beautiful I've ever seen, the Landscape, the detail and the scenery. This game in it's entirety 
 was the most spectacular Zelda game I have ever seen... scratch that, The most Spectacular Nintendo 
 game I've ever seen. in fact the only game I could possibly see overtaking this games #1 spot is 
 the next one in the series.
  The sheer amount of Content in this game is overwhelming from the golden bugs scattered across 
 the land to the little Mexican standoff-type level, every little bit of it is flawless. Whether 
 you play it on The Wii or on the Gamecube there's no beating it, it kicks the crap out of all the 
 XBox 360 games that have come out so far (that's right, I said it) just barely beating Gears of 
 War, which I have to admit is a pretty tight game, and absolutely obliterating the Superman Returns 
 game. There's really very little I can say about this game in mortal words, that would do it any 
 justice, anyone who wishes to judge it, must first play through the game entirely, which includes 
 every last mini quest, and then they can come to me and say whether or not they feel it sucks.
 
  
  Thank you for your time peons, lol (jk) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat-tsu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This was my first 3D Zelda experiance (I never got a N64 or GC) and I must say I really enjoyed 
 this game. While the graphics are definitley not the best, they are a great artistic wonder to 
 behold. The gameplay is also very good, with great combat, puzzle solving that is almost perfectly 
 balanced, and wonderful exploration, along with the fantastic and unique items and gadgets that 
 you get along the way that always prove to be essential to any Zelda game. As far as the story 
 and characters go, the game is a goldmine. While the story isn't to most complex, it is definately 
 compelling, dark and enthralling. The characters are also great, with Link and his famous silent 
 protagonism serving as a great link between the player and Hyrule. Midna is also an amazing character, 
 though at first she may seem just plain evil, she's actually much more deep and complex. The game 
 also delivers many amazing moments and emotional highs, with the climax of the tail presenting 
 one of the best sword fights I've ever played. I think it's fair to call Twilight Princess the 
 greatest launch title ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  In today's society, its hard to find truely good games what with games like Gears of War taking 
 everyone's attention just because of all the gore. Don't get me wrong, I think Gears of War (and 
 similar games) are good, but they can't compare to games like Zelda or Okami. Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess finally gives player, a true long meaningful gaming experinece. At first, it 
 might seem that playing Zelda on the Wii would be an odd task, but the controls are really quite 
 smooth. The graphics for the game are very good, considering the Wii's graphical capabilities. 
 The game is also very long taking about 50 hours to be your first time. HOwever, the whole time 
 you play it this game will keep you interested because of its amazing story which is much darker 
 than any other Zelda before it. However, one of the problems with this game as with many other 
 Zelda games is that once you beat it once, theres not much else to do. Also, the game seems to 
 go a bit slow while playing as wolf link as it starts to get repetative. Pespite this, it is still 
 the best game for the Wii currently. Definitely a must play if you have a Wii and like Zelda games 
 (especially Ocarina of Time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is the deal with Zelda right now. If you even like Zelda games at all you will instantly 
 fall in love with this game the minute you pick it up. But if you dont even know what zelda is 
 then your in a for a treat. It is a amazing game i must say, there is a sense of realness in the 
 world that you can almost hide yourself in. But thats not the reason its good. To sum it up heres 
 your review
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, but of course this is not what matters if your a true gamer.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Puzzles=Amazing, whoever said this game was unorginal was obviosly not thinking clearly. Some items 
 remain the same and yes there are some old elements, but there incoporated in the game so differenlty 
 that its not even noticable you have used them before. Music: Nothing to say about it, good music, 
 not important unless its an annoyance.
  
  Fun Factor: For the first about 20mins, your kind of bored, but once the story and gameplay pick 
 up you will not want to stop. Every puzzle was thought of in the most creative way possible, you 
 will find yourself almost crying when you figure out the door opens by a pattern on the floor, 
 when you were looking for a solution for like 20 mins. Overall: Controversial, Best Zelda Ever 
 ? maybe.... thats your view, i think it stands up to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLimitone
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  One of the launch titles for nintendo's new console, there isnt much to compete with. Even so, this 
 game is unbeleviable. The beginning is slow but, after that it gets much faster and harder. Combat 
 is fast and addictive. By making different motions with the wii mote, Lnk swings his sword cutting 
 trough most things. The dungeons are really hard, at first at least. Puzzles are simple yet challenging. 
 Like in the first dungeon (Forest temple, a classic) you hav to save all the monkeys to get to the 
 boss fight. It sounds easy but belive me, its not. I deniately recommend buying the strategy guide 
 as well as this game. The graphics are decent but the worst part about the game (besides fishing. who 
 thought of that?) . The characters have no voices but you really dont notice anyway. Through out most 
 of the game you play as either the wolf form of link or the human form. The wolf offers a nice 
 break in between. The worst part about playing as the wolf is your doing fetch quests (the ultimate 
 rpg letdown) . All in all, easily my favorite game to date. Ive spent about 15 hours on this game 
 and im not even a quarter through it. Definately buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlocked4Life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Whether you would consider yourself a gamer or not, odds are you're at least somewhat familiar 
 with Nintendo's Legend of Zelda franchise. Back in the 80's, Zelda defined an entire genre and 
 changed the way people thought about how a virtual adventure could unfold. Since then, the series 
 has expanded from the 2nd dimension to the 3rd. In fact, the series' first foray into the 3rd dimension, 
 Zelda: Ocarina of Time resulted in a timeless masterpiece, recieving countless awards. Ocarina 
 was another massive step forward in adventure gaming, and it currently stands as the highest rated 
 game of all time, according to Gamerankings. com. Nintendo's next Zelda game was criticized for 
 it's more childish approach, although it was still Zelda at heart, and thus a fantastic experience. 
 Still, fans of the series have been clamoring for a game that harkens back to Ocarina, which is 
 the hallmark of the series. Nearly ten years later, the fan's wish has finally been granted in 
 the form of Twilight Princess, and I couldn't have asked for more.
  
  Every Zelda game has basically the same premise. A young lad by the name of Link is swept up in 
 an adventure between the forces of good and evil in the majestic land of Hyrule. In this particular 
 Zelda, a descendant of the ancient hero is tasked in dispersing the wicked twilight (an evil aura 
 that encompasses the land) and restoring peace and order. At first, this seems like a pretty standard 
 adventure, but some dramatic twists change the storyline dramatically (definitely a first for the 
 franchise) and character's motives are no longer black and white. The story has greatly improved 
 over it's predeccesors, and it displays a much-welcome mature tone from beginning to end . Each 
 of the dungeons that Link visits has a certain, such as fire, sky, and water. The player needs 
 to use the special item found deep within the dungeon to solve puzzles and eventually reach the 
 boss. This may seem pretty tedious and cookie-cutter, but Zelda isn't called the best in the genre 
 for nothing. Zelda constantly throws new, clever twists into its gameplay and it doesn't stop until 
 the gripping final battle. . The game also has a wealth of bonus content, from a rather intricate 
 fishing minigame, to heart piece runs. This game will keep you hooked long after the credits roll. 
 You're looking at a game that could very easily keep you happy for 70-100 hours, and that's no 
 small feat for an adventure game with this much quality. Twilight Princess does make some changes 
 to this formula, however. For example, it no longer features a magic bar for Link to use, but the 
 game easily compensates for the lack of the rarely used magic system by adding in dozens of new 
 unlockable sword techniques. These new techniques bring the typically basic Zelda fighting system 
 up to an exciting new level. The new installment also takes the basic dungeon designs of old (dungeons 
 that are basically just representative of their themes and have very little character besides) 
 and throws in some interesting new twists. For instance, one dungeon takes place in a mansion... while 
 people are still living there! Another takes place in a giant city in the sky that is populated 
 with an ancient race fleeing an ancient evil. Anyone who has played Zelda before knows that these 
 dungeon theme departures really change up the action and puzzle solving element of the game.
  
  From a technical standpoint, the game is fantastic as well. The music and sound effects in 
 the game are second-to-none and have that fantastic Zelda flare throughout. While it is a bit of 
 a disappointment that there is no musical instrument in the game, (a far cry from Ocarinas heavy 
 use ofthe ocarina) but the game really beefs up a lot of fan favorites from previous installments, 
 which gives Zelda a classic-but-new edge. The graphics don't stack up to what the Xbox 360 or the 
 Playstation 3 could do, (the game was actually originally designed for the Gamecube and later ported 
 to the Wii) but the actual quality of the design is superb. Each and every city and landscape is 
 meticulously crafted for your viewing pleasure, and the amount of secret locales within each is 
 almost staggering. The scale of the game is absolutely huge, and it looks as though a lot of love 
 were poured into each of the various environments in Hyrule. Take the world of Ocarina of Time 
 and multiply it ten fold, and you've got an idea of just how big this game is. Now let's move on 
 to the rather unique control scheme. Since the game is on Nintendo's brand new Wii system, it utilizes 
 some very innovative new controls. The Wii has a built-in motion sensor that literally allow you 
 to swing your control to cut apart your enemies, aim your bow and arrow with ease, and more! This 
 new technology has really added to the Zelda experience and I can't see myself ever playing an 
 adventure game with a regular old game pad again. So in conclusion, Nintendo has crafted a Zelda 
 game that is worthy of being mentioned in the same breath as Ocarina of Time. Disown your family, 
 forget about your homework, and go ahead and pick up this game and a brand new Wii. If you're ever 
 wondered just how epic and flawless a game experience could be, let Twilight Princess show you. 
 This is why we play video games. With msot gamers, the player is usually longing to see the ending 
 credits, but while playing a game this excellent, one can't help but feel a sense of sorrow when 
 the game is finally complete. I look forward for another amazing Zelda game some ten years from 
 now, because 100 hours of Zelda is hardly enough time to soak in the land of Hyrule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicstar23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda: Twilight princess a name you are going to love when you play this game this 
 is game is so awesome first of all link is so awesome in this game and he kick so much ass to telll 
 you more about the game there is so mush to look at in this game the game is also fun to just to 
 walk around i mean just looking at this game is fun this game is a must buy but i just bought for 
 the wii the game cube twilight princess is good to maybe be but you must buy this game for the 
 wii too it is so awsome it is my 2 favorite legend of zelda game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashMASTERt55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  OH MY GOD! This is without a doubt one of the best games ever made. It is so hard to choose between 
 Twilight princess and the Ocorina of Time. (I'll probably post a decision on my blog) The boss 
 battles are so fun. Every single monster is HUGE. Giant monsters just seem more satisfying to kill. 
 The story is great. The basis is the same classic tale, dating back to the dawn of Hyrule's creation 
 on the late 80's, but the new characters and actual story keep the game fresh every time. Being 
 the wolf is pretty fun. My favorite new features in TP are the new combat aspects. Unlocking all 
 seven hidden skill is very satisfy. We all know that Link's down thrust (a. k. a: the ending blow) 
 is fun in Super Smash Bros., But you get an even bette felling when you can use it to finish monster, 
 and even bosses. The puzzles actually challenged me. The If you never played, then be prepared 
 for a bit of a challenge in two of the temples. I'm not gonna spoil the fun on which ones the are. 
 To sum things up, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the best games ever, and is 
 sure to go down in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzalo929292
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Zelda comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!!
  
  Zelda comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!!
  ZZelda comes back with more and 
 more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! elda Zelda comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! cZelda 
 comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! oZelda comes back with more and more!, 
 IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! mes baZelda comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! ck 
 with mZelda comes back with more and more!, IS THE BEST GAME EVER!!! ore and more!, IS THE BEST 
 GAME EVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a game that disappointed some people, and amazed others. I was simply amazed. 
 The story was absolutely the best in the series, the graphics were breathtaking (for a Gamecube 
 game) , and the gameplay has been absolutely perfected. There's so much to do in TP that you'll 
 be playing for up to 40 hours just to beat the main quest. I'm into 60 hours already, but I beat 
 the game a few weeks ago. Hyrule field is simply enormous, although not as big as I expected. Lake 
 Hylia is one of the best looking areas in any game I've ever played. It, too, was enormous.
  Twilight Princess is undoubtedly my favorite game of all time. It surpasses OoT in every way and 
 is just fun to play. If you have a Wii (or Gamecube) you need to own this game. oh, and don't believe 
 that 8.8 crap, it's more like 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forever_blank
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Zelda as we all know, is one of Nintendo's prize intellectual properties and it really shows. As 
 per usual you start off as a young boy called link. This link happens to be a farm boy and could 
 possibly be the next mayor if things go well with the mayors daughter and himself. Now the thing 
 is, people may complain that the game itself is not that original. In fact it isn't, it is really 
 just a tribute to The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina Of Time for N64. A formula is a formula, it 
 worked with The Ocarina Of Time and it works even better here. Take the story for example, while 
 there maybe some elements of similarity, i. e. races of people and places from the OoT. They are 
 completely different characters.
  
  The biggest change for Zelda is the animation aspect. This is due to motion capture, where real 
 people put on a suit with thousands of sensors on it, then do the motions. They dub that onto the 
 character models you see in game, hence it makes for a much more real effect.
  
  Controlling link is different, due to the Wii's motion sensing abilities, but it works and by the 
 end of the game, you will know what to do, just like a regular control learning curve.
  
  Sound is great, while sound has been dubbed by other reviews as Twilight Princess's Worst Aspect 
 It is not. When you have the proper system like an amplifier with 6.1 surround sound / pro - logic 
 II or just pro - logic. The sound is tremendous. While it is not digital like the Xbox 360 or PS 
 3, the sound is none the less no matter how bad the quality, which it isn't... surround sound. 
 When fighting monsters, you will here them come from behind, when you are in the forest and flute 
 music is playing, it echoes within the trees, thus creating a feeling of great atmostsphere.
  
  The music for the game is great and for the first 20 hours or so you will recognise most of 
 the tunes. They sound wonderful, whether be going out into hyrule field, running into a volcanic 
 area, or going into a temple of time. Its all good.
  
  The only critisim to come from this review is why didn't they include a voice sound track. They 
 even have the characters lip sync the words to the text, there mouth is changing according to what 
 they say. So why didn't they have voice? Most definitily the next game will have voice actors, 
 speaking words.
  
  Overall the thing that stands out the most is its graphical presentation. Considering this is running 
 on a GameCube engine... it is short of a miracle. How on earth they managed... we will not likely 
 find out. The face animation is flawless, you can see everythought that comes into there mind, 
 before they even speak it. In traditional Zelda text. A number one, must have title on this great 
 little system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extra_Life
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing quite like the anticipation of a new Zelda game. Ever since the original game was 
 released on the NES, Nintendo fanboys and normal gamers feverishly await their next opportunity 
 to save Hyrule from Ganondorf. And what a wait that can be. Ocarina of Time suffered delay upon 
 delay, Wind Waker didnt give everyone the Hyrule they wanted to see (although I rather liked it) , 
 and Nintendos latest epic has not only been met with over a years delay, but has also crossed 
 platforms from the GameCube (see Twilit Mirror) to finally touch down for the Wiis release day. 
 The best launch day game ever? Read on. The Toon-shading has been erased, the sea level has certainly 
 lowered, and Link has grown up. These are probably the first changes that youll immediately notice 
 after beginning your first Quest in The Twilight Princess. Youll also probably notice that the 
 screen seems to be unnecessarily cluttered with a rather large portion dedicated to the map on 
 the left, and on the right a representation of the Wii Remote draped from top to bottom. Annoying 
 yes, but luckily youll soon forget they are even there as you marvel at the new rendition of Hyrule 
 laid out before you (and realise that you can close the map with the 2 button...) . Beginning 
 in Ordon, a town highly reminiscent of the start point of Ocarina: Kokiri, youll need to herd 
 goats (accompanied by the now Legendary Phrase: Goat In!) , thwart mischievous monkeys, catch a 
 fish and do all manner of good deeds for the village folk. It all feels very Ocarina, and dare 
 I say it, very N64 by default. But, with said N64 game being one of the best quests ever committed 
 to silicon, this in no way detracts from the growing grandeur of The Twilight Princess. Ostensibly, 
 your first major quest is to deliver a Shield to Hyrule Castle which will allow Ordon to show their 
 loyalty to the Princess Zelda. However, as you trundle off to find your Horse (Epona is no Pony 
 any more) Moblins attack, knock poor Link out and make off with Ilia and Colin, two of Links friends. 
 Matters are only made worse when the Chieftain of this band blows a horn that causes a hole to 
 appear in the sky, summoning forth creatures that drag Link off into darkness. When he awakes, 
 not only is Link chained to the floor, but he has also been transformed into a Wolf! Wolf Link, 
 along with the Twilight Realm into which he is imprisoned, are Twilight Princess Schticks. Instantly 
 reminding of A Link To The Pasts Dark World, youll also be very relieved that Links Twilit form 
 is that of a muscular, snarling wolf, and not a pink fluffy bunny. Soon enough you will be freed 
 by a dumpy floating Imp that wears a large helmet. This Imp is Midna, and in the absence of Navi 
 (the phrase I dont believe in Fairies was uttered once too many I fear) , will be your companion 
 throughout the duration of your about-to-be-epic journey, and seeing as though Links Lupine alterego 
 lacks opposable thumbs, the large hand that protrudes from the top of her helmet will come in very 
 useful indeed. Despite becoming a Wolf being a major change for Link, for us players he thankfully 
 controls rather similarly to human Link. Although he cannot cannot use items or converse with humans 
 (you can listen to them though) , his fighting style requires similar input to that of swinging 
 a sword. And what of those controls? Although the game was originally destined to be played with 
 only a GameCube control, the Wii version of The Twilight Princess features spangly new motion sensitive 
 controls. Making use of both the Remote and the Nunchuk attachment, the analogue stick of the Nunchuk 
 moves Link around, while the Z button remains the Lock On button, and C enters a first person 
 view. On the Remote itself, the D-Pad and B are used to assign items and talk with Midna, while 
 the A button performs context sensitive actions. The best part of the control setup? Using your 
 blade/teeth. By shaking the remote from left to right, your slash or chomp your way to your enemy. 
 Shaking the Nunchuk will cause your to create a Spin Attack. There is little finesse to the system 
 admittedly, but although it may seem odd at first, after several hours playing the game you wont 
 even think twice about shaking the Remote around like a fool, it will in fact feel natural.
  
  There are other functions available to the Remote as well. Several of your items feature a 
 ranged attack, which must be aimed by pointing a reticule (guided by the remote) at your desired 
 target. Aiming with a Slingshot or Bow and Arrow has never really felt so satisfying, especially 
 when you find that you are hitting your target first time, every time. Back to Wolf Link being 
 imprisoned in the Twilight Realm though, youll soon discover that Wolf Link has a couple of doggy 
 skills to his name that will prove to be invaluable. For instance, his heightened senses will grant 
 you access to a visible smells, ghosts, and several other things that a human would be unable to 
 see. Hes not afraid to get his claws dirty either and will happily dig anywhere you want him to. 
 By combining senses with digging, you will uncover many secrets within the game, even if the majority 
 are simply buried rupees or hearts. You will be stuck as Wolf Link for some time early on in the 
 game, as the change is in itself a curse caused by the Twilight that has invaded Hyrule following 
 the King of Twilights successful sojourn into Hyrule Castle. In order for Link to revert to his 
 human form, you will need to talk with the local Spirit, and find its Tears, which are in the possession 
 of Twilit Bugs. Once you have reunited the Tears with the Spirit, Link will once again become human, 
 but because much of Hyrule is covered in the Twilight, whenever you enter a new location covered 
 with a blanket of darkness, you will once again become a Wolf and have to cleanse the area to proceed 
 into the next dungeon as human Link. Like with previous Zelda games all the way back to the SNES, 
 purifying areas Hyrule and uncovering the secrets of the dungeon within that area form the first 
 part of what becomes a much larger quest. After banishing the Twilight from Hyrule as best you 
 can, your Quest takes you to the Master Sword, and with it the ability to change between human 
 and wolf at will. Although this may well be over fifteen hours into your quest, it is now that 
 you can begin to take advantage of the skills inherent to the two forms as you scour Hyrule for 
 secrets and the next section of your adventure. It will likely be of no surprise to you to hear 
 that The Twilight Princess features some great design in terms of the dungeons on offer and the 
 general lay of land, but it will only become truly apparent as you discover new items and then 
 have flashbacks as you remember an area that you might be able to use it. There are several great 
 tools to find in the game, some new, some old, some twists on an original idea. For example, throughout 
 the game youll see areas that you know would be accessible if only you could Clawshot from one 
 area to another without dropping. Then, towards the end of the game youll stumble upon a second 
 Clawshot, and instantly youll want to revisit many areas. Youll see plenty of breakable looking 
 rocks under water as you travel, but bombs dont work under water do they? Not until the Postman 
 comes running up to you in the field with a letter from the Bomb Shop advertising Water Bombs. 
 Almost all of the treasures and items that you can find and buy in the game have their main uses, 
 and then have other applications elsewhere that youll want to try out so much that youll be more 
 inclined to leave the main quest for a while as you go off to play with your new toys. This is 
 classic Zelda design that was perhaps not so apparent in the Wind Waker thanks to the distinct 
 lack of land, but is now making a comeback in possibly the largest above sea-level rendition of 
 Hyrule ever. Now, Hyrule may be big, but unless you travel on horseback you may well find it feels 
 somewhat too big. Having a lot of land to explore is great in many ways, and youd be terribly 
 upset if the Hyrule was constrictively small, but there does seem to be a large amount of land 
 that is good for nothing more than riding through on Epona, slashing at a few Moblins or Birds 
 here and there. In terms of things to do it can sometimes feel a little empty. Whereas Ocarina 
 and Majoras Mask were bustling with things to do and discover throughout, you will find that the 
 vast majority of extra caves and secrets surplus to the main quest lie along the edges of the map, 
 leaving the grassy plains, lakes and dirt in the middle as areas that you will probably spend little 
 time loitering on. Thankfully, the dungeons of the game (where you will almost certainly spend 
 most of your time anyway) are some of the best in the series yet. Not only are these areas considerably 
 bigger than many of the dungeons youll have seen before, they are also quite a bit more difficult 
 than you are used to. Requiring a hefty dose of logical thought, and in turn a huge sense of satisfaction 
 when realise what needs to be done and the puzzle is solved. Add to this some absolutely vast Bosses 
 (and Mid-Bosses in some cases) , all of which look superb and occasionally bring memories of Shadow 
 of the Colossus to the fore. You wont mind bringing these beasts to the ground though, as each 
 is thoroughly evil with the exception of one, chilly boss. You may have now understood that Links 
 latest opus is by far his most epic. Everything seems to have been increased in size for this outing, 
 including Link, his Steed, Hyrule, the size of his quest, the depth of Lake Hylia, hell! even the 
 hearts require five (not four) individual pieces to make a whole now. Does the game look as good 
 as it should, considering that it is ushering in a new generation in Motion Sensitive games? Well, 
 unfortunately no it doesnt. Dont get me wrong, the game does look good, but to be honest it doesnt 
 match the best the GameCube had to offer. Possibly this is partially attributable to the size of 
 the game, but the while the sometimes bland graphics do pass the test, considering that this game 
 is on the Wii, you could be forgiven for expecting more. That the game is clearly still a GameCube 
 game with Wii-specific controls tacked on is apparent, and on the plus side, perhaps this means 
 we can look forward to an even grander Hyrulian Quest in the future. Certainly there are exceptional 
 parts of the game that look fantastic though, and some of the animation is very good indeed, just 
 be prepared to be let down on some occasions when showing off your next-gen console (unless you 
 have the GC version!) Aurally however, The Twilight Princess features some of the greatest orchestrations 
 yet for the series, all of which set the mood for each area to great effect, and are some of the 
 most memorable aspects of the game. It is often easy to simply gush about how great a Zelda game 
 is, especially if you are a particularly devoted fan like myself: you can rest assured that you 
 will enjoy this game, for possibly well over forty hours. However, it is also necessary to be somewhat 
 critical of a game that has thousands of eager players awaiting it. Sure, the game would have benefited 
 from some extra time in development with regards to the Wii version, but then who can deny that 
 having a Zelda game as a launch game is possibly one step up from having Mario himself? This is 
 Links most epic of quests yet, and although it perhaps doesnt do as many new things as youd 
 like, it is Zelda as youve grown to love, and for that we can be thankful to Nintendo for providing 
 us with a suitably excellent, notably land-based quest, with which to lose countless hours.
  
  
  
  TWILIT MIRROR Twilight Princess is, as you probably already know, also available on 
 the GameCube, the platform it was originally developed for. There is one major difference between 
 the two versions (control scheme notwithstanding) : The whole game is a mirror image on the Cube, 
 and likely to be the original design, as traditionally left handed Link was made to be a righty 
 for the Wii so that the Remote, which is typically held in your right hand, could become a sword 
 hand.
  
  PLATFORM: Wii DEVELOPER: Nintendo PUBLISHER: Nintendo PLAYERS: 1 ADDITIONAL INFO: Those of you 
 lamenting the loss of your beloved Ocarina fear not, The Twilight Princess does feature some music 
 making shenanigans. Aside from the grasses that Link can blow to call Horse or Bird, when in Wolf 
 Form look out for stones that whistle in the wind: youll be able to howl alongside them for extra 
 goodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelviiii
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, when I first saw it, looked unbeleivable. But when I played it, I nearly started to foam 
 at the mouth. This game was on a level few games had reached before. It gives you the full Zelda 
 experience, and helped those who were heavily disapointed with Wind Waker's graphics and story, 
 (although I really liked that game) will find solace in this game. Anyone who has a Gamecube or 
 Wii must buy this game. This game truly represents what made The Legend of Zelda what it is today, 
 great graphics, an amazing storyline, and an arsenal of weapons only matched by his own findings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SonicAdvDX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Easy; It doesn't happen! Nintendo has never messed up on a game in the Zelda series, and this is 
 no exception. Twilight Princess is yet another great installment in the Legend of Zelda series, 
 finally featuring the wonderful graphics we were all promised long before The Windwaker. But, is 
 it made for the Wii? The answer is: Yes! In fact, it's made so well for the Wii, that some Gamecube 
 gamers are left feeling like they got the short end of the bargain, even though TP was originally 
 meant to be a direct port of the Gamecube game. The fun in this game is limitless, and it's pretty 
 hard to find anything really wrong with this game. The music and atmosphere really gives you the 
 feeling like you're right in the game; especially because of the way you play the game: Wii style. 
 With Link moving right along with your Wii-mote when swinging your sword, using the slingshot and 
 bow, it's a real good example of what the Nintendo was trying to accomplish with the Wii. The dungeon-crawling 
 can get annoying at times, but doing it in real life would get stressful, too, you know?
  
  One of the few problems with this game is the graphics. The graphics in this game don't take full 
 advantage of the Wii's graphical power, even though it's not as great as the PS3 or 360's engines 
 may be. The game only looks like a high-end Gamecube game, but it's really not that bad. The environments 
 are still beautiful, immersive and relatively detailed, though it could stand to be better.
  
  Another minor problem is the sound that comes from the 'Wii-mote.' The in-game music is beautiful, 
 but the little chimes and sounds that come from the remote don't sound too impressive. The speaker 
 in the built-in remote is kind of cheap, so all the sounds that come out of it, kind of sound like 
 they went through a blender. Though it's not really a problem with the game itself, more of a Wii 
 problem, it's still a bit of a problem.
  
  All in all, this is a great game itself, even more impressive for a game originally made for the 
 Gamecube. This game wholly deserves the praises it gets from fans of the Zelda series, and anything 
 featuring Link is always a welcome addition to my game collection in my book. A very good game.
 
  
  ~Adam SonicAdvDX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblemrocks
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I really loved this game i'll never forget it just like ocarina i didnt want to finish it you know 
 i enjoyed it so much, every part of the game that was so great i didn't want to finish it but well 
 eventually i had to i was so thrilled with the game that i couldn't leave it, graphics are amazing 
 story great for a Zelda game gameplay loved it swinging the control like a sword quite cool maybe 
 you&igrave; i take a little time to get used to it but worth the little effort sound amazing i liked 
 the sound effects, about character voices, come on do you imagine a Zelda game with voices?! it 
 would be nasty i prefer dialogue what if the voice is desperating just like Shigeru Miyamoto said 
 we dont put voices so that the gamer can imagine what voice is the best for the character i cant 
 imagine Link talking, i think is best with dialogues i do think the grunts screams and all that 
 stuff suits well or like Midna that talks in a strange way but it suits her okay, well enough with 
 that
  difficulty is fine story great and the game lenght is okay only that the game is so great that 
 i would have liked it to las 50 hours more but that would have changed the game so it is ok, you 
 should definitly buy it for gc or wii the two are great wii gameplay is great becuse you get to 
 swing and it is a diferent experience but gc is still great so dosn't matter.
  best in series? maybe its great but ocarina is my favorite game in series and it has been since 
 it came out but twilight princess is so great to not give it credit in zelda series so i think 
 i will tie them. Nintendo thanks for making this masterpiece and seiyng the truth it was best in 
 series with ocarina, it was really worth the wait a lot. and for game spot i dont belive you 8.8 
 ridicolus did you play the same game i did? i dont think so, The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 deserves a 10 i mean if mario or metroid didnt beat ocarina and this as great as ocarina how the 
 hell gears of war is better?!!! you must be crazy or somethingto say that. Rating a classic series 
 game that is great 8.8 that is a crime. The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddrzeldafan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been hearing lots of different comments about this game and lack of originality. Although 
 this did not have the same impact as Ocarina of Time did, I have to say this is by far the best 
 Zelda game in the series. Everything is done right and there is just so much extra stuff they packed 
 in its insane. You cant go wrong with the zelda formula, this is what everyone was expecting, and 
 what everyone wanted. From the secret sword moves, to all the extra collecting side quests, all 
 the new weapons, and probably the best presentation of a game that i havnt seen since Ocarina of 
 Time, this game should be along the best in history.
  
  My one complaint of this game was that i felt the sound in the Wii controller was a little cheap, 
 but not too big a deal. That and i didnt want this game to end.
  
  Gamespot, answer me this. How do u give a game of this caliber and greatness an 8.8? Everyone else 
 is seeing the game for what it really is, one of the greatest video games of all time. I really 
 think you should take another look back at it and remember that even though there is no originality, 
 why would you want to mess with the Zelda formula? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to state a few things, if I am correct Nintendo began making this game for 
 the GCN in 2003 right after Wind Waker. And then we heard that it would be out around Fall/Winter 
 of 2005, and then it got delayed and everyone who was waiting for the game got steamed. And then 
 we heard it would be on the Wii and the Gamecube and this dided some fans, and then we heard about 
 the mirrored version [I don't know why that screwed em up?] and people just went insane. But on 
 November 19th Zelda launched with the Wii and proved that it was worth the wait, there are 3 kinds 
 of Delays: we need more time to finish , we were lazy and diddnt do anything or we want to make 
 the game better , luckily for you Nintendo did the last one and proved that they have some of the 
 best people in the buisness.
  
  [Spoilers]
  
  Story: I was expecting something much deeper since it was rated Teen, and by god we got it. In 
 this one Hyrule is being taken over by Zant the Twilight King and after you are transformed into 
 a Wolf by his world taking over part of yours [I usualy just call em dark zones] , and you are aided 
 by the little Imp Midna and you find Zelda and she tells you what to do, you have to colect 3 Fused 
 Shadows from 3 temples, after you do that Zant comes and jams a crystal into your head and wounds 
 Midna, and you have to go to Zelda [best song in the game plays during that] and she sacrifices 
 herself to save Midna and you need to find the Master Sword to heal, after that you get a shadow 
 crystal that allows you to transform at will, then you need to find 4 Miror Shards and you see 
 a cool video of Ganondorf being stabbed in the chest, and discovering Midna is the Twilight Princess 
 . After you get the miror shards you go to Zant's castle and discover Midna's people transformed 
 into monstrosities, you need to defeat Zant but you also discover that Ganondorf gave him his powers. 
 Then you need to go to Hyrule Castle and kill Ganondorf in an epic battle which also kills Zant 
 [because Zant lives as long as Gannondorf does] , then Midna is transformed into her real form, 
 she then goes back to her realm and breaks the Mirror so noone else gets in.
  
  [End Spoilers]
  
  Gameplay: You are Link, and you are now a righty and the game was mirored 
 because you hold the Wiimote in your Right hand [why diddnt they just redo Links model, or leave 
 him a lefty] . You are aided by Midna who works like Navi or Tattl from OoT and MM and enables you 
 some abilities, she also rides on you in Wolf form and preforms an energy attack and allows you 
 to jump large distances. Luckily the Swords are much longer in this game because it felt like in 
 Wind Waker the Master Sword was as big as it was in OoT, instead of the menuvers in WW where you 
 hit A when the symbol pops up and you do a counter attack you now have to learn them from the Hero's 
 Spirit and preform them in battle, and they work quite well. You are also able to collect many 
 items and powerups, and there is a massive ammount of them, I only got around half of the Heart 
 Pieces bugs and poes and it took me 43 Hours to beat the game and I spend a Week and a Half on 
 it [December 25th/ January 4th] , so I suppose if I went to get everything I would of spent around 
 60/70 hours on the game, it is quite long and is the LONGEST Zelda game ever made, experienced 
 players of Zelda will problay find the game to be easy and I found it to be a little bit to easy 
 [Wind Waker was WAY too easy] and this was the fastest I have ever beaten one of the games, but 
 I will call it hard since there will be plenty of newbies out there and it will take them longer.
 
  
  Controls: It did feel like a mistake making link a righty for some people but damn it it did work. 
 The sword movements arent as percise as the buttons but it felt fine for me, also aiming was drasticly 
 improved and the hidden moves were easy to pull off, but some of them [shield push] did not work 
 right every time. Personaly it felt great how it worked and I hope that the next Wii-Zelda works 
 even better.
  
  Graphics: This games eye candy alone is proof that Nintendo has some amazing people working for 
 them, everythign had the unique charm that Zelda games have and the sheer beauty of the massive 
 enviroments was mindboggling. Techicnaly comparing the game to games on the 360 and PS3 will not 
 work very well but the artistic direction is what made the graphics so good, everything looked 
 so real and Zelda-ey at the same time. I was really impressed and the Lip-Sync looked great... 
 though there was no VAing [except for Midna] .
  
  Sound: Like always Zelda has amazing music made by the brilliant composers at Nintendo. Some people 
 complain about it not being a full orchestra, but I don't really notice it sounds fine to me. All 
 of the little sounds and the small details coming through the Wii-Mote speaker were great. All 
 that could of made it better was full VA work, though that may of ruined parts of Zelda for some 
 people. [by the way, if anyone knows where I can download the song that you hear while you are 
 as Wolf Link trying to bring Midna to Zelda so she can heal you after getting the 3rd Fused Shadow, 
 someone please PM me the link] .
  
  Replayability: You can get 40 hours doinf minimal runs of the game, so you should be able to get 
 a lot of time in there finding everything, also the epic battle against Ganondorf is fun to replay.
 
  
  Overall: This game is the sole reason to buy the Nintendo Wii right now, and if you are too much 
 of a cheap bastard to buy one then try and find the GCN version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This was the second Wii game I played the first being Wii sports. I could tell Zelda was going 
 to be good from the start right at the beginning it had you solving puzzles and gave a slight feeling 
 of nostalgia. And it also eases you into the Zelda game play if you haven't played it before. As 
 the story progresses you go through all the great sound effects like when you open a chest or open 
 a door. The graphics where surprisingly good for a first generation Wii game. The game play is 
 predictably Zelda-like with puzzles to solve and weird twilight creatures to slash. With a plethora 
 of moves to learn and 9 dungeons to explore and conquer this games play time is phenomenal. With 
 the only draw backs being the wiimote speaker and the feeling that i have played it before because 
 of the similarity to ocerina of time.. This is a good game but isnt quite up to the standards of 
 other zeldas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfiercelink
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game was too easy. Each Zelda game they release is easier than the next; whats 
 next, Link putting building blocks on top of each other in the first room to get to the non-locked 
 boss door in the two room dungeon. And Zant, he acts all solem and mysterious until you fight him 
 and then he act like a idot on crack. Ganondorf needs to be alot harder to, i mean he takes a stab 
 through the heart and survives from the sages, then Midna, and still he loses agaist Link in an 
 even easier fight. I never even dropped to my first row of hearts in the fight with Ganondorf , 
 and i had three hearts on my second row. The magic armor what is it there for, I never used because 
 there was never a need. Ganondorf is not strong enough to make me put on the magic armor. The magic 
 armor is there only in my opinion for new Zelda players. Overall The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess 
 is just to easy but is pretty good every where else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilary-duff-fan
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The new zelda is finally there. I was hoping this would be the zelda that would finally kick ocarina 
 of his trone. I hate to say that it isn't. The game looks amazing and you will sometimes stand 
 still and just watch. The sound is good but not brilliant. The gameplay is the same as it has always 
 been. You've some new sword moves but beyond that you can't do much you couldn't in oot or in any 
 other 3d zelda. the controls work good (better then ever but not much better) . The real problem 
 with this game is that it's really easy. You will never be stuck in this game for more then a few 
 minutes. You will never die during a boss fight. You will never die at all. I have to admit the 
 diffuculty is the same as wind waker. Oot and mm were pretty difficult at times. The puzzles really 
 made you think and tp doesn't do that. A lot in zelda has improved over the years: graphics, size 
 and abbilities. If they just made it a bit harder it would be so much better. nevertheless every 
 wii-owner should have this game. it's a very good game. without oot it could be the best game ever. 
 But unfortunatly for tp oot is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muboyboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  The best game ever made in the gaming history along with The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time.
 
  The story is Superb and the game play is even better, I would never go back to the old control.
 
  I have waited nearly 4 years for this game, it's worth it! FOR SURE.
  Some of the dungeons are a little easy and the bosses is far to easy :D but that doesn't bother 
 me at all. I just finished the game and i spent 52 hours completing it and that was only the main 
 quest and the golden bug quest :D nothing more, I think i will spent around 60-70 hours when i 
 have found all the heart pieces the magic armor all the poe soles etc... This game is a master 
 piece for sure! Even though the graphics's cant compare to the X360 and PS3 it looks amazing (the 
 reason that the graphics's are a little bad is that it's really a GC game ported over as you all 
 know)
  
  SUPERB!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffstaJones
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  The first thing you may notice when you start the game up is the lack of voice acting, graphics 
 that do not compare to Xbox 360 or Playstation3 and use of midi sequence music. I assure you, once 
 you truly begin this engrossing adventure, these issues are simply nonexistent.
  
  The graphics are nothing impressive after playing Gears of War and Resistance fall of man, and 
 they are nothing technically impressive. It is more in the artistic beauty of the areas where the 
 graphics find their charms. The sound definitly could have used some touching up when coming out 
 of the Wii remote (or wii-mote if you will) , but it's an issue that is overlookable. The midi music 
 sequences are one of, if not my only complaint. There is no reason why the (at least) wii version 
 of the game should still have midi music. That aside, the sword slashing sound effects are excellent. 
 The gameplay is defenitly similar to previous installments, but it improves on several issues. 
 Using the wii-remote for aiming is really much better that conventional controlling and waving 
 the remote around, although dosen't change much, feels more satisfying. There also new moves to 
 do in combat which make sword fighting significantly more interesting than ever before.
  
  One thing that I think is a big improvement is the length of the game. It took me 50 hours to complete 
 the game for the first time, a length other Zelda's do not even come close to.
  
  In conclusion, this installment in the series is defenitly among the best. If you own a wii there 
 is absolutely no reason you should not own this game unless you somehow did not like other Zelda's 
 in wich case I must ask what you are doing with a wii in the first place.
  
  For the lazy people:
  Good: One of the best Zelda's ever made, everything is simply fun . No 
 segments of the game feel boring despite the games long length.
  Bad: Midi music?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregtheGen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  In the epic stuggle between good and evil, a hero must defend not only his own world, but now that 
 of another.
  
  A dimension that seems evil, but that you come to love, and charactors that are so deep you almost 
 think they are real.
  
  I give this game a 9.7, because of its amazing story, and the richness of the charactors, but it 
 falls from a 10, because of difficult controls and the reduced quality of the sound coming form 
 the controller.
  
  I am a personal fan of the series, but after playing this game, i have to say two things, 1. The 
 Story, is AMAZING!
  2. I wish i could move to the twilight realm.
  
  At first i was bothered by the controls, but after a couple of hours i got used to it.
  
  As 
 for the ending, let me just say that it well completes the game, (just watch ALL the credits; front, 
 middle, and the end. for bonus scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkeye1010
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Now I may not play video games for a living, but I don't think it takes an expert to say that this 
 game is incredible! The review that was given by Jeff Gertsman just gave me a downed overall feeling 
 for the game. I mean, Zelda is amazing and this game has shown just how great this dynasty is. 
 Of course it still has textual dialogue. I think that keeps the familiar zelda feeling. And most 
 of all, it was GAME OF THE YEAR for the Wii. This game is most likey one of the best games I've 
 played. I just can't stop playing it and I don't want it to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay. First off, I have no idea why this game got an 8.8. Anyone who has finished this game can 
 say it deserved more. I'm going to break this review down into 6 segments: Gameplay, Graphics, 
 Sound, Value, and Reviewer's Tilt, followed by a conclusion.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 - Only Nintendo can make full use of the Wiimote's motion sensitivity without 
 making it seem not like a Zelda game. Controls are simple: shake the Wiimote to attack or unsheathe 
 your sword, shake the Nunchuk to use a spin attack, and point at the screen to aim your bow &amp; 
 other items. As for aspects of the game... well, it's Zelda. It delivers. Classic puzzles with 
 new twists, thanks to new items such as the Gale Boomerang, Water Bombs, and Double Clawshots. 
 Everything from killing an enemy to unlock a door to activating switches to other, less obvious 
 things. The only thing that bugged me was that some puzzles would stump you for 30 minutes, and 
 then are totally obvious in retrospect. Graphics - 10/10 - Pushing the Wii to it's limits. After 
 a while, you forget that the Wii's graphics don't quite measure up to the 360 or PS3. The landscapes 
 are nicely detailed, nothing looks really exaggerated, enemies are creative without being over-the-top 
 creepy, things are shaded nicely, and none of those are the best part. The best part is how the 
 Twilight Realm looks. Colors are saturated and bled out just enough to seem ethereal and other-worldly 
 but not so that you can't see straight.
  
  Sound - 10/10 - Music plays a huge role in Zelda games, and the music in Twilight Princess delivers 
 like no other game. Music fits each situation perfectly, and sets the mood for each and every event. 
 Sound effects are great, and (although distorted a little) the sounds coming out of the Wiimote 
 fit in perfectly and sound great. No voice-overs, but that's Zelda's trademark.
  
  Value - 10/10 - It's Zelda. Lots of side-quests, plus hidden treasures and many things to keep 
 you busy. Reviewer's Tilt - 10/10 - I can honestly say that this is the best game ever. I can honestly 
 say that Jeff must have had some grudge against Nintendo or Zelda or the Wii to give it an 8.8. 
 I can honestly say that 50 hours of gameplay on this game delivers more than 100 hours on any other 
 game, even stuff like World of Warcraft, which millions of people waste hundreds of hours on every 
 2 weeks.
  
  In closing, this game deserves a 10.1. But I can't give it that because the scoring system only 
 goes up to 10.0. I can't stand when people say, Oh, the Wii's graphics suck, and everything sucks 
 'cause I'm shallow and ignorant like that, blah, blah blah, blah blah... The Wii's graphics do 
 not suck. Graphics play 1/10,000,000 in the role of whether or not a game is good. If you are stupid 
 enough to judge a game on it's graphics, maybe you shouldn't be reviewing games in the first place. 
 I would much rather play a bad game with horrible graphics than a terrible game with immaculate 
 graphics. 30% of all gamers value graphics over gameplay, and 95% of them prefer PS1/PS2/PS3. Also, 
 99.9% of those original 30% are ignorant. Think of every gamer you know. Think of all the ones 
 who value graphics over gameplay. Think of all of them who like Playstation the most, and all the 
 ones who are ignorant (this will only work if you are none of the above) . The numbers turn out, 
 don't they? Basically, stop judging a game on graphics, stop hating a game just to hate it (or 
 to piss off all the people who like it, usually on a great game) , and stop giving low-scored reviews 
 to games you haven't played. That's just sad if you get pleasure off pissing people off and being 
 ignorant. I'm tired of hearing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgepeter813
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the first zelda game for the next generation. It utilizes 
 the wii controls in that you can swing your sword by swinging your wiimote and shake your nunchuck 
 to do a spin attack etc etc. The controls do not feel tacked on and become a second nature as time 
 goes on. It's cool because the wiimote makes sounds whenever you find a new path or slice your 
 sword. The only bad thing to that is the wiimote's speaker isn't very good so it comes out choppy. 
 A really cool thing is horseback fighting, because now you can kill enemies with your swords on 
 the horse. The storyline holds up the tradition of zeldas having amazing stories in that it drags 
 you in. I would say that the difficulty is really nice because you never get frustrated about dying 
 at one spot over and over again and having to go back to the beginning that many times. The new 
 abilities and pieces of equipments are very awesome because you can upgrade link to fit the situation. 
 You will learn new abilities as the game progresses and be able to fight in very many ways. There 
 are many new items in this game that you get in the dungeons of Hyrule. This game pays homage to 
 OOT to the right amount to where you are excited to see that they brought a certain element back. 
 Overall, this game is amazing, simply put. I cannot put the wiimote down when i play it because 
 the action and storyline are incredible.
  Definite must for anyone who likes action in the slightest degree.
  P. s. this game deserves game 
 of the year for 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__Element
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Ah. Legend of Zelda. Such a great game franchise (probably one of the best and probably one of the 
 most known right next to Super Mario Bros. It's definitely my favorite) . In this next installment 
 you are a young boy, Link, who lives in a small place called Ordon Village. But Link will become more 
 than a boy on this long journey. Throughout your adventure you will obtain several items and weapons. 
 You will meet new people, make new friends, and find several new enemies as well as some old ones. 
 Gameplay: Near flawless. My only problem is there isn't much depth to sword-fighting at least on 
 the Wii version. But other than that it's perfect. There are so many awesome weapons such as the 
 Ball and Chain (which is just as it sounds, a large ball attached to a chain that really packs a 
 punch) and the Dominion Rod (which is a rod that posseses certain statues and allows you to control 
 them. You find these weapons in dungeons. You come across these dungeons during the story. Each 
 one is reasonably large and is filled with challenging puzzles that keep you busy for along time. At 
 the end of each one a boss waits for you. If you wanted to take a break from the story there are 
 several side missions and tons of things to collect. About 1/4 through the story you meet a strange 
 bug-obsessed girl named Agitha she insists that she sent invitations to the 24 Golden Bugs of Hyrule, the 
 town where alot of Twilight Princess takes. If you find these and return them to Agitha she'll reward 
 you greatly. The first one you bring her she gives you a larger wallet which can hold more rupees, Hyrulian 
 currency.
  
  You can also collect souls of vicious little ghosts called poes for a man that was turned to stone 
 because of his greed. If you collect 20 he will give you a bottle filled with Fairy Tears. But 
 it's the bottle the important part. This can hold healthful liquids or oil for your lantern which 
 is important. It can also hold Fairies that are real life savers during boss battles.
  
  Lastly you can find heart pieces that can put your health up if you collect 5 of them these are 
 crucial.
  
  Asides all of this there are several fun mini-games such as a Fishing Hole where you can catch 
 fish.
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  
  Graphics :The graphics in TP are amazing. There isn't much to say about graphics. There never has 
 been for me. But I have been awe-stricken several times by the shear beauty of TP.
  
  Graphics:10/10
  
  Sound: Fans of the LOZ Series will be familiar with the music of TP. It compliments 
 the rest of the game very well. I'm kinda at a loss of words for sound as I am with graphics, but 
 the music and Sound FX are great.
  
  Sound:10/10
  
  Overall: TP is a like I said an amazing experience and did not fall short of my expectations that 
 I had for it.
  
  Verdict: BUY IT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royal_demon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing very few games offer such a great blend between gameplay, story and 
 art.
  
  Graphics
  Very good graphics but noticeably not as nice looking as other wii titles. Technically they are 
 gamecube graphics but the art work make the game look like a wii title.
  
  Sound
  Sound isnt great the actual orchestrated music is brilliant but the actual sound is quite flat 
 at most times. Still no doubt the epic theme you get from the music that fit very well in the game
 
  
  Gameplay
  Great amazing gameplay everyting works so well. Minor problems are that the game doesnt tell you 
 what to do next too well. But this problem is remedied by the amazing combat on foot and horseback.
 
  
  Overall 9.3
  Despite being one of the greatest games of all time you cant help but think it could have had better 
 graphics and a fully wii title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda returns with Twilight Princess and proves to be one of the most enjoyable games 
 currently on the Wii. Even if it doesn't have cutting edge graphics, or sound technology, its good 
 old fashioned gameplay mixed in with new gameplay devices thrown in thanks to the Wii's controller.
 
  
  Again, you will be stepping into the role of Link and again go on an epic adventure to save Hyrule 
 from evil. What's different this time around is that Link has another personna, a wolf, as this 
 wolf you are a LOT more combat effective, you deal more damage have a way better jumping attack 
 and are able to take out multiple enemies in one shot. As normal Link, your gear isn't all that 
 different from what you've grown to expect from the Zelda series, but the two most notable changes 
 are the finishing move that Link unlocks, giving him the ability to finish enemies he knocks onto 
 the ground without having to wait for them to get up and a great, redefined horseback system, that 
 leads to some pretty great horse combat/chases. Combat is controlled by the moving your Wii remote, 
 swing it to the sides or up and down and Link does his normal slash, move it straight forward and 
 Link will stab, generally working the exact same way in wolf form. These controls are definatley 
 very cool and though could easily be mapped to buttons, prove to actually be a bit more fun.
  At its core, the gameplay in Twilight Princess is a lot like previous entries in the series, you'll 
 be accomplishing objectives on horseback, talking to the townsfolk and venture into temples. The 
 temples are, as they always have been, a great mix of combat, puzzle solving and standard platforming 
 elements, with some awesome boss battles and plenty of cool items thrown in. Offering these items 
 one by one actually gives this game a great sense of progression and forces you took work toward 
 your rewards one at a time. The segments as Wolf Link are actually pretty different than the standard 
 gameplay, as a wolf you will have more advanced platforming segments, better combat segments and 
 you will be able to find people's spirits, dig for coins and talk with other animals instead of 
 your standard villagers. The one problem I have is that Twilight Princess's gameplay might be a 
 little TOO similar to most of the other Legend of Zelda titles and you'll even notice that you'll 
 unlock the new items in pretty much the same order.
  
  In the graphical department, Twilight Princess offers some pretty good visuals (that look better 
 in HD.) From an artistical standpoint, Twilight Princess retains the awesome art direction from 
 the the N64 titles, offering a more realistic approach to the models and enviornments, but there 
 still are some throwbacks to the artistic style that you'd find in Wind Waker or Minish cap, as 
 some of the enemies will be cell-shaded. Another noteworthy graphical aspect are the facial expressions, 
 which are no doubt the best I've seen in a game. But, from a technical standpoint, Twilight Princess 
 seems a little dated, textures can get to look kind of bland and certain models arent done very 
 well.
  
  The sound is Zelda's worst quality. The lack of voice-overs makes the game feel dated and while 
 its understandable to still not have a voice for Link, it makes no sense why they wouldn't put 
 voice-overs in for any of the other characters. Also, while the music is still great, its also 
 still done mostly by machines and the lack of real orchestral music is lame. But, the sound effects 
 and the sounds coming from the Wii remote are still very well done and the music is as memorable 
 as ever.
  
  Twilight Princess is long. Really long, it will take you a good 40 or so hours to complete the 
 main quest and of course there are tons of side-quests and other distracting things you can do, 
 like capture spirits, go fishing and an abundance of other tasks like that.
  
  Twilight Princess is all around a great experience that any fan of the series, or hardcore gamer 
 will appreciate. With great new Wii controls, another great story and loads of other improvements, 
 its only the lack of change compared to past Zelda games and only okay production values that keep 
 Twilight Princess from truly being awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunisherAB
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii is a great game.... the Gamecube version has 
 the same as the Wii Version.. but the Wii version is slightly better.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  This game has great graphics for a GCN, but for the Wii, it could have been better... but none of 
 the less, the graphics are beautiful and charming. The graphic are as colorful and great as a High-ended 
 GCN game can be. Also I mean this game has High GCN graphic... it was develop for the cube for 4 
 years!
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  This game is just like other Zelda games, it has puzzles, it has big bosses, it has in-field combat.... but 
 there are new things.. like walking on roof and on the walls is a plus... and drive-by on a horse 
 is genius. This game is cool and fun, it's never boring. With the Wiimote, for the Wii version, 
 it makes it more fun and cooler to play. Fishing is easier with the Wiimote and also Shooting Arrows 
 and a other weapons is smoother with the Wiimote.
  
  Sounds: 10
  
  The games sounds is fantastic . It still has that Zelda charm we grew up with. The music in the 
 game is great as well... plus with the in-speaker Wiimote... it makes it a expensive to die for. 
 Value: 10
  
  All I'm going to say is, that if your getting a Wii, you have to get this game,
  
  Overall: 
 10
  
  This game is great, for both version... but of your getting a Wii, get the Wii Version. With The 
 mini-games and side-quests... you'll will be playing this game for over 80 hrs. This game is still 
 no LoZ : OoT..... but hey, it's Zelda, it's great for all Wii owners and it's fun like Hell ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hendrix4Lyfe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a great game. It uses the same great style as the classic 
 Ocarina of Time did. The game play is fun because you need you use the nun chuck and the remote 
 to play so it makes it alot more interactive. The play time of the game is really long and you 
 wont find yourself beating it after the first week. The maps are alot bigger and are changed from 
 the maps in Ocarina of Time which makes the game have a whole new look to it. It is the best Wii 
 game so far and will probably stay the best Wii game for a long time. I still think the raters 
 at GS rated the game wrong, they gave it a 8.8 its at least in the 9's. Any Zelda game is in the 
 8's but this isn't just any Zelda game, this is an AMAZING one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdc720
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  People have been wondering if the Wii version of this game is any good.
  I'm here to tell that it is even better than good. I don't want to give away the story but if you 
 have ever played the Orcarina of Time or the Wind Waker then you find the item selection and controls 
 pretty much the same. If you are wondering about the controls they are completey resposive with 
 the Wii controler and it all works great. The game also looks and sound really great even though 
 Link dosen't even say a word. Sounds that come through the Wii remotes speaker can get a bit choppy 
 but who cares. There is plenty of things to do in this game from fishing, to herding goats, to 
 exploring, to just killing things there is always something to do and plenty upgrades to get and 
 objects to find. The parts in the game were Link is turned into a wolf are fun but you have no 
 control when you want to turn into a wolf untill you beat the third dungeon. In the end The legend 
 of Zelda Twilight Princess is great game that is worth forking over $250 for a Wii and $50 for 
 the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Footballteen58
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Now that i have beaten the game i can write my review. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess being 
 available for the Wii was not a shock and we predicted it would happen. In the game you play as 
 Link a farmboy from Ordon Village one day some boars attack and kidnap the children and Link goes 
 after them and he runs into a giant black wall that has some strange Tribal Markings on it and 
 a big black hang forcefully pulls him in he gets turned into a wolf and meets Midna a Twilight 
 Imp who acts as your guide throughout the whole game. She breaks him out fo the prision the twilight 
 monsters threw him in and they meet Zelda. They then return to the light and link searches for 
 his future sword and shield. He then returns to the Twilight and searches for light bugs a part 
 in the game i didnt like at all because it was tedious and boring and i was extremely happy when 
 it was done with. He then returns to his human form wearing green clothing like the legendary hero 
 and heads for the forest temple after completeing it he recieves a Fused Shadow and finds that 
 he must collect 2 more to defeat Zant the antagonist of the game. That is most certainly not all 
 of the story but its a good describing of it. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the game 
 we have anticipated since 2004 and it lives up to expectations of course. But lets start with cons 
 the few there were. First off on the Wii version the Wiimote speaker makes alot of noise in the 
 game and it does it rather poorly so i recomend turning it off. This game isnt overwhelmingly Wii 
 controlled you use the Wii Remote for Aiming and sword fighting and the nunchuck for executing 
 the infamous spin attack and the buttons for everything else. While some criticised it i had no 
 problem with the fancy controls at all. The Gameplay is classic 3D Zelda and whats wrong with that? 
 Um nothing. The game recieved an 8.8 from gamespot for not bringing much new to the gaming world 
 well its the fourth 3D zelda game and they dont come out very often this would be the 4th in the 
 past 8 years. If it aint broke dont fix it. The game lasts for around 40 hours with plenty of stuff 
 to do including fishing. The graphics of the game wont blow your socks off because this is in fact 
 a port of a gamecube game. But the artstyle and the enjoyable epic cutscenes are enough to keep 
 you watching. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a masterpiece and i hope nintendo makes 
 another 3D Zelda for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  altho i still think ocarina wuz the best zelda game, this one come pretty close. at first i wuznt 
 sure if it wuz gonna be any good, but it turned 2 be way better than i thot!
  
  graphics: 4 the wii, i think the graphics r amazing. really really good. everything looks really 
 well put 2gether. its like the ocarina of time times 20. gameplay: when i first started playing 
 i thot the story wuz a little weak, but when u start really getting into it, it gets a lot better. 
 ocarina of time had a better story, but this isnt the same game so everything cant be the same. 
 most of the places r the same except bigger and better. the wii remote also makes playing the game 
 really exciting and fun. sound: i wuz kinda dissapointed in the music cuz the music in other zelda 
 games has been better. the music also wasnt that loud. its like always in the background. the music 
 always makes the game more exciting. overall this game was great. if u have a wii then u HAVE to 
 buy this. i think its the best game on the wii definetly. (it wuz almost perfect, but the sound 
 coulda been a little bit better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rishty
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  A new generation of gaming and what way to start off than play the new Zelda eh, why should you 
 play this you ask i'll tell you why, its long its hard and offers an amazing storyline need more 
 you say well why didnt you say so, art from the graphics being incredible the game itself offers 
 solid {but enjoyable} gameplay such as riding epona {remember from ocarina} and shootin bows and 
 arrows and yes not forgetting how cool it is to use the Wii remote as a sword, yes you heard me 
 the sound effects that come out of your Wii remote is as if you were fightin with a real sword, 
 the only downfall to this game is the music is horrible well nbot horrible but annoying and people 
 wonder why nintendo dont use voice actin as it would make the game worse, so if you like gameplay 
 fine you may like sme music but most want you to make you grind your teeth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Finally, another Zelda game. WOW. Nintendo have utilised the Wii's controls and has made it fell 
 like no other game you have played. The Good: Excellent graphics and enviroments, great use of 
 the Wii remote.
  
  The Bad: Some aspects of the sound are quite poor and sometimes it gets annoying when you can't 
 complete something.
  
  Zelda starts off when you are in your village and you have to go and find your horse. You can name 
 your character and your horse anything you like and its quite cool to do that. Soon after the world 
 turns into twilight and you are playing as a wolf. Well not too bad then. After playing as a wolf 
 for some time it gets tedious and you want to go back to playing as Link again. Eventually you 
 do and you have your village which is not in twilight, and Hyrule which is covered in twilight. 
 Overall Zelda is a great game, I would recommend purchasing for the Nintendo Wii. Legend of Zelda 
 Twilight Princess is the best Wii game graphically and gameplay wise. The sound only lets it down 
 a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying this game is kind of a mix of the best Zelda ever and a kind of problemy 
 game. When Nintendo made this game they weren't trying to achieve review perfection like most people 
 seem to think, but rather to appeal to the hardcore Zelda fans and anyone who has been moved by 
 the series.
  
  Zelda can easily be related to the revolutionary Ocarina of Time, by the tone and structure of 
 the game. It's not revolutionary like Ocarina of Time was. There's not a whole lot different. Basically 
 what they did is take Ocarina of Time and multiply it times ten for a hell of a sequel. I'm not 
 saying this is better, I never even fully played through OoT. But this is tons more of the good 
 parts in that game. To top it off it has a more dark and more interesting story. The controls in 
 the wii version work just how you'd expect them to, that is unless you expected them not to work 
 well. There's not a whole lot of wii controls, but you do get to control all the weapons with it. 
 There are tons of projectiles in the game which is great because the format on shooting them works 
 really really well and helps the wii version be a better buy than the gamecube version. (Though 
 I still think they should have done the boomerang and ball and chain different.) You fight with 
 your sword uh... alot... and it's fun to do, but sometimes it will swing when you accidentily move 
 your arm a tiny bit and at other times it won't when your movement is larger. But if you actually 
 take a swing it will always work. I've got no complaints here. The only problem with the gameplay 
 I found here was when playing in your wolf form your attack is just the same one over and over 
 again and at first it's cool, but it just gets repetitive and kind of inaccurate. Technically Zelda 
 isn't the best looking game. It might be the best looking wii game right now but that's not sayin 
 much. The wii can do better as far as graphics go, but with that said it's not the level of detail 
 that was put into the game, it's the design. Zelda TP features the best dungeon design in the series 
 and the best character design I have ever seen in my life. And by character design I mean enemy 
 design, it's hard not to look at a darknut (hehe....?) and not be amazed by how awesome looking 
 and how long it must of taken to design him, or the new and improved Ganondorf, Zelda, Link... 
 or even the little pirahna plant guys whose name currently escapes me. Enough with dissing the 
 sound, Jeff Gerstmann and other reviewers for some reason have had problems with the sound. I quite 
 frankly don't get it. It's got the same tunes from pretty much all the 3d Zelda games plus more 
 and they are awesome. I don't understand what orchestrated music is because it sounds pretty orchestrated 
 to me. That's what Nintendo Power's and Gerstmann's problem with this game was, and I don't even 
 know what it is. I havn't heard any games with more powerful music worthy of being called orchestrated. 
 But apparently they know what they're talking about so whatever, I'm gonna drop this. Oh and voice 
 overs could be nice, but if they took the time to put in voice overs that would take forever and 
 it would extract from all the genius puzzles they put in the game. They are the best puzzles ever 
 y'know. Not to mention how voiceovers screw up a lot of games.
  
  Hold up! Wait I'm almost done, just sit tight. This is such a lengthy game and although there's 
 no other modes then the adventure because it's Zelda it still has the most value in any other action 
 adventure game ever. I completed the game in 60 hours, but that's because I left it on a whole 
 lot, I almost left it on an entire day. It took me about 40-45 hours to complete which is still 
 a lot because I havn't even touched a lot of the sidequests. There's also this Cave of Ordeals 
 thing which I havn't found yet. This is the longest Zelda ever and deserves praise for that.
  
  To sum it all up Zelda is in my top five games of all time, maybe not score wise, but I still 
 favor this above Resident Evil 4 which I gave a 9.8. The complex puzzles and epic boss fights help 
 Twilight achieve Dungeon perfection, just not game perfection. There are so many good parts about 
 this game that you need to find out for yourself and I'm not even going to list. I can see all 
 the game of the year awards it's getting and all the perfect 10s, but I can also (vaguely) see 
 Gamespot's 8.8 as a good score. You know why, because it's all about your perspective. You'll be 
 disappointed, or mesmerized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny_Princess
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the small set-backs (for me at least) All in all the game is good. It still suffers with 
 GC graphics, but its all about the game play. Like all zelda games, it hold to its puzzle solving 
 dungeons and unique set of useful items... I personally like the fishing rod, because you can almost 
 fish everywhere now. The double claw shot it the most useful item in the game, so, I suggest using 
 it a lot. The battling system that had been upgraded is excullent, and adapted well to Iink's lupine 
 form. The only things that bugged me, and some would agree, LINK IS NOT LEFT HANDED IN WII VERSION!!! 
 And that Midna is as annoying as OoT's Navi. How does Link always get stuck with these beings??? 
 he seriously needs to speak for himself. If I was him, I'd be spending most of my time at the fishing 
 pond, snoozing under the warm sun, with the fish continuously nibbling on my lure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaker08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Good: The Storyline is amazing, and pulls you right in as it goes. Great music and sounds, and 
 very nice graphics. Great use of the Wii's remote controller. Moves away from the kiddie Link look 
 and goes back to the Ocarina of Time's older looking Link.
  
  Bad: Slightly outdated graphics. Very few instances of voice acting, and when there IS voice acting 
 it's usually one of two words.
  
  Let's start off with how the game feels and plays.
  
  Using the innovative Wii remote and nunchuck this game really shows some of the great things this 
 system can do. Putting the items on the control pad for easy picking and using the speaker to give 
 hints and clues about what you are supposed to do are great ideas. I love using the remote to aim 
 my various items such as the bow and arrow and the boomerang. An incredible way to play an already 
 incredible game is given to us with the Wii. However..... There are a few flaws. Such as the Infamous 
 Glitch, where if you save and quit in a certain room (If you want to know where, check somewhere 
 else or message me, as i'm not listing it here to avoid spoilers.) you can not continue the game. 
 AT ALL. Maybe nintendo will do something about this. Maybe not. While the music is great, it is 
 not orchestrally done, thus taking a small amount of feeling away, but not really enough to matter 
 that much.
  
  Anyway, this game involves a lot of speaking with various character's in the Zelda world, which 
 is nice, as it gives some interaction between characters and allows for some character development, 
 which I personally love. Now about sound and graphics.
  
  I know I said it earlier but this game's music is not orchestrally done, which isn't that big of 
 a deal but it needed to be said. They've put some of the old music on there, such as The Song of 
 Time and others, but it doesn't sound as good as it used to, it seems to me. The graphics, too, 
 seem a tad ( and i mean a slight slight tad) dated, but are still great. You can't really notice 
 it at all. The monsters and characters are created with great art skills and most of the bosses 
 and main characters look amazing.
  
  Now about the game.
  
  This is a familliar tale. One of swords, monsters, and damsels in distress. There's Zelda, the 
 princess. Link, the hero. And there's the bad guy, Gannondorf. Same as every other Zelda game. 
 However, also like the others, it has its twists and turns that make it just as interesting as 
 it always is.
  
  You begin as a young man, Link, a village goat herder. A simple man. A hero. While you start off 
 with no sword, and no green clothes ( lol ) Link eventually comes to be that guy you know and love 
 from the other Zelda games. Early on into the game you come across Midna, an impish figure, who 
 serves the purpose of the hint giver in THIS Zelda game. As you go along your way you can press 
 the down button and she'll look at your situation and give you some advice about how to proceed 
 in the game.
  Midna, as you soon find out, is a denizen of the mysterious twilight world, an alternate reality 
 of Hyrule, shrouded in darkness. Things take a different from while in the twilight, and Link is 
 no exception. While link is in the twilight, he takes the form of a wolf. The wolf has it's own 
 attacks, has a sensing ability it uses to find scents or to see things hidden to the naked eye 
 and can also dig in various places to get items. The wolf form also has its own ways of doing things 
 such as jumping or completing puzzles. Also in your wolf form, instead of whistling to play the 
 various music in the game, you must howl, and in certain places by calling Midna she can float 
 out from you and help you cross large gaps. Also while in the wolf form, you can use Midna's shadow 
 powers to warp around the world. Early on in the game it forces you into being the wolf or Link, 
 but later on you get the ability to transform back and forth. The wolf is fun to use and a great 
 part of the game. Later on in your wolf form, you learn from Princess Zelda herself that most of 
 the lands in Hyrule have been transformed into their twilight counterparts by an evil wizard named 
 Zant. This starts you on a journey throughout the world to the temples that are placed there. The 
 temples. Where to start about the temples. The puzzles vary on a wow, i can't believe how easy 
 this is to OMG I CANT STAND THIS WTF DO I DO!!!!?!?!? . Most of it is easy to figure out though, 
 but is a challenge, so don't fret puzzle lovers. Classic tools like the hookshot and bow an arrow 
 are back to help and there are some new items too like the ball and chain and the spinner. It's 
 to the point where it's not tough, really, and you might catch yourself smiling thinking, How could 
 i have not figured that out sooner Taking a page from the older games, there is a forest temple, 
 a fire temple, a sky temple and so on, a temple for just about all the elements . You really feel 
 great about completing puzzles and continuing in the game.
  
  Which is good, because...
  
  While you can travel around and get secret fighting techniques and different ways to attack 
 things, battles aren't really that complicated and are quite straightforward. They do get a little 
 tougher later but defeating most enemies just requires swinging the remote a few times.
  
  Overall this game is outstanding. It has very few flaws, and those, some people wouldn't consider 
 flaws at all. It's very long spanning to about 40-50 hours, and longer for those trying to get 
 all the items and hearts. Which is probably the longest i've ever spent on a Zelda game. Its immersive 
 storyline will drag you in and hold on tight. This..... Is probably the greatest Zelda game ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk-42121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  well Twilight Princess is a great rpg and definatly can be called the true sequel, to ocarina of 
 time do to there similar in many was but this game is defiantly, better with great bosses better 
 grafices and of chorse the stroy witch was really what wind waker fail at doing but now with the 
 wii remote zelda is back at full focre once agian changing the rpg catagorey but theres one thing 
 i dont like about this game and that is it all done in text maybe in the next zelda game there 
 will be voice overs but who cares the action is great the puzzles are great so its all good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renagadez187
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  There was a lot of speculation about what would become of the new Legend of Zelda game. Even before 
 the official title was released to the public, gamers around the world were convinced that Twilight 
 Princess would be the greatest Legend of Zelda game to date. After the game was released, it received 
 rave reviews across gaming websites and magazines. And the reason for the rave reviews is because 
 Twilight Princess truly is one of the most brilliant Zelda games ever designed.
  
  The story begins in Link's (or your preferred name) home village of Ordon, where he is called upon 
 to run his daily farm chores at the Ordon Ranch. Unlike previous Zelda games, Link is able to ride 
 the horse Epona (or your preferred name) at the start of the game to help him with his chore of 
 rounding up the cattle. After you have completed this task, you are free to roam the village and 
 find out information about various problems the villagers are having and the basic skills of the 
 controls. A task that is to be met is that Link must deliver a sword to Hyrule Castle and begins 
 preparing for travel. Whilst journeying around the village, Link comes across his childhood friend 
 Ilia and the Swordsman's son, Colin, who are suddenly abducted by a giant ogre. You spring into 
 action to save them, only to be confronted by a mysterious wall blocking the path. Without warning, 
 Link is pulled into the Twilight world where his inner beast is born.
  
  While Link is stuck within the Twilight world, he is unable to revert back to his human form and 
 must remain a wolf. You'll soon meet with Midna, an imp-like creature who guides you for the rest 
 of the game. Unlike Navi, Midna is able to assist you in certain areas and even provides Wolf Link 
 with a nifty attack (not that I don't have anything against Navi) . Midna is also faced with problems 
 of her own as a tyrant has risen to enslave their world and Link's world into a dark oblivion. 
 Both worlds seem to be overlapping each other as the spirits of people from Link's world are located 
 in the same spot in the Twilight world. While in wolf form, Link can use a technique to sense the 
 spirits and see them with their physical bodies, allowing you to listen to any useful information. 
 Wolf Link also has the capability to sense special areas in the ground that he can dig to reveal 
 items or secrets. It is a handy technique running low on rupees or hearts. Another neat advantage 
 of being a wolf is that you can now communicate with animals. Most animals that you come across 
 will give out various hints or clues which may assist or not in your quest. As you gradually continue 
 adventuring throughout the Twilight world, it is then you will meet the Princess of Destiny, Zelda 
 who also has seemed to be captured by the Twilight creatures. As she has done in Ocarina of Time, 
 she aids you in what you must accomplish next in order to gain the courage and power to overcome 
 the evil within both worlds. Not only must Link save his close friends from certain disaster, he 
 must now summon the courage and strength to save two worlds.
  
  The gameplay of Twilight Princess follows a similar pattern to that of Ocarina of Time, which may 
 please Zelda fans and gives an idea to gamers new to the franchise what Zelda is all about. As 
 always, you begin with either no items or the simplest of items, and as you progress through the 
 game, you will find new items to improve your strength and allow further access to other parts 
 of Hyrule or to defeat a dungeon boss. Many items from previous Zelda make a comeback with a few 
 changes. The Gale Boomerang is able to create a gust of wind which can stun enemies for a short 
 period. The clawshot, an improved version of the hookshot is also used in the same way and seemingly 
 can grapple onto almost anything. Both the bow and bombs are attainable once again with the bow 
 being allowed to combine with bombs for more power and the Hawkeye mask acts as if the bow was 
 a sniper allowing for precise and distant shooting. However, not all items are from the past. The 
 ball &amp; chain is introduced during the middle of the game and proves to be quite powerful as 
 because of the weight must use both hands to both carry it and be able to swing it over his head. 
 The spinner is also unlocked during the middle of the game which allows Link to travel across sinking 
 sand and attach itself to certain types of walls. Due to the absence of the Ocarina, an item made 
 Ilia called the Horse charm allows you to call Epona from any location, which replaces the grass 
 that is normally used. A new defense has been introduced known as the Magic Armour. It allows damage 
 to be transferred from hearts to rupees. So instead of losing hearts you'll lose rupees, however 
 even if you don't take damage, your rupee count will continue to decrease at a rapid rate. Although 
 taking damage may be a rare occurrence as Link is able to learn several new techniques during his 
 journey. These techniques allow for a stronger attack to defeat enemies with one attack rather 
 than repeatedly attacking.
  
  As we all know, puzzle-solving has always been a crucial part of any Zelda game, and Twilight Princess 
 does not disappoint. There is probably more complex puzzle-solving in Twilight Princess than in 
 any other Zelda game. You may find yourself stuck quite a bit of the time so it might be an idea 
 to take a look around at the environment to get an idea or clue on how to advance. If the dungeons 
 and puzzle-solving are stressing you out then there are other side quests to complete while you 
 think of ways to figure out what to do next. One side quest that can be completed is the collection 
 of golden bugs for the girl, Agitha. Agitha asks of your assistance to collect 24 golden bugs for 
 her ball. These bugs are scattered all over Hyrule and each type of bug will have a female and 
 male partner for the ball. The sound of a chime will indicate if you are near a bug. As in Ocarina, 
 there is also the fishing hole. Unlike the previous fishing game of just catching the Hylian Loach, 
 the lady who is in charge wishes one day to have one of each type of fish for her aquarium. It 
 proves quite challenging as the fish appear at different seasons and catching them may depend on 
 the different type of lure you use. The use of the wii-remote and nunchuk come into play when you 
 fish and proves to work quite effectively. By simply flicking the wii-remote forward, Link will 
 flick the fishing rod forward casting the lure into the water. While the lure sits on top of the 
 water, moving the wii-remote side to side will cause the the lure to hop around while rotating 
 the nunchuk will act as the reeler (it might be easier to shake the nunchuk side to side) . The 
 last main side quest would be the gathering of poes' souls. While in wolf form, you are able to 
 attack poes and literally rip out their souls. A man named Jovani has been placed with a curse 
 where his greed has turned him into solid gold. The only way to lift the curse is to collect the 
 souls of the poes. The poes are scattered all over Hyrule including the dungeons and can only be 
 attacked while in wolf form and only during the night (poes in dungeons or in secret areas can 
 be caught during any time of the day or night) .
  
  The enemies of Twilight Princess prove to be a handful at times, however are easily defeated with 
 a shake of the nunchuk or with a jump attack. Due to the ease of the enemies, it seems disappointing 
 that although they look stunning graphically, they simply are just push-overs. Even boss dungeons 
 are lacking in strength and use repetitive techniques which are easy to read and to conquer within 
 minutes. One enemy that may prove difficult are the Knights who are heavily armoured and wields 
 an enormous sword. You must use both your dodging and sword skills in order to deliver successful 
 attacks. This enemy proves even more difficult than many of the final dungeon bosses which further 
 emphasises the ease of defeating them. Then again, the enemies from Link's world and the enemies 
 from the Twilight world are different in a way. Enemies from the Twilight world are based on the 
 same enemies of the other world, however they seem to be a bit stronger and most of the enemies 
 do not have faces. One group of enemies that may prove difficult are the creatures who fall from 
 the portals and form a barrier when you enter the territory. If you do not destroy them together 
 then the one left on their own is able revive the previous ones you destroyed. Of course as you 
 progress, Link becomes stronger and these enemies can be quickly disposed of. This however may 
 or may not affect the gameplay whatsoever and you may enjoy the beautiful detail and graphics of 
 all the enemies of both the Twilight world and Link's world.
  
  Now we move away from what you will be doing and onto how you will be doing with the newly innovative 
 wii-remote and nunchuk. When you begin to play, you will notice a fairy that seems to resemble 
 Navi. This fairy is the indicator to where you are pointing the wii-remote which is efficient of 
 knowing where to aim prior to using the bow or clawshot. The targeting system actually works quite 
 well after you get use to the sensitivity of the pointer and the trigger button. Another innovative 
 idea is how Link will be using his sword. Instead of pressing a button to use your sword, you swing 
 the wii-remote to use it, but it may not be what you expect. The wii-remote does not act as if 
 you were holding a sword, but reacts to perform the sword moves programmed. So when you swing, 
 it will only perform the horizontal or vertical sword techniques. And there is no need for gigantic 
 swinging arms as a simple side to side action will be enough to perform the techniques. As for 
 the infamous spin attack, a quick flick of the nunchuk will perform it successfully. There is a 
 clash between this however, as the spin attack can be misinterpreted as the shield attack. Because 
 the shield attack is performed by moving the nunchuk forward, it is similar to using the spin attack. 
 This occurs most often while in Z-targeting mode due to the angle that the mode puts you in. Besides 
 this problem, the wii-remote and nunchuk work surprisingly well and reaction time is almost perfect, 
 giving a new dimension on how Zelda games will be played in the future.
  
  The graphics of Twilight Princess do not show the full capabilities of the Wii due to the fact 
 that this game was originally intended only for Gamecube. Both games remain the same graphically 
 and the only difference is that the Wii version is mirrored so that it could accordingly with the 
 wii-remote. It is quite disappointing as the game was one of Wii's launch titles and was unable 
 to show its full capabilities, showing the gaming community that this is clearly to boost the sales 
 of the launch (the Gamecube version was delayed until after the Wii version was launched) . Although 
 graphically, the game could be improved, artistically it is the best-looking Zelda game amongst 
 the series. All the characters, enemies, dungeons and areas look superb in terms of the depth put 
 into it. Designers clearly decided to give Twilight Princess a more serious feel which sets it 
 apart from other Zelda games. So in terms of graphics, it could of used improvements but makes 
 up for it through its artistic design overall.
  
  Sounds of Twilight Princess ring new and similar bells between the music in the background to the 
 sound of the whizzing arrows. Although there are no actual instruments (namely the Ocarina) to 
 play the humble songs no one can forget, some still make an appearance. The howling stone's Link 
 comes across howl certain songs that Wolf Link must howl. Songs such as Zelda's lullaby and the 
 Healing song make a comeback even though they are played only once. Another similar song is Epona's 
 song which obviously is used call upon the mighty steed, which has only been changed to a whistling 
 tone rather than the Ocarina tone. Background music of Hyrule Field has never sounded better and 
 Zora's Domain still sounds majestic. Kakariko Village has an eerie tone to it, which suites the 
 current setting of the once peaceful village. The sounds of items haven't changed as much, but 
 because of built-in wii-remote speaker, it allows you to hear the items from a different perspective. 
 Items such as the arrow leaving from the wii-remote to your television is an excellent idea, however 
 because of the size of the speaker, it produces a low quality sound which can only be a downside 
 to a fitting soundtrack. Some concerns from gamers is that characters still haven't been given 
 a voice thinking that it was time to give them dialogue rather than text. The only character who 
 seems to have some sort of voice is Midna who seems to be talking in a Twilight dialogue. Directors 
 made the right decision of text only because of the fact that the game itself is enormous and the 
 use of dialogue would only prolong the completion of the game. The use of new and old sounds will 
 please classic Zelda fans and shows new gamers the beautiful sounds that made this game series 
 one of the best sounding games ever.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for any Zelda fan and has been worth the wait. This is to date a truly 
 magnificent game and probably the only competitor of the Ocarina of Time. That is not to say other 
 Zelda games have been a let down or a disappointment because they haven't. It is only because Ocarina 
 of Time was such a revolution that it would be difficult to be the successor of it. Twilight Princess 
 may not be as revolutionary as Ocarina, but in terms of gameplay and efforts put into this game, 
 it truly shines as one of the best Zelda games and in overall games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbrae
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is a great game. As true to the series, it is a good length RPG with a solid storyline, great 
 puzzles, and overall great gameplay. Even with a more mature Link not seen since the early days, 
 Twilight Princess is still childish in nature and true to the series.
  
  The Wii version is very entertaining: even though the Wiimote actions were obviously added as an 
 afterthought. However, swinging your sword and shaking out your spin attack work very well in the 
 game and make you amazed at what you can accomplish with such few button pushes.
  
  If Zelda annoys you, then you will not like this one either. However, for a Zelda fan this is a 
 great addition to the series. Proof that graphics do not make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Good: The story and characters, near genius visual art design, takes great use of the Wii controller, 
 much longer than the most games of the genre, the music and sounds is artistically marvelous as 
 always.
  
  The Bad: Techically the graphics are quite dated the same goes for the sound as the music is still 
 not orcesteral as earlier promised and the game has no recorded voice-acting.
  
  In The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess you play as a boy called Link, big surprise eh? Anyways 
 you live in this place called Ordan Village and after some fishing and good deeds you will be requested 
 to deliver a message to the Princess of Hyrule called Zelda. But when Link is going to take his 
 horse Epona and leave the village gets attacked by monsters and orc-like creatures, your female 
 friend Ilia along with your horse and the other children of the village gets kidnapped and Links 
 get knocked down and passes out. When you wake up finding everyone missing you will run without 
 thinking into this huge area of impressive darkness called the Twilight, and as soon Link enters 
 he turns into a wolf and yet again passes out.
  Later when you wake up you find yourself caged in a cell and this odd looking female fellow called 
 Midna staring at you. She will help you to get out if you promise to do exactly as she says, and 
 you really have no other choice so you do. She also want you to meat a certain someone before you 
 leave, and it may not be hard to guess but I won't spoil it for you anyway. After that's done Midna 
 will warp you back to the forest that is still in Twilight and you later learn that you have collect 
 tears from a spirit of light that have turned into bugs that you need to collect in order to bring 
 the light back to the area. And the game moves on from there trying to restore all the light to 
 all of Huryle, trying to turn back to your normal self etc. more than that I will not tell, you 
 have to experience it all yourself. What I can tell you is that you will go trough dungeons and 
 temples, collect keys, weapons and all that is you have in the previous games.
  
  The gameplay despite being based on an old formula it stil works thanks to some refreshments as 
 new kind of weapons and objects and the gameplay with the Wii controller that works surprisingly 
 well despite the game being originally a Gamecube title and the Wii functionality was added late 
 in the development cycle and still the melee and projectile combat and all that works like a charm 
 and it's really a new and innovative way to play a Zelda game. It may not be a revolution as Ocarine 
 of Time was gameplay wise back in the day but it takes that formula and evolves in greatly and 
 makes it all feel fresh all over again.
  
  The visuals are artistically stunning, great color scheme, design of characters and environments 
 and all that though technically the game looks pretty dated with low polycount and low-res textures 
 and the fact that it uses nothing of the Wii's graphical capabilities looking identical to the 
 Gamecube version is quite a disappointment. But thankfully due to the great art it hides the techincal 
 issues rather well and overall it's a great looking game.
  
  The sound suffers about the same problem as the graphics cause artistically the sound is pure magical, 
 all the classic tunes are there and all that but techically is a bit disappointing aswell as the 
 music is still not orcesteral even though Nintendo earlier promised it would be this time, and 
 the game also have no voice-acting except for Midna that speaks her own non-understandable language 
 it still makes her feel more alive and it's a shame it weren't done for more characters in the 
 game. Also the sound comming from the Wii remote even though it's a neat idea sometimes kinda sounds 
 really cheap and lame and I have found no way to set that sound to the TV though it's not that 
 big of a deal but it still annoys abit from time to time. But despite the issus the music and sound 
 is artistically so darn good you can't help yourself to fall in love with it.
  
  Twilight Princess is a really long game compared to other games in the genre. It will take you 
 about 40 or even up to 70 hours to beat it and it's great all the way trough and the story and 
 feeling you get from playing the game is so great you will wanna to play this game over, over and 
 over again.
  
  So to sum it all up Twilight Princess is an awesome game and fans of the series just have to play 
 it no matter what, and fans of action/adventure fans in general should take this game into concideration 
 aswell cause it really is that spiritual sequel to Ocarina of Time that so many fans always wanted 
 to play and it's suitable for everybody, no matter or old or young you might be. What are you waiting 
 for? go out and buy this game! (small salute to Greg Kasavin the greatest game reviewer of all 
 time)
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Good: The Wii totally improves Zelda's controls, making you never want to go back to the old ones 
 again; The graphics are the best on the Wii at the moment; playing as a wolf is just as fun as 
 playing as a human; this game's main story is LONG, and it is even longer if you decide to go 100% 
 on this game; Boss fights are some of the best parts of the game; the Storyline is the best of 
 the year; The items are unique and fun to use.
  
  Bad: The sound is MIDI? Why not full orchestra?; Horse combat kinda bored me; fishing is definatly 
 not what I expected; If you dont know exactly how to beat a boss, you could get stuck for HOURS; 
 graphics look kinda bad only when you play on a pretty large TV without a component cable.
  
  Overall, this game is THE Game of the Year for 2006. No question about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's be optimistic. Twilight Princess is a recycled version of the gamecube's game. The graphics 
 in the game are still good but still has that Wind Waker sword combat with the lights flashing 
 when you hit them. If you remember well, the one that was announced was supposed to be for the 
 gamecube only. Well, in E3 2006 there was a Zelda title coming out and it ended up being this game. 
 The difference is that it's mirrored and has another control grid and motion sensor gameplay. If 
 you remember the old Zeldas, then you know that Link always had his sword on his left hand and 
 his shield in his right. Regardless, it was still a good game and the reason to get the Wii. Downside: 
 bosses were a bit too easy and not as challenging as Ocarina was, except for Stallord in Arbiter's 
 Grounds and Zant in Palace of Twilight. Don't get me wrong. I liked this game but it can be over 
 very quickly if you play it a second or third time. Actually, this game is worth replaying because 
 it's easy Zelda. It's just easy so you might pass it fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmpastor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  For all those who havent been into Zelda but want to give this a try I would HIGHLY recommend 
 this game. I havent played a Zelda game since the original on the NES but have discovered I have 
 been missing out. I cant really give a reason as to why but I never really cared much about it. 
 I was really having to contemplate getting Twilight Princess and Im definitely glad I did. Even 
 while I was in line on launch day I was going back and forth about getting this game (camping at 
 launch rules!!) . This game is epic and it will take a lot of playing time. I completed the game 
 in about 55 hours. So if you are a first timer like me, expect a lot of playing time (Im a casual 
 gamer by the way) . I can honestly say that even though this game is long I was never bored. The 
 story kept me excited and could hardly put it down. I played several non-stop 11 hour marathons. 
 There is a lot of roaming around and searching for items but the game-play has you wanting to do 
 these things. And its incorporated in a fun way. Some of the little side quests and mini games 
 are lots of fun. The fishing is a blast. The snowboarding too.
  
  The dungeons (temples) are challenging if you have never played Zelda before, but not too difficult 
 that you want to quit. Just right I would say. Its not a brain dead shoot em up. You have to 
 think and solve. The game has a good pace so you stay busy.
  
  The Wii-mote does work very well with this game. It was much more interesting with the new controls. 
 I dont think they feel tacked on. The game is slow at the start as it gets you used to the controls.
 
  
  One more thing. Get ready to go and get the previous Zelda installments if you havent played them. 
 Now youll be hooked like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: son4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  the legend of zelda twilight princess is a spinoff to the zelda game ocarina of time you play as 
 adult link in this game who has to send a message to hyrule castle but is then turned into a wolf 
 when he reaches hyrule the gameplay is very well done i give it a 10 .The graphics in this game 
 look next-gen so i give it a 10 also. Sound however isnt very well done it almost sounds like a 
 normal zelda game so i give it a 5. It has great value and very good features as wolf link so i 
 give it a 9. and i really loved this game when is the sequel coming out a 10. all in all i give it 
 a 9.4 out of 10
  Possitive-looks like next-gen material -very good gameplay espiacially when you play as wolf link 
 -and it has good replay value
  
  Negative-hard to control for a while -needs better sound -it takes too long to choose between wolf 
 link and normal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twighlight13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  the legend of zelda is a truly great game the magnificient graphics the enjoyable gameplay the 
 long and great storyline warning if you buy this game you will enjoy it, be hooked and enjoy every 
 part of it but if you try to the game too quickly you wont have fun you must look around hyrule 
 field for those pieces of hearts and poes and bugs. you must buy this game you will not regret it.
 
  
  plot: link [the main charachter] is a farmer who wants to someday become the vilage mayor lives in 
 the village of ordon link is told that he must send something to hyrule in a 2 days time he must 
 leave for hyrule the next morning he was given a wooden sword from Rusl who was a swordsman in 
 odon. the kids in ordon were interested in the sword so they asked link to teach them how to use 
 it becouse there were monkeys in the town lately and they have been doing anoying things in town 
 so link teached them how to use the sword after you do they see that there was a monkey behind 
 them and the kids chased the monkey [well exept colin] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiNk_19
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  this game is great in all the details that him can be sought, I do not believe that exist some 
 of the so much play complains of the already experts of zelda as the ones that go knowing the play 
 is a holder for all for my in it personnel is a satisfaccion when I play this great holder of gamecube 
 the history the movements the personages and all they have me totally satisfied the time expect 
 so that you left this play finally valio the grief al moment in which prendi my gamcube and harms 
 to play is a play that doubt a lot that in algun moment bore you or that sit down that is the same 
 thing has a style unico that maintains you always in the plot of the play and does not do that 
 bore you in ningun moment when become wolf is increible and of the vision of wolf neither be told 
 is simply magisterial when I saw the calificacion aqui in gamespot me too unjust was not done podia 
 to believe what veia as minimo I him daria a 9.5 by finalize I mean thanks nintendo by launching 
 I am play al market I am a player of nintendo since his first consoles and since that console up 
 to now and finished each one of the zeldas that they have removed thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barinelg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming, but the latest installment of the Zelda series has finally been released. 
 Furthermore, it came out along side with a new console, a first time in the series' history. With 
 the long delay before the game's launch and the fact that it was being released on the Wii with 
 specialized controls, Nintendo believed that it was the best Zelda game to date. Sadly, the game 
 isn't as good as they claimed, but it is still a great game.
  
  The game definitely feels like a classic Zelda game... Though it may not feel like it until a few 
 hours into the game. There are new things to adjust to in this installment, so the beginning introduces 
 the player to these changes at the beginning. For the most part, the game teaches you the controls, 
 which are not that bad on the Wii. Many have claimed that these controls feel tacked on, and in 
 way they could well be that. The game was originally intended to be released on the Gamecube but 
 then mirrored and changed for Wii controls. Also, they were wanting to make the controls simple 
 so many could easily pick them up. These things together can easily make the controls feel tacked 
 on. However, the game functions well with the Wii-mote and Nunchuck. The only issue I faced while 
 playing is that the Nunchuck doesn't seem to recognize the shield bash gesture that often (which 
 you can really live without using) . Other than that aiming is great with the Wii-mote and the controls 
 respond well.
  
  After all the introductions at the beginning, the game begins to feel more like a Zelda game. Dungeon 
 running, sword swinging and puzzle solving, with mid-bosses and main bosses for each dungeon. The 
 main concerns of the game is that for the most part, the dungeons are easy (though lengthy) , and 
 the boss fights are even easier. A couple of things might trip you up along the way, but in general, 
 you can easily figure out the puzzles of the game. Also, the heart pieces are not nearly as hard 
 to find, especially if you pay the fortune teller 10 ruppees to tell you where the next one is. 
 It doesn't show you what you have to do, but you can easily figure it out. The bugs are not all 
 that hard to find either. The only things that may take the most time to do is find all the poes 
 in the game and actually completing the story. The game is a bit easy, and it can take you about 
 30 hours to complete the story and roughly 50+ hours to finish everything the game has to offer.
 
  
  Twilight Princess is an artistically beautiful game. Though it doesn't have the realistic look 
 of games found on the Playstation 3 or XBOX 360, it is still a work of art. The environments are 
 beautiful and Link has been given an upgraded look that many Zelda fans were looking for. Furthermore, 
 the look sets the mood nicely based on what is going on; if the mood is supposed to be bright, 
 the graphics represent it nicely, and it does as great a job for the darker moods of the game. 
 Though Koji Kondo wanted a live orchestra for all the music in Twilight Princess, you will find 
 MIDI versions instead. Though not as real as one would like, the music fits the different moods 
 of the game nicely. Also, you will hear many familiar tunes or melodies from previous Zeldas, which 
 will please hardcore fans of the series. Also, all the sound effects in general are what you normally 
 find in a Zelda game, which without them the game probably wouldn't feel right. The sound coming 
 out of the Wii-mote is a nice touch and more immersive than with a standard controller. The audio 
 coming from the controller isn't the best, but it is definitely a different experience. The sound 
 isn't the best you will find out there, but it is still wonderful to listen to nonetheless.
  
  Though this Zelda was not the greatest in the series, it is still worth playing for anyone 
 with a Wii. New and old players of the Zelda series will enjoy the game, and the Wii controls give 
 it a new edge that could take the series to a whole new height in the future. I am greatly looking 
 forward to any Zelda games that could make an appearance onto the Wii, especially since those will 
 be developed specifically for the Wii from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Twlight Princess stars everyone's favorite character, Link, on a quest to discover the reason for 
 the evil invading Hyrule and the surrounding areas. He has many friends that are available to aid 
 him on his quest, but it is the antics of a strange spirit creature that guide you most of the 
 way. Midna first comes on the scene when Link is dragged into the Shadow Realm and transforms into 
 a wolf-creature. Midna becomes the guide to getting things done, from climbing ledges to transporting 
 objects.
  
  As usual, Link has to discover his heroic fate. It takes the capture of his friends and the requests 
 of the Princess to send him on a temple to temple quest. The setup is very much like Ocarina of 
 Time in terms of the gameplay, except you don't have to start out as a kid.
  
  Throughout the game, you power up as you usually do with heart containers and weapons like the 
 fairy bow, iron boots, hookshot, and slingshot. In addition, there are moves to learn that can 
 make it easier to dispatch enemies, like the ending blow. For these, you need to talk to a skeleton 
 knight.
  
  The special part when playing with the Wii is that any projectile requires the use of the motion 
 sensor to guide the crosshair. As a wolf, you can also howl tunes to get creatures to help you.
 
  
  This games has a lot of great features consistent with other Zelda games, but the parts with the 
 wolf feel a little tedious at times. Still, the world is vast and there are many many adventures 
 to charge into. The puzzles can still be tricky, making this a game that will require some skill 
 to figure out and beat.
  
  This will go down as a clear classic when we eventually look back on the success of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up the newest Zelda game, I was excited. I honestly had never owned a console Zelda 
 game, though I had played many amongst friends.
  
  I was dissapointed.
  
  The game is actually a rather swell put-together in the end though. Link looks like he's been beefed 
 up graphically, and it's hard for me to tell with my un-gamer eyes to know that Link is on the 
 Wii and not one of the different systems.
  
  The story is simple enough. Darkness has cast over the land. Get rid of it, save Zelda, and hurrah. 
 But, it has a few nice twists that I didn't expect.
  
  To traverse in the twilight world, one must be the Wolf-Link you've heard so much about. In the 
 beggining of the game, you yearn to go back to human Link, and towards the end, you wish you could 
 use your wolf Link more often. It was an incredible addition that just wasn't used well enough.
 
  
  The sound is... repetitive. At first, it sounds quite swell, but on second listening, you wish 
 a full score could've been introduced into the game. Many games have music that are now even being 
 played at symphonies, but this game will not have any features down at your local music hall.
 
  
  It introduces a truckload of new items, all amazingly cool. But it dissapoints, by having you use 
 them once, but never again. The horse combat is great, and riding it's fun. Yet, once you gain 
 the ability to warp wherever, whenever, you feel as though it's a wasted feature. Though the items 
 are cool, they just come up short.
  
  The controls are fine for the most part, but the 'swing the controller' thing is a tinch tacked 
 on. Swinging that thing over and over just gets annoying, and you begin to realize how it could've 
 been a Gamecube game from the start - it was supposed to be, after all. It is a nice touch, however, 
 to aim the wii remote at the screen to aim your bow.
  
  But, after all the criticisms, you still come out with a great, but short game. One might wonder 
 what Nintendo could've done with it if they'd been able to put all those elements into a game where 
 it not only used all the items and features often, but if it could break away from the traditional 
 Zelda series just once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was an excellent enstalment in the classic Zelda series, the best since Ocarania of Time. 
 My favourite Dungeon so far is the Goron Mines, fun and cool looking. In the end Zelda is deffinetly 
 the best game since resident evil 4. Any one who owns a Wii must get this. I must finish this review 
 with jibberish dsagf uo; iwe hedguasd; hfdjshfjdsah illll jxkvhn lsdj; kedjpf jofjko; j j o; j; l j; 
 j; j ;j ;j hjgyj y d yu hyj toh u yo8isdfjuf sarfk hed v uifgeuig h ihc gyjsdgkjvuhsdv dlvis pslhgsaduk 
 vjh vsdfvfsdg hli d jcoi ysff hv ihudhufewuify Marianas Trench ROCKS uegf ly7t yedw; g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyblade_masta0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Now, as a typical Zelda fan, I would give this Zelda game a 9.5 to a 10. But then again, I'm no 
 regular Zelda fan. Anyways, Zelda is a great action game, with a very good storyline. As always, 
 you control Link (or whatever you name him) , as he ventures throught Hyrule, solving puzzles and 
 dungeons, collecting tears of light, and defeating shadow creatures. As always, the game has the 
 usual look: the green tunic with the long green cap, a sword, and a shield. The speaker in the 
 Wii-mote is always used. Whenever you draw out your sword, solve a puzzle which triggers the special 
 noise, and many other things, you hear it right through your Wii-mote speaker. I wouldn't say it 
 makes you feel like it puts you into the game, because it doesn't. But it does bring you closer 
 to the game. (Now here's the negative part of the review) I, personally, dont like the swinging 
 of the Wii-mote to swing the sword. It's intuitive, and pretty cool, but I just seem to like it. 
 I'm used to pressing A everytime I want to attack the opposing force, which you can still do, but 
 i just dont seem to like it. Plus, some of the puzzles can be hard. And when you don't know what 
 to do, Midna doesn't always help you. (Negative part ended) The game seems more intense after you 
 beat the third temple, because you can turn into a wolf at will, which become EXTEMLEY useful. 
 So now another Zelda fan has spoken about his opinion on what seems to be, the best in the Zelda 
 series. I give The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess a 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been watching this game since early 2004, but it felt like forever. I know many of us got 
 pissed off for the delays, don't know exactly how many there were, but I still know this. The last 
 delay, I would find the most important. Formating it for the Wii. Which gives us this piece of 
 nostalgia. Thank's a bunch Nintendo! Zelda: Twilight Princess is long. All I did in December 25 
 through January 3 was play this for 12 straight hours, and I wasn't even in the middle of the game 
 yet! You start out in Garon, a small village and you are a farmboy. All of a sudden, you are swept 
 away to the Twilight Zone (or whatever) to have an annoying partner named Midna, and *gasp* the 
 Twilight Princess is Zelda. Okay, too much time explaining an hour of the story, now for the gameplay! 
 Yeah, you use the Nunchuk stick to control Link, C on the Nunchuk to go into freeview, under that, 
 Z which is Shield/Target. The D-Pad (same as DS Lites' BTW) has all your programed shortcuts, B 
 to use them. Swing.... ZZZZZZZ....!!!!!1!!! I think you will get it. You just wanted me to say 
 if it's got or not, yeah it's great. Sound is great coming out of the TV, but the Wiimote's sound 
 is kind of staticky when the sound byte is finished. Graphics are like a high-end GC game's graphics, 
 that's probably because it basically is a high-end GC game. The great part about the game is purely 
 that it's Zelda! So let it suck your life away into Oblivion, and a definate buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hulkboy2002
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game has been alot of fun even for me who hasn't really played any of the other zelda games. 
 If you have or are getting a Wii, I highly recomend getting this game. From fishing, boomerangs, 
 bombs, bow n' arrows, riding your horse, slingshots, iron boots, and alot more, this game has lots 
 you can do at anytime. Another great feature to the game is how big environment is. I WAS worth 
 the wait. And i was truly inpressed with how great it is. A must have for everyone with a Wii or 
 Gamecube. Deserves to be given the game of the year award. I have to say over 100 words si I will 
 just keep talking. blah, blah, blah, blah, Bret rocks, Bret rocks, Bret rocks, yaduh, yaduh, yaduh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phalanx-2k6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  So the highly anticipated Zelda game comes to the Wii, in its newest installment - Twilight Princess. 
 Where once again Hyrule is at threat from danger, the land's spirits are being drained and darkness 
 known as Twilight is spreading rapidly over the land. And yes, you guessed it - Link is there to 
 be thrown into the thick of the action yet again, as he has the task of restoring Hyrule to what 
 it once was, push the Twilight back out to where it belongs and save as many lives as he can. Along 
 his journey, he finds out a strange strength within the Realm of Twilight - This time not in the 
 human form which we know Link best. No matter, the spirits must be revived and the Twilight must 
 leave.
  
  Lets start with the Gameplay, as you should know the Wii version of Twilight Princess takes advantage 
 of the Wii Remote, instead of button pressing to attack you do a quick flick of the Wii-mote to 
 execute a simple slash. The nun-chuck is also used - Shaking that side to side will cause Link 
 to do a Spin Attack. While this is all nice on paper, overall it does feel slightly tacked on just 
 because it doesn't matter how you swing the Wii-mote Link just does his attacks in whatever random 
 order. Also when using aim-able items such as the Bow and Arrow you can point where you want to 
 shoot, it's really as simple as that! And I think this works extremely well, as you can pull off 
 pin point precision shots with ease. Forget slow targeting with the C-Stick and say hello to swift 
 Wii-mote aiming! It doesn't take long at all to get accustomed to these new controls, it wont be 
 long you're be battering enemies in New Gen style with anything at your disposal. I personally 
 think that the Wii version is better because of these new controls, I've played a fair bit of the 
 GC version and I think its safe to say that I get more of a kick out of doing the attacks with 
 the Wii-mote than just standard controls - It really does help immerse you into the game, and in 
 a game like this it puts you into the fictional world.
  
  Next up is Graphics, and I'll be blunt - They're great. Every environment is highly detailed and 
 beautiful to look at. Nintendo weren't kidding when they said the game would be atleast 2x bigger 
 this time around. It is huge. The effects are satisfying and sometime simple, light effects are 
 put into good use and a good source of eye candy in some later levels. But most especially is the 
 graphics of the Twilight realm, where you really feel like you're in some other sort of parallel 
 universe of the same place with a dusk like lighting and a beaming glow effect emitting from every 
 surface. The art style of TP is also outstanding in itself, each character you meet has its own 
 unique features and separates them as individuals, rather than just someone who you meet along 
 the game... On that note you do meet a whole bunch of interesting characters as you progress, some 
 which help you on your journeys and some who need some help themselves. The interface on the Wii 
 version is still nice and slick, simple and easy to navigate as you would expect. If there's one 
 thing I had to say that was bad about the graphics in TP is that the enemies just don't seem to 
 have that same fluent animation and cool look like they did in Wind Waker - Where some of the enemies 
 just looked like they were ripped out of a cartoon. But hey, I think you'd rather stab them than 
 watch them walk around... Right?
  
  The Sound is where I have a few disappointments. The Wii-mote's speaker is used a fair bit during 
 the game, mainly for the items which you use - For example when you unsheathe and sheathe your 
 sword, when you pull back an arrow on your bow for a shot, all of this is handled by the Wii-mote 
 - Which unfortunately doesn't provide the best quality you could hear, which does disturb the experience 
 a bit but hardily enough to ruin anything. The music throughout the game greatly enhances the atmosphere 
 that the environments hold, which further puts the meaning into each place that you visit. Whether 
 its an ancient temple's ruins or a run-down Western village, you'll get fine indication from the 
 music. Some old tunes are still there, revamped and tweaked a bit which is a nice touch, and certainly 
 a good point for you hardcore Zelda fans.
  
  Now down to the Value... It's certainly a must get for any Adventure fan - Regardless of if you 
 have played any of the previous games or not, up until now I hadn't played any of the series from 
 start to end. This game is almost enough to make me catch up on the previous titles, its that good. 
 So basically if you have a Wii, looking for a long rewarding Action/Adventure game then look no 
 further than Zelda. You won't be disappointed! Unless you hate Link of course, then I'll let you 
 off...
  
  Just something about the Difficulty, I have to say that the Bosses are actually a bit on the easy 
 side. While you still need some skill to take them out, overall you only need to find out what 
 you have to do to damage the bosses... Once you've done that its just repeating it until you finally 
 manage to kill it. Don't worry however, the puzzles proceeding to the bosses can get quite frustrating 
 at times, so theres still plenty of brain usage up until the big confrontation. (Warning, the puzzles 
 can actually make your brain implode!)
  
  9.4/10 - Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This Game is the best game to date... nothing can compeate to the greatness of this game... The game 
 makes an excellent use of the Wii Mote and the Wii's Speaker..
  There is a brand new line up of weapons Includeing a spinner and a new Fishing Rod... You start 
 As link In ordon valley and your going to be sent to Hyrule to deliver a Sword... A Big Warrior 
 Rideing Boar Back Steales the children and Links Love Bird . When Link wakes up he finds himself 
 in the twilight and is know a wolf .. he soon meates midna who seems to be a twilight Erchent of 
 some kind...... The game is very long with upwards of 50 to 60 hours of gameplay.. There is no traditional 
 Ocarina In this game but there is grass you can blow into to call animals such as your hourse Epona 
 , and an Eaglen And even a twilight Bird... There are many dungeons which means many bosses, which 
 makes a great zelda game....
  Theere is 6 new unlockable move link can learn includeing a finisher move and a shield thrust, 
 and a move called Helm Splitter. Theres a new Enemy named Zant The king of Twilight
  But the traditional Ganondorf Is introduced near the end of the game.....
  I give Twilight Princess 
 For the Wii a 10 out of 10
  
  Spoiler dont read if you dont want to Keep Scrolling down if you want to read
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Ganandorf is the last boss and you fight him in 4 mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6321
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  If you have played any of the previous Zelda games, you know that twilight princess is one of the 
 best. In 1998 the legend of zelda ocarina of time won game of the year. Since then no other Zelda 
 game has been able to win that award. But Twilight princess is the only other game that I have 
 seen in the series that can conpare to the ocarina. I recammend this game to any one that has played 
 any of the previous zelda games. The legend of twilight princess is a 50 to 75 hours of game play. 
 The story is amazing. The dunguons are complicated, there are many familiar faces and you can go 
 back to old places in previous zelda games. On the nintendo WII the legend of zelda is really realistic. 
 When you hold the Wii romote it accually fells like you are holding Link's sword. In the beggining 
 when you first get to fish it fells amazing. I played for hours just fishing. The Legend of Zelda 
 twilight princess is an amazing game. It has everything. They have worked on it for 3 years. In 
 the end they have come out with a great game. Thank you for listening to my review of The legend 
 of Zelda twilight princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMWota91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess surpasses all the odds for the Wii and probably even those 
 of the other consoles with its amazing gameplay, controls, replay value, great source of sound, 
 and good graphics. Both the old and new gameplay are the real deal and the biggest reason as to 
 why this game is this great. It isn't probably as good in gameplay as Ocarina of Time, but I'd 
 say that it does surpass that game in terms of graphics, sound, and of course, the controls, which 
 are perhaps the most brilliant for any Wii game thus far.
  
  If you enjoyed any of The Legend of Zelda games or if you just bought a Wii console and expect 
 a lot of fun from it, then you should definitely pick up this game. It is worth it and you'll see 
 for yourself what makes it better than the rest of the Wii games that are out now. It will probably 
 be considered a classic for the Wii as it's done so much to help Nintendo and probably will continue 
 that as long as it is in store shelves. Whether or not it is or isn't better than Ocarina of Time 
 in gameplay, it is still perhaps the best in terms of all attributes for The Legend of Zelda series, 
 thus making it an instant classic and the best of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Zelda is almost as long running as Mario, and both franchises have their greats and not-so-greats. 
 This legend of zelda is good, but yet I found it alittle uninteresting and bland. Instead of a 
 whole new adventure, it's like Ocarina of time and the not-so-great Majora's mask mixed together. 
 As for gameplay, it's fun, but this game goes beyond the others in overcomplicated boring puzzles. 
 Combat in this game is so easy, a two year old could do it. Remember the climatic boss fights in 
 previous legend of zeldas? Dont look for any tough bosses here. You will rarely lose even 3 hearts 
 fighting a boss, and each one is easier than the last. And while some levels are very cool and awe-inspiring, 
 others are so bland I wanted to slit my wrists just for something to do. Frankely, I would reccomend 
 to anyone, to buy this game for the Gamecube. Wiimote use it terrible. Aiming with it is fine, 
 but the swordplay all you do is shake the wiimote (any larger of a swing and you wont be able to 
 combo link's attacks together) . And everywhere in the game, there is great wiimote chances missing. 
 At one point, you have to jump on and tame a wild epona. To do that you press left and right on 
 the analog stick at the right time... WTF!!!???? That part of the game would've actually been interesting 
 if they took the 'difficult' task of merely adding in a motion sensing part where you move the 
 wiimote left and right. Also, you make epona go faster by pressing A. Very boring. The horse-riding 
 chases and battles are awesome and draw you in, yet lack true laster by not having you whip the 
 nunchuk to make epona go faster. Sound is great in the game, except for the sword soundfx. The 
 sword sounds like somebody playing a washboard, and you hear it all the time. Wiimote sound is 
 used waaaaaaayyy too much, and to the point of being annoying. (As annoying as turning off the 
 wiimote sound and trying to play with link swinging his sword but not making at noise.)
  Storyline is pretty good but has some cheese in it. Other than all of the above, LoZ: TP is a lengthy 
 and good addition to the Zelda franchise. But like I said, get it for gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhys-is-lash
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This years version of Zelda is well worth the wait and on the WII console it delivers the actions 
 packed adventure game that anyone with a WII or Gamecube should definetly check out, it totally 
 fufils the hype and was of course from my piont of view the best game out this Christmas on every 
 console. The Storyline and enviroments really look and feel superb and on the WII you can really 
 get in to the game and it doesnt really matter if your a new player to the Zelda collection this 
 game makes its own storyline and you will soon get used to controls and atmosphere, The Legend 
 of Zelda Twilight Princess was well worth the wait and could be a contender for best game 2006. I 
 also like boys the colts rule and madden is soooo much better dan dis little stupid game about 
 a noob elf peace!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobakuzero
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The real question you have when you play a zelda game is will it be better than the one before? 
 Thats not a good question. Becouse every Zelda is good in its own way. You cant compare them as 
 they stand seperate in greatness. This game feels like the perfecting of the zelda formula we have 
 seen over the years. This game has the feel of OoT clashed with the style and looks of something 
 new. I found this game temple wise to resemble ALttP almost. The graphics for a gamecube port are 
 stunning. Becouse its a GC port I will base its graphics on that to be fair. The sound is memorable 
 and refined. Not orcestra but epic. The wii more sound is a nice touch and makes it feel better 
 to play. Though it will sound cheap rarely. The story is rather compelling while not as good as 
 say Wind Waker it will keep you playing with its dark theme. Gameplay wise its perfect. Zelda works 
 flawlessly with the remote. Its all the more better to play with the wii remote. From sword play 
 to arrows to even the new form of the hook shot. You wont want to go back to Zelda with standard 
 controls after this. What really makes this a must have is the time it takes. Took me 65 hours 
 to beat. Every minute worth it. The temples are puzzle based and like you would expect revolve 
 around your new item you get there. They are grand and awesome to beat. The bosses are spectacular 
 some will leave you in awe. They are fun to fight but seem easy than you would expect. The temples 
 make this game. Sadly this game lacks much out side them. There are 2-3 side quests that wont consume 
 much time or effort at all. Also the Hyrule Feild is vast and wonderful. Yet very rarely will you 
 do much on it when riding your horse. In fact you will more likely teleport to your location than 
 ride there. This game also introduces some new sword play skills which are used well should you 
 get them. Some of the enemies are refreshing to fight. All in all this game is Zelda and is naturally 
 worth your time and money. For the Wii of course. As it is vastly better than its GC partner, trust 
 me. This one has alot of charm and memorable moments and charaters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktino_man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  On Christmas day, I walked down the stairs, and to my surprise, A Nintendo Wii and The Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight PRincess had found thri way underneath my tree. After a few hours of making Miis 
 and playing Wii Sports, it was time to see if the newest Zelda lived up to the name. The answer: 
 Yes, Yes, and Yes.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The first thing you will notice, if you wait before you start, instead of pressing A &amp; B, is 
 the beautiful opening, showing tidbits of the game, accompanied by an amazing orchestral piece, 
 blending classic Zelda tunes and at the same time, creating something new. The Music and Sound 
 Effects in this game are fantastic. Each peice of background music fits the environment perfectly, 
 and helps to immerse you into the fantasy world that is Hyrule.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Something that every gamer that has been alive for the past few years has noticed is the new look 
 for Link and his fellow Hyrulians. Our favorite Kokiri (or Ordonian in this case) now sports a 
 more mature look from that of OOT and Majora's Mask. The entire world of Twilight Princess gives 
 a greater feel of realism to the series, giving it a more gritty feel than that of the previous 
 versions. As it stands, and from what I have seen, Twilight Princess sports some of the best graphics 
 so far on the Wii, if not the best.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Now onto the most important part of the review: gameplay. With the Wii's revolutionary control 
 scheme, the player becomes even more immerse in the gameplay than ever before. Shaking the remote 
 gives you the same result as swiping your sword. The Z targeting system is still around (Thank 
 god.) , which helps to maintain the same feel that brought so many into the Realm of Zelda to begin 
 with. Now onto the question everyone wants answered: How does it feel to control Wolf Link? When 
 controlling the lupine Link, the controls are close to the same, but at the same time very different. 
 Wolf Link cannot use items, and instead uses his canine instincts (to sense spirits and track scents) 
 and ability to dig, like the dog your parents made you get rid of. However, I have to say that 
 this is where Twilight Princess shines the least. While you control Link the same way in terms 
 of moving, without a sword, Link must dash forward into his enemies. If you miss, like you will 
 so many times, its an open spot for enemies to hit. and without your Red Potions, you may be visiting 
 the Game Over screen quite often.
  
  Replay Value: 8/10
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game, and is now my favorite of the series. 
 Almost every moment you spend in the game, you delve deeper and deeper into the classical battle 
 of Light vs. Darkness. But at the same time, it feels like something that has never been thought 
 of before. Gameplay is great, Graphics are amazing, and the Sound is astounding. These elements 
 blended together makes what I think of as one of the best games I have ever played.
  
  Final Score: 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhotchiligal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very involving, especially on the Wii, and you can find it very easy to lose track 
 of time while playing! Link's character is now more personable and you get a bit of background 
 on him, which is always good! The whole changing into a wolf thing took a bit for me to get used 
 to but now I really like it! It's an interesting development to the classic and much loved game, 
 which some may object to but something I am all for, though don't get me wrong I love the original 
 storyline all the games go by! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CP514
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was good and all but it only took me a day and a half to beat I actually prefer OOT over 
 this the game. but the only reason is I was expecting around 15 lairs but there were only 9 so. 
 OOT took me a month and this took me a day and a half. The puzzles were way to obvious there were 
 way to many hints i got every heart piece every golden bug and every poe in that day and a half, 
 not to mention ganondorf was easy as heck same as Zant in fact every single boss was really easy 
 due to Midna would tell you what to do. bottom line way too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: the Zelda weve been waiting for, bosses feel epic, amazing and significantly better 
 story, nice lengthy adventure, fun side quests, you really get a feeling of how big Hyrule is, 
 everything provides a nice challenge.
  
  The Bad: No classic Zelda music, Wolf abilities are disappointingly limited, does not show the 
 Wiis potential in graphics, side quests can be annoying.
  
  Ocarina of Time was released in the 1990s, since then it was titled best Zelda ever and there 
 hasnt been any Zelda as good as Ocarina of Time, especially since the highly-disappointed Wind 
 Waker. While some say change is good, its not always. But things change over time and now we have 
 Twilight Princess, the most hyped Zelda ever, but is it the best? Can it really take the title 
 of being the best Zelda ever?
  
  All Zelda games start with Link (or the name you enter for your Hero) and the most recent games 
 start Link as a country bumpkin when something bad happens. In this case, he resides in Ordon, 
 possibly the most southern area of Hyrule. Link is chosen to deliver a gift for the royal family 
 of Hyrule (guess who it is) But strange creatures attack his village and transforms into a wolf 
 by entering the Twilight realm. And it goes on from there.
  
  Overview: All Zelda games to date feature sword-swinging, arrow-shooting, dodging etc. and TP is 
 no different, however, the Wii controls make for a completely new experience by actually swinging 
 your remote to and fro to cut down enemies. You also use the remote to aim and shoot for slingshots 
 and bow-and-arrows, while this is very innovative, it can sometimes lose track of your remote and 
 center back to the screen, luckily, you have very deep options to set up your remote-TV coordination, 
 which helps greatly because youll be shooting a lot of arrows. One complaint some may have is 
 there is no option to turn off the pointer when youre not using a bow and the fairy, which acts 
 as a pointer, can get in the way. In addition, the fairy has no purpose in the game, other than 
 as a pointer. While some may leap in joy because of no more Hey! Listen! the twilit creature 
 Midna takes over and isnt much different since she speaks in her own twilight language. You meet 
 Midna when you first transform into a wolf, and offers to help you only if you help her. Gameplay: 
 the good-old sword-fighting still lives on, including other forms to annihilate your enemies. TP 
 keeps the good-old dungeons and temples but with new enemies, puzzles and most importantly; bosses. 
 While most bosses feel epic and monstrous, they can be pretty easy to solve their puzzle and defeat. 
 The story is simply amazing; it truly needs to be experienced by everybody. You actually feel connected 
 to most of the characters and care what happens to them. Points are lost because youll find an 
 item in a dungeon and you need that item to complete the dungeon, but you wont really need to 
 use that item again, ever.
  
  Graphics: TP really pushes the Gamecubes graphics, to the point it could be on-par with Resident 
 Evil. However, there are noticeable graphical errors and blemishes throughout the game, but TP 
 does have some nice visual effects, like bloom effects (softness of explosions) and speed effects, 
 like riding Epona really fast. Each character has their own design and personality so it seems 
 like there are no cookie-cutter characters. Beautiful water effects.
  
  Sound: features no original, classic Zelda music which might disappoint some fans, but it is good 
 in some areas such as boss fights. TP uses the remotes speaker; however, its very poor and really 
 is unnecessary and weighs down the experience plus it can be annoying. Still no voice-acting for 
 the characters other than shouts and grunts, which makes them feel absent and empty.
  
  Value: Lengthy, 40+ hours for the main adventure. Some side quests but if you already beat the 
 main adventure you dont feel the need to complete them. The story is main reason why the value 
 is high, it truly is the best in Zelda games, maybe even in other franchises as well.
  
  Tilt: I love this game, but its hard to say if its the best Zelda ever to me. No voice-acting, 
 annoying remote speaker, and the fact that you wont use most of the items youll find really bugs 
 me. But the story saves this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobs_1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I have been a devoted Zelda fan since the first time I played the very first Legend of Zelda on 
 the NES. Since then, Zelda has been, and if they continue on track, will always be my favorite 
 video-game series ever. All you Zelda fans know exactly what I'm talking about. This game, being 
 only the second Zelda game on Gamecube, and the first Zelda game on Wii, truly stunned me with 
 its graphics when I started a new game. The absence of detail, like clouds, dust, or even texture 
 in the grass in Wind Waker made me wonder if Twilight Pincess would look like Ocarina of Time, 
 but on Gamecube. My assumptions were wrong... way wrong and I am ashamed that I could've thought 
 that Eiji Aonuma couldn't pull it off. But, as I was proven wrong with Wind Waker, I was absoultely 
 shot down in my assumptions on this game. This game is definetly my favorite, and probably the 
 only Zelda game that can compete is Ocarina of Time. Though this game is much more of a tear-jerker. 
 I guess the look of them, the fact that they actually look human instead of cartoon added to that 
 emotion. Link now has facial expression, and is looking more bad-ass than ever. And dont be expecting 
 an instrument this time around. Link is so manly, he can carry around a little flute or wand. Thought 
 the absence of an instrument kind of made me sad, because ever Zelda game until this one had a 
 portable instrument. Though I only have the game on Gamecube, I had a chance to play the game on 
 my friends Wii. If you have a Gamecube and haven't bought the game yet, but are planning on getting 
 a Wii sometime soon. Buy tghis game for the Wii, the nunchuk controller is where all the fun of 
 this system lies, and using it in Twilight princess is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcantravel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  If you have played any of the Legend of Zelda games in the past you can't help but see the resemblance 
 in this latest installment. While the control scheme is all new, thanks to Wii's innovative remote 
 and nunchuck, the player will feel right at home in a matter of minutes. Young Link retains many 
 of the same moves from previous versions of the game. All of the initial attacks are the same as 
 well as the targeting system, only they are executed by moving the controller instead of pushing 
 buttons. You will quickly recognize the classic Zelda score and be delighted by the similar sound 
 effects; reminiscent of a time when you were knee high to a duck. Those of you with no Zelda experience 
 will still enjoy the game. The soundtrack is wonderful and the world is immersive. The game sucks 
 you into the plot right away and you will have a hard time walking away, even with the Wii telling 
 you to take a break and go outside. It has a good learning curve and gives you a chance to become 
 familiar with the controls before you are thrust into combat. This is a good game for people of 
 all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifreak93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  When it comes to zelda you would expect one great thing. ground breaking gameplay and brain teasing 
 puzzles. this game gives you just that, looking stunning while doing it. this game is by far the 
 best looking launch game, in front of red steel. Nintendo sticks to it's roots in this game. giving 
 u the classic dungeons. fire, ice, water, forest, all the dungeons youve come to love with this 
 amazing series.
  
  Another thing nintendo does is the items. the exact same as always. theres one in every dungeon, 
 except for the last few, and they are all an amazing accomplishment when you get them. there are 
 also a few items in between the dungeons but im not going to spoil thosefor you. waving the wiimote 
 and slicing through an enemy or boss can be a blast. it is so simple and so intuitive that you 
 dont even need to press a button to slash. excpet for the A button which you can use, and will 
 use.
  
  im not going to touch turning into a wolf, since the first three times you do turn into one, it 
 seems like a chore. the game wouldve been better without the twilight realm, but then again it 
 wouldve taken a lot from the game away.
  
  All in all this is a great game, and any wii or gamecube owner should have it in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  This great game not only has superior content and gameplay, but it makes great use of the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk, and creates a whole new way to play.
  
  I've never played a Zelda game, mostly because I've not had a Nintendo system in a long time, but 
 I've heard of the success of this series of games. Twilight Princess was my first Wii game and 
 I was expecting it to be good from the reviews I read, but it has surpassed even my high expectations.
 
  
  Graphics are good. I own a pretty powerful PC and an Xbox 360 which turn out some really pretty 
 graphics, but I haven't been turned off at all by the graphics in Twilight Princess. It doesn't 
 compare to the graphics in my other systems, but in Zelda, the graphics and gameplay suit the game 
 so well that I forget about graphics and just get immersed in the game.
  
  Sounds is good. Some sounds seem too arcade-like, but I always try to keep in mind that this game 
 is more of an action/adventure than an RPG (which I first thought it was, being unfamiliar with 
 Zelda games) . The soundtrack is really good. The sounds effects that come from the Wiimote are 
 so cool, as they are the sounds that you make with your sword, or any weapons that you'd be holding 
 in the hand in which you have the wiimote.
  
  Speaking of the wiimote, the controls in the game are excellent, and different from anything I 
 have ever experienced in a video game. They work as you'd expect. Swinging your wiimote will make 
 Link swing his sword. You can chain swings together, and eventually you will learn special skills 
 which are easy to use. Moving Link around with Nunchuk feels similar to other games, but that's 
 about it. Most other controls take full advantage of the wiimote sensor and allow you to point 
 to things onscreen.
  
  The storyline in the game seems very well written so far. I've gotten through about 15 hours of 
 the game so far, and it's like a good book. I can't seem to log off when I plan to, and wind up 
 playing late into the night to see what happens next. Some parts can drag on a bit too long (collecting 
 Tears of Light sometimes is a little long) , but overall, everything I've had to do in the game 
 to progress has been fun.
  
  There are other things you can do in the game that are not required to progress that are very entertaining, 
 such as collecting things like bugs, fishing, etc. I think the fishing is my favorite, mostly because 
 of the very cool controls.
  
  Overall the presentation of Twilight Princess is impressive. I think there may be too much emphasis 
 on the childlike style of the NPCs, both in their appearance and the way they act, but its no a 
 big deal when you look at some of the darker parts of the game that seem to bring more suspense 
 and a feeling that there is real evil in the lands that Link is up against.
  
  I strongly recommend this title for any Wii owner. It's one of the best games I've had the pleasure 
 of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-e-n
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I, like many others, have been waiting for this game for a number of years. And now that it is 
 finally here, it doesn't disappoint.
  
  Gameplay: The wii-mote is used excellently, but thankfully it is not used that often as your arms 
 would get tired constantly waving it about. Using the wii-mote to aim your bow, slingshot etc. 
 is amazing. It is far more accurate than I ever imagined, and great fun to do. The nunchuck also 
 isn't used that often, but with the spin attack, which feels really satisfying, and lure fishing, 
 it also works great! Overall the action is great and well paced, the puzzles can also be really 
 tricky so it is extra satisfying once you figure them out.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not on the same level as other next-gen games on other consoles, but 
 they still are fairly good with no major graphical blotches or glitches. Artistically the graphics 
 are amazing. The twilight realm looks really cool and the monsters are really inventive. I also 
 like when you warp or transform, the way link breaks up in to little black squares then reforms, 
 it looks really cool
  
  Sound: Probably the games weakest area, as with in keeping with the rest of the Zelda series, there 
 is no voice acting, although this is never a problem, it would have been nice to hear the people 
 of Hyrule talk, but it is good to keep link silent, and I hope that aspect never changes in the 
 series. The sound effects are actually fairly good and the music, as always, is excellent. The 
 sound from the wii-mote varies, some times it can actually sound really good, but other times it 
 can sound quite cheap.
  
  Value: As the longest Zelda ever, it is a bit of a no-brainer to figure out that you will be playing 
 this for countless hours. And since all of the dungeons and areas are completely different, it 
 will never get boring. Also Hyrule is larger than ever so you can spend ages just exploring.
  
  As I am a Zelda fan I can honestly say that this doesn't disappoint, in fact it is better than 
 I hoped. This is a game that I highly recommend, for Zelda fans or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War2monkey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  okay ive plain ocarina of time and like its so different. Has any one noticed in this game in the 
 end no one thanks link after all u go through, we all know that we finished this game thanks to 
 the funky Malo mart theme.
  
  one of the big changes i noticed is the shortage of side quests
  example (hotspring water thing) that 
 was good but i want more
  
  game is easy to play but finding out boss weakness hard. I would really like to encourage nintendo 
 to work on graphics, i mean once ur into the game its okay but i really would call it the ultimate 
 game of my life if u fix that prob. If there planning on making another one (which i hope) do the 
 same thing u always do for zelda and make it look real good.
  
  best game ive played jn 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric2mrng
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  I've just completed the game and i got to say that this is a truelly dazzling title to have in 
 your collection. It's not easy trying to live up to the hype leading up to this wii title but good 
 old nintendo have done just that. Personally i dont think it's better then ocarina of time because 
 in my books ooT is the best game of all time. TP however comes seriously close and gives you a 
 gaming experience never felt before. The new Hyrule is massive, the beginning music gets me everytime 
 although its just midi music.. the plot has the basic concept of saving the land from evil but 
 it still feels very new the way its told this time round. To sum up, this game is a must own for 
 anyone who's into rpg's becuase they dont come much better then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micallef23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the supposed last zelda games of this type, witch while sad may also be good because, the 
 formula is getting somwhat old and dated, with a been there done that feel to it. As you would 
 expect you get all the same items such as bombs, boomerang and bow, and the same forest temple, 
 fire temple and such dungeons you would expect from zelda. But, this are all in the same order 
 wiith the same type of puzzles from previous installments in the serious, witch tends to feel dated, 
 yet, the artistic and impressive graphics breath new life into it and keep it fresh.
  
  The story is more complex then previous zeldas, though are predictable and if you guess the story 
 youll likey be right.
  
  the controls are Okay not really much to say about them there simple and easy to use and forfill 
 there job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerpetualBliss
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is by far one of the most dissapointing games ever. Originally 
 designed for the Gamecube, the graphics were absolutely horrible and the controls weren't actually 
 adapted to the Wii. During fights, I would find myself just shaking the control frantically rather 
 than using it as a sword because the game doesn't translate your actual movements into the swing 
 of Link's sword, you merely shake the controller instead and use button and control stick combinations 
 instead. The story line of the game was ridiculous as well. It added no flavor to the game, it 
 was just different. The special items/weapons in the game were in large part dissapointing at best 
 and had very few uses except in the dungeons you found them in and were still limited even then. 
 The game also stole too many elements from The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time, which was 
 a superb game, but should have remained it's own. I recognized characters, places, music, and even 
 art from older games. The attempts at providing gaming nostalgia were simply frustrating and left 
 me wanting to play the older games instead. The gameplay was frustrating as well, the puzzles being 
 very weakly constructed and so obviously linear as to make them too easy. The fighting is hack 
 and slash at best, and the controls are clunky as they don't actually utilize the Wii controller. 
 Finally, the sound was almost as bad as games on the SNES, and that's no exaggeration. The music 
 was broken, unharmonic, and even inappropriate at times and the characters don't actually speak, 
 you have to read a million lines of text to follow what's going on, not that I'm apposed to reading, 
 but it takes far too long and makes the game feel old. Many of the songs were simply variants of 
 music from the Ocarina of Time as well, which was cool at first, but grew very old quickly. I did 
 finish the game, though, because I have to finish games like that, so I did waste an overwhelmingly 
 large portion of my life playing it. As a game, Twilight Princess is dissapointingly stuck in the 
 past and left me wanting to buy back my old N64 so that I could play a GOOD Zelda game. As a launch 
 title, Twilight Princess is even worse as it doesn't utilize the incredibly intuitive control system 
 Nintendo has provided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjtimmy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review I would guess that you have played Ocarina of Time before? Well 
 if you havn't its an amazing adventure and you should. Well this Zelda doesn't exactly stray off 
 into a whole new of OOT like many of the others. It brings you back in the past to have that same 
 vibe that OOT did. There are gorons and zoras back also. The gameplay is awesome with the wii-mote 
 as a sword, bow n arrow and many other devices. There are awesome secret skills you can posess 
 also that add a whole new depth to the sword fights. In my opinion the story is the best yet and 
 keep you enthused with great character design and pretty graphics. There isn't voice dialouge so 
 be aware of that. My other gripe is that the sound of the songs is quite computerish sounding. 
 They could have orchestrated them or something. My last complaint is that the bosses are too easy. 
 You can beat almost all of them at first try. Other than those this game is brilliant with challenging 
 temples, awesome new items, and a great story. By the way dont listen to gamespot when they say 
 it doesnt add enough new stuff. This one is better than OOT. Also dont listen to people that say 
 OOT is way better. It may be a classic but TP is better. So give it a chance and you will be completely 
 satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_E_V
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is truully amazing. It reallty shows what the next gen gaming can do. It has great playability. 
 The dungeons are complwz and cery skillfully created. The story is well created and has done everything 
 it was supposed to. If I couls I would give gameplay an 11. making the score a perfect 10. Even 
 though the graphics somewhat are lacking, the stroy makes up for it. The bosses are great. And 
 the diffrent gadget and weapns such as the bow&amp; arrow and claw shot are very fun to use. This 
 is finally what many of us were waiting for. A better game than Ocorina of Time. This is trully 
 a great game.
  GAMEPLAY: PERFECT IN EVERY WAY
  GRAPHICS: NICE BUT SOMEWHAT LACKING
  SOUND: GREAT
  WORTH EVERY CENT
  TILT: GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeGates
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The best way to describe this game is awesome. IT blends the elements of great gameplay and enthralling 
 story. But the one thing that has defined it as the best in the series is the variety. At every 
 turn there is a side quest to complete. The controls of the wii work perfectly with Link to make 
 nonstop enjoyment and excitement. Though the graphics aren't totally next gen (still the best in 
 the series though) the amount of fun you can endure during the many hours of gameplay is. You may 
 look at most the items snd see tham as beeing very familiar but all the old ones are given new 
 abilities that make puzzles and enemy encounters all the better. One new aspect to the game is 
 the ability to turn into a wolf. this will give you new ways to play the game. All of the new features 
 and variety of this game have given it the chance to stand among or even above the best game in 
 video game history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schlim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of December (2006) I realized how cool this game (and the Wii) really looked... 
 So I got out the dust Nintendo 64 and borrowed Ocarina of Time from a friend so I could get caught 
 up on Zelda... a great decision, it made me scared that maybe TP wouldn't live up to it.. Well 
 as many have said, TP is better than Ocarina. Ofcourse the better graphics and animation add some 
 substance, but the story itself is even rival to Ocarina (although you must give Ocarina credit 
 for setting up such an amazing story) The item's are terrific, as are the players abilities. The 
 enemies are well done, however some of the Mini-Bosses were harder than the Main-Bossses. Something 
 I would also like to take note on is the immensity of the world of Hyrule... this game is ginormous! 
 It may not be close to WoW or Oblivion but it is definietly big... More than that though is the 
 feeling you get when you look up at some if the buildings especially Hyrule castle and realize 
 how big it is...
  
  All in all a great game, one of the best in fact . Best of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General-Zod
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  OK, OK, I know, 10.0... weak, just jacked up the stats. Well, yes and no, so read on to find out.
 
  
  I am a Zelda fan-boy... no argument, but this is not reason for the Perfect rating. You will note 
 that I gave Graphics a 10 . But Zod, these graphics are not as good as PS3. Whatever. If the game 
 stinks who cares what the graphics look like... hence the high rating on that to eliminate it from 
 the equation. Graphics are good enough not to interfere in the game play... that's enough for me.
 
  
  I am still early in the process, but this game has stacked up to be everything I had hoped it would 
 be. Lengthy, but keeps moving, and the storyline so far is decent (as deep as any video game out 
 there... there is a reason no video game movie has won any awards) . It is pretty true to the franchise, 
 and the motion sensitive controls are very intuitive. As for sound, I know there are some out there 
 complaining about the quality of the audio coming from the controller for sword noises, etc. So 
 let me say this... THE CONTROL IN YOUR HAND MAKES THE SWORD NOISE! This is a step forward. Yes, 
 it sounds like it is coming out of a small cheap radio, but I am sure they will come out with an 
 improved Wiimote that sounds better. Either way, I think it works well.
  
  All together, this makes what is in a lot of ways more of the same a whole lot more interesting. 
 It is fun, period. And that is what games are about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techguy525
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Just started playing... happy I did. Amazing game, absolutly fantastic in every area. The gameplay 
 is wonderful, ONCE you get used to the controls for the Wii. The graphics... I am just blown away. 
 And the storyline??? I think Nintendo did an amazing job releasing this ON LAUNCH with this much 
 packed into it. The sound, on the rght set up (Mine was a 6 speaker, 3500-watt tv system) , makes 
 the gameplay perfect, if not moving. THere really can be no value set on this game, since I believe 
 this is the best launch game for the Wii. Everyone should play this game, even if they have not 
 played the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekbrik
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The new Zelda game is finally out, and I gotta say, its lacking. Here it is is from top to bottom (Spoilers 
 Ahead) : Gameplay: The game gets its core value here, the gameplay is DAMN-tastic, the overworld 
 is hUUUuuuge, 5 province huge infact, and the game has an Inuyasha Feel to it, especially when 
 walking through the woods, and Wolf Link=really fast, Epona is also very much faster than her OoT/MM 
 counterparts and she really does have a story in the game thats a touch deeper than her story in 
 OoT, Link himself is improved in terms of the old engine, for the first time in a Zelda game, you 
 can actually walk and slash at the same time, and its showing. The Zora Tunic is also very much 
 better than its OoT counterpart, you can actually swim - as in Super Mario 64 swim - which is better 
 than that very stale diving feature in the N64 games. There is - believe it or not - a downside 
 however, as the Magic Armor (Red Tunic) takes away LOTS of rupees and that ruins the fun of having 
 3 tunics in general. Also Wolf Link again, is awesome, you can hide from people as Wolf Link and 
 change back when they see you (ala Superman) . Storyline: The game's story line, is pathetic in some 
 areas, such cool cutscenes of Zelda and Zant or Link and Illia are rare to find, all of the plotholes 
 take over from there, such as The Master Sword, the sword of evil's bane, Link literally grabs 
 the Master Sword and goes.................., WHAT THE CRAP IS UP WITH THAT, also dont be fooled 
 by Ganondorf's appearance, Ganondorf HAS no story, he was about to get executed but broke free, 
 killed a sage and went to take over Hyrule Castle, literally, THATS IT, I would really expect more 
 from Aonouma (who took over the whole series, we want shigsy back!) , The Wind Waker really does 
 beat all Zelda stories. Overall, PATHETIC. Graphics:
  
  The graphics are downright dirty, Link looks VERY anime-ish and has way too much shading, The Wind 
 Waker still beats the graphics in every Zelda game, what the crap was TP's graphics anyway? I really 
 have nothing to say about it, its just awful, The Wind Waker's graphics are smooth and light, bright 
 and attracting. THIS IS DIRT SLOBBERED ON LINK'S FACE. Sound: The sound, I gotta say, is surprisingly 
 below average (for a ZELDA game) , first of all, MIDI sounds bad compared to orchestra, and the 
 the majority of the songs use god-is-coming-like feels, which is recycled from each other, only 
 2 good ones are really here, the opening title screen song and Hyrule Field. The Temple of Time's 
 music is also recycled from OoT's Temple of Time, which is NOT fresh. Link's voice is done by a 
 diffrent seiyu (again) , and that sounds as good as all Link voices were. Overall: This game is great 
 if you only like fun, adventuring and an Inuyasha type game, but if you're all for whimsy, graphics, 
 storyline and sound, than try TWW. AWESOME game. Im gonna go to sleep now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjizzile11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  I only plaed the game for 20 hours because i just got. There shall be many for hours from what i 
 understand. The game just has so much to do. i spent like 3 hours trying to get some armor. They have 
 some nice new additons like the spinner and chain ball. but most weapons are fimiliar to anyone 
 who played a previous zelda. so if your a zelda fan pick this up. do it for nintendo. do it for our 
 country. do it for mednag that wasent 100 words. alalalalalal lala al lal alal la la lala all ala 
 lla. there thats better. What still grrrrr. laalaalalalalalallala la lalal alaalalalalaalalalal 
 la la lal al better be 100 words noe gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CEK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game is the one of the best games I have ever played. It may even beat The legend of Zelda 
 the ocarina of time . But there are some aspects of the game that makes it a little weird, for 
 example the sky temple which I thought was weird. The reason for this is because of the backround 
 music which made the temple quite irritating, it is like you almost want to turn of the sound. 
 Other than that this is a great game and I really recommend playing it, and even when you have 
 completed it, you can still find yourself playing around in Hyrule just for fun bacause the world 
 is so huge. And by the way, if there are anyone out there who wonder how the water looks like in 
 this game (I did because I love water in games) I must say that it looks amazing!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exorzz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  i am a zelda fan and i have every game of the zelda trilogy
  
  zelda tp is an good game and if you never played it you will mis an awesome game
  
  it has 
 much action side quests and other things to do in a nice big world to explore
  
  much dungeons bosses and wide aereas to complete
  
  lots of funny weapons friends and things 
 that will help you on your way to defeat evil.
  
  i like the dungeons the most couse its sometimes hard and if you find the right way you realy feel 
 good.
  
  it is one of the largest games to completely finish
  
  i say: if you don`t played zelda yet try it and it is worth your money
  
  xusem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinktheCloud
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  In 1998 a game called The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time was released.
  It instantly leaped into stardom and stands as probably one of the top 5 games ever made. So how 
 does Twilight Princess compare?
  
  Well first off it won't set a new bar for what graphics could and should be, the Wii lacks in that 
 department, and it won't be redefining anything, but it still is a great game.
  
  The gameplay itself comes down to simple horizontal flicks to swing the sword, and pointing to 
 ai such items as the Bow; however, thats pretty much where the Wiimote functions end. Which in 
 a way disappointed me, I would have loved to have Link jump, with maybe a upward flick of either 
 the nunchuck or wiimote.
  The fishing minigame is pretty fun, using a lot of the wiimote to do its best in simulating a real 
 fishing experience.
  
  Graphics as a said aren't going to blow you away as the PS3 or 360 would, but they are still great 
 and shows more details than the Gamecube is capable of.
  
  Sound can be an issue, the sound from the wiimote can sound broken, and even if it isn't , the 
 quality just isn't there. It has kind of a tackyness to it.
  The rest of the sound is great, I myself don't worry about orchastral scores to much anyway. I 
 love the midi stuff, very nostalgic. And I do have to agree that, it would have been nice to have 
 voice acting (except for Link of course!)
  
  In terms of Value, this game lasts more than 50 hours and, with Poes, Heart Pieces, Fishing etc. 
 there is quite a lot for you to do here.
  
  And out of the two versions the Wii one is slightly better, for refined controls, a little more 
 appealing graphics (although graphics aren't the most important part but they still are a part 
 of gaming) 16:9 and some more extras.
  
  In the end Twilight Princess may not be as great as Ocarina, and it may not be as artistic as Wind 
 Waker, but it still is a great game that trumps WW and in no way should be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBoneTony
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess
  TBone Tony
  
  Think about the first time you were in a quite village, you had lived there your whole life.
 
  Now think about when you are being sent on an important quest, you get your sword skills down 
 perfectly and you catch fish for a cat. You have your brief encounter with monsters and you even 
 have your goes at horse riding. You should be readyright?
  
  But as soon as your step one foot into the unknown, you realise that all that prior training you 
 had done hours before, has been for nothing as you are now a wolf and you are on your own with 
 no way out. No sword, no Shield, nobody can help you but yourself.
  
  That was what gamers first experienced when they were first transformed into Wolf Link. And that 
 was what many gamers were also left to do when Nintendo changed 20 years of playing videogames 
 from a standard controller into completely new devices called the Wii-mote and the Nunchaku.
  
  Nintendos decision to change videogaming (as we knew it) was something as unpredicted at E3 
 2006 the same way as gamers realised that Link was going to become a wolf in Zelda Twilight Princess 
 the year before at E3 2005 when it was going to be released for the Gamecube.
  
  The year delay to make room for the release of the Nintendo Wii and for that same Gamecube game 
 to also be ported into the Nintendo Wii was an important step for Nintendo to assure people that 
 their new control scheme was something worth risking all those years of being in the gaming industry.
 
  
  This was Nintendos last chance to stay in the videogaming industry for another 5 years. And with 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess, this was their Ace to make to industry recognise that there is a new 
 way to playing Videogames.
  Instead of taking Microsofts and Sonys lead for better graphics making games look like the real 
 thing, Nintendo went on their own for playing games like the real thing.
  
  The best examples might have been Wii Sports and Wii Play for those who have not played Videogames 
 before, but for gamers who have been playing Videogames since the Atari 2600 or the NES, the Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess was the key to get all those people who had been loyal to the Big N 
 back into gaming. Has it worked?
  
  Time will tell but after a month on the commercial market, the Nintendo Wii has sold out in many 
 stores around the world from USA, Japan, UK, Europe and Australia.
  While it is possible that Wii Sports (that was sold with the console) and Wii Play (that was sold 
 when you got an extra Wii-mote for $10 extra) may have influenced the sales, it was Zelda TP that 
 had many fans on the Wii bandwagon.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is like many Zelda games from the past 20 years. You are 
 Link, there is a princess called Zelda who rules the land of Hyrule, the land of Hyrule is under 
 attack from Evil, even though the bad guy at the start is a decoy, those Moblins in Hyrule field 
 gives it away that it is Ganon/Ganondorf that is the real bad guy at the end of the game. You start 
 off in a restricting space with some tasks to do, but as you venture into Hyrule then the real 
 game opens up.
  
  What changers in Twilight Princess is not only the adventure itself or the characters you encounter. 
 It is the fact that you are transformed into a wolf when you enter the Twilight world and only 
 a smart ass Imp named Midna can help you.
  
  What also changers are from the Gamecube version to the Wii version, the new control scheme works 
 perfectly. You swing your Wii-mote to swing your sword. You aim your Wii-mote at the screen to 
 aim your slingshot or Bow-and-Arrow.
  The things that worked with the standard Gamecube Controller work 10 times more effectively with 
 the Wii-mote and Nunchaku.
  Plus with one wiggle with the Nunchaku will let you swing yourself in that famous 360 sword swipe 
 within seconds where you would have to charge up with the A button to do that same attack with 
 the standard controller.
  This is proof that Nintendo were not crazy with their new philosophy of innovative gameplay with 
 their new control scheme.
  This also opens that possibility of new games, the type of games that you could not have with a 
 standard PS3 or XBox360 controller.
  Nintendo Wii is to do to consoles just like the Nintendo DS did with handhelds a year before. The 
 sounds of Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess resemble from a few new tunes but most of them are 
 remixed from Kondos great masterpieces of the past 20 years of Zelda. Every time that original 
 Zelda theme plays for a brief moment during the ending credits makes gamers remember the first 
 time they played the original Zelda back on the NES and all the other Zelda games that have remixed 
 that timeless tune.
  That famous tune is not the only music remixed, many other tunes from that other legendary Zelda 
 game (Ocarina of Time) are also remixed.
  Basically, Twilight Princess takes place years after Ocarina of Time. Sure the places on the Hyrule 
 map have changed but all the places are familiar to those who played that N64 classic 8 years before. 
 If not then they have improved in all the right places.
  The Hyrule Castle Town is full, (if you dont believe me, just run around in as a wolf and hear 
 everyone scream) and even lake Hylia has a large bridge looking over it.
  But two scary clowns accompany that Lake! (But it could have been worse. Lake Hylia could have 
 been infested with one hundred dancing Tingles.)
  
  There is something you will notice, in every Zelda game, Link is (or in OoT, starts as) a young 
 boy. But in Twilight Princess, Link is an adult. But the children of Ordon Village replace the 
 young face of young Link. The children idolise Link and one, by the name of Colin, wants to be 
 brave like him.
  Even though he hates fighting, he shows his bravery against all odds to protect Beth from those 
 lage Moblins rampaging into their direction. He gets pounded and kidnapped for the second time 
 in the game but then suddenly he wins the heart of girls not only Beth herself but also another 
 girl who is the daughter of the doctor in Kakariko village. There is another person who many from 
 Ocarina of Time would identify with. That person is Ilia.
  
  Although Ilia did not appear in Ocarina of Time, her character stems from the 3 girls who competed 
 for Links heart in Ocarina of Time against Princess Zelda.
  Even though many fans would argue that Zelda from Ocarina of Time is the perfect girl for Link 
 than all the other loves Link had accounted in all the game he stared in the past 20 years, Zelda 
 had to fight against Saria, Malon and Ruto in order to win Links heart and she won by default 
 as she was a princess, she had her links with Link with the triforce and Link was there to see 
 her at the end of Ocarina of Time as the once again met in the royal garden of Zeldas castle when 
 the screen read The End.
  
  But that girl Ilia takes the best parts of Saria, Malon and Ruto and she is the perfect rival against 
 Ocarinas Princess Zelda.
  
  Ilia was Links childhood friend in Twilight Princess. Saria was Links childhood friend in Ocarina 
 of Time.
  
  Ilia had a strong connection to Epona the horse in Twilight Princess.
  Malon had a strong connection to Epona the horse in Ocarina of Time.
  
  Ilia gets angry with 
 Link when he hurts Epona in Twilight Princess.
  Ruto gets angry with Link when he does not take his marriage vows seriously and when you first 
 meet her in Lord Jabu-Jabus belly in Ocarina of Time. Plus when Link arrives home after he saved 
 Hyrule and Ilia is waiting there for him in Ordon village.
  
  Ilia was not the only girl who Link won the heart of. There is Midna who when she transforms into 
 her human form, Link is spellbound at her beauty, something of a shock to those who played the 
 game to the finish. Princess Zelda in Twilight Princess may not have shown the same gratitude to 
 Link when her kingdom was saved like the Princess Zelda from Ocarina of Time. But you know that 
 she does think about Link in the same way but she might have at the back of her mind the wisdom 
 that there are more women like her that even though they love Link, Link can only love one in return 
 and for that Zelda Twilight Princess is the first game in the Zelda series where she is completely 
 outmatched and outclassed by another woman. So Ilia comes out on top but not far behind is Midnas 
 attractive human form. Ilia even gives Zelda from Ocarina of Time a huge run for her money.
  
  This is also the first Zelda game where Zelda fights with her sword, and the first one where 
 you have to fight Zelda as Ganondorf possesses her at the start of the final boss fight. (Although 
 it would have been good to see more hints of romance between Link and Zelda for that fight to be 
 emotional for Link but you cant have everything) Other than that, the final boss fight against 
 Ganondorf/Ganon is one of epic proportions. More bigger and better than Ocarina of Times Ganondorf/Escape 
 form Tower/Ganon fight of Ocarina of Time.
  
  Other landmarks of the Zelda series were that Twilight Princess was the first Zelda game to be 
 given an M rating.
  One moment of the history of Hyrule sent the chills down the spine of many Zelda fans as they were 
 thinking that Link could become evil when they saw Images of Link killing Ilia, and with two Dark 
 Links joining the coloured Link with those evil eyes. And who was thinking WTF when images of falling 
 Ilias were floating down the screen?
  These moments of cinematic action would scare and shock anyone who thought that Zelda games were 
 just for children after the colourful childlike atmosphere of The Wind Waker 3 years before. Plus 
 even those scary twisted moments in Majoras Mask are no match for the twisted-ness of that scene 
 from Twilight Princess.
  
  Hyrules field is so big that there should have been a racing minigame around the area of the whole 
 field.
  But there is that chicken flying game, Golden Bug hunting, Yeti Snowboarding, Goat herding and 
 even the classic fishing minigame from Ocarina of Time is there for those who have completed the 
 adventure to come back and play more.
  The bonus about fishing is for 100 rupees, a girl called Henna will come along with you in her 
 canoe for some BRA Boat Rocking Action as the camera zooms in to the fishing lure so you could 
 not see them getting it on. The Dungeons are huge and some just amazing. The Water Temple will 
 have you stuffed just like its Ocarina of Time equivalent but the Gerudo Desert Dungeon has so 
 much quicksand sand traps that you will have nightmares of that Desert Pyramid from Mario 64. But 
 you will have so much sun gliding over the quicksand with the Spinner (a. k. a. Top of Death) .
  The Spinner allows players to spin on the edge of walls so fast that you could be forgiven for 
 mistaking this level as a 3D Sonic the Hedgehog Game. (SEGAPLEASE TAKE NOTE!!!!!!!!!)
  
  And the bossesthey may be easy for some but for beginners, they are about as big and as hard as 
 they become. You also have to defeat the bosses in different stagers.
  The epic battle against that sky dragon is about as hectic as they come and you can tell that Nintendo 
 has thrown everything but the kitchen sink into this game.
  
  After 6 years from that Famous Spaceworld 2000 demo, Twilight Princess was the mature Zelda game 
 that the fans had been asking for. But even though some people hated the cell shaded-ness of the 
 Wind Waker, you cant help that the emotions of Link and all the other characters have so much 
 emotion that this was what Nintendo had perfected after experimenting with The Wind Waker. Although 
 the emotions are not as humours as Wind Wakers, it is more realistic than many realistic games 
 out there that claim to be realistic but most lack that emotion of the characters faces.
  The only down points are that there is a horrible lack of voice acting, but has that ever bothered 
 fans of the past Zelda games?
  If you want a Zelda game with voice acting, check the cinematic scenes of the Zelda CD-I games 
 on YouTube, also note that Nintendo did not have anything to do with the horrible CD-I games.
 
  
  So after about 4 pages of ranting, how does Twilight Princess match up against classics like the 
 NES original, SNES Link to the past, N64s Ocarina of Time and Majoras Mask and the Gamecube effort 
 The Wind Waker?
  Well to put it simply. It takes the best parts of all those games and mixes it in the best Zelda 
 ever.
  Well some fans will argue that Ocarina of Time is the best because Twilight Princess would not 
 exist without Ocarina of Time.
  The only thing that will be hurting is that the story does not explain about the destruction of 
 Hyrule as it was explained at the start of The Wind Waker and it will also break the timeline theory 
 as Ganondorf again dies againstanding up. So how is Ganondorf meant to die twice in the same timeline? 
 This reviewer does not have a clue.
  
  Ask Shigeru Miyamoto and Eiji Aonuma, they are in charge of where the Zelda franchise is heading. 
 It is likely that they dont think of what happens, game ideas just come to them and Nintendo works 
 around them with no chronological structure.
  
  But when it all comes down to the crunch, Twilight Princess delivers on every count and more.
 
  
  With the Gamecube struggling over its 5 years in the commercial market, this is a perfect send 
 off for the survivor of the early 21st century consoles and not a market failure like many people 
 would try to lead you to believe.
  
  Twilight Princess is also a perfect beginning for the Nintendo Wii as it is a landmark first Zelda 
 game to be a console lunch title. Nintendo needed to have a big name on the first day when the 
 Wii hit the commercial shelves so with Mario missing, Zelda is the nest best thing even if it was 
 a mirrored port of the Gamecube version. The new control scheme shows everyone including the 3rd 
 party developers how they should port games from the XBox 360 and PlayStation 3 in the coming years.
 
  
  If other developers learn from Nintendos gutsy decision to do something different, Zelda would 
 be the most important franchise Nintendo would ever have even more than Mario. And lets hope that 
 the next 20 years of Zelda stay on the Nintendo consoles. Because Nintendo does not want to do 
 to their most loved franchises like what Sega has done to Sonic since he moved from Dreamcast to 
 Multi-platform. If Nintendos Wii pisses all over Microsofts XBox 360 and Sonys PS3, Zelda Twilight 
 Princess would go down in history along with Wii Sports and Wii Play to be the most important game 
 of Nintendos long history. Note: I also wish Sony and Microsoft the best of luck too.
  
  Although some may have a few issues of grathics and midi music... it does not matter to this reviewer.
 
  Zelda Twilight Princess is given a grand slam TOUCHDOWN 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsfan1234
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  I did not play this for long, only about 3 days, I never played another legend of Zelda game in 
 my life. I got far compared to how far a dumb player would get to in a week. Link is now in the 
 village but is still a wolf. I like the style of battle, especially the way you can just swing 
 the num chuck lightly to unleash pain on your foes. Easy to use controls and good use of the speaker 
 on the wii remote makes this game a winner. The only complaint is the text instead of words.
  I love this game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, Nintendo have made some legendary game franchises. Mario and Metroid are two examples 
 of this. But perhaps the most legendary of all is the Legend of Zelda franchise, which reached 
 almost iconic status with the release of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time in 1998 for the 
 N64, which arguably revolutionized 3-D games of the Action/Adventure genre. Since then there have 
 been various follow ups to Ocarina, including the acclaimed Gamecube title The Legend of Zelda: 
 The Wind Waker and The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask on the N64. Although the core gameplay was 
 still largely the same in these titles there were still somewhat significant changes to the games, 
 whether it be from a presentational or gameplay standpoint, but now Nintendo have brought the series 
 back to its 3-D roots with The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and the result is a truly epic 
 game, that certainly lives up to the franchise's standard.
  
  Twilight Princess begins very similar to all the other Legend of Zelda titles. Youre a teenager 
 (14-16 or so) who grows up in a peaceful town, who herds animals and occasionally hangs out with 
 the younger children of the village. Not before long though, you come into possession of a sword 
 and a shield and one thing leads to another, and eventually youre given the task of saving all 
 of Hyrule and of course rescuing Princess Zelda.
  
  This time however, the land of Hyrule is being plagued by the mysterious Twilight Realm and its 
 up to you to somehow remove Twilight from the land. Theres a catch though. Link can't enter the 
 realm of Twilight in human form. Each time you enter into a Twilight Curtain youre transformed 
 into a Wolf. Early into the game, youre introduced to Midna, a seemingly demonic, Imp-like creature, 
 who guides you through-out the game. While youre in Wolf form, Midna will be riding on your back 
 as you rid the land of Twilight, but when youre in human for, Midna will be hiding in your shadow, 
 although she'll still occasionally pop out and give you some hints as to what to do next, or as 
 to how to do it.
  
  The game starts with you riding the land of Twilight, but thats certainly not all you'll be doing. 
 Most of your tasks, especially towards to end of the game, include collecting a series of items 
 and things of that sort, but beyond the main quest there are a few side quests, most of which will 
 earn you an upgrade to one of your pieces of equipment.
  
  Speaking of equipment, Twilight Princess features tones of weapons and other pieces of equipment 
 that you'll need to use to progress through the games dungeons. Overall there are about fifteen 
 or so of these, which include the Gale Boomerang which possesses the element of wind, the Heros 
 Boe and of coarse the Master Sword. All of these different items, weapons and the like add an amazing 
 amount of depth to the gameplay, which makes up for the somewhat shallow swordplay.
  
  The actual swordplay is done by using the Wiimote and Nunchuk's unique motion sensing capabilities. 
 To perform a basic attack with your sword you'll be shaking the Wiimote around. To perform a spin 
 attack you swirl the Nunchuk around in a small circle (although shaking it rapidly works well too) . 
 Thankfully, those two attacks aren't all the combat has to offer, as you can unlock a handful of 
 new techniques throughout the course of the game. You'll also be using the Wiimote to aim with 
 your Slingshot/Boe and Arrow, Gale Boomerang ect. and once you get the sensitivity right, this 
 works very well..
  
  When youre not hacking away at enemies, most of the time you'll be navigating through some extremely 
 well designed dungeons. There are nine or ten dungeons, each of which contains some great puzzles, 
 most of which are quite challenging and rewarding to figure out. Thats a great thing, seeing that 
 you'll be spending the bulk of the game in these dungeons. The dungeons themselves have some nice 
 variance to them as well. There are fairly standard dungeons like the Forest Temple and a Water 
 dungeon, but there are some more unique dungeons like the Temple of Time and the City in the Sky. 
 Most of the more unique dungeons come along towards the end of the game, but the dungeons are generally 
 fantastically designed from the beginning of the game, all the way to the end
  
  At the end of each dungeon, you'll predictably be fighting a boss. Most of the boss fights are 
 pretty simple in the sense that you'll primarily be using the new weapon or item you found half 
 way though the dungeon to defeat it. Much like Wind Waker, most of the boss fights are really easy, 
 although there are some rather epic boss battles towards the end of the game.
  
  The same thing can be said for the games difficulty overall. For the most part, Twilight Princess 
 is a relatively easy game as far as combat goes. Even if youre new to the series, you can probably 
 go through the entire game and only die once or twice in combat. With that said though, its not 
 a game that you can just breeze through. Similar to the boss fights, there is the occasional tough 
 dungeon. Fortunately, all of the dungeons feature some excellently designed puzzles, most of which 
 are all challenging enough to make up for the lack of difficulty in other areas. From a gameplay 
 standpoint, Twilight Princess is an amazing accomplishment, but its a shame the same can't be 
 said about the games presentation, which at its worst, is plain and simply put; dated. The Wii 
 isn't a technical brute, thats no secret, but Twilight Princess looks like a Gamecube game. Its 
 not necessarily like Twilight Princess looks bad from a technical standpoint (although it doesn't 
 look particularly good either) , its just that it seems Nintendo have put no effort into making 
 the game look better than its Gamecube counter-part. The worst of the games technical shortcomings 
 are some really low-res textures and some pretty poor looking character models (although generally 
 the main characters look great, some of the other characters look pretty bad) . To the game's credit 
 though, the land of Hyrule has a rather large scope. A very large scope in fact, and if you take 
 the time to explore the land, your bound to get rewarded.
  
  From an artistic standpoint though, Twilight Princess looks incredible. For proof of this one must 
 only take a gander at the Twilight Realm. Although it is a shadow world, if you take time to appreciate 
 it, its quite the artistic achievement. But thats certainly not where all of the artistic direction 
 lies. The world of Hyrule is extremely varied and all of the dungeons have there own vibe to them. 
 Again, its not that the game looks technically bad, its just that the game could have looked much 
 better had some more effort gone into the graphics. (To be fair though, the game was built ground 
 up for the Gamecube)
  
  You'd think by now that Nintendo would have given The Legend of Zelda series an orchestral score 
 by now wouldn't you? Well thats not the case with Twilight Princess. The bulk of the music played 
 in Twilight Princess is heavily sample based. Some of the pieces even resemble orchestral pieces, 
 which makes you realize how much potential has been wasted. In addition, excluding some minor lines 
 of dialogue and some gasping sounds, Twilight Princess features no voice work, which makes some 
 of the cut-scenes feel somewhat under-whelming. The other interesting part of Twilight Princess' 
 audio revolves around the Wiimote. Sounds like you sword slashes, bomb explosions and your Boe 
 firing an arrow all come out of the Wiimote's speaker. Despite the low quality sound that comes 
 from the Wiimote, it does add a little to the experience. It does however; get annoying when the 
 Wiimote starts to cut out or static starts coming from the Wiimote's speaker (which occurs quite 
 often when your Wiimore battery is low) . On paper, this sounds like a fantastic idea, but once 
 the Wiimote speaker starts to get some static, and even starts cutting out, it doesnt actually 
 work too well. The Wiimote speaker works best when used in addition to the speakers on your television 
 set, but otherwise the feature comes off pretty weak.
  
  Twilight Princess is a long game. The main quest will take you 30 - 45 hours depending on your 
 past experiences with The Legend of Zelda series or really Action/Adventure games overall. You 
 can easily add on another 5 - 10 hours or so if you plan on doing all of the side quests, earning 
 every item and item upgrade and also finding every piece of heart in the game. The only problem 
 here is, you'll only be able to get these items and item upgrades towards to end of the game, at 
 which point you won't really need them. But still, if youre the type of person that tries to get 
 as much out of a game as possible, expect to spend 40 - 50 hours on Twilight Princess.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is not without its flaws, most of which stem from the games 
 technical presentation. But still, Twilight Princess is an outstanding accomplishment and is definitely 
 one of the best Action/Adventure games in recent memory. It may not be technically amazing from 
 a presentational standpoint, but if youre looking for a superbly designed game, with rock solid 
 gameplay, loads of artistic direction and a wide scope for you to explore, look no further than 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mk200114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Ive never played a Zelda game before, or even had the slightest interest in them, for that matter, 
 but after all the videos Id seen on GT and all the talk Ive heard, I just had to check out Twilight 
 Princess. Whenever I think about the game, the first thing that always comes to mind is just how 
 vast its world is. There are many temples scattered about that each take a couple hours to get 
 through from start to end. The world of Twilight Princess is so huge it literally makes a single 
 temple look like a dot.
  
  The graphics will have you looking around in awe. Everything has a light, glowing accent to it, 
 which feels almost dream-like. This is easily the best looking game on the Wii right now. Although, 
 that sounds kinda weird to say because with some of the textures youd think youre playing a GameCube 
 game. Dont worry, though, because every polygon in this game was crafted beautifully. The artistic 
 style is something worth commending in itself. Its amazing that so much detail was able to be 
 put into this living, breathing world. To top it off, day constantly changes to night and back 
 again. The Twilight Realm kicks butt compared to Metroids Dark world. It has a cool tribal/futuristic 
 look and there are tiny black digital squares that fall around you like rain. My only complaint 
 is that -- although its a beautiful effect -- it seems like way too much bloom lighting was used 
 in the Twilight Realm. It can be so bright that sometimes its hard to see the edges of objects. 
 It got annoying by the time I was half way through, but eventually you get used to it. This time 
 around you have Midna to help you along your way. I still dont know what it is, but she has this 
 strange appeal to her. Maybe its her witty comments or her sarcastic attitude. Whatever it is, 
 she makes a great character and will quickly grow on you. In the beginning, Midna will give you 
 clues as to what you need to do, although later her advice isnt as helpful. But Midna does have 
 her own set of tricks up her sleeve. She is able to get wolf Link to platforms he otherwise couldnt 
 reach and on a few occasions she even helps you with combat.
  
  Unfortunately, theres no voice work done in this game, which is a huge let down considering how 
 important all the people are to the development of the story. Its odd seeing their mouths move, 
 but having to read text at the bottom of the screen. That being said, Midna does speak every time 
 she has something to say, but its only a bunch of cute mumble jumble.
  
  The music in this Zelda is much different and perhaps darker overall -- at least from as little 
 of the Zelda world I know of. I wouldve liked to hear all the classic Zelda tunes throughout the 
 game. Although, Im sure fans dont mind hearing something fresh. Of course, there are the usual 
 chimes and such. The music that plays in the dudgeons is no more than simple tunes that loops over 
 and over. Its especially noticeable when youre standing around, trying to figure out what to 
 do next, but usually youre mind is so occupied, its not something that stays in the front of 
 your consciousness. Im sure everyone is wondering how it feels playing Zelda on the Wii, and lemme 
 tell you, it feels great. Aiming is probably the most demanding task youll ever have to do, but 
 the accuracy is pinpoint as long as you kept your reticle on the screen. Its so precise that picking 
 off enemies is probably more fun and easier than it would be at the arcade. The controls work perfectly 
 for Links sword and shield. The only annoyance I had was having to flick the remote to take out 
 Links sword, but pressing the A button (while standing still) to put it back. The motion to swing 
 your sword is very subtle. In fact, it takes close to no effort, which is a big plus for a game 
 this lengthy. Not once did I ever get tired. Using the sword and shield with the remote and nunchuck, 
 respectively, works just as you would expect, and it really feels like youre grasping both in 
 your hands. Links moves are easy to pull off, but when used in combination -- like swiping your 
 sword, followed by a spin attack -- you can pull off some pretty amazing stuff. Links attacks 
 are so deep, hed make a worthy contender in any fighting game (Soul Calibur II, anyone?) . If you 
 wanna see how the Wii controller is meant to be used in a game, this is it. In fact, theres no 
 way I would play Twilight Princess with a basic controller. I think itd ruin that special link 
 (no pun intended) that puts you into Links shoes. I cant stop mentioning how huge this world 
 is. Its approximately a 45- to 60-hour long game, and thats just in order to complete the main 
 quest. There are many other games (such as fishing) and numerous hidden treasures scattered all 
 over the world that I never even had time to look at during my 5-day rental. Whats even more staggering 
 is that youre always doing some task at any point during the game. Not only is Twilight Princess 
 most likely larger than the worlds of Metroid Prime 1 &amp; 2 combined, but I wouldnt doubt that 
 I also did twice as much. Unlike Metroids walking and rolling from empty corridor to empty corridor, 
 Zelda will have you riding across fields by horse, hiking up mountains, exploring underground, 
 and even swimming underwater; all while stopping to kill enemies along the way, if youd like. 
 Luckily, traveling is not a chore. Your horse Epona sprints like a race car, and there are warp 
 points all over that Midna can use to traverse from one point of the map to another in no time.
 
  
  The temples alone are breathtaking, both in their design and sheer amount of puzzles to solve. 
 Every room you enter is a different challenge you must solve in order to advance. Solving copious 
 amounts of puzzles is just as entertaining as taking out a group of armored monsters with a few 
 well-placed strikes. These temples contain about ten rooms per floor, Id say, and some contain 
 more than six floors. You also mustnt forget about the mini-boss, main boss, and all the little 
 minions.
  
  The bosses, though they look cool, are way too easy. For a game this epic, I was expecting some 
 unforgettable boss battles, but to be honest, the bosses are actually the easiest part of the game. 
 Still, you cant criticize Zelda just for that, because all the extraordinary concepts that went 
 into just reaching the boss room more than make up for it.
  
  Besides the mind-boggling temples, the endless amount of things to do, and sword fights that never 
 get old, I also love how the game builds upon itself as you progress and earn new items. Some of 
 the weapons you use have different variations, and youll upgrade a few of your items, too. Before 
 you know it, youll be using almost everything in your arsenal to get the job done. Twilight Princess 
 is not my favorite game, just because Im not into the whole 60-hour-adventure kinda stuff with 
 the stop-and-go of solving puzzles in each room, but it is easily, easily, easily, the best game 
 I have ever played (followed by Super Smash Bros. Melee and Metroid Prime, in my opinion) . Not 
 only is Twilight Princess indisputably THE Wii game you must play, it is also one of the best games 
 of the year, and perhaps even of all time.
  
  9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man400916
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  When play it first time I said it suck because when i saw that u need to move the remote to swing 
 the sword I said that woudn't work but when I use it again and again it was really awesome and 
 a lot of fun, and the field was bigger then ever and u can use your bow on the horse.
  and I like that when u follow the goblins with your horse it was al ot of action. And there are 
 many new ideas in the game not like the old zelda games, the graphics was perfect for Zelda game 
 and the sound was awesome too ,i think its the best gameplay of zelda ever.
  in my opinion I think that its the best launch title on the Wii and it worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanstapler
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game that can become a classic for anybody, but 
 a few things bring it down.
  
  The gameplay is very enjoyable and innovative, using your Wii remote to shoot projectiles, and 
 things like this stay fun from start to finish. But what disappointed me the most was just how 
 easy the game was. The boss battles aren't as epic as one would hope, and they aren't very challenging 
 as you might expect. The temples are very fun though, requiring you to think and solve puzzles 
 that can seem frustrating but aren't too hard. It gives the game a rewarding feel to it when you 
 accomplish something. It can seem a little repetitive and out of place at times, when things conveniently 
 come up to lengthen the game. Overall the gameplay is still excellent and gets a 9 out of 10.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, showing great detail in every aspect of the environment. 
 I couldn't have asked for anything better from the graphics, it is one of the things that pleased 
 me most about the game. The maps are huge and vivid, it has a remarkable feel to it that is hard 
 to describe. The graphics deserve a 10 out of 10.
  
  The amazing quality of the sound is something that really gets me, with memorable songs and beautifully 
 orchestrated music, but what bugged me the most was the use of sound in the speaker on the Wii 
 remote. The sounds seemed tossed onto it at the last minute and aren't very pleasant. There are 
 often a few stray, digital sounds that come at the end of the sound clips that are just rather 
 ugly. Also, the lack of voice acting is kind of old, so don't expect to hear much from the characters. 
 All of this gets it an 9 out of 10.
  
  The legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is worth every penny and then some, it will last you a good 
 40 to 60 hours and stays fun throughout the entire game. It is a game everybody who has a Wii should 
 own. It is not the best in its series, but it still lives up beyond the hype and it's a game anybody 
 should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioraider
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda series has been a fantastic series full of action, adventure, puzzles, a man named Link, 
 a woman named Zelda, and a beast named Ganon. Almost 20 years after the series started, we are 
 getting The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for both the Gamecube and the new Wii. It's been 
 a long wait, but it sure as hell pays off, because this game is absoutely incredible, and a love 
 letter to anyone who has ever play Zelda.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Most of you probably know about the story, but here it is in a nutshell; you are Link, going after 
 an evil person named Zant, who has covered Hyrule in twilight, with creatures coming out of it. 
 On your journey, you find out secrets, characters, and so on. Anyways, the Wii controller and the 
 Nunchuck work quite well. Both are used to swing Link's sword around, killing foes at his feet. 
 Besides that, the nunchuck has the analog stick to move around, the Z-button to lock on, and the 
 C-button to look around freely. There isn't a lot of innovation to the control scheme, but then 
 again it was built on the Gamecube, and wasn't used for unique Wii functionality. But as it is, 
 it's easy, simple, and a joy to use. Also, you can be a wolf. Yes, a wolf. As a wolf, you bascially 
 control him the same as Link, but you can sniff different smells, and dig under dirt for treasure.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The game may not look like 360 quality, but it sure is a beautiful game to look at. From the little 
 cubes that are created when Wolf Link is transported from one place to another, to the great character 
 and enemy designs, the beauty of this game is unmatched. Sure, there are little weird textures 
 here and there, but not enough to really annoy you, and enough great art design for you to not 
 care at all.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  While the soundtrack is amazing and very beautiful and great to listen to, the whole voice acting 
 thing is starting to take its toll. While it won't annoy you much if you are a big Zelda fan (in 
 which you are used to text reading) , others will absoutely hate it. The good side of it is that 
 the text is easy to read and a lot of great text at that. But still, it does seem dissapointing 
 that this couldn't change.
  
  Value:10/10
  
  This game is around 50 hours long, so it will take you a long time for you to beat the game, even 
 though the game does seem too easy for its own good. That's not even counting all of the side quests 
 you can go take. From heat piece collecting, to bug collecting, Zelda fans who loved taking on 
 side quests will absoutely eat this game up. Combined with the amazing main quest, large lands, 
 and a whole bunch of hidden secrets, this game is almost endless.
  
  Conclusion (Tilt) 10/10
  
  Twilight Princess is nothing short of a masterful accomplishment. 
 While many people can complain about the lackluster (but beautiful) graphics and lack of voice 
 acting, those people will most certainly forget about it, once they dig into this immersive, deep, 
 and long Zelda game, with a great story and memorable characters. And with the Wii's control scheme, 
 the game is made more accessable than ever before. Zelda fans rejoice! This is quite possibly, 
 THE best Zelda title and THE game to own and play for months to come. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OriginalNES
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  From the get-go I could tell this Zelda held true to its classic roots. For a 5th generation console 
 game it manages to blend today's needs and desires with the elements that made the series classic 
 in the 1st generation. In keeping with today's standards for console games you have a fully developed 
 3D environment with a decent sized game world to explore. The graphics are well suited for this 
 game but I felt somewhat disappointed playing it on the Nintendo Wii. Being Nintendo's 5th generation 
 console, was expecting a whole lot more on the graphics end but that doesn't really hurt the overall 
 general appeal of Twilight Princess . The control schematics on the Wii are very inventive and 
 quite entertaining. I was very amused and even now, 30 hours in, still find that swinging my Wiimote 
 to swing my sword is a great deal of fun. It's not the greatest thing since sliced bread, but it's 
 just a step towards making games that much more immersive. With the Nunchuck in left-hand and Wiimote 
 in right-hand, players are given various opportunities to get quite comfortable while playing; 
 the same rules still apply: movement with your left hand, options with your right. The game offers 
 a slightly stalkier UI than previous Zeldas and I did find that to be cumbersome at times. With 
 the multitude of options available to you by way of the Wiimote, I would have hoped for a cleaner 
 UI, in general I find not a great deal of flaw with it at all. The gameplay itself is quite superb 
 and very free-flowing. [By now I would hope anyone reading about Twilight Princess knows that Link 
 transforms into a wolf] Between the 2 forms of Link the controls never miss a beat. Whether you're 
 running around, Master Sword and Shield in hand, or Dashing across an open field on all fours, 
 you get clean concise movement. The controls lose some points while on Horseback, but again it's 
 nothing that severely hurts the game. What is most endearing about Twilight Princess is the amount 
 of Hyrulian History that is intermixed with the storyline. Other Zeldas have given some background 
 information regarding certain aspects, but there is more offered on just who is behind the curtains 
 of this epic story.
  This game is as much for old time Zelda fans as it is for new Zelda fans. Anyone can pick up this 
 game and have a good time playing it and you don't have to be a fanboy to enjoy it either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauska_sun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  best game so far for wii. If u hav a wii u should get this game! this is the first zelda game iv 
 played but what iv heard its like orcarina of time (which i will get when it goes on sell on the 
 wii shop channel) The new wii remote makes it play better then just pressing buttons on the gamecube. 
 I think ull hav a better experience with the wii then the gamecube version. Awesome game! If u 
 do NOT have this game buy it NOW its awesome!!! The story is interesting 2, way fun then most games 
 iv played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse_88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, in my opinion is the best Zelda game in the series because of how it presents 
 itself. No the graphics are not perfect, because there are times when it looks really muddy (opening 
 screen) , but for the most part, the graphics were great (especially at Zora Domain) . I also think 
 that the lighting was perfect in the Twilight World and that it looked amazing. The gameplay was 
 great, actually felt easier to play that previous Zelda games. The only problems I noticed in the 
 gameplay was when the aiming was buggy ( Please point Wii remote at TV , I hated when they said 
 that ) but that was probably from careless aiming on my part, to the sensor bar. The music was 
 also good, catchy new tunes like in most Zelda games, and also appreances from old tunes like the 
 Song of Time and Prelude of Water were nice additions. And there shouldnt be a problem with the 
 Wii speaker because you can turn that down, only the lack of real orchestra music bugged me. With 
 40 plus hours of gameplay and plenty to do, you could be playing this game forever, just some of 
 the quests they throw at you in the game are slightly annoying (it seems they just threw those 
 in to lengthen the game) . In conclusion, Twilight Princess is an obvious advance from Ocarina of 
 Time, making it the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  It is not hard at all to get used to the motion controls. And the gameplay is excellent. The puzzles 
 are incredibly hard so excpect to throw your controller a few times, but it is worth it. There 
 are many creative and fun items that are new to the series and some classics like the bow, and 
 boomerang are back, and some are altered for the better. This is the first game in the series that 
 I have liked enough to finish, so if you have a Wii but dont get this, then you dont know the full 
 fun potential of the Wii. If you have $50 GET THIS and if not......... trade in for this. It is just 
 that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VyseN1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The second-best Zelda game ever made, second only to The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As always, the gameplay in Zelda is perfect. The Wii remote is integrated into the game flawlessly. 
 I never want to go back to aiming my bow with a primitive analog stick. The dungeons and boss battles 
 are the coolest I've ever seen in a videogame in a very long time. The story is also very well 
 done, and gets to the typical climax in an unconventional way. The new weapons are great, and the 
 tweaks made to existing weapons is also very well done. Excellent amount of variety in the game 
 as well. There is always something different to do like snowboarding and fishing. The battle system 
 is well done also, the new moves you pull off are great, and adds another layer to the fighting. 
 The horse battles are particularly incredible also, and very exciting. The only slight down side 
 is that the bosses are too easy, but that is a small complaint compared to how cool the boss fights 
 are. Graphics:
  The graphics in Zelda are great artistically speaking. The art design and originality is superb. 
 However, while the graphics do push the GC to the limits, it's a shame that Nintendo did not put 
 a little more effort into beefing up the Wii version a little bit. However, it is a small complaint. 
 The graphics look good with component cables. The Twilight realm is really bizarre and interesting, 
 and breathes a lot of originality into the Zelda universe. Sound:
  
  Unfortunately, this is the weakest part of the game, Nintendo, you need to get rid of MIDI music 
 for your big games, it's time to go orchestral. This is really annoying because, the compositions 
 themselves are terrific, the MIDI music just will not do it justice. Also, it's time Nintendo started 
 voice-acting in their games. Link should never talk, but there is no reason why the NPCs like Zelda 
 and Gannon can't talk, get with the program Nintendo. Also, the Wii speaker is a bit lousy. The 
 sounds coming from it sound flat. However, you can turn it off if you turn the volume all the way 
 on the Wii remote, and have all the sounds come from your TV (Guess Jeff did not realize that ;) 
 ) . Even though there are a couple problems here the strengths make up for them. The excellent compositions 
 almost makes up for the MIDI, and the great writing and sound effects make up for the lack of voice 
 talent. Value:
  
  This is one of the best games ever created, It will keep you busy for at least 40 hours (assuming 
 you don't cheat with a guide) . The gameplay is razor-sharp. If you have a Wii or a Gamecube you 
 need to play this game, if you don't get one so you can play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight princess has to be the best game for the Nintendo Wii yet. The maps 
 are huge for a Zelda game. Also you can swing your sword when you are running which awsome when 
 you cutting grass when your looking for items. The graphics could be better it looks like gamecube 
 graphics and the sound is bad the wii remote sound is so bad that i turn it off. The sound that 
 comes out of your control comes out really scatchy and it is hard to understand most of the time. 
 The puzzles can be challeging some of the times and the fights are pretty is easy some of the times. 
 The gameplay over all is amazing though when you play for five minutes your hooked in and you play 
 for hours and you don't even relize it. Overall i recomd this to any Wii owner or Zelda Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejoe8pizza
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  ok my 8 year old brother got a wii and this game so i decided to check it. and wow after everything 
 i jhad hear i execpted it to be probably the best and most addicting game ever. wow was i wrong. 
 it just seemed like an average RPG. The sword was good then it just got really annoying and no 
 Voiceovers gget with the 21st century. the first few hours it seemed like that crappy farming games. 
 then it was a little better but basic just boring after hearing all the hype about this being the 
 best game ever i really disappointed i can think of about 20 better games. the only reason i think 
 it did good is b/c it just had the previous games fame to ride on. Basiclly if your not some geeky 
 fanboy living in there parents basement don't buy it rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii is revolutionary, will keep you playing for 
 hours and hours to come, and is a great addition to the series. Everything about this game is brilliant; 
 the storyline, the great use of the Wii's motion-sensing controls, the characters, and so many 
 other things. Twilight Princess is probably the best Wii game currently out there, and is a must-buy. 
 Here is a quick overview of the game:
  
  The Good: Great, new, long storyline, new characters, cool graphics and interesting sense of style, 
 has a great use of motion-sensing controls, and is a gripping game-it will literally keep you captivated 
 for hours. The Bad: Nothing major, but sometimes the game is just a little too predictable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10: The gameplay is very similar to other titles in the series with little evolution. 
 What's here though is executed almost flawlessly.
  Could've used a Combat-Oriented Multi-player mode *sighs* if only...
  Combat is extremely easy, 
 not much challenge if any to be found...
  It's as much joy to watch someone play as it is to play.
  
  Graphics 9/10: The graphics are 
 very pretty (especially in 480p) , widescreen presentation is great. Characters Models are expressive 
 cool and cute at the same time. Nice graphical effects all-around with great use of various kinds 
 of lighting (sun goes up, moon comes out) with subtle changes over time.
  
  Sound 8/10: No Voice Acting for dialogue does not hinder the game experience as some other people 
 have claimed. Character make chirps/quips which compliment the written-dialogue perfectly. Wonderfully 
 catchy composed themes throughout. Sounds from Wii-Mote are of low quality generally, but, you 
 can always turn the sound on the Wii-Mote down to improve sound quality a little.
  
  Value 7/10: Not much to do after the adventure comes to an end, you may play through it again somewhere 
 down the track... If only it had a multi-player mode where you battled people on hyrule field... 
 This could have increased replayability/the overall value some. The fishing in this game is better 
 than any Fishing Game I've ever played or seen.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10: This is one of the most brilliantly crafted games I have ever played. Horseback 
 Combat feels awesomely immersive.
  
  The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess
  8.6 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnuss82
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Zelda starts off a little dull but once you get into it i feel it was the best Zelda ever made, 
 a must own in my opinion, the boss battles i feel are unmatched in any other zelda. The huge new 
 selection of weapons is the largest in the series. I personally feel it is without a doubt the 
 best in the series, and the wii- mote just adds to it.
  
  If you loved Oot this game is definetly for you i have no regrets buying it, and it is quite a 
 lengthy game it took me around 75 hours to get 100 percent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacock1089
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Link is back in a new adventure on the wii. Now he's tryng to stop the twilight over taking Hyrule. 
 While trying to stop the twilight Link has to solve many puzzles and challenges. The wii mote is 
 very responsive when you use your sword (move the wii mote in any direction) . The wii mote is also 
 responsive when you use the bow and arrow and slingshot (point at the screen if you don't want 
 to z target with the nunchuck) . The puzles arn't that challenging and neither are the bosses, but 
 the experience is awesome. I almost forgot to mention when you turn into a wolf it isn't that special, 
 but the puzzles are a little harder and the combat is the same as when you use your sword except 
 you bite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer71416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  this game is quite perfect in gameplay and storyline, but the storyline is quite arkward, the twilight 
 princess is just a great game but it lacks the true effort that nintendo put into occarina of time 
 and windwaker, they need to reprogram storyline and make the game stand out far off from games 
 such as gears of war and ect..... Though i personally prefer to have an x360 over a wii. Apparently 
 the gamecube version is better than the wii version, which is a shame, four years in the making 
 and yet a low result, not any where near perfect, needs dramatic improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great adventure. It has an excellent story and a beautiful artistic 
 look to it. Link and his cohorts in Hyrule have never looked and moved so good.
  
  While not technically as advanced as 360 and PS3 hardware, the Wii still manages to create one 
 of the most beautiful games out there. Hyrule never looked this good before.
  
  Gameplay is great on the Wii, as using the Wiimote becomes second nature after a short while and 
 really adds to the whole feeling of being part the the Zelda world. The level of Link as a wolf 
 are a welcome addition and add depth and new life to the tradition Zelda game play.
  
  If I were to have one complaint is that Twilight Princess continues one tradition of all Zelda 
 games I wish would change: No real spoken dialog. Everything is still done in text boxes. The traditional 
 Zelda music however, has never sounded better than on Twilight Princess.
  
  Other than the lack of dialog, Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is THE game Zelda fans have always 
 wanted, and with the Wii controls, even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Obi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  This title is a masterpiece without a doubt and is clearly one of the best games ever. Ok now you 
 can just moan 'ohhh the graphics arent as good as ps3 or xbox360 games' but when I played it I 
 was surprised the graphics are beautiful. You can also moan that the game is too easy but it clearly 
 makes up for the ease of killing enemies with the puzzles and sheer length of the game. Ok ill 
 keep it short and simple. This is one of the best games ever, if not the best game ever. And the 
 wii remote adds to the overall game and is excellent. And the boss battles are immense. When I 
 was playing this game I got the same feeling of fun, achievement and basically everything you want 
 from a game as when I played Zelda ocarina of time. For fans and newcomers alike this is a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud19103
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this brief as there are plenty of other lengthy reviews where you can check out 
 the story and game basics.
  
  Gameplay: As is the nature of RPGs (though I'm not sure if the Zelda series is even considered 
 an action-rpg anymore) the gameplay gets better and more interesting as the game goes on and your 
 character develops. That said, the first 25 hours are... not that interesting. The first few hours, 
 Nintendo holds your hand and walks you through (slowly) every aspect of every possible situation 
 you might possibly find yourself in throughout the rest of the game. Including targeting npcs from 
 far away to talk to them (which I don't think is ever even possible beyond this point) , among other 
 almost completely useless skills. Most of which, anyone capable of reading the constant flashing 
 prompts on the bottom of the screen should be able to figure out. It's my opinion that all 3D games 
 should give you free camera control and this game doesn't. This might be the fate of all Wii games 
 since there is no right analog stick. It does give you a 1st person button for looking around, 
 but you can't move while in this mode. This means the targeting button will be your only option 
 at keeping the camera behind you, which is problematic when (for instance) surrounded by multiple 
 enemies. The inability to move and see something outside of targeting range is another glaring 
 camera problem.
  The motion specific controls are slow to respond and it can be very frustrating and difficult to 
 do a specific move. (i. e. Shield Attack) . I supposed this is balanced out by the new pointer targeting 
 system for ranged weapons, which works great and makes me wonder how I could ever manage to use 
 a stick to aim a bow. These flaws, though they can be annoying, aren't too problematic as none 
 of the enemies pose much of a threat. Only in the very last dungeon do enemies take more than a 
 couple hits to defeat, and by then you have more than enough powerful attacks and hearts to deal 
 with them easily. Speaking of dungeons, they are absolutely brilliantly designed. They (almost) 
 always manage to lead you exactly where you need to go without feeling linear or obvious (well 
 they're a lilttle obvious sometimes) . The bosses on the other hand are just way too easy for my 
 taste. The hardest part is always figuring out how to hurt them, which is always pretty obvious 
 since it always involves your newest item. My biggest gripe with the gameplay was the lack of innovation. 
 Twilight Princess offers every convention in a polished package but takes no risks and offers nothing 
 new to the genre and to gaming. Graphics:
  To my eyes, this game looks pretty good. I don't have a 360 or PS3 so I don't have PC quality graphic 
 expectations from my console. I personally am not a fan of the more mature style since I don't 
 see what's more mature about generic anime style. Nothing seemed very imaginative.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just plain not good. I really don't care about voice-overs, but real reviewers 
 usually do (not here for some reason) . There are none in Twilight Princess. There are Sims-esque 
 nonsense mumblings and some characters communicate their characters very well this way (Agitha 
 and Yeto come to mind) .
  As a professional classical musician, this is my area of expertise and the music in this game leaves 
 a LOT to be desired. Comparably epic games have been using live orchestra recordings for years, 
 and using accomplished and very talented composers for their game scores. Twilight Princess uses 
 entirely synthesized music and the music itself is generic, run of the mill video game music. Nothing 
 special at all. The musical references to the themes in previous games are nice, but they often 
 only emphasize how lacking this game is musically.
  EDIT: I completely forgot to mention the Wii Remote speaker. All links power-up items sounds come 
 from the Remote, which is a nice idea but the speaker in the remote crackles and pops and simply 
 can't handle the sounds. Also the little jingles you'll recognize after finding treasure and opening 
 pathways come from the wiimote. Not only is this completely arbitrary, the little speaker especially 
 can't handle them. Value: It took me about 60 hours to complete with minimal side quest and minigame 
 involvement. That's a lot of game for your money. Most of the minigames aren't nearly as frustrating 
 as you'd expect from Nintendo either. Production values are presumably high, but why no live orchestra 
 or good composer?
  
  Tilt
  My tilt gets a 6 just because I really didn't think this game was very fun. The bulk of the gameplay 
 is in the dungeons which mostly all seemed like chores rather than fun. Also, this game has been 
 grossly overrated and I'm just trying to balance it out a little. 7.2 still rates as Good and it 
 is a good game, but it adds nothing new to the genre or gaming, and just plain isn't that fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametime17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  When I was deciding what new system to buy, I had a very difficult time. I loved shooters which 
 made me gravitate towards the 360. I was intrigued however by the Wiis controls. I ended up with 
 the wii. I was scared that I made the wrong decision until I put this game in. LZ: TP sealed the 
 deal.
  
  First off the gameplay. TP is a very fun game to play. I love the different weapons you aquire 
 as you go along, and the wiimote controls work fairly well. At points the Wii controls for using 
 the sword seem a sort of nuisance but you get over it. At first you might be swinging the wiimote 
 like a real sword but the gimmick wears off after a while and you just start flicking it just enough 
 to make the slice happen. The new moves you pick up along the way are also quite cool.
  
  Next are the graphics. Considering the relative low power the Wii has to offer I think the developer 
 did a fantastic job with the graphics. It's by no means a Gears of War, but it gets the job done. 
 To make up for the detail they lose, the developer has included an artistic style that works beautifully. 
 I especially enjoyed the design of the Twilight world. It has a sort of watercolor look to it which 
 really makes it feel like an alternate reality. As far as the sound goes I was quite dissapointed. 
 Its just not up to par, even compared to the last PS2, Xbox, or even Gamecube, games to hit the 
 shelves. The sounds that come out of the Wii remote are pitiful. They sound scratchy and muffled. 
 There is no voice over which makes the game feel ancient. The score is what really dissapointed 
 me though. You would think that a game of this magnitude, that is a game that is supposed to be 
 the flagship game of a system, and a game that is as epic as this, would get the full orchestral 
 treatment. To my suprise the music is all done on synthesizers that sound really dated.
  
  Although the game dissapoints on some levels, overall the epic nature of this game is what will 
 win you over. The design of the worlds, the temples especially, blew me away. There are plenty 
 of puzzles to keep you occupied. In the end, there is no question that this is a must have for 
 anyone with a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, the long awaited latest installment in the incredible Legend 
 of Zelda series, is disappointing. That's not to say it's not a superb game, however, as disappointing 
 for a Zelda game is still better than a lot of games could ever hope to be. It uses the same formula 
 we've been used to for a while now, with a few Wii-specific features that often feel tacked on 
 so that the Wii could have that one killer app launch title. Maybe that phoniness keeps the game 
 from perfection.
  
  Ocarina of Time introduced three dimensions to the franchise back in 1998. Sadly, that was probably 
 the highlight of the series in 3D, though that's not to say the three successors are bad. Twilight 
 Princess, the long-awaited Nintendo GameCube game, underwent a predictable, albeit still surprising 
 change... suddenly, not too long after the unveiling of Nintendo's Wii and its capabilities, it 
 was announced for the next-generation console. Focus switch mercilessly from the Cube's version, 
 from the version on the system that needed an exclusive like this most, to the innovative Wii. 
 On November 19, 2006, the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was released, coinciding with the 
 Wii's launch. The GameCube version would not hit store shelves until December 11, to avoid affecting 
 the Wii version's sales during the launch window.
  
  If you played Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, Wind Waker, or any other Zelda game for that matter, 
 you know what to expect: mind-bending puzzles, intricate dungeons, epic boss battles, engaging 
 combat, and, at least in this case, a deep story. It seems the evil king of the shadows has emerged, 
 and covered the entire kingdom of Hyrule in a perpetual twilight.
  
  The game opens with you taking the role of Link, as with every other game in the series. The peaceful 
 Ordon Village is the setting of your makeshift practice, where you learn the basics of sword fighting 
 and aiming with both the Wii remote and Z-targeting to take out dummies with projectiles. After 
 a little fishing and saving the children of the village, Link is captured by shadow creatures. 
 They take him into the realm of twilight, where the Hero, Link, turns into his beast form, a wolf. 
 Two interesting Twilght Princess innovations have just been introduced. First and foremost, you 
 will be using the Wii remote a lot. To use your sword, you must swing the controller. Simple motions 
 will do, such as swinging it vertically or horizontally; moving in combination with either the 
 Nunchuk's analog stick or its Z-button produce different effects. It's still pretty simple, but 
 it's fun, though you won't look cool doing it. You'll also use the remote to aim projectiles. Simply 
 point it at the screen and proceed as normal. It's still better to use Z-targeting in combat scenarios, 
 however, and therefore you won't get to use this feature as much as you might like to. Of course, 
 navigating the menus can also be done via the remote, if you choose.
  
  You'll also get to command Link in his beast form. Roaming around as a wolf, you'll be commandeered 
 by Mydna, a mysterious creature who helps you in exchange for you helping her. Occasionally she'll 
 give you helpful hints or let you reach places that were before impossible to get to. You get to 
 battle shadow creatures only as a wolf. The best tactic to take them out is to hold B, which generates 
 a black circle that surrounds Wolf Link. Any enemy within the circle when you let go of B are doomed. 
 This is important as if only one shadow creature remains, it will revive its fallen comrades with 
 a chilling howl. Standard combat, however, works exactly as in human form, with you shaking the 
 Wii remote in various ways to do a smaller variety of attacks. The graphics are definitely not 
 bad. Get that through your head now, Twilight Princess is the best looking Wii launch title. That 
 being said, it doesn't exactly look next-generation; it resembles the GameCube's best lookers. 
 Lighting and water effects are beautiful, which seem to be strengths of the next generation consoles, 
 and animations are smooth and rewarding. Character models are great, with enough anime-inspired 
 style to avoid the need for utter realism. Load times are few and far between, and slowdown is 
 nonexistent. The games supports only up to 480p, so HD gamers will have to settle for some jaggies 
 and a lackluster presentation when compared to games like Gears of War for the Xbox 360. It should 
 be noted that the game supports a widescreen, 16:9 display option.
  
  The sound is the other element of Twilight Princess that feels stuck in the past. While the music 
 is excellent, very little of it is exclusive to Twilight Princess. You've got some great tunes 
 here, but none of it is orchestrated, another tragedy. Why has Nintendo not given this cherished 
 series the honor of an epic orchestral score? The lack of voice acting kills the experience in 
 some of the more dramatic cutscenes. This is the next generation, fans cannot be expected to live 
 with silence forever! All we get is Link's occasional Heeyah! The sound effects themselves are 
 quite well done. The clash of your sword on the armor of foes, or of your sword on their flesh, 
 is refreshingly solid. Sound is all around you, to immerse, to make you remember what game you're 
 playing.
  
  At $49.99, it's about as cheap as a next-gen endeavor gets. Expect to invest 40-70+ hours into 
 Twilight Princess, depending on your skill level and your familiarity with the series. Innumerable 
 side quests and secrets litter the kingdom of Hyrule, and there is much to see, and you'll want 
 to play through the epic game more than once. You won't be trading this game in at EB Games any 
 time soon.
  
  Overall, while the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess offers very little freshness to the series, 
 save for a few tacked-on Wii elements, it's still an excellent game People will be talking about 
 for a long time, and playing it even longer. Let's just hope the next installment gives the series 
 what it needs: reinvention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii makes the game fun and challenging at the same 
 time. The weapons and powers are new and old keeping the game authentic from its time. The Good: 
 Great storyline; challenging levels; the wolf power was fun; the characters where designed really 
 good; the new moves, weapons (new and old) and powers where created very well and fitted Links 
 style; the dungeons and bosses where challenging and fun; the graphics where very good on the Wii; 
 the Wii's new features where used and put in the game with the right weapons and items.
  
  The Bad: The voice overs could have been better (lip talking) ; less free roaming than other zelda 
 games; where did the orcarina go, why did they take it out of the game?
  
  Other than the 3 minor flaws in the game, this game keeps its franchise going and made another 
 zelda classic. I recommend this game for the Wii because it is the most fun to play it on. But 
 if you don't have a Wii (I have no clue how I got a Wii) but a gamecube then get it for that trust 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonedesertfox
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have loved the Legend of Zelda Series who hasnt? all of them emmersed me in the gameplay 
 and story, much so as I began to play and love the games as if they were my friends I know pretty 
 lame, but I was a lonely kid when i was younger . Once I turned the Wii on and saw the pre-game 
 movie I started to think to myself this doesn't look as good as i thought? oh well, I'll probably 
 start to like it once I started playing...
  I was wrong, my heart just wasn't touched by the graphics, slow timing of the story, and the overall 
 gameplay. whoo-hoo i swing and he swings clap, clap . first off it just to me took to long to just 
 get the sword but once i recieved it i was thinking to myself geesh i feel ripped off cause it 
 is a wooden sword. dont mean i dont like it it's just that you should've started with a wooden 
 one and then further upgraded it by the time you got the wooden one it was just too annoying but 
 easy finding 30 rupees .
  
  the graphics of it were'nt that much of an improvement from the gamecubes. I must say that i honestley 
 think if it weren't for the rupees the gamecube's Legend of zelda wind waker would have better 
 graphics. Also Link just looks like a mute retard with that expression that just constantly makes 
 him look as if he's on drugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i was stunned by the first cut-scene, it was just marvelous. I started 
 playing and loved it.
  Just to get to the first dungeon, and completing it... took me 5 hours. When i was done with the 
 third i had used 20 hours. The characters in the game are pretty different. It is allot of cut-scenes 
 in this game at least one after each dungeon.
  The dungeons are great they're pretty long and hard. I'd say each dungeon will at least take about 
 2.5 hours. And I'd say completing this game without a walk-through will most likely take you 40-45 
 hours.
  
  I must say that this is thee most dramatic Zelda game. And it is the only one with a T rating too. 
 (I think)
  
  If you liked/agreed with this review please press the agree button or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brydon1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Amazing!!!!! its the best game ive ever played out of all of the Zelda games it has everything 
 the Zelda fan needs it has good graphics good sound good game play good and if your playing on 
 the wii you`ll have a little fairy as a cursor and some sounds come out of the remote cool!!! and 
 its also fun to be tall instead of a migit like in all of the other Zelda`s but any its the best 
 Zelda ever! this Zelda is way beter the the wind waker too the wind waker looke like it was mad 
 outa playdough ha ha ha but really it was good to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verysexypotato
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  For those of you who own multiple consoles and games, (such as a ps2 loaded with Okami for example) 
 you might find some of this wolf gameplay a bit fimiliar. Sure, Zelda fanatics are sure to say 
 its a fresh change to the series and perhaps it's what the game called for. However you can't move 
 from a fantastic game like Okami with it's rich landscapes, amasing visuals, fantastic gameplay, 
 blah, blah, blah; and play Zelda's poor doggie gameplay mechanics. ESPECIALLY on the Wii. Now the 
 fact alone that any way you swing the wiimote he will swing his sword in exactly the same way was 
 irritating, but the fact that locking on with your beast form and pressing A does the exact same 
 thing (with more precision) than a flick of the controller just made me cry that I cared about 
 the Wii version instead of the GC. This game screams GC port all around. Ah, yes, and I failed 
 to mention the fairy pointer is so meaningless that you even have the option to turn it off. Now 
 if I were to review this as a plain GC game I would give it alot higher. The puzzles are classic 
 Zelda... Iron boots... Bow and arrow... Boomerang... Okay, perhaps Zelda does need a change, of 
 which the wolf gameplay quenches. But the puzzles are still satisfying. Fulfilling our odd materialistic 
 need with another weapon added to our inventory, another piece of the shadow, or another shield. 
 All in all, I would tell you to take a few steps back and look at this game with an unbiased, non-fanboy 
 eye. It's worth playing, and fun at times, but don't expect the best thing since link to the past. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChefKetone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is Nintendo's flagship launch title. It was originally developed 
 as a Nintendo GameCube title and ported to Wii for launch, but the game still plays remarkably 
 well. There are several differences between the Nintendo GameCube version and the version on Wii.
 
  
  The most obvious difference is the use of the Wii remote to perform Link's basic actions. This 
 includes swinging the Wii remote to swing Link's sword, and stuff like swinging the nunchuk to 
 do a sword spin. The Wii remote is your lifesaver when it comes to other items, especially long-range 
 weapons. In this case, the cursor on-screen becomes a cross-hair, allowing you to use the Wii remote 
 to shoot accurately at your intended target. Interesting side-note: Link is right-handed in the 
 version for Wii. I hear from friends with a Nintendo GameCube version of the game that their game 
 is completely mirrored (yeah, maps and all) . Strange move by Nintendo, in my opinion. You could 
 easily play with Link remaining left-handed on Wii.
  
  The graphics are really what give the game's cover away. Right away, the graphics come off as GameCube-style 
 at best. This doesn't really hurt the game though. Overall, I think the game has a nice presentation, 
 and the 16:9 widescreen mode available only on the version for Wii is pretty cool. Some people 
 have said that the Wii features seem added at the last minute and badly set-up, but try out both 
 versions, and you'll agree that the Wii version is far better than the GameCube version just on 
 control and presentation alone.
  
  Twilight Princess's soundtrack is one of the series's best. The soundtrack isn't orchestrated like 
 in some other games, but it's still great, and it's convinced me to get Nintendo Power's OST subscription 
 bundle. What's really cool is the fact that sound immerses you more on the Wii version than it 
 ever will on a GameCube. The Wii remote has a built-in speaker, and you'll hear stuff like your 
 sword coming in and out of its scabbard, a string stretching from your slingshot and the like, 
 and loads of other things. It really helps in feeling like you're part of the game, rather than 
 just an observer.
  
  As expected, Twilight Princess is filled with mini-games and side quests. The fishing minigame, 
 for one, is enough to keep you going for hours. The combination of gestures with the Wii remote 
 and the nunchuk make you feel like you're really fishing with a genuine fishing rod! Running straight 
 through with room for one side quest or another is about give-or-take 40 hours. Twilight Princess 
 definitely lives up to expectations. I consider it the best launch title for Wii, and a must-have, 
 whether you're on Wii, or stuck with a GameCube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has always carried on an epic feel. The latest chapter could possibly 
 be the biggest adventure yet. The story is rich, like always, and full of twists and awakenings. 
 Link must save the land of Hyrule as well as the Twilight Realm (and their respective princesses) 
 from Zant and the revived Ganondorf.
  
  From the moment you start playing the game, you get the ethereal feel that only a Zelda game can 
 provide you with. The mixture of beautiful music and pleasant graphics combines with the rich story 
 to bring you one of the best adventure games you could possibly ask for.
  
  Link will do the same basic action's he's done in the past with his sword: spinning attack, thrust, 
 and jumping attack, to name a few. Eventually, you will encounter the spirit of a warrior and you 
 will learn new techniques that are useful for battle. You will also find classic weapons known 
 to veteran players such as the slingshot, bow and arrow, and bombs; as well as new weapons like 
 the spinner, which lets you latch on to walls and get across large gaps. There are also upgraded 
 versions of some weapons. You'll find water-proof bombs, and eventually you'll even be able to 
 weild two clawshots, which is beneficial for jumping from wall to wall or getting to higher areas. 
 The Wii version of the game makes use of the Wii Remote's motion-sensing technology, so a light 
 swing of the Remote causes Link to swing his sword; and aiming with your bow is done by pointing 
 in the appropriate direction. Although the idea is good, it's nothing too special, however, and 
 the end result turns out to be a control scheme that works well, but isn't all that amazing.
  
  Link gains the power to turn into a wolf in this adventure. The controls are not that different 
 than when he is in human form. You have a thrust attack and a spinning attack, and they are executed 
 by moving the Wii Remote or Nunchuk. In wolf form Link can also dig to find items, remember the 
 scent of someone or something in order to follow them, and view things in a special wolf sense 
 to see things that are hidden to the naked eye.
  
  The musical aspect from previous games sees somewhat of a makeover this time. It is not completely 
 stripped from the game, but you don't rely as heavily on it as in past installments. For example, 
 you can pick up a special type of grass and call for your horse or a hawk to help you do certain 
 things. Also, as a wolf, you can go to special areas, listen to a song, and copy the rythm to make 
 something happen.
  
  One thing that remains intact in Twilight Princess is the attention put into puzzle-solving. Every 
 dungeon you explore has a vast amount of puzzles that you will need to solve to progress throughout 
 each room in the dungeons. While some of these can be a bit perplexing, sometimes causing you to 
 spend quite some time trying to solve them, none of them are too unforgiving, and once you solve 
 them, you'll realize that the answer was right in front of you.
  
  In terms of difficulty, this is not the toughest Zelda game. The aforementioned puzzle-solving 
 element gives this game its biggest challenge factor, but still doesn't make Twilight Princess 
 a frustrating game. There are a lot of enemies and a lot of fierce bosses, but none of them are 
 too difficult to defeat. Twilight Princess is not an easy game, by any means, it's just not the 
 most difficult of Zelda games.
  
  Graphically, Twilight Princess is a sight to see. The environments are beautiful, the character 
 models vary from cute and funny to fearsome. The Twilight Realm has a surreal and dreary look to 
 it, and has a really convincingly dark atmosphere. Unfortunately, it is not without its flaws. 
 Despite the fact that the Wii is about twice as powerful as the Gamecube, there are still a lot 
 of highly polygonal characters and structures. Also, there are some textures which are far too 
 blurry and a bit pixelated. Still, this is a beauty of game and is really gorgeous overall.
  
  The Legend of Zelda series has always been known for its memorable soundtrack. You will hear 
 many unforgettable songs throughout the game, starting with the opening theme. There are, however, 
 a few tunes that are just below par, particularly within the dungeons. These songs just don't stand 
 out and are far too simple for their own good. They easily fade into the background, which is unfortunate 
 because a game this epic could have really shone even brighter with a few more fantastic songs. 
 There is no speech in this game, but that is not a problem at all. Zelda games are not known for 
 their spoken dialogue, and Twilight Princess works perfectly without it. You will, however hear 
 gasps and yelps by Link and all the other characters.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess does not bring many major gameplay changes to the series, 
 but benefits from it because the gameplay has been really great since Ocarina of Time. The graphics, 
 although a bit muddy sometimes, are quite good, and the music is enjoyable. The Wii-exclusive controls 
 are fun, but not something to drool over. The story is alive and contains memorable moments that 
 will not be easily forgotten. This is a pretty lengthy quest that can take you between 40 and 60 
 hours to complete. To add to this, there are also a few mini-games and side quests to keep you 
 entertained for longer. In the end, this game is an unforgettable chapter in the Zelda series that 
 any true gamer should not go without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereric4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be honest. I have never beat a zelda game yet other than this. I had could not figure 
 out where to go in oft (wish I bought that) , wind waker through me off by having him be a child., 
 and this really answers why in every one it is his first time. But after I played this game I sang 
 the theme song in my head for hours. I grab a stick and use it as my sword ever sense.
  
  But back to the game. The story is great (with many twists and turns) . The gameplay is so fun I 
 feel like a badass playing it and I a weak person. It is almost the perfict game. If there was 
 voice acting, more direction, and more of a idea what link thinks it would be flawless. If you 
 have a wii and you don't get zelda, you are crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  A Dark Mysterious Force has been casted over Hyrule Forest, and its up to Link to save Hyrule from 
 the Twilight within
  The game has you playing as a much older more serious Link. This isnt your average kids story tale 
 of Zelda, the story this time around is actually really dark. Its girtty cinematics, and fantastic 
 sound and music play tribute to easily one of the best Zelda stories ever! On top of its great 
 story, awesome action, is its brilliant way of controling the game. While the Wii controler has 
 proven to be an intresting tool to fool around with some intresting games, one wonders how it would 
 work for a more conventional, traditional gaming franchise. And Zelda proves that it works amazingly. 
 Basically the Wiimote is your Sword you will use it to attack enemies, as well as use it to aim 
 your bow, your boomrang, and even control a Dragon. The controls are dead accurate, and make the 
 exeperiance that much more enjoyable. One of the most addicting aspects of the control scheme deff 
 has to be the fishing which plays exactly as you would imagine it to.
  
  Overall Zelda Twilight Princess not only lives up to the hype but also smashes through expectations. 
 While the game didnt truely show off a true Next Gen feel in its graphical presentation, its controls 
 made up for it, as well as its addictive 70 + hour long campaign, fantastic story and easily one 
 of the best gaming worlds ever in a game. Yes its worth buying a Wii for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of those rare games that comes along every so often 
 that just stuns and marvels everyone who comes in contact with it. From start to finish this game 
 delivers detailed gameplay, outstanding music, amazing visuals and nearly perfects the RPG genre. 
 This my friends is the Zelda game you have been waiting for, and this is the sole reason to save 
 up money and get yourself a Wii. Once you boot up the game it's nearly impossible not to get involved 
 with the story line and see everything Hyrule has to offer. From the woods, to the treacherous 
 Death Moutain, up to the Gerudo Valley Desert you will be amazed at the size and complexity each 
 area has to offer. The Gameplay in this installment is similar to just about any other Zelda game 
 you have ever played only this time, things have reached near perfection. The Wii-Remote offers 
 amazing precision when aiming with your trusty bow and arrow or your slingshot, and does just as 
 much justice for your sword and shield. I was skeptical at first how the controls may end up feeling 
 too different since you will be performing alot of the actions that Link has to do such as swinging 
 the sword, casting the fishing poll, whacking an enemy with the shield, or doing his famous spin 
 attack. Everything plays out wonderfully though largley because it doesn't take much effort to 
 perform any of these acts and it soon becomes second nature. Even after long sit-ins with this 
 game and I mean long maybe 10-12 hours at a time your hand never becomes any more tired than it 
 would if you were playing a normal game, and trust me, this is the most abnormal way to play a 
 game ever. But it works and works well. A new feature has been added to the game and just about 
 everyone knows what it is. The ability to play as a wolf. Although not near as much fun as running 
 around Hyrule as normal link or riding Epona, the Wolf levels offer a nice change of pace by adding 
 more exploration and tons of neat combat options. All the controls normal Link has such as swinging 
 the sword are performed the same way as a wolf, but now you just swing your head and rip enemys 
 to shread. For those that played Ocarina of Time, you will remember Navi tagging along with Link 
 for most of his journey but this time it's a creature from the Twilight named Midna. She is an 
 absoloute smart-ass at the beginning of the game adding alot of comical relief and it's a blessing 
 to have because the story line is the most mature story line in the Zelda series yet. Other than 
 changing into a Wolf, there is mainly basic Zelda gameplay to be had. You move crates, you solve 
 difficult puzzles, you fight giant bosses and of course, you fight enemy after enemy. This version 
 offers way more fun because you actually swing the Wii-Remote to make Link perform various attacks 
 and it's really just one awesome battle after another. Graphically the game stands pretty well 
 on it's own offering stunnigly beautiful enviorments such as the sun rise in Hyrule field or the 
 amazing Lake Hylia. Some textures feel a little bit dated since this is a PORT from the Gamecube 
 version. In layman's terms, that means this game looks no prettier than current-gen Gamecube games. 
 It's never a problem though because believe it or not, the Gamecube offers some pretty amazing 
 graphic capabilities and no game thats been released on the cube can even start to compare to this 
 one. If you are a graphics whore and are turned off at the beginning of the game because of the 
 somewhat blurry textures just give it time. It seemed to me that the game became prettier and prettier 
 the more I went on. The music and sounds in this game are almost all remakes of music from Ocarina 
 and Majora's mask but there are plenty of new songs here and they never dissapoint. Overall I would 
 say the sound in this game alone beats any Zelda game to date, hands down. There are plenty of 
 side quests and mini games that fill the majority of Hyrule and completing them will take up so 
 many hours of your life. It's truely a great thing though because when you get frustrated with 
 a temple and if you have your trusted Ooccoo with you, than you can easily leave and go explore 
 and do some missions before trying to conquer it again. It's a sigh of relief to be able to do 
 this because some of the later temples offer an amazingly hard challenge but no, none of them can 
 compare to Ocarina's water temple.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is the game you were hoping for when you first heared of this game so 
 many years ago. This is the start of a new era of video games and this game is the prime example 
 of what near-perfection is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, the latest Zelda adventure, is giving me the awe-inspiring feeling I had the 
 first time I played and beat Ocarina of Time. It's just that good.
  
  Mind you, I don't think it's as good as OoT. It was just too innovative and well-executed, and 
 is in it's own class. But, this newest game takes what made that game so amazing, and improves 
 upon it to make it amazing.
  
  The story so far is pretty basic, like most Zelda games. Run around and collect stuff, beat dungeons, 
 etc. You then will get more story, and another goal. Pretty normal Zelda stuff. It works really 
 well though.
  
  The gameplay is simply breathtaking, like most Zelda games are. The dungeons are fun and are somewhat 
 challenging. However, if you've played past Zelda games, the dungeons will not be much of a problem. 
 Each dungeon has all sorts of different puzzles and special moment, you'll never get bored. The 
 puzzles are usually not so hard that you need a guide, but require some thought, and are extremely 
 satisfying once you figure them out.
  
  Combat is as good as it has ever been. The Wii controls work really well, and add a little extra 
 enjoyment. In general, the gameplay is like most other 3D LoZ games, using the Z button (on the 
 nunchuk) to target while Link attacks, dashes around, backflips or uses all sorts of items to defeat 
 enemies. The motion control allows Link to aim his bow, boomerang, etc manually, or if you prefer 
 you can target like normal.
  
  The biggest difference in gameplay is that Link can turn into a wolf. He does this when he enters 
 the Twilight Realm. Wolf Link controls similarly to regular Link, except he has special senses 
 and a dig command instead of items. Also, you can use your little companion girl to do a special 
 attack that can kill multiple enemies at onces.
  
  Anyway, that's the basics of the gameplay. It's crisp, it's typical Zelda fare, and it is very, 
 very, very good.
  
  The graphics are also quite good. The best on the Wii so far, but that isn't saying much since 
 no game on the Wii uses the Wii's power quite yet. The sound is also good, but unfortunately it's 
 mostly MIDI and little orchestra, and some of the well-known Zelda staples are missing (ie no Kakariko 
 theme in Kakariko village) .
  
  The biggest dissapointments for me are mostly aethetic. The fact that the game does absolutely 
 nothing to answer questions provided by other Zelda games is frustrating. The game actually creates 
 even more questions and a more convoluted idea of the timeline. The game is also quite easy unfortunately, 
 but that doesn't detract from the fun.
  
  Overall, the game is one of the best I've played in years. A few things seem mysteriously missing, 
 like the absence of octoroks and moblins which are in almost every Zelda game. Also, there are 
 not many sidequests (which is disappointing considering the huge world) , and the biggest collection 
 quest doesn't give interesting rewards. Despite this, It is a must own for Wii owners and Gamecube 
 owners alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jon_t_7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Every diehard fan will play this game and defend it as one of the best ever. But to a causal gamer, 
 not so much. This game starts out slow, very slow but gradually gets better. Many people will complain 
 and maybe get bored with the first half of the game, but hang in there, it will get better.
  
  I was somewhat dissapointed in the game myself. After all of the delays by Nintendo, this game 
 should have been flawless and damn near perfect. Overall the story was pretty good, and interesting. 
 The gameplay is what you would expect from a LoZ game, puzzles, bows/arrows, swordslashing, etc. 
 The graphics were a bit of a let down for me personally. I loved the idea of going back to the 
 OoT look, and not the crappy cell-shaded look, but still could have been better. It seems liked 
 they may have rushed the game to get it our at launch. The sound was typical for a LoZ game. Where 
 the game really shines is with the boss battles, like all other LoZ games do as well. They are 
 fun and challanging, and make you use your different items.
  
  If you liked other games in the LOZ franchise, play this game, it will keep you entertained. If 
 your a casual gamer, play this game if you stick with it the whole way through, you can't get bored 
 and quit a third of the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Weve waited 2 and a half years, through countless delays and even a console change (from 
 GCN to Wii) , so Zelda: Twilight Princess has a lot to live up to. Does it live up to all of this 
 hype?
  
  Not only does Twilight Princess live up to the hype, but surpasses it in every way possible! The 
 game is better than anything that I could have ever expected, and is without a doubt my new favourite 
 Zelda game. Everything about the game is amazing! And the Wii controls make it even better!
  
  The temples in particular are expertly designed. These are probably the best temples to ever 
 be put in a Zelda game. While I wont tell you how many there are (since that would be a spoiler) , 
 I will tell you that the new items, enemies, and bosses are all insanely fun to use and fight. 
 The puzzles themselves are very clever and completely stumped me at parts.
  
  In addition to the dungeons, exploring around the world is also incredibly fun. There are many 
 side-quests for you to delve into and the whole world just feels bursting with energy and excitement. 
 The world is also huge, bigger than any Zelda game before it most likely! Plus, transforming into 
 a wolf is just awesome! I mean, REALLY awesome! You can jump onto enemies and hang onto them with 
 your fangs, tearing at them, which is especially satisfying!
  
  And the Wii controls are really nicely done as well. You swing the Wiimote to swing your sword, 
 or using the Wiimote to aim your bow, or use it as a fishing rod in the addictive fishing minigame. 
 Theres so many amazing uses for the Wiimote that its hard to imaging playing the game with a 
 standard Gamecube controller. Overall, Zelda: Twilight Princess is has amazing gameplay, and is 
 better than every other Zelda that Ive played.
  
  Graphics: Twilight Princess looks amazing! The graphics are insanely awesome, the best Ive ever 
 seen in a Zelda game, and Twilight Princess is without a doubt the best looking Wii game available 
 so far. Even looking at Wiis upcoming games, theres almost no games that compare to Twilight 
 Princess visually, and to me it looks like this will be one of the best looking Wii games for a 
 long time, the visuals truly are astounding. Definitely very impressive, and definitely shows us 
 that the Wii is a very next-gen console.
  
  Sound: Has there ever been a Zelda game that didnt deserve a perfect 10 out of 10 in terms of 
 audio? Twilight Princess is no exception, and has amazing music much like its predecessors. The 
 music matches the darker mood of Twilight Princess nicely, and some of the sound effects are hilarious 
 as well (for example, the mailmans screaming!) . While some people complain that the game doesnt 
 have any voice acting, I say that voice acting doesnt suit Zelda games and I consider Twilight 
 Princesss lack of voice acting to be one of its many strengths. Overall, the audio in Twilight 
 Princess is amazing.
  
  Value: Twilight Princess is the longest Zelda game to date. It took me 45 hours to beat, but theres 
 a ton of side-quests and minigames to play as well, meaning that someone looking to beat the game 
 100% could easily double this time. Things such as the 50-level Cave of Ordeals and the Fishing 
 minigame are just a few of the side-quests that you will encounter on your way to 100%. Plus, since 
 this is a Zelda game, its hard to imagine playing through it once, and many will happily play 
 through the game several times, whether its doing speed runs or just deciding to relive the experience. 
 Twilight Princess will definitely keep you playing your Wii for a long time!
  
  Tilt: Overall, Twilight Princess is amazing! It has everything that you could have possibly wanted 
 from a Zelda game, and more! Without a doubt, Twilight Princess lives up to the hype, and is definitely 
 among the greatest games of all time! The Wii controls are awesome, the temples are brilliant, 
 and the game looks and sounds perfect. The storyline is amazing as well! Everything about the game 
 is pretty much perfect! This is definitely a must-own title for anyone and everyone, and makes 
 the Wii purchase more than worth it at launch. You simply must experience this game for yourself. 
 It truly is a masterpiece. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an instant classic that will be 
 remembered and loved for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is nothing short of a masterpiece. Every part of the game 
 is very well done. At first, I thought that you would have to move around like you do in Wii Sports. 
 Really, all you have to do is swing the Wii Controller to activate the sword, and point at the 
 target to fire your bow and arrow. Another new feature introduced in Twilight Princess is Link's 
 periodic transformation into a wolf. This works great as well, as the wolf, you can use your senses 
 to find certain things. Also, you can learn new scents along the way. Although you only play as 
 the wolf at certain times during the game, it is a great add on to the game. One thing that still 
 puzzles me is why Nintendo decided to make this a launch title, either way it's a great game that 
 will help the Wii sell very well. In conclusion, if you have just bought a Nintendo Wii or if you 
 still have a Gamecube, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a must have for your video game 
 library. Do yourself a favor and buy it, you will not be dissapointed with this soon-to-be classic 
 Nintendo title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crybabylover
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game shows such a great storyline with calming music, to dramatic music. In this game, the 
 hero of the story, Link, finds himself born in a town called Ordon. The Link in this game, isn't 
 exactly the one from the Nintendo 64 series, or the Wind Waker Link. It's a whole different Link, 
 but as a teenager. Anyway, the thing is that it's a great idea for Nintendo to make Link on the 
 GameCube a lefty, (as always in the series) while on the Wii, he is a righty. That's not the only 
 thing, though. The maps are reversed, too. This game IS a 70 hour storyline and is one of the most 
 longest Zelda games. I believe that it is the best, most adventurest Zelda game since Ocarina of 
 Time! Swinging your Wii Remote like a sword is fun, and I take it better than the GameCube! I have 
 no idea why GameSpot had made it better! This is certainly one LOZ game to remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroOfTimeRulz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  For all those zelda fans who were like me and played over and over again ocarina of time and all 
 the others just waiting for this one to come out... it was depseratly worth the wait. Twlight Princess 
 is a humongous world, maybe 3 or more times bigger than ocarina. Many consider twilight princess 
 to be the best one up to date, true its a master piece in its own calibur, but you have to consider 
 ocarina of time as a masterpiece who brought zelda to 3d, to life. Ocarina was just... original, 
 it had a great story line, the best introduced gameplay and at the time fair graphics. It was a 
 game long to be remembered and cherished. It still is. Twilight princess gives alot in this section, 
 story and graphics, but the gameplay is the same old as all the other console zeldas, but it never 
 gets old in my opinion. Nintendo did a great job at twisting the story and all with ganondorf at 
 the end i was abit suprised. But the story is quite like all the others, when you think about the 
 three shadow pieces, you can relate that to the three spiritual stones, then that brings the master 
 sword. Then you have five temples like ocarina of time, and at the end ganons castle. Ninento reversed 
 things at the end though, ganon was first, then after it was ganondorf, fighting ganon on horse 
 was simply a terrific idea. Now the story in Twilight ids quite different than ocarina, much darker 
 but ocarina could have been told much darker in now adays too since it was ganons dark mysterious 
 world as an adult... twilight princess gives alott o mini movies, and personally i was waiting for 
 that a long time and it succesfully satisfied me, the option to skip is stupid though. The only 
 areas i like better in ocarina of time is death mountain and gerudo desert, death mountain had 
 everything in it, the volcano crater which had the temple, the dodongo cavern, the great fairy 
 at the top and the biggoron sword, maybe i just like it more because its the original. Gerudo desert 
 is no question, the all female tribe conquers the title right away, but the big fortress and leap 
 with epona and the wasteland and collossus is forever the best gerudo creation. But lake hylia, 
 zoras domain is better, the waterfaslls are prettier and lake hylia is closer which is realistic 
 since in ocarina they were at seperate ends of the world. Theirs alot more zoras and you can see 
 a goron under water! As for hyrule castle town, it way more alive, people are numerous comp&acirc; red 
 to the other, but not being able to talk to each one of them and go threw each door is less appealing. 
 When u venture forth to the end of the game to hyrule castle, youll notice how more immense it 
 is from ganons castle bu then again both are not very long to complete. Comparing Hyrule field 
 to the ocarina one is hard to decide which one is better, since there is no lon lon ranch in the 
 middle of the whole world, that denies one of the true zelda experiances alhough theres a ranch 
 at the most southern of the world. Hyrule field is what it is suppose to be, bigger and a fragment 
 of fields in each corner of the earth. Ordon is new to the hyrule map, but if they put it there 
 to replace kokiri, i prefer kokiri village anyday. twilight princess has the sacred grove in it... this 
 is where it confuses me since the temple of time is issued there, but in the previous zelda (in 
 timeline) the temple of time was in castle town, so that leaves me confused, but the way he enters 
 the door in a black and white pattern is nice. now the two things i have to complain about twilight 
 princess is for one, the music. The music is beautiful in the zelda world, the orchestrated zelda 
 lullaby and the lost woods, and all the other segments of the ocarina with the violin is priceless, 
 twilight princess offers many of those songs, but their either lousy ugly howling wolf songs or 
 themes not orchestrated. The other thing is the clothes, the green one is fine, the blue one is 
 fine but the helmet is dorky, but the magic armour is torture, sure it looks tremendouslt cool, 
 but its just not zelda, link never has any amrour, the goron tunic or something would have been 
 way better, since the magic armour take off rupees if u just stand with it and if you get hit the 
 ruppees go way down, thats a turn off for me. Theres anothe thing to be said, there is a twilight 
 mirror with twilight shards but there is no mirror shield!!! The mirror shield is something all 
 zelda fans adore, now we have a wooden shield that burns which is not the kokiri shield which had 
 a nice simble on it, and we have the all famous hylian shield, there was three tunics, so why wouldnt 
 there be three swords and shields! Even the biggoron sowrd would have been nice to have again, 
 espeically the mirror shield; they could have somehow implied it in the twilight palace which compared 
 to ocarina would be the desert collosus which is both the finbal temple before ganon. Oh and kokiri 
 village... i like better ocarina of time for death moutain and the kokiri village at the bottom, 
 first of all, it seems way too much like old western and second of all, it changed from ocarina 
 of time a whole lot, and even with the technology today it had the same number of people as ocarina 
 of time did! sure gorons lived their too, but there was missing the shiekah symbols ect.&nbsp; the 
 impaz in the forgotten place is WAY too much cowboy style, and its town with huge amount of houses 
 with no one living there but an old shiekah! if theyr were people living in that town occupying 
 minigames, shops and just houses to visit it would contribute alot to the game in my opinion. Needless 
 to say all my critisism to this game, they are just mere complaints about how the game couold have 
 been better, this game is to me the second best zelda game, it is quite the same as ocarina expcept 
 with more story telling in the middle of each dungeon. Twilgiht Princess gave what it was suppose 
 to, it sums up to one of the best games in the world, to me... Ocarina of time best game in the 
 world, twilgiht princess, second best game in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrafy1976
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  After playing a few minutes the game It was very easy to learn in how to use the controls. This 
 interaction makes the game more interesting. It&acute; s very difficult to release the control when 
 you start to play. The game story is very interesting too. When a part is finished it lets you 
 wanting to know what is going to happen next making the game more addictive. In a HDTV graphics, 
 using the cable included with the system looks average. I wish to test it with the component cable. 
 Sound is excellent and the speaker in the wiimote gives the sense of having the games gadgets in 
 tour hands. The pointing function makes easy the first person view and gives the player the feeling 
 of being really part of the game. If you are looking for a new gaming experience ZELDA TLP and 
 the Nintendo Wii is what you&acute; re looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCMac120
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was a great gaming experience. One of the best launch titles 
 for a console ever! Yes, it is ultimately a Gamecube ported game over to the Wii, but it is all 
 good. The controls are intuitive, and not overdone. The gameplay is great, and the story is just 
 spectacular.
  
  First off, when you begin the game, I must admit, it is a bit slow paced. It was a little too slow 
 paced for me. As for the opening part in the game, otherwise known as the introduction, it taught 
 you the basic controls for the new motion sensing gameplay brought to you by the Wiimote. What 
 made it take so long is at one point I was a little lost. I knew what I had to do (fishing) but 
 it was not working. I have to say, fishing in this game (using the rod YOU have) was kind of bad. 
 It takes forever, and half the time, feels as if you are not doing anything. Other than that, the 
 rest of the intro felt good.
  
  Passing the preliminaries, after you take off in the game, you really TAKE OFF. Hyrule is large 
 and vast land to explore this time around. So much to do, that you will not get bored. There are 
 10 temples in all, and many nooks and crannies of side quests and hidden caves throughout Hyrule 
 that you may explore. The side quests include finding various objects that do reward you hansomely. 
 There is also a wealth of weapons to use in the game. As usual, you shall have your Hero's Bow, 
 and the Longshot, but there are some new weapons in the game to use never before seen in a Zelda 
 game, and they add a lot of gameplay mechanics to the game and more depth to exploration, as sometimes 
 you'll only be able to get to certain areas using the new items.
  
  Best of all in this game is the story. It has such an immersive story, with some twists and turns 
 along the way. It is not hard to follow, easy to get into, and an enjoyable experience.
  
  Of course, this time around, you shall change into a magical beast, the wolf. It is really nothing 
 special IMO, and when it comes to fighting, I prefer being Link in Human form. The Wolf form really 
 wasn't flesed out like it should have been. Other drawbacks are that the Wiimote sounds are a little 
 cheap sounding, not terrible, and the boss fights are too easy.
  
  Other than that, you'll find a great gaming experience in Legend of Zelda: Twlight Princess, as 
 it offers a great story, great gameplay, and some memorable Temples and caves to explore. With 
 many fun side quests to complete and a lot of hidden areas in the Vast land of Hyrule, Twilight 
 Princess will easily take you 40 - 100 hours to complete. Doing story alone, it may take you about 
 20+ hours, but that's no fun. I recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fellow-NY417
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the greatest games Ive ever played, really fun and exciting only I expected better 
 graphics. It's gameplay is revolutionary with the wiimote and the quests are fun and exciting. 
 The storyline is nice and immersive. The soundtrack was somewhat disappointing, I didn't really 
 like the music in the game and that could have been vastly improved. Also, the graphics were not 
 at all what I expected. They could have been a lot better. However, the awesome gameplay partially 
 makes up for the graphics. Nintendo should keep going with Zelda series, this being the best, and 
 it should improve the graphics and sountrack next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talon112991
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best, there is no doubt about it, it beats every game i own
  The wii controls are fun and arent that hard to get used to.... I was reading that people think 
 the graphics are bad.... THEY ARE NOT THAT BAD!!! AND JUST BECAUSE THE GRAPHICS ARE NOT AS GREAT 
 AS SOME OTHER GAMES DOES NOT GIVE YOU A RIGHT TO GIVE A LOW SCORE. And to those people who are 
 whining about text reading, stop ur bawling, its not that bad there is words you have to read. 
 have we became such a lazy country that we hate wen we have to take the time to read... this is 
 the best game hands down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuDEwithAGuN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  UNBELIEVABLE!! It's hard to put this game into words. I had to write a review because my bro scored 
 it a 1.0 on my account. He did this to piss me off because he knows how much I love this game. 
 If anyone reading this is wondering if they should pick it up... WTF are you still reading this 
 for then, run, run now, grab a wii, buy this game. Trust me, you will not be disapointed. This 
 game is amazing and a true follow up to Ocarina. It may not be as good as it but it's damn good. 
 What are you waiting for?? Save Hyrule!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendomaster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight is an amazing game due to how it immersive the player into the game 
 like never before. When you execute sword slashes it feels like your are actually doing it. The 
 graphics are good but not fantastic due to the power of the X-box 360 and PS3. But it about Twilight 
 Princess is about gameplay. The games bosses is a bit on the easy side I would prefer them to be 
 alittle more difficult either way the story is one the the best iv'e played in a game. The ememies 
 are memorable you will recognize the zoras and the gorons. The new horseback mechancic add a new 
 dimension. The Wolf forms also does the same you can sniff and dig to find hiddden items and passage 
 ways. The game is incredibly long it took me 50 plus hours to finish the game after you beat the 
 final boss there is so much more to do from side quests to trying the catching all the fish. This 
 is why Nintendo made the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda Series has progressed the last few years, but this one blew the series to a place its 
 never been before: a world of stunning graphics and characters. The game play, however, can at 
 times be irritating, but the eventual result of figuring it out makes it very rewarding. It's all 
 it's cracked up to be, but here are the good and the bad: Good: great graphics, well written storyline, 
 follows with good presentation, makes a complex game fun for the first time in years, updates to 
 Link's adult life
  
  Bad: Sound is a bit dated, game play with the Wii remote can be complex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoLuffy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This, as I said above, is the best Zelda game to date. Using the Wii remote, you can do things 
 such as swipe your sword, aim with our slingshot/boomerang/bow, and perform other tasks. The graphics 
 are some of the best from any Zelda game, and has a little more of a realistic touch than the other 
 games, as well as a darker mood. New to the Zelda world is the realm of the Twilight, where Link 
 transforms into a wolf, and gets aid from Midna, a resident of the ever-ominous Twilight. This 
 game pulls out all of the stops, and is the most anticipated Zelda game, in my view. I give this 
 excellent installment to the Zelda Universe a 10/10. Great job again, Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootsie_ann
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I honestly couldn't wait for this game to come out
  once i saw the trailers. and after a LONG while, it finally came out!
  
  and im happy to say, 
 this is one of the best
  zelda games yet! it has everything a video gamer would like their
  video games. GREAT GAMEPLAY
  GREAT STORYLINE GREAT CHARACTERS and KICK@SS BOSSES. this game just 
 had everything, the end!
  
  okay, so the graphics aren't great as PS3 or XBOX,
  but so what?
  graphics isnt all that important when talking about a good game. to me, the graphics 
 were terrific. Its said it's for gamecube graphics but i mean, this is some good stuff!
  and i think nintendo did an excellent job :D!
  
  score for zelda kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyclotron3000
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  You're about .01% through the game when it comes to a screeching, crashing halt. I've been at the 
 same spot for over an hour, trying to catch a fish. It's almost impossible (and yes, I've read 
 all of the games guides) . This kind of extreme difficulty, placed so early in the game, completely 
 ruins the experience. From what I understand, it's completely random whether or not you catch a 
 fish. It could take 10 seconds, it could take 5 hours! What could have been an all-time classic 
 in the Zelda series ends up a frustrating fishing game. Well, at least the disc will make for a 
 good coaster. I'm done with this one. I think I'll go and play The Adventure of Link on my GBA. 
 At least that doesn't have fishing.
  
  For shame, Nintendo, for shame!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlitonsp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the sequel to Ocarina of Time, and Wind Waker, two of the 
 greatest games of all time, and this game is just as amazing. Many people thought this game would 
 first come out on the Gamecube, but this game was first released for the Wii, then the Gamecube, 
 with the only difference being Gameplay. This game is not taken in the direct shoes of the Previous 
 Zelda games though, because the story is following along the same lines as Wind Waker, otherwise 
 saying that the souls of Link, Zelda, and Ganondorf are consistently being reincarnated. Twilight 
 Princess has one of the darkest stories I have ever seen in a game, but then again, with a twilight 
 realm, what the hell do you really expect?
  
  I might as well start describing what makes this game so great in from the top of Gamespot's scoreboard, 
 Gameplay. This is a bit different from the usual Zelda controls, but I believe that since there 
 are different ways to do different things, you can do more, with less. The sword is no longer handled 
 with a button, (except in minor variations) you now use minor shaking of the nunchuk and Wii-mote 
 to use the sword. The shield is also used whenever you lock on to anything, pretty much blocking 
 you from anything, even if you don't have the sword out. All the traditional Zelda weapons are 
 there, you got the Bow &amp; Arrow, Bombs, Hookshot, and some classic assistants, like the bottle. 
 There is also now a whole new set of interesting items, such as a Ball &amp; Chain, a Double hookshot, 
 a sniper scope, and the ability to combine bombs and arrows. Something that the game-makers have 
 mentioned consistently is the Fishing, the fishing is extraordinarily realistic, on any day you 
 choose, you can just fish at a water hole, just don't think that it is easy. Of course with the 
 new controller comes new question, but no, your arms won't get tired playing this game, the pointer 
 is only used for the Bow, Ball &amp; Chain, Slingshot, and hookshot, and as long as you're not 
 off center, its very easy to get used to. All in all the gameplay is very easy to get used to in 
 this game, not tiring at all, very simple, and very, very fun.
  
  Of course, this game was meant to be on the Game cube, which means that its graphics are a little 
 behind the times, which it really is. Although Link looks very detailed, many of the characters 
 look very shady, and a bit low on detail. But this game has such absolutely amazing Art, that it 
 is hard to say this game has Bad graphics, the buildings and the whole environment, (this game 
 is huge, so that's saying a lot) is so artistically creative, that you won't really pay attention 
 to the details. But then again, a couple of the characters look excessively like cartoons, and 
 lack detail, and considering that's NOT what Nintendo is trying to do, that knocked it down a peg. 
 There is something a bit weird though, although the characters are not super-detailed, (except 
 Zelda, Link, and Midna) the weapons are, the everything you get, looks real, even money, fish and 
 water, even looks real, and considering that they just came off of Wind Waker, this scores a 9.
 
  
  The audio is a bit of a disappointment, because of two things, the music is very weak for this 
 day and age, but mainly the lack of voice acting. First I'll talk on what they did right, the sound 
 effects are done beautifully, and they have sounds for human feet hitting grass, concrete, rocks, 
 animal feet, and even those violent attacks. In mini cut scenes, they have minor sound effects 
 to signal speaking, but it's not very good for this Generation, where's the dark voice acting, 
 it totally kills the atmosphere since everything has to be read. The music is also really repetitive, 
 and anyone who has played any other Zelda game will feel that the music is very familiar, with 
 no private orchestra or any of the other things you see in the other hit games. It is a total mix 
 with audio, but I will give it an 8.
  
  This game will take you 40 to 100 hours to go though depending on how smart and how fast you are, 
 that is a REALLY long time for an Action Adventure, and I guarantee you, that with a game as fun 
 as this one, your going to want to come back. There are also many side quests you can do to improve 
 some of your utilities, as well earn you some great stuff. But like all RPG's and Action Adventures, 
 this game ends but they do everything they can to keep you coming back, and it works!
  
  I guarantee you that you will like this game, the only way you won't like this game is if you are 
 the biggest Retard in the world, that does not like to think, and even so, why would you be playing 
 a Zelda Game? Enjoy.
  
  *All Credits for the word Truthiness go to Stephen Colbert of the Colbert Report, but I thought 
 of Fantastical* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is without a doubt one of the best things Nintendo has ever 
 spit out of it's game making factory.
  
  Gameplay: While the game mechanics you will find here are pretty much what you expect, it is worth 
 noting that the Wii remote helps not hinders the gameplay. In fact, I would much rather use the 
 Wii remote to swing a sword and aim a bow instead of using a simple button and analog stick. However, 
 before I get into the controls, let me first give you some background info on the storyline and 
 characters.
  As you can imagine, you start as a ranch hand named Link. One day while readying your travels to 
 Hyrule, you and two other people (Colin and Ilia) are attacked by two orcish looking fiends. Ilia 
 and Colin are kidnapped, and you remain unconscious until it is too late to catch up with the fiends. 
 After awaking, you rashly run after them and wind up facing a creepy looking wall of Twilight. 
 You are sucked in, and transformed into a wolf. Slightly afterward, you meet Midna, an at first 
 selfish and witty imp looking creature. From there, your journey begins.
  Now, as far as the controls go, I really couldn't ask for much better. The remote is responsive 
 to your movements, and rarely will you ever find too many problems with the sword controls. Particularly 
 though, using the pointer in the Wii remote is what makes the controls here enhanced and superior 
 to the GCN version of Twilight Princess. Pointing with the remote to shoot a bow is efficient and 
 fun at the same time. Additionally, you use the same concepts as a wolf, only you are doing different 
 actions instead. I have to admit though that being a wolf is almost kind of meh , because there 
 really isn't anything that will surprise you or get excited about with using the wolf. As far as 
 controls go, my only complaint would be using the nunchuk for bashing enemies with your shield. 
 From the experience I have had, the nunchuk doesn't seem to recognize very well the difference 
 between a spin attack (you shake the nunchuk to do a spin attack) and a shield bash... which actually 
 can be frustrating when you are battling armored enemies like Darknuts. Other than this, I have 
 never gotten tired or cramped from using the remote in this lengthy and epic game.... and chances 
 are you won't either.
  Now, while the controls work well, it is disappointing to see that combat is usually very easy. 
 Rarely will you end up in a normal battle or even boss battle where you have trouble beating the 
 enemy. Don't get me wrong, it is a lot of fun to swing the remote and slash your enemies, but never 
 will there be a point where you feel like you should conserve your hearts or where you feel your 
 in danger of getting a Game Over . In that sense, Twilight Princess is fairly easy. However, the 
 puzzles and dungeons are a different story. I give credit to Nintendo, because the dungeon layout 
 and puzzle design is top notch and likely the best I have yet to see in a Zelda game. The Zelda 
 series is definitely one of those Love it but hate it instances... you hate getting stuck in dungeons, 
 but you love to go through the dungeon and see what is waiting at the end at the same time. This 
 indeed is what Zelda is all about, and Nintendo definitely has delivered on that end. The game 
 has the same number of dungeons as Ocarina of Time, but the dungeons are much bigger and complex 
 in comparison. In addition to this, one thing we have all looked forward to are the immersive horseback 
 battles. Rest assured that they are here and they are fun, especially one particular battle that 
 you fight on horseback... but I won't spoil it for anyone.
  Up to now, everything I have mentioned has been postive.... but like any other game Twilight Princess 
 has its flaws. Two major flaws actually. For one thing, while the game has plenty of extra things 
 to do, the sidequests aren't as fun and immersive as in a game like Majora's Mask or even Ocarina 
 of Time. Particularly, I found the Castle Town in Twilight Princess to be unusually small and cluttered 
 compared to Clock Town or even some of the islands in WindWaker. Is it me, or do the people in 
 Twilight Princess not have too many problems? In fact, on a sidenote, something I found odd was 
 that nowhere in the game was there a turning point that spelled out There is a big problem in Hyrule 
 right now, and evil is back. In fact, civilians never mention anything of it, and neither does 
 anybody until slightly later in the game. This may be an odd complaint, but something I noticed. 
 I also feel slightly disappointed by the story, mainly because it left too many questions and not 
 enough answers. In fact, the story is nonexistent throughout most of the game and doesn't heat 
 up until about 3/4 of the way into the game. A lot of the character development seemed left out 
 too, of course I can't go into specifics though or I would ruin the game for you all. The one great 
 addition character wise to the series though is Midna, she simply put shows more personality than 
 a lot of video game characters you see out there.
  Lastly, my final notable complaint is that this game just didn't take any, or didn't take enough 
 risks. WindWaker had the ocean and the visual appearance, Majora's Mask had the time based gameplay, 
 and Ocarina of Time revolutionized the series and gaming with an entry into 3D. Twilight Princess 
 though does nothing that we wouldn't expect, and that is definitely its biggest flaw. In a way, 
 it feels too much like Zelda for its own good.... as odd as that sounds. Some parts of the game 
 are very predictable, and you won't get the Wow factor you got in the story in WindWaker as you 
 will in Twilight Princess' story. The Twilight world was a nice and unique in its own way touch 
 to Twilight Princess, but when you consider that this concept of light and dark was already used 
 in A Link to The Past and other big franchises like Metroid it really isn't something Nintendo 
 took a risk on. The strange part is the few risks that Nintendo did take were not so good ones, 
 like leaving out a few fan favorite items and taking out the musical aspect of the series seen 
 in all of the previous 3D Zelda's.
  To summarize, Twilight Princess is definitely going to make Zelda fans happy with the gameplay, 
 even if the story isn't as fantastic as you may have hoped. Mostly everything about this game is 
 enjoyable, and the positives definitely put the negative aspects into shadows .
  
  Graphics: The visuals in Twilight Princess are truly amazing when you consider that this is a Gamecube 
 developed game. It truly is beautiful and the best looking game you will find in that generation, 
 however it is apparent that Nintendo didn't make any effort to update the visuals for the Wii. 
 My theory is that it was intentional to give us something to look forward to in the next Zelda, 
 but still the only addition to the visuals when being transferred from Gamecube to Wii is the 16x9 
 widescreen, which is only enjoyable assuming you like to play games in widescreen. Regardless of 
 the minor complaints though, Twilight Princess is a work of art. The characters show emotion, the 
 water has a realistic effect, and the enemies look fierce enough to make you wimper. Artistically, 
 Twilight Princess is one of the greatest achievements in video games. If you are looking at things 
 in a technical perspective though, you may not be as impressed if you are trying to compare the 
 Wii version of Twilight Princess to games on other platforms. Specifically the textures look kind 
 of poor even for a Gamecube game, which shows that there is at least room for improvement (which 
 can be expected with any game) ... especially since this is categorized as a Wii game. Of course, 
 certain parts of the game will make you say wow like the unusually shinyness of Link's shield. 
 Twilight Princess is visually a beautiful game with a living breathing world.
  
  Sound: The sound here is surprisingly different in comparison to some of the other Zelda games. 
 You will actually find that the game uses more remixes than original music, but the original music 
 in here is definitely fantastic and has that classic Zelda feel. If I had to pick one particularly, 
 it would for sure be the Hyrule Field theme... which shows quality beyond what you would expect. 
 The other bits of remixed music is great as well, even if you are still left wishing you had seen 
 more original music like in WindWaker. The music is definitely not quite as good as I had hoped, 
 but still great nonetheless.
  As far as sound effects go, the speaker quality may not be all that good but it does add a new 
 element into the gameplay surprisingly. At first, you will hate the speaker and will want to turn 
 it off... but then as soon as you turn off the speaker the sounds coming from the TV will seem 
 dull in comparison to what was found in the speaker. The speaker really is only good for the game 
 depending on how you look at things. I think it is great to hear the bow thwip in the speaker when 
 you shoot, but even if you don't you are given the option to turn off the speaker. Also, as far 
 as the voice over nonexistence is concerned, I really can't see where it hurts the game. In a game 
 like this you have an image of what they sound like, and if you ever were to hear Ganon or Link 
 speak you may actually be disappointed by there voices. I really do not see anything wrong with 
 the nonexistence of voice over... although if you don't like to read (or can't read) I guess it 
 would be a problem.
  
  Value: The value in this game is not comparable to any other action adventure game in current existence. 
 For most the story will last you anywhere from 40-50 hours (it took me around 48 hours to beat 
 the game) , and about 70 hours to complete all of the sidequests. With the humongous world in Twilight 
 Princess, chances are you won't be getting bored with this game any time soon after purchasing 
 the game. There are so many heart pieces to find, so many poes to kill, so many bugs to collect 
 that this game is top notch in the value department.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess may not have revolutionized gaming like Ocarina 
 of Time did, but it does satisfy Zelda gamers in need and everyday gamers that are looking for 
 a long, epic, and extremely fun and challenging experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharx75
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Let's get right down to the stuff you want to know, my opinion on Twilight Princess.
  
  Playing through Twilight Princess had to be one of the most enjoyable experiences I have ever had. 
 The scale on which Hyrule was based was fantastic, and it felt large enough to actually be a predecessor 
 for the Great Sea of Wind Waker. Although, there were times during the story sections that has 
 too much running from place to place, that is if you do not have access to the instant teleportation 
 of the Twilight Portals.
  
  The dungeons were laid out rather nicely, as with the others in the series. Normally, I think that 
 Zelda puzzles are rather unchallenging, however on occasional reruns through OOT I still get stuck 
 in the Water Temple, this time I was stumped multiple times in dungeons, although most of the time 
 would simply stop and look at tools and the surroundings, I could solve it in a couple minutes.
 
  
  The story surrounding Twilight Princess is probably my favorite of the Zelda stories. I never really 
 wanted to stop playing because I couldn't stand not knowing how some things came to be and such. 
 There were a few laughs to be had, like the first time you get to Death Mountain. There are some 
 obvious influences from other games present in TP (Panzer Dragoon and Shadow of the Colossus to 
 name a few) . Also, there are plenty of side things to do to keep you occupied, if you choose to 
 not proceed with main story immediately.
  
  The graphics for general areas were pretty well done. Water in TP has to be the best graphical 
 representation I've seen to date. Whilst traveling through the second to last dungeon (Palace of 
 Twilight) there was one particular spot where my mouth just dropped and I let out a silent Wow... 
 that is freakin' beautiful. 
  
  Now, the gripes. When certain enemies have been defeated and Link sheathes his sword, there is 
 a minor graphical glitch, where the sword goes directly through his hat. This, bugged me quite 
 a bit. I'm very big into game music, this often leads me to judge the music usually more so, than 
 the rest. The music in Twilight Princess is very nice, for a synth. The game could have had a much 
 more epic feel and more emotion if the music had been orchestrated and well, not synthesized. For 
 shame, Koji Kondo. Finally, the enemies. Way too easy. I was often more concerned how hard dungeon 
 puzzles were, than the bosses at the end. Weak spots, easy to figure out. Strategies for evading 
 attacks, really easy to solve.
  
  Zelda: Twlight Princess, definitely worth every penny, if you have a Wii or GC. If you don't have 
 a Wii or Gamecube? Go pick one up to play this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menes40
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  With an easy 40+ hours of game play, this game is sure to keep any Zelda fan content until the 
 final match between Link and Ganondorf. How ever, lately in Zelda games you have different beginnings, 
 in this game, the only fairy there is is the cursor for the Wii mote that does not do anything. 
 and you start in a newly named village. but i guess I'm just a bigger fan of old school Zelda... 
 Overall Game play is great, not temple-to-temple... many obstacles, great for hours of amusement. 
 As always, Zelda games will have you guessing whats next until you finally find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muhamaghat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Best zelda game. Cool looking items, cool visuals in both light and twilight worlds, fun to play, 
 and controls are as any zelda game, just new controller layout. Fairly easy. coulda made it more 
 difficult... for the bosses. the puzzles confused me. but their good. don't forget to save.. so 
 much time made up. Extremely good game !!. Its got good effects with everything. Fighting is cool, 
 the fishing is awesome, the bomb arrows :P, claw shot !. Very good game, Gameplay is good, Sound 
 is very well done, Its so worth the wait, and the money, It is a very fun game to play. bosses 
 look cool as ever, and the people look nicely detailed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkluigi5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  YES! The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an amazing game for the Wii. I bought itwith my 
 Wii, and i must say, I am not disappointed. There are supposedly anywhere from 40-70 hours of gameplay 
 onthis baby, and I am not letting any of them slip through my fingers! The new style of gameplay 
 works so well it is like Zelda is the perfect game for the Wii. There are these things called graphics, 
 which, to Nintendo's standards, are fabulous. There is music from old Zelda games in here, with 
 a little remix on each of them. I just LOVE this game so much, there is no way im letting this 
 game go. I urge you to pick this game up at the nearest store. One great factor of the game is 
 that there is so much to do. From collecting Heart pieces, golden bugs, and poes, there are minigames, 
 upgrades, and fish to catch!!
  This game has everything! Yet, there is a dark side to the good (no pun intended) . The bosses and 
 enemies are way too easy, no challenge at all. If the enemies were tougher, it would gain a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  What more can I say that has not been said about this game? I played 40+ hours and passed the game 
 last week. I have never been hooked by a game in the same way before. This is an all-around great 
 game. Looks great. Controls on the Wiimote feel integrated perfectly with Link and his actions. 
 The little stuff in the game (bugs and Poe's for example) add more value and replayability to the 
 game. The music and sounds fit the game.
  
  If you have a Wii and you don't have Zelda go out and get it... now... don't waste another day not 
 owning the best Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teufelherz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay.
  All those who have played OoT, Majoras Mask or the Wind Waker will find Twilight Princess control 
 scheme kind of easy to pick. The Wii remote and nunchuk work well and in a way, they kind of help 
 making some things easier, like when using the slingshot or your bow, but it does make it harder 
 sometimes to swing your sword just the way you want to. It does give you the impression that the 
 game needed a little more tweaking on this area. The puzzles are ok and offer a challenge for people 
 who have played a Zelda title before since they know how the dungeons work, but for those who have 
 never played a Zelda game in their life, Im pretty sure they would have a hard time solving them 
 without getting a few more hints.
  Graphics.
  The graphics are by far the best found on the Wii right now. The characters and enemies look great 
 as do the environments. When in wolf form, every time you use your senses to pick up scents or 
 hear the twilight inhabitants, everything around you looks a bit different. All in all, Twilight 
 princess has some great graphics. The only complaint would be about those first hours into the 
 game regarding the way Link looks: He doesnt really look that manly for a hero (or compared to 
 the way he has in previous versions) . Even my girlfriend thinks the Link from Wind Waker looks 
 more like a boy.
  Sound.
  Twilight Princess has great sound. You get audio tips from the Wii remote which I think is a great 
 idea. Old Zelda fans will recognize a lot of the sounds in this game, as they are just updated 
 versions. We all love that classic Zelda theme and its there. I just wish that they came up with 
 something more orchestrated and have some background music that would really intensify the experience.
 
  Value.
  The only thing I have to say about the value of the games is that although it might not be the 
 best Zelda to date, it is still a must have for all Zelda fans out there or even if you just have 
 a Wii and want some long lasting and entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZvilleEagles
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Looking back, Ive realized that this was easily one of the best games I have come across. This 
 game beats OoT by inches in my opinion. The only area TP falls short is that it didnt have as 
 much of a jaw-dropping moment as OoT. OoT had its moment when you came out of the woods and entered 
 Hyrule Field for the first time. That will ALWAYS be my best video game moment of my life. This 
 game is fantastic, however. The Wii-mote is used perfectly and creates a much more interesting 
 game play. There are tons of side-missions that I wish I had taken the time to do. The creative 
 use of weapons and items is unparallel. The level design and dungeons are fantastic and inspiring. 
 The puzzles are tough and challenging. I had to look up help on the internet to beat parts of the 
 game. The boss battles were very fun, but sometimes they were rather easy. The scenery is wonderful. 
 Zoras Domain is even more incredible than it was in OoT. The graphics arent perfect but who cares? 
 Its Zelda! The game sound is amazing even though there isn't voice over. The wii-mote sounds are 
 cheesy, but that's not the fault of the game. Rather it is the fault of the system. Also, the game 
 has a very unique set of characters that will be remembered for generations. I rarely will give 
 a game a 10/10, but this game clearly deserves it. The only thing that was truly disappointing 
 in this game was that it had to end. If I had it my way, I this game would go on forever. The main 
 reason I bought the Wii in November was to buy this game. And let me tell you... I am not disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakk_3
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The new Legend of Zelda proves that raw processing power doesn't make great games. The graphics, 
 despite low textures, still manage to look incredible. The sound is not superb, but the tunes that 
 play are very catchy and artistically very well done.
  At first, I disliked swinging the sword with the Wiimote, but after about an hour or two it seems 
 to work very well. It immerses you in the game more, and when I went back to the Windwaker on Gamecube, 
 playing with the gamepad just didn't feel right.
  I was worried that this game was being overrated by other websites, such as IGN, just because of 
 all the hype it had gotten, and the fact that it was a Zelda game. But now, after playing, I do 
 believe it is Gamespot that are in error. This game is a magical experience. The worlds are huge, 
 and I had hoped that it would never end. My only complaint was that the first 3 or 4 hours were 
 rather slow, but trust me, it picks up, and playing through this game is an experience that you 
 will not want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patMANpv
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the most captivating games I have played in a 
 long time. First off, the game is flat out gorgeous. The Wii will never be able to compete with 
 the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3's graphical capabilities. However, this games shows us that, though 
 the Wii maybe less powerful, it can be just a visually stunning.
  
  Like every Zelda game, the basic overall plot is the same, Link must save Hyrule from evil using 
 his sword and shield, plus an assortment of other goods he picks up as he navigates his way through 
 various dungeons. However, like every Zelda before it, Twilight Princess adds it's own unique spin 
 on the classic Zelda story. A cloud of twilight has covered parts of Hyrule and it is Link's mission 
 to restore light to the land of Hyrule. However, whenever Link moves into the twilight he transforms 
 into a wolf. He meets a twilight creature named Midna who, atop Wolf Link's back, helps him navigate 
 the twilight.
  
  As Link you must navigate Hyrule in both regular and wolf form. This game does a great job of keeping 
 the controls similar between the two forms, but yet giving both forms their own unique abilities 
 and inabilities.
  
  The use of the Wii remote in this game is integrated very well, you use the Wii remote like your 
 sword and to aim your slingshot, bow and arrow, etc. The controls are pretty easy to get used to 
 and Twilight Princess gives the player a well balanced learning curve. This game is easily the 
 best game out on any of the three Next Gen consoles out today. This game is an epic adventure that 
 brilliantly melds the classic Zelda gameplay with the new, innovative Wii controls. A great game 
 that is an essential component in every Wii owner's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I popped in the new Legend of Zelda for Nintendo Wii and it seems to be pretty fun. I have only 
 spent a few hours on it but just like the others in the series your skill level will grow the longer 
 you play.
  
  The Good...
  The new interactivity provided by the Wiimote is pretty slick. It takes a bit getting used to but 
 it will make the game more enjoyable. If you ever played Zelda on 64 you will be right at home 
 in this version. Personally I think that was one of the best games ever made.
  
  
  The Bad...
  I was really surprised to see how much you need to read in this game. Maybe Nintendo 
 wanted to make it educational but it is kinda lame and boring. 50/50 would of been cool and I think 
 I will be able to tolerate it. The graphics aren't breathtaking. They are good or better than previous 
 versions but I was still expecting more out of this next generation console.
  
  But all that aside game play is where the magic happens and The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 has that at the heart of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKage
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games like these in the world... but Twilight Princess is a definite to buy for 
 the Wii.
  
  Gameplay?
  Pure Excellence. Every inch and aspect of the game is just pure brilliance. The handling is great, 
 the motion is great and everything else about it. It's not just wagging you wii remote around like 
 an idiot, you actually have to thing about what moves to pull off at the right time. Furthermore, 
 as you progress along the game, you'll come across golden wolves which give you a new move to help 
 you in battle.
  
  Graphics?
  Not much to say, but VERY GOOD! The graphics are fantastic, even by the wii's standards! Trust 
 me on this, you won't be put off by the graphics because they are just great quality.
  
  Replay value?
  There are many to speak of. After you have completed the game, you can take the 
 task of collecting all the golden bugs in the game, try and get all the heart pieces, try to buy 
 everything, and MUCH, MUCH MORE! It's not one of those games that once you finished there's nothing 
 else to do, but this has many, many side quests to do to keep you busy for hours.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely one to look out for. Even if you are not a Zelda fan, you will 
 love the action-packed game.
  
  10/10
  Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamagig
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Link unsheathes his sword for his 13th adventure (not including the rubbish CD-i games!) , and it 
 turns out that this is his best yet. This may even be better that Ocarina of Time!
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is outstanding. It sums up as a mixture of tense action sequences, and 
 cunning puzzles. The scope of some of these puzzles is truly huge, spanning several rooms and requiring 
 you to search every nook and cranny. Truth be told this can get slightly tedious sometimes but 
 this never lasts long and you will soon be back to having a great time. The action sequences are 
 amazing as well. You learn new attacks as you progress through the game, and using new moves to 
 defeat tougher enemies is a great feeling. It is so much more advanced than simply swiping you 
 Wii-Mote to swipe your sword, yet it never gets complicated. In fact, the controls work perfectly. 
 Even something so simple as thrusting your Nunchuck forward to smack the enemy with your shield 
 is spot on!
  
  Graphics - The graphics in Twilight Princess are good. No, they are not up to scratch with todays 
 amazing technical standards but they get the job done and they certainly aren't bad. While most 
 standard textures look a bit blurry when you get up close and aren't anything special, the character 
 models look fantastic! Link looks great and animates perfectly. Various creatures such as the Zoras 
 and Gorons have been redesigned and look more how they should (the Gorons being big strong beasts 
 with lots of tribal tattoos and muscle) . There is a certain boss that you will probably encounter 
 about 20 hours in that looks perfect, and by perfect I mean, PERFECT.
  
  Sound - The sound is extremely satisfying. You will hear the sounds of your sword clashing, you 
 bow being released, that awesome zelda jingle you get when you find a new item, and many more coming 
 out of the Wii-Motes speaker. The music fits the mood perfectly, and whether you are in danger, 
 in a hurry, or kicking back and relaxing, the music will sound right.
  
  Value - This game has about 50 hours worth of playtime in it. Yes, 50! You get your moneys worth 
 with this title...
  
  So, should you get this game? The short answer: YES! This game is reason enough to get a Wii console. 
 You will find nothing quite as satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreDREb13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  It's been quite a long while since I've written my first Twilight Princess review. After looking 
 it over, I can only say that it's not one of my best. Why, you ask? First off, my grammar wasn't 
 the highest form of excellence. Another reason would be that I only got as far as the Forest Temple. 
 Incase you're wondering, that's barely anything.
  
  So here I am, back again, making an new review for Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. So, where 
 do I start? Well, I'll start off with this: Nintendo has delivered us yet another great game.
 
  
  Graphics, well, of course they won't be great; you all should know that. But they do a fair share 
 of providing a beautiful artistic experience throughout the whole game. The Twilight is perhaps 
 the most beautiful place of all. Of course, you're running around in a dark, evil demension where 
 there are enemies trying to kill you at every turn. But you just have to appreciate everything 
 that Nintendo has done to ensure that you like the of enemies killing you.
  
  Gameplay? Well, the Wii has created many interesting ways of doing what you usually do with a push 
 of a button. The most simple (and obvious) task would be to swing the Wii-mote to swing your sword. 
 Although, there is fishing; here you will cast it by holding 'A', throwing it back, and then flicking 
 it forward. Arrows; with the bow, you'll be pressing 'B' to aim, and aiming with the movement of 
 your Wii-mote. There are many other interesting control schemes thought up for the Wii, and they 
 seemed to have worked out very well. However, there will be times that, when you're in such a tight 
 spot, seeing where you're going could be a hassle due to the Wii's failing to not allow you to 
 look around.
  
  The sound is perhaps the most rewarding part of the game... okay, so it's not the rewarding part, 
 but it is very nice to listen to. From the action music while fighting enemies, to the sad piano 
 music while carrying a dying -- ... well, you'll just have to play the game to find out exactly what 
 I'm talking about. Of course, you wouldn't come to a Zelda game wondering, I hope the music is 
 good! You know it will be. So, I not need fret over this.
  
  So, all in all, I can safely say that this is another great Zelda game. Is it another Ocarina of 
 Time? No. Is it above average for a Zelda game? Perhaps, it all depends on an opinion. I will tell 
 you, though: this game, if having doubts, if worth renting. If you've played any other Zelda games, 
 go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great import from the nintendo gamecube there are a lot of things to do like upgradeing 
 your stuff like arrows bombs etc...... and also its about 50 to 60 hours if you collect all of the 
 stuff that is. and i also like the hidden skills and there are 7 skills to learn for me i only 
 got two left. the graphics suit this game as well the gameplay is great the sound is all right but 
 a bit fizzey at parts but i dont mind it as long it is a great game. the value of this is the right 
 price. so if you like zelda than buy this on the wii or nintendo gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronicMike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that the new Legend of Zelda will be on the Nintendo Wii, I had to be the happiest 
 man alive. Finally, people are actually able to interact with their video games, and there is no 
 better way then to do it with the new Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. However, this game does 
 have its flaws, but none of those flaws have to do with the gameplay. Allow me to explain.
  
  Fanboys these days are all about graphics. Me, personally, am not a huge graphic freak, but 
 come on, Nintendo could've easily done a better job on this department. From blocky environments 
 that could've easily been smoothed out, to the scenes where it seems their using the same graphic 
 engine that could've been used on the gamecube. But all in all, it's not a huge disappointment, 
 but it's just those little things that can bother any person playing this game. The battles that 
 you get into with other enemies, however, are georgeous. I love how the graphics look when you're 
 fighting enemies, and when you're riding Epona. To those who don't know Epona is, that is Link's 
 horse. The graphics could've been improved, but don't worry about it that much, this is Nintendo, 
 they never have the best graphics on the market, however, they always tend to have the best gameplay 
 on the market.
  
  Next up comes the big puppy of the game, the gameplay. From the ways that you fish in the game, 
 to the way Link fires his slingshot, it's such a blast to play with the motion sensitivity that 
 Nintendo has brought upon us. Going to hand in hand combat against those annoying gnomes is even 
 a blast to play. But the main thing that I enjoy more then anything, is fighting while riding Epona. 
 That's a blast. And yes, of course, the boss battles are key aspects to the game's high point. 
 If you're like me and want a fun game to play with you're new Nintendo Wii, this is DEFINATELY 
 the game to check out. You will have a blast playing it. Period.
  
  Sound. Wow. Who doesn't like the sound from Legend of Zelda games? Playing Twilight Princess and 
 not hearing the battle music, or the town music, you will definately be missing out on half the 
 fun.
  
  As far as value goes, it's definately a game to consider having in you're collection. Even if you 
 beat it, in the near future you're gonna be tempted to pop the disc back into you're Wii and start 
 playing again. There is no doubt about that.
  
  Oh boy. The tilt. The game can get very aggrivating sometimes and you'll just want to put down 
 the Wii remote and not play until the next day. But don't worry though, you will eventually go 
 back to it no matter how hard or menacing the game may be. Trust me on that one.
  
  Overall, this game should definately be in you're Nintendo Wii collection. Best Nintendo Wii game 
 on the market right now? Yes. Game of the Year candidate? Hell yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is filled with addictive game play, but while playing you 
 will feel like it's lacking something. Having to go back and get the light spirit's tears from 
 the bugs is tedious, especially having to do it 4 times. The Wind Waker seemed like a more solid 
 Zelda adventure even with its cartoony atmosphere because it had side quests that were just a bit 
 more fun and interesting. The boss battles seem incredibly stupid for someone who played Wind Waker 
 or other Zelda games. An addition to that, the boss battles were way too easy. You would think 
 that Nintendo would have done a better job since they kept us waiting for over 2 years since they 
 showed the first video of it at E3 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loizoskounios
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the game we've been waiting for. The real sequel of Ocarina Of Time. This game is just 
 great in every aspect of it. The graphics are totally flawless considering that the game is a port 
 from the Gamecube version and it doesn't use any of Wii's extra power.
  
  The sound is the usual sound you find in Zelda games. Not orchestrated but MIDI files. Still the 
 music fits the game and the sound effects are so realistic. I really hope that in the next Zelda 
 game the sound will be orchestrated plus there will be commentaries and dialogues instead of simple 
 subtitles.
  
  Next on, controls. People might be thinking whether to buy the Wii or the Gamecube version - mainly 
 because they think that they'll be getting tired by playing the Wii version by moving their hands 
 around just like they do with Wii Sports.. Totally wrong... You only lift your hands from your 
 laps for projectiles - bow, slingshot etc. Now on to the main question... how the sword works. 
 Using the sword is easy and realistic plus the aiming and all that stuff is so accurate and can 
 be done much faster by using the controller rather than an analog on the Gamecube version. Item 
 selection is really cool and smart because of the lack of buttons on the controller.
  
  As for the gameplay. I think the fact that I've played about 45 hours in less than a week and I've 
 only manage to complete the normal quest says a lot. There are still so many side quests and believe 
 me, I wouldn't have a problem to start a new game again because this game is so addictive. why the 
 game is worth its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  A young boy named Link from Ordon village has little to worry about until the day that a great 
 moblin arrives in his village, steals his horse Epona and kidnaps his friend Ilia. When Link sets 
 out to save them, he enters a Hyrule covered in darkness. Link is transformed into a wolf and put 
 in prison. However with the help of a strange and powerful creature named Midna, he escapes from 
 prison and he makes an agreement with Midna. Midna will help him return the light to Hyrule and 
 save his friends, as long as Link helps her get her hand on the fused shadows.
  
  Twilight Princess has one of the darkest stories in the Zelda franchise. It might not be that original 
 for a Zelda game, but it is still a very good story, with some of the best-looking cut-scenes in 
 video game history. I'm thankful that they made longer cut scenes than on any of the other games, 
 but even if you can't stand cut-scenes, you should like this game, because the cut-scenes are skippable. 
 Just press the  button twice.
  
  Twilight Princess sets a new standard in artistic design. I have never seen as impressive graphics 
 on any other game. Especially the twilight realm looks great. It really is art, not just normal 
 graphics. The music is also very good. Few of the soundtracks are very new. Midna's Lament and 
 the Main Theme are the best new songs. But a lot of old soundtracks have been given a makeover 
 making them really good.
  
  One of the first things I noticed when I started playing this game was how good the control scheme 
 was. You swing your sword with the wii remote, and you can swing it when you are running or even 
 riding Epona. It feels great to ride through Hyrule and battle moblins from the horseback. Among 
 the other improvements to the gameplay is aiming with the wii remote when using the bow or the 
 hookshot. Most times you can use the Z-targeting though. Mostly the combat system is to swing the 
 remote for normal attacks and shake the nunchuck for a spin attack, but you can also fresh it up 
 by finding the orange wolf, that is really a stalfos. He will teach you moves such as stabbing 
 your enemies after making them fall or one-hit enemies by drawing your sword at the right time. 
 A lot of gamers are frustrated by the auto-shielding, but I can't see why. It makes little difference.
 
  
  Twilight Princess does what a Zelda game is supposed to. It delivers quality dungeons with good 
 puzzles. Some puzzles are old, like pushing a block on ice. They are still good though. Some are 
 new, like when you have to make two stone statues find their places  one of them jumping in the 
 same direction you do, one in the opposite. The dungeons also deliver good bosses, though I guess 
 few of them are very original or challenging, so a little minus there.
  
  Maybe best of all is the fact that this is the longest Zelda games so far. There is eight dungeons 
 and also some quests besides the dungeons. For instance you have to help the group in Telma's bar, 
 once you have to escort her wagon and also returning light to Hyrule is not related to any dungeon. 
 You might throw in 40 hours or more the first time you play it, at least if you don't skip the 
 cut-scenes. If you want to try to finish the game as fast as possible, it helps you by recording 
 how much time you have spent, which is displayed on the save file. Twilight Princess is the first 
 Zelda game to have a teen age-line, so it might not be for everyone, but it is still quite a masterpiece 
 and should have a natural spot in every game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby2198
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  its a really wonderful game. the events are great, the graphics, music. the boss battle are in 
 the game is challenging and different, very unpredictable (in a good way) . the controls is new 
 and different, it makes the game beater than what it used to be in it original version. the world 
 map is huge there lots to explore its amazing. the wolf controls and the new style of the game 
 with the transformation and the new twilight powers. the combat on horse is awesome easy to attack 
 and get out of harms way with speed. its great. i give it two thumbs up i still play this game 
 very often and beat it about 10 times that how good it is. if you imagine your self in link's shoes 
 and feel his emotion. then you know its a great adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcortese
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Its obvious that this game has stood up and competed with the amount of hype that was given for 
 it. Zelda fans should not be disappointed and new players will love it. Other reviews focus on 
 graphic/sound etc in general, but its only fair if i go slightly in depth with a few of these.
 
  
  Gameplay: Storyline - The games storyline is superb for a Zelda game, although it may seem slightly 
 cliche, Nintendo has found a way to make the twilight realm look much different to, for example, 
 the dark world in 'A Link to the Past'. There are a few humorous moments as well as a few shocking 
 cut scenes that kind of make you go, NOOO!! Ofcoarse theres the ones that make you say YESSS!!! 
 but the NOOO!!! scenes are more epic. The only negiaive thing there is would be that they didn't 
 really sway from their standard 'Zelda gets captured, have to save the world' storyline, but that 
 i guess is what makes Zelda Unique.
  
  9/10
  
  Action - The actual running around, item using, swimming, and riding Link we all know and love 
 is back with a variety of new moves and sweet items. It is fun to actually run around slicing enemies, 
 as well as search for secrets hidden all over the place. It is very well done. There are no flaws 
 here other than the lack of some items that should have appeared for example fire and ice arrows. 
 But what can you do! Its also fairly easy, which isnt the best thing for hardcore gamers, but it 
 fixes that up with good long gameplay. The biggest disapointment was the boss fights. Although 
 huge, fun to beat, and ridiculously good looking, they can be beaten without a heart taken off, 
 and in about 3 - 5 minutes.
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  Backgrounds - The backgrounds are very well drawn. You can see them in the distance over hyrule 
 field and in many places. They are crisp and fit the scenery perfectly. Good job!
  
  10/10
  
  3d Models and Sprites - They rock. Seriously. Link looks awesome, Minda looks awsome, 
 and every wall, item and character look sweet as. The only problem i'd say were the textures. Some 
 of them looked very pixelated, but only if viewed up close.
  
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound Effects - The sound effects are great, but they're nothing to really notice. Sounds coming 
 from the wii mote sounds horrible and tacky, but sounds coming from the actual game were very nice.
 
  
  7/10
  
  Music - The music was lovely. New and nostalgic. Every tune matched its environment accordingly. 
 ofcoarse MIDI was not as good as orchestrated, but it still sounds good otherwise. Some of the 
 pieces of music were memorable, which is good because it shows that the song is original and distinguishable.
 
  
  8/10
  
  Value:
  
  Main story - The main storyline is huge. It'l take you around 40 hours straight to complete, not 
 to mention any of the side quests. It is very hearty and well made, you'll enjoy every second of 
 the many dungeons and tasks you have to complete.
  
  10/10
  
  Side quests - There is plenty to do after you finish the game, but once they are all done, there 
 is absolutely nothing to do, other than revisit beautiful place for the heck of it. You can always 
 go fishing, or snowboarding, or the many other sidequests/minigames that never finish, which is 
 always good, so that boosts up the score a bit.
  
  8/10
  
  Playback - To be honest, like with every Zelda game, its not the best. You'd want to go back into 
 your completed file and do everything there is to do before you start a new file, but ultimately 
 it want be a good few months before you feel the urge to start this classic game again. 7/10
  
  Altogether its a superb game, one of the best games i have ever played, if not the best. No 
 matter who you are, you will enjoy the many hours you will spend on this game.
  
  P. S This game is awsome, don't let the score i posted fool you, i would have easily given it a 
 9.8, but with the weird scoring system, it turned out this way. This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexypapasmurf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  This is my first review so plase give me a break.... well here 
 
  
  I don't understand why the guys here at game spot would only rate this an 8.8. That kinda frustrates 
 me but i guess thats there own opinion. i personally think that this game is damn near perfect. 
 aside from the wii's cheesy speaker sounds this game in my opinion is just as good as OoT was back 
 in the day. the controls with z targeting still work just as great. The graphic even though the 
 wii isnt very powerful nintendos found a way for it to still look beautiful. GO BUY THIS GAME ITS 
 WORTH EVERY PENNY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess has been one of the highest hyped games of all time, and for you Zelda 
 fans I'm sure it delivered. But thats mainly because it follows the same gameplay as OoT did and 
 thats all you want. But how does this game fair as a game. My question is would these scores you 
 see on different websites be the same if this game wasn't Zelda? And the answer is easy, no way.
 
  
  Starting off wit gameplay, its not bad. Its a lot of fun controlling Link just like it was back 
 in the days of 64. He can do some cool flips and moves that really can make the combat fun. The 
 only thing is this can get very repetitive while your playing through the 40 or so hours of the 
 game. Specially when your doing the same thing. In my opinion its way to much like OoT, and I no 
 I no thats what everyone wants and the game is going to sell, but that doesn't mean its a good 
 game. Just like in OoT, you get three stones or pieces or w. e, then you get the master sword. Then 
 you can turn between a wolf and Link whenever you want, that sounds familiar just like in OoT when 
 you could switch from little Link to big Link. Then you go through a whole bunch of dungeons and 
 do pretty much the same thing in all of them. You find someway to get into it, you get a new weapon, 
 you use that weapon for that dungeon, fight a head guy then you get a mirror piece. You do that 
 over and over and over until the game finally ends. The game is around 40 hours long, by that time 
 I was completely bored with the game. I actually found myself skipping some cut scenes through 
 the game cause I had seen them 100 times. For example getting new moves from that golden wolf. 
 Getting new moves was cool, but seeing the samething over and over again just made the game boring.
 
  
  The graphics aren't bad, they're solid. The different colors make it nice to look at but you can 
 really see the Wii's weakness in the graphics department. I really would like to see and next gen 
 Link, and this still isn't it. The Wiimote speaker really can add to this game. Making you more 
 into the game. But every once in awhile the speaker will cut in and out ruining the whole thing. 
 At one point i turned it off, it was a big plus but a even bigger negative. But the biggest problem 
 with the sound is that there is NO voice acting. And i realize that no one wants Zelda or Link 
 to talk but what about everyone else? Yes I no its Zelda and that has been the thing since the 
 beginning but this game should not be given a free ride because its Zelda. All games today should 
 have voice acting its a given.
  
  The game runs about 40 hours for the main campaign and thats if you rush through it. Yea many say 
 thats great but the game can get stale way before the end. In some ways i wish it was actually 
 shorter so the gameplay was still a bit fresh and fun and I got to see what happens in the story, 
 which isn't that great eather. Overall this is still a good game, and I'm sure every Zelda fan 
 is jumping for joy over it, just like the next 100. But for the rest of us its just a decent game 
 for the Wii, and thats all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacrone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I could repeat alot of things that have already been said about Zelda: TP but I won't. Just go out 
 and buy it. Okay I've just been informed that I have to make this review at least 100 words so 
 here I go. Delays mean two things in videogames. Either the game is being tweeked to perfection 
 or it's a bomb that is being developed to explode with a smaller boom. Twilight Princess is the 
 former. Having seen the game featured at E3 in '04 '05 and '06 it mad everyone wonder if the game 
 would ever come out. Well it has and on two platforms no less. Both are excellent games and shouldn't 
 be missed by any gaming geek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenrard
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a true sequel to the Ocarina of Time, bringing back many, 
 many elements that made Ocarina of Time a fantastic game, and sort of continuing the story line. 
 But does it live up to Ocarina of Time? Does it take the place of Best Zelda Ever? The answer to 
 both questions is a resounding no, but that doesn't change the fact that Twilight Princess is a 
 must-buy for any gamer- offering 40+ hours of dungeon crawling, item collecting, and adventuring. 
 Good: Terrific graphics, a great story line, lot's of puzzles to solves and lot's of items
  
  Bad: You hear the same old songs from the past games.
  
  Gameplay: Now this is how you 
 launch a system. Not only is there 30+ games, but one is an easy candidate for Game of the Year, 
 too bad Zelda did not win. Zelda is back, bigger, and badder than ever. In this adventure, Link 
 heads to the Twilight Realm, a world where light and dark meet. In this realm, Link transforms 
 into a wolf, which leads to some interesting gameplay mechanics, especially later in the game when 
 you can change at will. Too bad at the beginning of the game the abilities are mainly used for 
 fetch quests. Of course, the main part of a Zelda adventure is the items you a mass during the 
 trip. Happy to say, the items are great this round. From old favorites like Bow and Arrows and 
 Iron Boots, to remixes like the Gale Boomerang and Clawshot (a variation of the hookshot) , to new 
 items like the ball and chain, spinner, (a device that allows travel over sand and some walls) , 
 and the Dominion Rod, which enables control over statues. Though most puzzles come from previous 
 Zelda titles, there are quite a few new ones, and they can be stumpers, and complement the items 
 nicely. The world is huge, the wii-mote controls work perfectly, though at times aiming with a 
 clawshot or bow can be a bit sensitive, and there is so much to do with 45 pieces of heart, 20 
 golden bugs, 60 Poes, 9 dungeons, and other things to collect. And fishing. Can't forget fishing. 
 The only real complaint I have is that for some it could be to easy, but hey, isn't that the same 
 for a lot of games? Now that i'm done swooning over gameplay, we can get to the rest of the game.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics fit the scene just great - this is one dark and gritty Zelda. Areas are 
 huge and explicitly detailed however the textures could use some work on Hyrule Field, many of 
 them come across as blurry and stretched across the 'walls' of the mountains and the 'carpet' of 
 the field - however minor these observations may be. Every environment in the game is perfectly 
 crafted to meld in with the world you play in and some places will just take your breath away with 
 the sheer beauty of it all. For a Gamecube port on Wii hardware the graphics are certainly powerful 
 but it's a basic fact that the Wii hardware is capable of much better - and as such these graphics 
 must be fairly measured as a final generation Gamecube game and not even first generation Wii software. 
 The next version of Zelda on the Wii should be a true showcase of what the Wii console is capable 
 of. Sound: It's a bit of a disappoint, but that doesn't mean it's all bad. Some of the tracks fit 
 the scenery well and some of the tracks just feel really off - traveling Hyrule Field at night 
 for the first time I nearly jumped as the old 'Malon voice' from Ocarina began singing an eerie 
 and mellow tune. The tune fit the scene well but I couldn't help wondering how that very same sound 
 would have felt coming from a real violin or even a flute? The music from the game is a mixture 
 between memorable and merely acceptable - I often got the impression that Mr. Kondo just wasn't 
 inspired for some of these tracks.
  
  Value: If you have a Wii you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perock
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I really am not a zelda series fan, but I fell in love with this game. This shows what the wii 
 can do. Revolutionary. If I can fall in love with this, I can`t imagine what die heart zelda fans 
 feel about it. Here is what I give you.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing, there is always somthing to do, and the game is very extended. 
 The controls of this game make everything fun. Sword combos and techniques are my favorite attribute. 
 You slash the sword at the enimies at different times. It would be nice if the motion of the sword 
 can differ from what way you swing. Sometimes people say it is lagging but I havnt felt it. I love 
 the way nintendo used the z button to create more possibilities for attacks. Just a quick reminder, 
 slingshots and bow and arrows and hawks are aimed with your remote, it makes you feel in it, you 
 are link. The only other reason it was not a ten is it does not have a multiplayer. Zelda fans 
 would laugh, but zelda multiplayer would be extremely fun, sword fighting eachother showing of 
 your combos. Overall, gameplay is an astounding 8.9, but next sequal, add multiplayer and a little 
 deeper sword control.
  
  Graphics. 9. Whoa, right? You are probably thinking, This guy has never played a xbox360 or PS3. 
 Well I have, alot. I dont have it, but I play it constantly at stores. Zeldas graphics just dont 
 have flaws, aside from items of links for instance a fishing rod penetrating a bridge. But they`re 
 smooth. XBOX 360 and PS3 have great graphic CABABILITIES. The game companis try so hard to be perfect, 
 its an ugly mix of realistic and cartoonish/last gen.
  
  Sound: The one magor problem in twighlight princess is the sound. People have problems with the 
 music or love it, its music, but even if I did like it, they play the same clips over and over 
 again. Just add a few more tracks. Voice acting is a big up and down. Midna voice acting I love, 
 even if she dosnt say anything, nor does anyone, but she describes her character, and is consistent. 
 Links voice is sometimes high, low, in the middle, sometimes I forget who I am. (link)
  
  Value: 7, just becaue after you beat it, its done, nothing more, but then again you could turn 
 around and well it on ebay........... Just add multiplayer!
  
  Tilt: I tilted the game to 10 because just because sound is fair, and value is less...... just 
 by the game, its amazing, you will NOT be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + At least 40-50 hours of gameplay + Beutiful visuals and graphics
  + Lots of activities, side quests and more
  + All new wolf combat and twilight world are welcome 
 additions
  + Tons of land to explore and many secrets and shotcuts
  + Wii controls are a bonus plus, realy makking you immersed into the game.
  + Professionally 
 designed levels and puzzles givving you some tough times
  + Another engaging story is to be told by some of the best storymakers
  Cons:
  + Bosses are 
 pretty easy
  + It is a ported gamecube game not a fully fledged wii game
  + Textures dont hold up too well up close
  
  Link is back in an all new epic and engaging adventure. 
 The game takes place after ocorina of time but this time round there is a mysterious force of twilight 
 caused by someone who wants to rule hyrule in shadow and darkness. All new wolf combat and twilight 
 world add to some more great level design and gameplay.
  
  When you first load up the game, you will be presented with the title screen and a pre-cutscene 
 in the background. It just gives a slight hint of what the land looks like and shows link as a 
 wolf. Just a little teaser I suppose.
  
  I wont give away much about the game but I can tell you the story is an absolute strong point, 
 just like what you've seen from most other zelda games. This time in hyrule, an evil force wants 
 to take over hyrule and rule the land and does so without hesitation by emersing it with twilight 
 and darkness. The twlilight allows for some interesting mix-ins with the two worlds you will keep 
 alternating trough.
  
  Along the way, you will meet midna. She finds you after you somehow get into the twilight world. 
 She isnt realy interested in helping you or anyone, and is rather reluctent and plays mind games. 
 But she does help you one you help her and she is there to aid princess zelda also. She becomes 
 you guide thoughout the game.
  
  Hyrule is absolutly huge, and I do mean big. Bigger than its ever been. It will take forever to 
 walk from one end to another and even on a horse it can take 15-20 minutes. That said, later on 
 in the game you can find many items to create shortcuts, but dont expect the opposotion to keep 
 all the routes intact. You will find many familiar locations from ocorina of Time suchs as the 
 Goron tribe in Death Mountain and the Zoras' and Lake Hylia. They also take on somewhat similiar 
 level designs but only to a slight degree.
  
  There are many day - to - day activities such as fishing and herding the farm animals. There are 
 many mini games scattered throughout and so many nooks and crannys to get too, its impossible to 
 find them all. There are many item upgrades to be found and once you find them you may realise 
 that going back to a location you did your fishing or first started off you will find a little 
 secret.
  
  The game is wonerfully detailed, filled with plentyful of little details such as strands of grass 
 and rocks and little tiny insects crawling about and splinters in wood. There is also a wonderful 
 visual presentation with little things that realy add up such as links had and hair that move in 
 the direction of wind, fingers and eyes that move, drips of water when he gets wet and all thease 
 things which realy did not need to be included realy add up for a wonderful experiance. Its just 
 a shame that you can realy see the texture compression up close. The game realy shows its incredible 
 details when your immersed underground deep with molton larva and lava streams.
  
  Ontop of the wonderful presentation is the sound. The game is full of tiny and huge sound effects. 
 There is the grunts of charecters speaking, yells of link when hes falling, grunts of link and 
 heavy breathing dragging heavy objects and every footstep sounding different on every material. 
 It realy does provide a wonderful and immersive experiance. When swaying the sword the slashes 
 come from you wii-mote which sounds like your hacking and slashing away. There is also many soundtracks 
 tough are midi and could be much better.
  
  Ontop of all that is incredible and completly and fully done real time cut scenes which can get 
 real dramitic. They are excelently done, words just cant describe execpt that some real proffesionals 
 in the dhrama and technology industries have done a spectacular job. All thease things add up to 
 a realy immersive game and litteraly puts you in Links boots.
  
  The gameplay is just as solid as ever. The wii-mote just completly adds to the experiance. You 
 can just swing away with the remote and watch link swing with his sword, its much more immersive 
 than pressing a button. Now you can run and swing your sword which is great going though grass. 
 You can prefectly aim with that slingshot and bow and now a new addiction to the game is that you 
 can attack whilst on your horse which adds for some more interesting moments.
  
  The expertly done puzzles are back which will involve using all your logic to hit switches in the 
 order they should be done by looking at a texture, using ur iron boots to stick to magnetic surfaces 
 and climb ceiling and sink to the bottom of the sea. There is also great control when your swimming 
 underwater and the game never fails when it includes its humour. The NPC's are filled with jokes 
 and tricks such as putting ur latern into a burnable house only for the NPC to hit a switch and 
 water pours on you.
  
  Not forggeting the addition of the twilight world were link can transform into a wolf. Here the 
 combat is the same but is completly different. You will see Link growl and panter likes he's a 
 real dog. He has a chain that drags along and realy makes for an inredible experiance. Midna can 
 warp items from twlight into the light world and vice versa and can warp you around hyrule. All 
 thease tie-ins add for some realy good memorable moments.
  
  If you came into this expecting an epic, engaging and wonerful experiance with a true sequal to 
 ocorina of time then you got it. Its not perfect, and is more of an expansion that anything. But 
 it is still an incredible game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  First Zelda game that I play seriously . After a slow but still entertaining start the game just 
 gets simply incredible.
  
  Graphics: Looks great. Smart design that looks nice without too many polygons &amp; stuff. Nice 
 effects and smooth framerate. Would be nice to have had it beefed up a little extra for the Wii 
 but nothing that really bothers me.
  
  Sound: Great soundtrack, great sound fx... great great great...
  
  Gameplay: Wow. Excellent 
 use of the wii-controls. Lots and lots of different moves and gadgets but all are explained nicely. 
 Good mix between awesome puzzles and action.
  
  Overall: Really gets a grip on you. Hard to stop playing once you&acute; ve started. Truly an amazing 
 experience. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paine21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome, but yes there is a but if you can only play with one hand like me its more 
 hard than normal. it wouldnt be so hard to me if the attack command was on the right side, the 
 attack locate button you have to hold the L button and use a or b to attack or hit the L button 
 to locate the guy to do several jumps, now for a two handed person this isnt that hard at all but 
 to a person like me whos left hand is pretty much useless its hardm what i have to do it either 
 use my left thumb when i can or die a couple of times and get a pattern going, I wish that Nintendo 
 made a button custom config button like other games, it would be alot eaiser for ppl like me. I 
 will write more as i go on in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  First, I want to say that yes, this game absolutely is worth it. Second, I want you to be aware 
 that there may be spoilers found in this review.
  
  Where to start? The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has been delayed for years on end, and is 
 finally released, and helps bring in the new Nintendo Wii system in a big way. Oh, the GameCube 
 gets it too. This was going to be a GameCube-only title, but personally, I feel it does better 
 on the Wii.
  In this game, Link is a resident of Ordon Village, a small village just south of Hyrule. He is 
 asked to deliver a gift to Hyrule during a festival of some sort. Unfortunately, that never takes 
 place. Link and some friends are attacked and captured, and Link is dragged into a dark world known 
 as the Twilight Realm, where he is transformed into a wolf. He meets a mysterious imp named Midna, 
 and together it's their mission to save Hyrule from the Twilight. That's a third of the adventure. 
 The rest is to find a way to stop the evil Zant, King of the Twilight, from taking over. The good 
 news is, Zelda isn't exactly captured this time around. You'll have to play the game to see what 
 her role is.
  The story is very well-written. It may not seem like it at first, but the many pieces of the story 
 tie in so well together, you'd have a hard time believing that it was Nintendo that came up with 
 it.
  There is so much stuff to in this game. There's ten dungeons, each of which takes an average of 
 an hour and a half to complete. There's the quests alongside the main adventure needed to do to 
 complete the game (such as getting the Iron Boots) . There's other minigames to improve your impressive 
 collection of items. And finally, there's fishing. Fishing alone can eat away days of playtime. 
 Nintendo filled the world of Hyrule to the brim of things to do. For example, the Pieces of Heart: 
 it takes five to complete a Heart Container this time. I think that is a bold move. It gives gamers 
 much more to than in other Zelda games, not to mention Rupees aren't a spectacular prize. You can 
 also spend time just running around the rather large Hyrule Field (preferably on horseback) . Some 
 regions involve fighting a squad of enemies on the backs of boars, or you can travel through the 
 mountains, or you can take a swim in the VERY large Lake Hylia. It's up to you, because this game 
 allows for much more freedom than ever before.
  The items department is where a number of fans may be disappointed. For example, there's no magic 
 meter here. That means there's no Fire, Ice, or Light arrows from other 3-D Zelda games, and those 
 were favorite items. You cannot grapple onto treasure chests with your Clawshot, but then again, 
 that would make things easy, wouldn't it? Some of the new items are only utilized in their dungeon, 
 and serve little to no purpose later on. I'm talking about the Spinner and Ball and Chain. Both 
 items are simply wonderful concepts, but I wish they could have been used more. Oh well, the whole 
 concept of Double Clawshots make up for it.
  The wolf sections of the first third of the game feel a little forced, not to mention long. In 
 the beginning, I think you spend more time as a wolf than a human. I know the whole concept of 
 being a wolf in this game is important, but I also think many gamers would prefer to play as this 
 new Link and mess around with his new items. Nonetheless, the wolf segments are fun to play as 
 well, because of the awesome-looking Twilight Realm.
  Some people may complain that, while this game was developed over two or so years, the graphics 
 may not look as great as an Xbox 360 game like they're hoping. I say to them, what the heck are 
 you talking about? In my opinion, this is the best looking Zelda game possible. I wouldn't want 
 it any other way. Every single thing, from Link's tunic to Epona to the villages to the fish to 
 the water to the fields to the skies to the forests to the Rupees - everything looks absolutely 
 perfect. There may be a little slowdown when you're unleashing a Spin Attack on like 20 or so enemies, 
 but those cases are on the rare side. Now, on to a darker subject... the Twilight Realm. Some of 
 you may remember that in early development, the Twilight Realm was entirely gray. That would have 
 been fine. But then Nintendo came and pulled up an even darker environment, something that resembles 
 that death is everywhere. It excited me more than the gray environment from before. The Twilight 
 Realm seems to be just very awesome, and after you save most of Hyrule from the blanket of Twilight, 
 you tend to miss the setting and the music from the darkness.
  As for audio, Link sounds much more adult-like than ever before. That's a good thing, we need a 
 mature Link for this adventure. Some fans sound disappointed that the entire game isn't orchestrated, 
 but there are orchestrated bits. Would you want the game to be delayed further just because some 
 music? Besides, they did a wonderful job with the music anyway. Late in the game, I still hum to 
 the theme from the Ordon Village. The music is catchy, it's pleasant, and it fits perfectly to 
 a Zelda game.
  Anything else? Yes... the Wii controls. I'm glad Nintendo decided to go with the Wii as the main 
 system to put Twilight Princess on. Swinging the Wii Remote lightly feels much, much better than 
 just pressing the B button a lot. The feeling of timing your swings, the shake of the Nunchuk to 
 execute a Spin Attack... no other Zelda game made me more excited to play it than Twilight Princess. 
 The game also features something like a swap-out mode. The B trigger is now used for one item, 
 and you can only use one item at a time, except for some cases like putting on and off your Iron 
 Boots or drinking some Red Potion; those remain on the Dpad. It may be a little annoying at first, 
 but you get used to it.
  This truly is the greatest Zelda game of all time. I'm not sure if I'll go as far as saying it's 
 the best game ever, but it's dang near close to be. If you want to live the greatest adventure 
 on a console, you MUST play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game is sweet in every way. First off, the:
  
  Graphics: 10!!!
  This game looks like Okami lost it's cell shading and made this game. It's just awesome looking, 
 especially in the Twilight.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Don't get me wrong, the Wii-mote idea for most of the things in the game is cool, but the fishing 
 rod and the slingshot could use some work. Also, the fairy cursor is just annoying.
  
  Sound: 9
  Don't you remember that wonderful sound when you unlocked a part in a dungeon? It's 
 back. But the music is somewhat similar to Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask in some places.
  
  Value: 10!!!
  This game is worth every penny, and so is the Wii. This should be the first 
 game you buy for the Wii.
  
  Tilt: 10!!!
  All of my friends know I'm a Zelda freak, and so I was in love with this game when I played the 
 demo. Now I have it, and I am proud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hberghorde
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I&acute; ve played the windwaker a few times and I thought that was a great game, but this one is 
 far out the best Zelda game I&acute; ve ever played.
  
  And about the controller, it works very well, especially with fishing and other mini games, but 
 when youre in combat then its a bit more difficult. But that doesn&acute; t affect the game for 
 me.
  
  Another cool aspect of the game is, that you can transform in to a wolf, what gives the game more 
 things to do, like digging up stuff, and different mini games.
  
  And who gave this game an 88, that guy was even on Dutch television, because the people here in 
 Holland are very pissed about the 88 that is given to Zelda The Twilingt Princess.
  
  All I can say is: This game is awesome !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ertiJjones
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  The game starts as a tutorial but you don't get the sensation that it is a tutorial, so the story 
 does not start right away. Story is familiar but with different caracters. If you played other 
 zelda games you feel right at home, maby just too much at home for some. Being a Zelda game fan 
 I've played most of the Zelda titles ( all but the game boy color ones ) , for me the familiar story 
 is nothing new but think that Ninendo should try to avioid this in the future and try to be a litle 
 more original! But the Zelda feel is there.
  
  The control scheme of the game is sweet , no problems with the wii remote.
  
  Puzzels standard 
 zelda ones but the combat has some new trics up it sleves and is very enjoyable
  
  With a whooping 16:9 widescreen support and 480p, the wii is on the move and looking good, this 
 should not be compared with x360 or ps3, but it looks realy good.
  
  In all it is a fantastic game and if you have an wii or gamecube you should pick it up, I would 
 rate it 10 if the story had a more orginality in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  It is safe to say that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is possibly one of the most anticipated 
 games ever. After the huge success of Ocarina of Time, Zelda fans have been eagerly awaiting a 
 game to topple the greatness that is Ocarina of Time. It is also interesting to note this is the 
 first ever Zelda title to be released for a console launch. Does it rise to the challenge? Read 
 on to find out!
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  Before I begin this section let me get one thing out of the way first. Unlike some reviewers who 
 will remain nameless, I will not compare the graphics of Twilight Princess to games on other systems 
 such as the Xbox360 or the PS3 as I believe it is unfair to do so. A comparison like that would 
 be more suited for a console review rather than just one game, so I will score this section in 
 terms of what the Wii is capable of.
  There is one word to describe the graphics in this game; stunning. After the long wait for a game 
 where Link finally takes the role of an adult again, players of new and old will not be disappointed. 
 Every inch of Link is Wii graphics perfection and the attention to detail is fantastic. Not only 
 can you see the stitches in Link's tunic, but also the etched symbols on his gauntlets and the 
 roughness of his boots; he looks like a true hero. Supporting characters also look great as well 
 and you can quickly see that everyone has a unique style. If you have played previous Zelda games 
 you will also quickly see the noticeable difference in Epona, Link's trusty steed. She is looking 
 a lot more detailed than the plain brown colour you will remember seeing on her in Ocarina of Time 
 and Majora's Mask. Now you can see all the different gradients and textures used to make Epona 
 look like a true horse!
  The next thing to tackle is the scenery and environments. Each area you travel to throughout the 
 game looks distinctly different and the beautiful graphics really draw you into the game. Everything 
 from the trees of Faron Woods and the houses in Kakariko Village to the waterfalls in Zora's Domain 
 and Castle turrets of Hyrule all look magnificent, you won't be disappointed! Finally we have enemy 
 design. All enemies carry their own unique demeanor and you can easily distinguish one enemy from 
 another. Bosses have been done particularly well and the graphics will make the fights feel even 
 more epic!
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  Twilight Princess doesn't stray from and dosen't mess around with the Zelda formula for Gameplay 
 and that is definetly a good thing! Twilight Princess keeps with the usual Hack and Slash (with 
 items from time to time) Action Adventure gameplay style that Zelda is famous for. However this 
 great design has now been added onto by the capabilities of the Wii remote! Now you can flick your 
 remote to get Link to spring into action and hack away! Combined with various secret sword techniques 
 that Link will master on his adventure an you have a winning combination! You also have the typical 
 set out for items where you can have three items out at one time on the D-Pad, and by using the 
 item subscreen, can switch between which items you want readily available. The only change to this 
 is instead of having the sword swing attached to a button you now have an extra item! Whatever 
 item you have assigned to the B button is the one you can use, this makes things much easier and 
 is a nice improvement! Horseback riding has always played a role in Zelda games in the past, but 
 it is taken to an all new level in the latest Zelda installment! No longer do you just ride Epona 
 around, but now horseback combat is at your disposal! Now you can fling your sword around, fire 
 your arrows, throw your boomerang and more all while on horseback! This adds a new element to the 
 gameplay to the game is an excellent addition! There is a large variety of items in the game, some 
 will be familiar to seasoned Zelda adventurers, but also plenty of new ones that will excited even 
 the most experienced of Zelda players!
  Twilight Princess features 8 dungeons in total which will keep your adventure going for quite some 
 time indeed. It ends up being just the right length for the game and you won't feel like it was 
 too long or short by the time you finish! The wide variety in dungeons you will visit and the items 
 you collect also keep the interest going as well as the various side quests that pop up as the 
 game progresses. You have the usual hunting side quests such as hunting golden bugs and collecting 
 poe ghost souls, but in addition you now have various mini-games and rewards, fishing and hidden 
 skill collecting among others!
  You also have the unique power in this game to transform into a blue-eyed wolf! To begin with you 
 will not have control over this power, but as the game progresses your power will increase! Being 
 able to play as a wolf adds a new level of depth to the game allowing you to access various places 
 that would be otherwise impossible. It also showcases the differences in strengths between man 
 and beast and adds sme unique fights into the game. Your companion for the game, Midna, is also 
 a welcome addition and provides a more interesting and thoughtful character than your usual flittering 
 Zelda fairy would allow.
  The story, although somewhat darker than other Zelda games, runs very smoothly and you'll find 
 yourself engrossed in it the whole way through! I won't ruin any of it for you now, but it is a 
 truly epic story with great characters, suspense, mystery and many twists and turns to keep it 
 interesting!
  
  Sound 10/10:
  The sound in Twilight Princess is brilliant! Featuring remixes of some well loved old tunes as 
 well as some catchy new ones, the music will never leave you bored! Background music suits each 
 environment, character ad enemy perfectly and nothing ever sounds out of place! Sound effects are 
 equally fantastic and they really get you into the mood of the game! It is also nice to see there 
 is no voice acting in the game, contrary to what some believe, as it keeps the classic Zelda feel 
 and lets your imagination run wild! I have also heard complaints about the quality of sound coming 
 from the speaker in the remote, but personally I think it works very well! It adds some fun to 
 the game by being able to hear the sound of the bow string in your hand as you draw the bow and 
 the chink of your sword as you draw and strike! If that still doesn't sound appealing to you, you 
 could always turn the speaker off...
  
  Value 10/10:
  The main quest of the game will take you roughly 32-42 hours to beat due to the large amount of 
 dungeons, as previously mentioned. The main quest alone will satisfy the average gamer, but are 
 you looking for more? Fear not! If you add all the side quests and extras this game has to offer 
 then you're looking at another 10-20 hours on top of that! A huge amount longer than your average 
 action adventure game! Replay Value is there as well, as soon as you beat the game you'll have 
 a desire to go back and do it again or finish anything you had previously left unfinished!
  
  Overall 10/10:
  Twilight Princess truly a truly awesome game and is a great way to begin 
 a new era with the Nintendo Wii. Whether you are a new player or a seasoned Zelda adventurer this 
 game will not leave you dissapointed. With amazing graphics and sound, awesome gameplay and a huge 
 amount of value, what more could you ask for!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargemat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  The new ZELDA has been a long awaited title that was supose to be a big set foward for nintendo 
 and a killer launch game for the wii. Fans went wild when the first video was showen at E3 a few 
 years back and the big game has finaly arived. Over all I have found the game an average experence. 
 All though its cool to be able to swing the wii mote and have your soward in the game attack it 
 dosent realy add anything to the gameplay after a wile. Its hard to say the graphics are stunning 
 infact some parts look like a PS1 game such as the portals that open up in the sky. But I dont 
 want to sound like I am hateing on the game. All though its a bit slow to get started you will 
 enjoy the experence aiming with the wii mote when useing bow and arrows and slingshots is one of 
 the few places the wii mote has realy been showen off and its fun to do even after many hours into 
 the game. There are 7 dungens this time around and loads of smaller caves. There is expected to 
 be around 60-70 hours of game player if you do all the side quests as well. If you are looking 
 for something new you arnt going to find it here very little has been changed from orignal games 
 but many would say thats a good thing. Being able to play as a wolf as well as your human form 
 is very cool as well. How ever the bad textures are a bit of a let down the the world in places. 
 Over all the game is a great experence for the wii but you could easley have the same amout of 
 fun on the gamecube version. The game still lacks voice acting which is a real let down and makes 
 me think Nintendo where a bit lasy not to add this in at this stage in gaming as its not fun to 
 click your way though cut sceens. This has been a good return for ZELDA and we are all ready looking 
 foward to the next zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ov3rdance
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This is my second time playing the Legend of Zelda since NES but i never like it that much and 
 now i'm very like Zelda on Wii it so freaking awsome.
  
  I have to disagree with Jeff about the wiimote. i can't just swing back and fort, you have to learn 
 a hidden skill dude. then you will know how awsome the wiimote is.
  
  I just finish the game all i can say is Midna is a Twillight princess and she is Hot... i like 
 when Midna say to Link, Am I so beautiful? that's why you don't have a word to say.
  
  sorry, my writing not very good.
  
  This game is one of the Greatest game that ever creat period.
 
  
  i will wait for the next Zelda. thank Master Miyamoto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royfus_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Game series' can start of great, and when you think they can't get any better, they do! This is 
 the case with The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess . Way back when, it was classic, and now it's 
 utterly amazing!
  
  The gameplay is great. From the puzzles to the fights, it keeps you going, from start to finish. 
 The innovative Wii Remote and Nunchuck are ideal for fighting. Although the fights are short, so 
 it doesn't ware out your wrists! Even the bosses don't require that much slashing, but you need 
 to find a week spot to cut them down to size. The puzzles are just as smart. You may want to grab 
 a friend to help you out if the going gets too tough for you!
  
  The graphics are very good. Not as good as the 360 or the PS3, but it's acceptable. The whole reason 
 I got the Wii was for the gameplay, not the graphics! Anywho, from the fire to the water, form 
 the sky to the ground, it all looks very impressive.
  
  The sound is neither here nor there. The sound out of the Wii Remote is a bit tinny, and from time 
 to time, cuts out (, probably from low batteries) . The actual music coming from the the TV is great. 
 I don't really need to say anything here, it's just that good!
  
  All up, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is simply an Amazing and well worth while game to 
 play. So what are you waiting for! Buy a Wii, and buy Twilight Princess! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: constrictor14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The Twilight World sounded a little strange from reviews, but after playing it, I think it was 
 a good idea. I think the wolf-form works great and is more fluid than Link before he gets his classic 
 green garb. Link is a little wooden, running from the waist. I thought the eyebrows of the village 
 kids were a bit weird
  
  In terms of gameplay, there isnt much of a learning curve really. The Wiimote really does the 
 trick. The swordplay takes a short while to learn, but everything else feels completely natural.
 
  
  Music was great, and the sounds from the controller were (if a bit tiny) still really cool. The 
 puzzles were more challenging towards the middle and end of the game. One of my favorite parts 
 was the Horseback battle with the Orc. I loved it!
  
  Honestly this game is worth playing. No question. Although I havent played it on the Gamecube, 
 if you have one, and will be choosing a different next-gen system you should pick this game up 
 as a last hurrah. You wont regret it, especially if you enjoyed the N64 classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_red_pyramid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I like the others a little better cause you can go around the whole world exploring and finding 
 secret areas. This one seems a little more shut in. And I know its a part of all the other games 
 but can we please get rid of that stupid beeping when your low on health. Nothing like getting 
 stuck some place where you cant find a heart and hearing that beep over and over again. I just 
 want to put a gun in my mouth. I do like the new controls, and the transformation in to the other 
 character is good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleitonSL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Such a great game, pretty story and an emotionous end, such beautiful graphics and gameplay, sound 
 was ok, i loved the point and shoot technology. Also liked the length of the game, cuz it does not 
 worth to pay 50 bucks for a short game. I realized i have spent 70 hours playing till the end but 
 feels i have just started. And there is one thing that i hated, but i loved it, is the fact that 
 when you beat Ganon and the game is finished it cannot be saved, and u will always come back to 
 the front of Hyrule Castle, but i also like it because whenever i want to see the end all over 
 again or just feel like baeting a boss which u cannot do to the others u have defeated, u can do 
 it all over again, but i do like.... Also hated that zelda was not the winner of Game of the Year 
 in Gamespot, in the Spy Games award Zelda tok it !!! yeah!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snicky00
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best. the gamplay is topnotch. the graphics are beautiful. the puzzles are the 
 hardest ive ever seen . the music goes right with the game play. the cinematics are really really 
 nice to. this is the only thing. u cant jump. its really really minor but u just cant. i also wish 
 that the motion sensor monotored the sword slashes and impelemented them into the game but thats 
 extremly minor. also u cant pull the bow back with nunchuck. these to things dont even matter since 
 motion is implemented so nicely into all other aspects of the game. the bottom line is i love it 
 and almost anyone who plays video games will love it to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djgameboy2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game should be considered the game of the year 2006. There's a lot of swordplay action and 
 the puzzles are very challenging. I don't own this game or the wii yet, but I have played it at 
 my friend's house. The graphics aren't really great but what matters is the gameplay. I haven't 
 played many of the levels yet but when I get the game, I will be able to play all of the levels. 
 the motion sensing on the wii remote and the nunchuck is really great. If you buy this game, you 
 won't be disappointed. If you're not sure whether to buy this game, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajr101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok i have been playing the game for a while now and think i have come to a point where i can write 
 a review. THis game is simply fun. But, as i mentioned above it does have some flaws. Im going 
 to start with graphics. Ok, the graphics are very good from and artistic view, but technically 
 they are a gamecube games's graphics. But, this doesn't affect me or shouldn't affect any other 
 long time zelda fan because a;; the games didn't have great technical graphics, but they all have 
 tremendous artistic graphics. Also the only other problem about the graphics is that it can get 
 blurry at times
  Now the gameplay. It took me a while to get used to the controls mostly because it was my first 
 time using the wii, but i got used to them in 15-20 minutes. Another flaw with the gameplay is 
 that sometimes the nunchuck is slow to react when you try to do the spin move**** MINOR SPOILER**** 
 when you get epona back and fight the creature that took the kids and is riding a boar-like thing 
 when i did that move it was very slow to react. The sound is very much like the tradtional Zelda 
 music you hear in the game. BUt, as you know the music isn't orchastrated, that doesn't sound bad 
 to me because i've always been a fan of the zelda music but some orchastrated music i think would 
 help deepen and get the player more into the experience although the music does that orchastrated 
 would even make it more in depth Now i think this game has great value because it is very long 
 and very fun has a ton of things to do and aside from the main quest there are a lot of side quest 
 to keep you going in the game. IN conclusion this game is great, i have always been a fan of the 
 zelda series and this is an excellant addition to the family. If you are a Lengend of Zelda fan 
 and have a wii, or a gamecube for that matter, go get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I got really tired of all my friends annoying me for years about how they just can't wait for Twilight 
 Princess to come out. However I knew it was worth annoying people about. It is what you expected. 
 TP is your average run of the mil great game. Zelda is a great series so of course it will be good. 
 Hearing Zelda sounds from your Wiimote is great. The characters are the same (from Link to the 
 creepy enemy dudes hiding in the grass) which is great. I wish I could see Young Link in this game 
 but the greatness of this game allows me to forgive that fact. Also wolfs are awesome. Playing 
 as wolfs is awesome. The graphics are awesome. Gameplay is awesome. Zelda games are awesome. This 
 game is good. Thats Awesome! Oh and Zelda might wanna watch out because it looks like there is 
 a new damsel in distress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you own a wii BUY THIS GAME ITS AWESOME. As all Zelda you start out in a peaceful 
 little village and everyone is happy then something happens and Link finds himself somehow involved 
 in it all. The newest feature in this Legend of Zelda is that Link can turn into a wolf and a creature 
 called Minda will follow you around. As far as controls go, it couldn't be much easier from shooting 
 a slingshot at a spider blocking your path to whipping out your sword and killing easly cutting 
 down some enemies it all can be easily controlled with the wiimote and numchuck and sometimes both 
 of those are used with some of the buttons, for example the spin attack. Speaking of types of attacks 
 along with the usual slash, stab, jump, and spin attacks there are also 6 hidden moves the only one 
 that ive found so far is the finishing move when a enemy is on the ground you stab your sword into 
 him. If it weren't for the graphics this game would have a ten from me. So in conclusion Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the must have game for the Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  i opened TP last night and started on a mega adventure. so far the game is pretty good.
  
  you start off of course as link and you also get epona right nearly off the bat.
  
  however 
 its not for long. during the course of events you end up in the twilight zone as the wolf. i wont 
 spoil much.
  
  controls are a little clunk at first im still trying to figure out why the circle slash is assigned 
 with the nunchuck. fighting is a pain i guess you need to find a good way to fight .
  
  graphically zelda is splend minus the fuzzy blurry spots but then again i think my eye sight is 
 down the tube anyways.
  
  the only thing i dont like about zelda is the dialog via text and where someone does speak in game 
 it sounds like well forgive me for saying this a mentally uncapable person speaking.
  
  the puzzles in the game start right off the bat. so prepare yourself. you will be sloving them 
 left to right.
  
  this is the best launch title in the bunch hands down. so if you do not own it yet i highly recommend 
 you do :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haycraftfamliy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  if you like the old zelda on n64 you will fall in love with this game but the other zelda on gamecube 
 was a flop to me but its back it its old way and its going up and i hope they will be more to came 
 the gameplay on its is 10 and graphices 10 sound 9 value 10 reviwrs tilt is 10 all together its 
 a 10 out out 10 its a game to recember and will in the history books . its not a hard game to play 
 at all . its a very long game to play know from 1995 game ocarina of time became the best game 
 of the zelda games but this will give it a run for its money to learn how to play it will take 
 30 min and it classiflcation is very much worth the wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehonaker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying something: Twilight Princess is not a perfect game. With that being said, 
 it is worth buying if you own a Gamecube or a Wii.
  This game tends to specialize more in devious dungeons and unusual puzzles, and it shows with the 
 fairly easy bosses. How you fight the bosses, though, is fairly inventive. The puzzles, though, 
 are definitely real kickers. They are well-designed, and not many people will cruise through them.
 
  The story is a bit more immersive than its predecessors. The new addition, Midna, makes for some 
 funny dialogue and cutscenes, as well as a more interesting plot.
  The new items (like the Ball and Chain, the Spinner, and the Clawshot) add a new element by changing 
 up the items and adding a few new surprises. The Wii's remote works well for aiming projectiles, 
 and swordfighting is pretty amazing with it.
  One of my big complains, though, is how long you spend in wolf form. In the early game, you spend 
 nearly half your time on four legs. Later on, though, the wolf form fades away, and you'll barely 
 use it in the final four dungeons.
  However, I was thoroughly impressed with the game (especially after Nintendo bumped the release 
 back a year) . It is an excellent game, but it is not perfect. It had a couple rough spots, but 
 that won't take away how impressive this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJG24992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Its finally here. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. After waiting and waiting for this game 
 to come out it feels really good the first time you turn it on. You will enjoy this game very much 
 if you are a casual Zelda fan. However, if you are a die-hard fan of Zelda you will definitely 
 see some flaws here. The gameplay is absolutely perfect and the controls work very well, because 
 they provide you with a lot of freedom. The graphics scream last gen, but that not the point. The 
 game artistically is stunning with dazzling effects. The sound is the biggest letdown, because 
 although the Zelda series isn't a fan of talking, most people would agree that this game needs 
 some voice work. The music is very well-done, but we've heard many of it before, and I think they 
 should have added a brand new soundtrack. This game is the best Wii title available now. But my 
 biggest complaint is this game is hard to get into and you will not get the Zelda experience you 
 were hoping for if your a die-hard fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbfalco
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the most anticipated games of the year, and finally, it has been released, and enough 
 time has passed to truly appreciate this masterpiece. However, not all masterpieces are without 
 flaws.
  
  The beginning game is a bit slow, too slow for most people, but it wasn't too bad if you consider 
 that you'll be spending around 40 hours in the real bulk of the game. During that time, you'll 
 be learning the basics, such as how to fish, use whistle grass to call hawks and your horse to 
 your side, using a slingshot, and of course, how to swing your sword.
  
  The only differences between the GC and Wii versions of the game is the use of the Wii specific 
 controls, the Widescreen &amp; 480p support and the fact that the Wii version is mirrored from 
 the GC one. Unfortunately, that last bit can lessen the nostalgia felt from the game if you played 
 Ocarina of Time, however, chances are, you'll still have a good idea of where you're going to be 
 before you get there. Now, from the beginning, you'll get an idea of how large in scale the game 
 is. once you check your map, you see the what you perceived to be a large area. However, once you 
 zoom your map out, you'll see that where you were was just a tiny portion of the entire world map. 
 This is one place where Zelda shines, it's massive scale in the overworld. Don't be afraid though, 
 unlike in Ocarina where you had to walk pretty much everywhere, you get your horse very early on, 
 and later on you'll have the ability to warp wherever, you've been. Oh, there are items. Just when 
 you think your item circle couldn't hold another item, you get one. There are some really cool 
 items in the game, those which I won't spoil for the purists out there, but sadly, a few of the 
 most fun ones, (the one you get in the 4th dungeon for example) , aren't really used much in the 
 game outside of the dungeon in any really interesting way. Which brings me to another complaint, 
 the lack of sidequests, and side, distractions. Oh, there are some, but not enough to make you 
 waste as much time as Ocarina or Majora's Mask had you waste. This would have been a great place 
 to introduce more use for those items you thought you'd never have to use again... There are a 
 few though, and the game's story, unlike Ocarina, makes you feel rushed. It felt out of place pretty 
 often when you tried to go fishing towards the end of the game because of the tone of the story, 
 and yet, once you reached your goal, you realize that you could have spent all the time in the 
 world doing whatever...
  
  Not all is bad in the world of Hyrule... Zelda is actually a blast to play. The Wii controls, while 
 the sword feels tacked on since no matter how you swing it, link goes through the same pattern 
 of swings, it's no harder to use than pressing a button. Aiming with the Wiimote is accurate and 
 precise. And fishing has never been more engaging. I wasted at least 4 hours fishing in the game 
 thanks to the intuitive controls for fishing. It's places like this where the Wiimote shines. Combat 
 on horse is great, although if you're one who prefers to warp everywhere and never ride, there 
 just isn't enough of it scripted into the game to truly appreciate it. The Boss battles have never 
 been better. Of course they require the use of the item (or items) you've just acquired, and they 
 are fairly easy, that sometimes the enemies you fight in the dungeon are harder, in particular 
 the knights. But the presentation, the sheer size and scale of these creatures are just amazing 
 for the most part. Oh, and if you remember, save the game in another slot just before the boss 
 of the 4th dungeon. It's one of the most fun boss battles I've went through in a long time... As 
 you go along, the bosses get more and more epic. So if you've loved Zelda for it's boss battles, 
 this one will not disappointed.
  
  The sound is what you expect from a Zelda game. Standard rupee sounds, item sounds, all similar 
 to what was heard in Windwaker. But some sounds now play through the Wiimote speaker. Problem is, 
 the speaker isn't particularly great. Some sounds however, sound great, like the standard 'you 
 solved an important puzzle' and the bottle corking sound. But others, including the sword slashing 
 sound could have been left out, it would have improved the game by a bit... The Dolby Pro Logic 
 II 5.1 surround sound was excellent, though the sound effects that really make the sound presentation 
 great was limited to the occasional bomb, rainstorm and such. It's no Rebel Strike, but it's good 
 at least. And while people want to hear voiceovers, I don't think I trust Nintendo yet in that 
 department (refer to Super Mario Sunshine...)
  
  The Legend of Zelda has always had some of the best soundtracks of any game, and this one is the 
 same with it's great compositions. However, probably because of the limitation of space of the 
 Gamecube disc, almost all compositions are all in midi... A bit of a disappointment as musically 
 the game's compositions would have been mind blowing if orchestrated, or at least rendered with 
 some high end patches. Don't worry, expect OCRemix to have a few orchestrated mixes of the music 
 from this game soon enough.
  
  Visually, the game looks great, despite having low res textures in many places. The subtle use 
 of bloom does a good job of hiding this fact though, along with the excellent art style of the 
 game. The overworld tends to be a mixed bag in the graphics department, looking great during rain 
 and at night, and also while riding, but it's nothing to shout about when stopped. However, the 
 far draw distances is a nice feature. The Twilight world has this great, unique visual style that 
 departs from the standard look of the game. Marked by its signature black floating squares, it's 
 a very interesting and eerie looking place. This is actually the only place where the midi synths 
 can get away with being used. It has a digital world type feel, but not at the same time... Most 
 dungeons look great, especially the Goron mines and Water temple. The water effects are beautiful, 
 and the rain is perfect, with each drop looking different from the other. Seeing that this is just 
 a Gamecube game, I can't wait to see what the extra bit of power will do for artistic games such 
 as these. Overall, while this game was great and was everything I expected and more, it I can hardly 
 call it perfect. The lack of sidequests was the biggest problem here. Ocarina keeps it's perfect 
 score, but for me, while The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a better game overall, it's 
 not better enough... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qqppzzmm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER.
  
  FACT.
  
  
  DIS IS THE BEST REEVUW EVA. FACT
  
  BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME BEST GAME EVEREVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER 
 BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GABEST GAME EVER ME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME 
 EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER 
 BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME 
 EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER 
 BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER
  BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER WHOOOOOOOOOOOOO GO ZELDA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jitzyy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  What more could you want? Action, Adventure, Excitement... And the ability to turn into a wolf! 
 A superb game that you will be playing for hours upon hours. Sure there is that one point where 
 you think Thats it.. im stuck there's nothing else left to try But then you look up to the ceiling 
 and finding out theres a massive frog about to attack you! And.. oh.. the storyline! its like watching 
 a movie as you play! Graphics and sound are excellent. Also, when using your Wiimote it feels like 
 you actually have a sword in your hand! A definite must have for all Wii owners, once you play, 
 you wont wanna stop playing, i've been playing for about 30 hours now and i still can't get enough 
 of it. Maybe you could do without having to turn into a wolf every time you do a temple.. but hey! 
 thats why the game is called Twilight Princess If you have a Wii, and don't yet have this game 
 then you are definitely missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomb691
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  What an amazing game. Takes both Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker and fuses the things you liked 
 the most from both of them into one flawless masterpiece. So much to do , you will never want to 
 put this game down. Amazing story, amazing gameplay, with special techniques and a ton of weapons 
 and items. This game is worth the Wii itself. I am so happy I got this game, and I will probably 
 play it the second time through with a codebook to get every single item possible. It has the standard 
 20 hearts except this time you need 5 pieces of heart per 1 heart making more secrets to be around. 
 Also there are 60 poe souls total to collect and much much more. Overall i enjoyed this game so 
 much and it is definetely the best game I have played this year, and even for a couple years now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  well i personally loved this game, but i find it very repetitive and way too similar too ocarina 
 of time based on graphics, controls, sound etc. the game is stunning, and obviously the best game 
 for the wii wii lol, anyways if your interested in a revolutionary game that has layed out blueprints 
 for good things too come on the wii, but the unneccessary evil is the fact that the game is so 
 remarkably similar too ocarina especially in the beginning but if you want a good fantasy adventure 
 get this game it is fabulous. also if you have been a fan of the past zelda's i would recommend 
 this as probably the best for new comers too the franchise as i personally found it a little boring 
 story wise, but the game just made me come back for more each time i intended on saving and quitting 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuineaPig255
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I could feel that it was going to be something good... and I 
 was right. This time around you have to save Hyrule from an evil force called the Twili, led by 
 the usurper king, Zant. You have some help from a creature called Midna who is the Twilight Princess. 
 But enough story, let's get onto the good part. The world in this game is simply vast, and the 
 details are amazing. You'll find yourself playing a few hours just exploring the land that is Hyrule. 
 The game starts off a little slow, but it soon picks up the pace. The only real problem were the 
 bosses. They were epic of course, but they were too short and easy. The graphics are amazing, but 
 can sometimes feel choppy. The gameplay is the same as in previous games. This time, you'll have 
 to collect 7 hidden skills for easier combat, but it's pretty easy without them anyway. This game 
 will last you 30-40 hours and you'll find yourself playing it at least a couple of times. The side 
 quests can last you about 20 hours with many mini-games, heart containers, poe souls, and many 
 other things that will keep you busy for a long time. This game is truly a must-have on the wii 
 and gamecube. What are you reading this for anyway? GO PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0520426177
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, i didn't like the first 10-15 min in the game. But after those minutes it just fells like 
 a really good game. The new controls work extremely well, and the sound is great. Though the graphics 
 is sometimes low res. Every thing abuote it is soo good. The fishing in a canoe is realy fun: D. 
 the bow is accurate and the story is Superb. Though being a wolf is pretty boring... As a wolf 
 You have to get some tears. After getting around 15 of those tears, you'll become a human againe. 
 Thats when the fun part begins. The first temple (grass temple) was very well made. Same with the 
 fire temple, the boss is really cool! alltough the 3rd (water temple) all you will do is using 
 the hookshoot and hanging on som kinda switches... i got pretty tired of it: P well exept that its 
 one of the BEST EVER made game.
  
  MERRY CHRISTMAS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelfer320
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most greatest game in history. The best in the series since Ocarina of Time. 
 The new way to play The Legend of Zelda series is great and more fun than just simply pressing 
 the B button. You can swing your sword while running! Thats never been done in the Zelda series 
 before. The graphics are great but it sometimes feels a little dated. The Wii version supports 
 16x9 widescreen. The character designs look beautifully. This is the first game in the series where 
 you start as adult Link! This is the best looking game in the series. I also love the music in 
 the background of each cutscene. This is also the longest game in the series. Its over 80+ gameplay 
 hours! Thats one huge adventure and alot of stuff to do. If your planning to get a Wii, get this 
 game first! Its a must have. Its ok if your getting the GC version but theres huge differences 
 between both versions. Especially one big difference. Its more fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sb1fan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Another Zelda game has come to blow are minds with classic gameplay (well, thanks to the Wii, not 
 so classic) , looks that kill, ear-bleeding effects, and a problem of making fanboys go nuts. Well, 
 here's my review in a nutshell!
  
  Gameplay: Now the gameplay is just awesome! With the Wii, you can't get anymore realism than this 
 (okay... you can, but this is good enough) ! The controls are very responsive and with the Wii remote 
 and nunchuk, more advantages of having better make-believe games are open!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. NO COMMENTS!!!... okay, never mind. The only problem here 
 is that the Wii only has current-gen graphics, so it's not as good.
  
  Sound: Okay, the sound won't make you bleed. The soundtrack is obviously wonderful, but the whole 
 'character voices are just making odd noises' thing, is sometimes creepy. Yes, I can understand 
 that Link shouldn't have any voice, and that Midna sounds like a cute little baby, but probably 
 something new should happen.
  
  What Now?:
  If you have the Wii, GO BUY IT! NO COMMENTS!... END OF REVIEW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a big Zelda fan but like I said, this game really blew me away. As you 
 [The Reader] may know by now, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a port of the Gamecube 
 version of the same game, this may not mean much to some, but it really does mean something important, 
 the graphics are going to be that spectacular. Now, before all of you mal me for being a self-proclaimed 
 graphics whore , I would like to say that I do find the graphics to be perfectly fine. The could 
 be better, but in all seriousness they work out fine. The gameplay works almost flawlessly with 
 the Wii remote, in the Gamespot review Jeff explains how some of the features feel tacked on and 
 I don't feel this way at all, in fact I feel that slashing the wiimote to represent the sword slashing 
 enimies is just plain fun and exciting. I wont go into any more details about how good this game 
 is, it is an amazing game and the best on the wii by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remihoh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this si by far the best game ive ever played. everything is great right from the start. the geame 
 is so fluid it takes you step by step to everything you need to know so you will never even need 
 the manual. the utilization of the wiimote is amazing from sword swipes to sheild jabs to arrow 
 flying it all fits in and works very well. this game will puzzle your wits and timing as you battle 
 through dungeons neutralizing bosses attempting to dispell the twilight from the light realm. if 
 you have a wii but dont have this game you are truely missing out. deffinetly go out and buy this 
 now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sisitki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the reason you bought (or are still trying to find!) a Wii. It also gives new 
 life to those that are still playing on the gamecube. Twilight Princess is all the epic scale and 
 fun we've come to expect from the series. Those who have played windwaker and other zelda games 
 in the past will recognize some material but it is all put together in a way that doesn't make 
 it feel stale (and honestly there isn't much that isn't completely new) . I'm one of those people 
 that is usually bored quickly with the stories that are injected into games but this one is engrossing 
 and you feel like the cutscenes (most are short) are necessary to your gameplay. The Wii control 
 works great and adds a new element to gameplay which is a lot of fun. Be prepared to sink quite 
 a few hours into playing this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoWpS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Let's get the negative aspects of the game out of the way. First off, during pretty much the whole 
 game, I had a nagging feeling in the back of my head that Nintendo was just trying too hard to 
 beat Ocarina of Time and to live up to the Zelda hype. Some things went from nostalgic to dated 
 and recycled, with names like Lake Hylia and Kakariko Village making for an uncomfortable de ja 
 vu feeling. Sure, we've seen it before, and it's a winning formula, but... too much is too much. 
 Second off, the music was a little disappointing at times. Some songs are beautiful and set the 
 tone very nicely for the type of environment Nintendo was aiming for (Lake Hylia, Hyrule Field 
 at night and day, to name a few) , but others simply can't be considered Zelda music , considering 
 the incredibly high standard set by previous Zelda games. Pretty much the only song I can hum to 
 myself is the Hyrule Field one, and that's because I heard it over and over again in the trailers. 
 Don't get me wrong, the sounds are great (deserving an 8) , just not as good as Zelda music should 
 be. A few minor details also involve a few small issues with the control (swinging isn't always 
 as responsive as I'd like it to be) , lack of voice acting (Link speaking? Heck no! But everyone 
 else, yes) , and last-gen graphics. With that said, let me tell you that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess is amazing, enthralling, immersive, fun, and a lot of other good adjectives. The gameplay 
 is incredibly well done (a few minutes and I had the Wii controls down) . The visuals are astounding, 
 artistically speaking. It is a pleasure just to walk around and gaze. The lighting effects, designs, 
 everything is gorgeous. They made me almost completely forget the relatively bad graphics (being 
 a last-gen port and all) . I spent 45 hours on this game, and I feel like playing it again. I really 
 have no words to describe how satisfying this game is. At many points in the game, I woke up from 
 a dream to find myself standing up in front of the TV, yelling and swinging the remote to stab 
 at that foul water temple boss or deliver that final blow to the king of evil. In short, this game 
 makes up for the 50 dollars you paid for it over and over and over again. If you have a Wii or 
 even a GC and don't own this game, you're either stupid or in jail and incapable of buying it. 
 To all the other Nintendo fans out there: this is one game you won't want to miss out on. I gave 
 this game an Almost, but not quite because there are definitely some parts that could use some 
 polish (a few recycled elements from previous Zelda games) and some that could use a serious makeover 
 (like I said, the music is good, just not Zelda good) . But aside from that, this game is now one 
 of my favorite games of all time. Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's classic series, The Legend of Zelda, dates back to the days of the NES. An instant hit, 
 the series has then gone on to produce some of the finest games ever made. Each new game introduced 
 some never before seen mechanic, be it game saving with The Legend of Zelda, side scrolling with 
 Link's Adventure or a two world mechanic with A Link to the Past.
  
  Twilight Princess is no exception to that rule. It introduces revolutionary gameplay mechanics, 
 with the Wii's clever motion sensor. It also sports some of the best graphics for a Zelda game, 
 though they could have been better. The genre has seen much better graphics with games like Prince 
 of Persia: The Sands of Time. The sound, too, is a total letdown, with NO FREAKING VOICE OVERS! 
 I mean, can you imagine that? Granted, no HD graphics, granted, no orchestral sounds, but no voice 
 overs?! I mean, you feel as if you're playing on a GBA or something!
  
  However, the story of the game is extremely good, with the new Wolf mechanic most probably the 
 best Two World theme we've seen in the series. Come twilight, and Link transforms into the Wolf, 
 who can leap, bite and whack his tail around. Also, you've a guide who rides on your back and tells 
 you what to do next (quite like Elzo from the Minish Cap) .
  
  The best part of the game is not its slightly better than average graphics or definitely lower 
 than average sound. No, Zelda's strength lies, as always, in its gameplay and story. The story 
 simply feels more epic than any other game we've had so far (with the possible exception of Zelda 
 64) , and this epic feeling sometimes makes you feel as if you are playing Final Fantasy.
  
  The Gameplay of the game, with its neat little motion sensing tricks, is the best in the series 
 so far, let me tell you that. In fact, if Wii continues to get such games, then its time for Sony 
 and Microsoft to kiss their market share goodbye.
  
  Also whats good is the story and presentation, which, contrary to whatever Gamespot might say, 
 is THE best in the series.
  
  The game does have a few other problems though. One is its difficulty level, which though Nintendo 
 has tried to keep easy with your guide, is still too tough for a newcomer to the series to tackle. 
 Also, sometimes the game feels as if its dragging, as if this particular level was just thrust 
 in to artificially make the game longer. Come on, Nintendo, you know better than that.
  
  Well, I've just got to say that this was probably one of the best games I ever played, and that 
 my opinion of Nintendo as a game developer has just gotten stronger. Now, I'm just looking forward 
 to The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass and Pokemon Pearl and Diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edele_Wilde
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  I should be ashamed of myselve. I am as happy as a kid with the new Zelda game, glad nobody saw 
 me being so moved that I had to hold back a tear or two when treated with such sweeping excellence. 
 Gamespot should also be ashamed of theirselves, maybe the Wiimote looks too much like a candybar 
 and poor Jeff got distracted? Don't they recognise pure class when they see it?
  
  Well at least I do.
  
  I was worried when Nintendo wanted to make the game darker, but as it 
 turns out the game is as charming and quirky as any Zelda, or perhaps even more so, the game is 
 at times genuinly funny (common, the 'endmove' on the butt-slapping monkey was hysterical) , and 
 genuinly creepy. The creatures from the dark world have an amazing look, and none of the cuteness 
 usually found, these are evil creatures allright, a great contrast with the overall cuteness that 
 really makes you care about what happens. Oh and the music, lots of horns, lots of epicness, the 
 main score is a thing of beauty. The whole game is exactly that really, a thing of beauty. Graphics, 
 well it's essentially a gamecube game, so don't expect any eyecandy of the likes you see in Gears 
 of War. Do I care? Hell no, I went from 'well this is bad' to 'hey this isn't so bad', and now 
 I am in love with it. Fantastic style, gorgeous colors and amazing artwork, chainsawbayonette that 
 (okok that IS cool) . I think you should have gained the impression that I like this game by now. 
 Oh, and if you happen to have a ps2 get Okami, if you like Zelda you will like that one as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovako
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  A game that was hyped to be the best of all time.... Not that good I say. It's probably the best 
 of this year, but not the best of all time. Good Solid game though. S dkfajdlkfnasl ksjfaslkj akfj 
 kldjflak klafj kdjafkldfj klas k l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l ll k jjhj k l k ;ll k k j h gg gg g g g g g jhjk n n m m lkj jh kjg jj nj n 
 j h . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpin21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  After years of waiting. Twilight Princess finally manages to squeak its way on the new Nintendo 
 Wii system. Buckle your seatbelts ladies and gentlemen, you are on one hell of a ride. Twilight 
 is a visual masterpiece, and the best zelda game ever created!
  
  Because of the bizarre nature of the Wii controller, people might readily think to just go straight 
 to the gamecube version. But hold your horses, while the gamecube version is good, the Wii version 
 is much more fun, and immersive. You use the main controller to use your sword, you only have to 
 slightly shake it, not swinging it wildly. You also use the pointer feature for the various projectile 
 weapons in the game, like the Bow, slingshot etc. This is an extremely similar game to Ocarina 
 of Time (thankfully) , although it would be nice to change the formula up just a little bit in the 
 next one. Windwaker changed it up with the dreaded sailing. You also get your typical dungeons. 
 Forest, Fire, Water, Sky, Dark, etc. Overall the gameplay is super fun and will please any zelda 
 fan.
  
  The graphics are simply, gorgeous. The standouts are obviously the water effects, some of the best 
 I have seen on an old gen system. Some textures are highly blurry or distorted, but you really 
 don't look at them for too long. Link looks more realistic than ever, his tunic has lots of fine 
 detail and stiching. the Twilight world looks like a washed out barren wasteland, spooky graphical 
 effects dominate this part of the game. Overall the graphics do more than enough to please the 
 eye, but some textures could have been a tad bit sharper.
  
  The sound is also another standout, the soundeffects are utterly perfect, though I reccomend turning 
 the sound off from the wii remote speaker, it sounds like crap. The soundtrack has its good tracks, 
 like the central marketplace, some dungeons, virtually all boss music, and the hyrule field theme. 
 Though some are a little too midi-ish, but that wont make you turn the sound down at all.
  
  The game has so much to do it is incredible, fishing, finding hard to reach bugs, snowboarding, 
 and so much more. You will likely want to play the game multiple times also, it will likely get 
 100+ hours before you are totally done with the game for a long while.
  
  Overall this is the best zelda ever, so much has been improved from windwaker. Fear not zelda fans, 
 the new control is pitch perfect, though with some tedious wolf segments, the game is nearly perfect. 
 If you have to play one game this year, the would probably be the best choice. Do yourself a favor 
 and pick up nintendo best, and most polished game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tH3_cH3a7_027
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest RPG's of all-time, and for very good reasons. The series stays the same as 
 you have to save Zelda and go through many temples and fight many bosses, upgrade weapons, do tasks 
 for the town folk, but there's the obvious graphic upgrade, new weapons and items, incredibly witty 
 puzzles that make you want to cry, (not as bad as the Water Temple on Ocarina Of Time. Nothing 
 I've ever played or heard of compars to that.) and the new ability to enter the twighlight world 
 as a wolf, which all fits into the game flawlessly. All I'm trying to say is buy this game, it's 
 easily worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brimasra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Once again, The Legend of Zelda returns, and proves to be the best of the best. This game is truly 
 the Game of the Year of 2006, hands down. The graphics are excellent. There is no exceptions on 
 the graphics, their fantastic, perfect of that matter. The gameplay is amazing, as always, the action 
 and voice is inspiring too. This game lacks NOTHING, it's perfect. The story is unbelievable, it's 
 like a dream come true, and what this game possess is everything. If gamers are looking for a game 
 to hang on too, and enjoy nonstop, then Legend of Zelda is perfect. Our main hero Link returns once 
 again to fight for and restore peace. He saves the two princesses and face off with the evil king 
 Ganondorf once again. Overall: Best Game of 2006! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emo_sucks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twighlight Princess has been teasing us for about three years. On November 
 the 19th, 2006 it finally came. Does it live up to the hype? Not really. Graphicly, this installment 
 is slightly darker and more mature than the previous zelda games. and it does have beautiful cut 
 scenes detailing the characters faces and expressions. But everything seems to be chasing an uncatchable 
 gaol: Ocarina of Time. Everything about this game wants to be its N64 successor, and i guess i 
 can't blame the designters because that's what fans wanted after Wind Waker dissapionted the world. 
 The real upside to this game is the world of Hyrule itself. Its HUGE and you can just walk around 
 four hours looking at the landscapes of Hyrule field or lake Hylia. But this also causes some sort 
 of disconnect from the world and its inhabitants. There is one point in the game where Hyrule Castle 
 is engulfed by a giant force field, and the townspeople dont even care. They just go about thier 
 daily life.
  
  Overall, you already know this is a great game, its Zelda. But years in the future when the hype 
 dies down it will be seen as average. If you're like me and you remember playing Ocarina of Time 
 and crying your eyes out when shiek turned out to be a living princess Zelda, this just is'nt the 
 same.
  
  did i say crying my eyes out? i meant putting up drywall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevil1421
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda TP is probaley the first game many people are picking up when buying their 
 Wii. If your lucky to find one. Twilight Princess starts out as most of the others do, you begin 
 as a villager tending sheep and cows living a pretty much normal life. Then everything goes haywire 
 something dark comes over your land transforming you into a wolf and basically begins your journey 
 to save the kingdom. Zelda is a long game 40 hrs for people who rush through the game but if you 
 take time a really embrace the game and its people it can take upward of 100 Hrs. Giving this game 
 a Elder Scrolls feel to it. The graphics i think are absolutely stunning lighting and characters 
 are beautiful but some textures especially in desert areas are bland and just terrible looking 
 but as for everything else i have yet to find one other spec of land that will not leave you in 
 aw. The sound in the game is the BEST the BEST musical score i have ever heard in a game. This 
 is another thing that truly immerses you in the game, and ignore those people that think no voice 
 acting ruins the game. This is a buy for anyone who wants THE BEST LEGEND OF ZELDA ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  On Nov. 19 I came home with two things: Zelda and a Wii. And i must say that i am extremely glad 
 that i bought this game. This game , like ocarina of time introduces alot of new things never seen 
 before in a game. For instance the gale boomerang: The gale boomerang makes a mini tornado which 
 you can use to pick up items and move fans. Another example of new game is the new ability to walk 
 on magnetic surfaces using the iron boots. That right there is probably the best new item. The 
 biggest change to the game play however is the motion control. It's never felt so good to slash 
 moblins. You also can point at the screen to use various weapons. The graphics are awesome as well, 
 there's nothing more beautiful Than riding on epona during the sunset. Also the music is great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo16161616
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a very good improvement over Wind Waker. No annoying boats, 
 over-the-top cell shading, Giant birds, small children, or mini quest with the guy on the boat 
 where if you buy alot of stuff he says he will give you stuff. This game reminds me alot of the 
 movie Princess Mononoke an anime by the spirited away people. The game play is easy to learn (game 
 cube) and looks very polished. It still has cell shading to a certain degree but not complete cell 
 shade (that may have confused you) . There were few a disappointments in this game including but 
 not limited to: you need 5 heart pieces to get another heart, no super awesome spinny move, and 
 last but not least no vine covered great fairies.
  Some new and improved features include but not limited to: secret skills, teleporting, wepons/items, 
 improved and new towns, wolf gameplay, horse-back sword-play, jousting, and kicking all monsters 
 asses with the move mortal draw (hehehe) . A good game not worth renting. If you want to play it 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninten_fan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, the Wii remote. Ever since Twilight Princess famously made the jump from late generation 
 GameCube saviour to Wii generation launch title, we've been wondering how successfully Nintendo 
 would retro-fit a five year old design to the radical new controls of the Wii. The results are, 
 well, mixed. Twilight Princess meets those ideas somewhere in the middle. You can swing the remote 
 to attack! Light swings are all that's needed to strike, allowing you to execute each move with 
 a flick of the wrist. This feature is not as innovative as if the remote had reacted to your every 
 move, from nearly every angle. It is, however, an extremely intuitive and surprisingly satisfying 
 way to play.
  
  So the gameplay is largely impeccable. That's not especially surprising, given the track record 
 of the franchise, though I'd say that Twilight Princess has certainly set a new bar. None of the 
 symptoms of an unfinished game, many of which were evident in The Wind Waker, are present. What 
 really is a significant enhancement over previous titles, though, is the quality of the storytelling. 
 Connections to the overall Zelda mythology are as confusing as ever (though they can be deciphered 
 by those with the necessary passion) , but I'm referring moreso to the self-contained plot of the 
 game. Character development and cinematics have been masterfully crafted, and there is an overall 
 polish not seen since Ocarina of Time. This is enhanced by a fantastically composed soundtrack, 
 featuring what I consider to be the best Zelda overworld theme yet. Not only is it wonderfully 
 constructed, but it's designed in such a way that enemy battle music will actually replace certain 
 measures in the song, and then transition musically back into the overworld theme when combat is 
 complete. It's not just one song fading into the other, but two songs actually being weaved together. 
 Every time I enter the overworld, I'm freshly invigorated by the combination of scope and musical 
 flourish.
  
  Aside from the content that's been altered or designed exclusively for Wii, Twilight Princess's 
 controls are nearly identical to The Ocarina of Time. Enemy targeting, evasive techniques, auto-jumping, 
 and communication are all the same. Weapons and items are dispersed a little differently due to 
 the new button layout, but the concept of having items locked in for quick selection has not changed. Enter 
 the world of Hyrule and you will never want to leave. Twilight Princess delivers the perfectly 
 addictive, never-sleep-again gameplay that made The Ocarina of Time a colossal hit eight years 
 ago. The retro and revitalized gameplay are everything a Zelda lover could hope for. It's a Tri-force 
 of entertainment  the kind of game thats worth at least three full play-throughs.
  
  Graphics:
  Twilight Princess is a gorgeous game designed with older hardware (GameCube) in mind. 
 Despite this, there will be plenty of moments for your jaw to drop. From the large dungeons and 
 real-time lighting to the vigor and fluidity of each characters animations, players looking for 
 something next-gen will not be blown away, but they will be very impressed. Sound:
  Another interpretation of Zeldas classic themes, Twilight Princess doesnt just sound like a winner 
  it is one. The music is fueled with depth and inspiration. Sounds, jingles, and other treats 
 are pumped through the Wii remotes speaker. Voice-overs are strangely absent, but why bog a game 
 down with something that wouldnt have improved the gameplay experience?
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  About as challenging as The Ocarina of Time. Most of the puzzles require 
 thought and revision. The solution is usually simple but not necessarily obvious. Battles, however, 
 range from cakewalk to cake-crushing. Its nothing too challenging, certainly not for a Zelda fan. 
 But its not all that easy either.
  
  Concept:
  Motion controls, new dungeons and puzzles, a revised storyline, revised music, old and new villains, 
 and countless other treats youve come to expect from this franchise.
  
  Overall: 9.6
  Every Nintendo console has launched with a game that stayed in our systems long after release. 
 I still play the original Mario (NES) , Mario World (SNES) , Mario 64 (N64) , and Pikmin (GameCube) . 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is that game for Wii. Its the game youll play through 
 multiple times. Its a lengthy, massive adventure that, no matter how long it takes you complete, 
 will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Togepik
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  I must say that my expectations for this game were high, but still, when I played it, it blew me 
 away. The innovative use of the wii remote is a big plus. The story is once again a masterpiece. 
 It's not quite fast-paced, but it's getting there, and it allows you, as all zelda games do, certain 
 pauses in which you may relax and speculate. The story, as usual, isn't thoroughly linear, since 
 you have a good amount of side-quests you can do. The Gameplay for this game is awesome, since 
 the Wii remote is the whole centre of the game and its console. The perfect aiming system using 
 the wii remote is a great way to improve the difficulty from extremely easy to just right, albeit 
 raising the learning curve until one can get used to it. The graphics for this game aren't what 
 one would expect from this console, since they are quite good. The console isn't the power-hogging 
 monster like the PS3 hence the eyecandy isn't as advanced, but eyecandy, nevertheless, is present. 
 The visual worlds, the difference between the twilight realm and Link's world is very subtly pointed 
 out through colour changes and of the sort. The music to this game is what one would expect from 
 any Zelda game. The fast, heart-beating music whenever a boss is about to be fought, the lurking, 
 suspense-filled music when you are trying to get passed an enemy stealthily. Koji Kondo yet another 
 time fills the magic of Zelda through his orchestral masterpieces like Zelda's Theme which we all 
 remember from the Ocarina of Time era. All in all, a perfect 10 is a must for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Hermes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Let's get the cons out of the way first, as few as they are. The game's music is catchy and beautiful, 
 but the fact that it is composed in MIDI and not fully orchestrated makes me wonder how much better 
 the tunes would have sounded otherwise. Aside from that, the lack of voice acting is a let down. 
 I know how Mr. Miyamoto feels about voice acting in Zelda but the cinematic scenes would have been 
 far more dramatic and natural with voice. It would not even matter if they spoke English, Japanese 
 or a made up Hylian, voice would have added to the experience. That said, they should always keep 
 Link silent. Audio aside, technically, TP is not all that special when to comes to graphics. It's 
 obvious that Nintendo didn't touch up the graphics at all for the Wii release, this is, at it's 
 core, a GameCube game. Now on to the good stuff. I complained about the technical graphics but 
 TP more than makes up for it when it comes to artistic design. Hyrule bathed in twilight is one 
 of the most gorgeous and beautiful things I have ever seen in a video game. Particle effects like 
 floating dark matter and rain fall are done very well. The music, while limited to MIDI, still 
 feels epic and grand. Eerie renditions classic Zelda tunes like Saria's song and the Hyrule Castle 
 theme from A Link to the Past, put you in the mood for adventure. One of the biggest aspects of 
 playing TP on Wii instead of the GameCube are the Wiimote controls. If you we worried about the 
 controls feeling tacked on or unnatural, set those worries to rest. The Wiimote not only works 
 well for Zelda, it improves upon the gameplay by leaps and bounds. Never has swordplay, archery, 
 movement and basic gameplay felt so immerse, refined, and intuitive. After playing TP on the Wii, 
 I can guarantee playing Zelda on a tradition controller will not only feel worse , but limited 
 as well. I can not imagine playing Zelda like I used to, holding a button and charging for a spin 
 attack seems moronic when just shaking the Wii's nun-chuck does the same thing without the charge 
 time. Aiming with an analog stick feels like an ancient form of gameplay when I can simply aim 
 with outstanding accuracy by pointing to my enemy with the Wiimote. Zelda is made better with the 
 Wii. Another, mostly overlooked feature of the Wiimote is the controller speaker. It's a cheap 
 piece of turd but once turned off something feels a miss. The speaker really does add a new slightly 
 deeper level of immersion, much like rumble did for Ocarina of Time. We all remember Wind Waker, 
 it was a great game, but one of the most disappointing things about it was it's short length. This 
 is not the case when it comes to TP. Twilight Princess is like a delicious piece of chewy, thick 
 beef jerky that never ends. The game is well over 60 hours long, and that's before the side quests 
 and mini-dungeons. With all the extras, I'd say you're looking at a good 90 hours of gameplay. 
 The great story, cast of characters, and the game's ability to make you say what's next? will 
 make every one of those hours fly by very quickly. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is my 
 favorite game of 2006, it encompasses everything that made Zelda great, throws out whatever flaws 
 it used to have, and completely refines and perfects the formula that Ocarina of Time introduced. 
 Games like Twilight Princess are the reason why games should be considered art, it captivates, 
 enthralls and fill us with wonderment just like any masterful painting of piece of literature or 
 film. Buy this game, buy this game and be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPERJ3X
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  best zelda story ever because the creation and the bosses in every level just crazy how u use the 
 sword just by moving the wii remote at first i thought zelda twilight would be the same thing different 
 story line same last boss just like the others well i was right how many times i have to kill zant 
 the last boss its the same thing but different story line and i expected to last boss to be diffrent 
 but thats never going to happen but this game is hot u should get this game when u first get the 
 wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanrang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This was a game many people were waiting for. It took more than four years to make this game so 
 you should understand how much effort the developers put into it. Many sites gave it perfect reviews 
 and said that it was the best Zelda game in the series.
  Unfortunately Game Spot scored this game much lower than many other sites, which in my opinion 
 deserved more. Well now, let me tell you about the game.
  
  You are Link and are going to save the world from the twilight and the evil twilight king called 
 Zant. Mostly you play as the hero Link, but sometimes you will switch over to your wolf form to 
 make some special missions. The story is very interesting and will have some twists in it. Trust 
 me, you will never find yourself bored. You also use the wii mote to swing Link's sword or shoot 
 with your bow and other items. It's really simple and works great. The sound and the music in this 
 game is excellent and the environment is also very well done. I think the difficulty is just right 
 because it's not too hard or easy. The puzzles in this game are also very fun and there are so 
 much mini games and side quests that you will be playing more than 60 hours for sure before you 
 finish the game.
  
  So, if you like adventure games and have a Wii console, this game is a must buy. One of the greatest 
 games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superninja34
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is freakin awesome, it is like ocarina of time but BETTER. The temples and puzzles are 
 just great, bosses are kool, but a little easy. I like the wolf form, but i was kinda worried about 
 it because of that game okami?, on the sucky ps2.......... but its kool. Link is back and badder 
 than ever, and zelda. this game is gonna be hard to beat for game of the year, i mean its already 
 got game of the year on the Wii, so there u have it.... zelda is the best game ever, and cant be 
 beat GO NINTENDO U ROCK LIKE DONKEY KONG!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaloes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Whoa!? 8.8!? Are you kidding me? Are you guys playing the same game that I am? I don't think you 
 are. Anyway, Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is definately my favorite in the series. Not because 
 it's new, or has good graphics, or whatever, but because I find it to be the most entertaining 
 and exciting, etc. Now honestly, I'm a bigger fan of the older Zelda games for the NES/SNES, and 
 the games on the GBC. I thought The Wind Waker was alright, but I wasn't too Hurray! about Ocarina 
 of Time or Majora's Mask. But Twilight Princess has blown me away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was taken hostage from the GameCube a year ago and now thrown onto the Wii to 
 bolster its rather unimpressive launch lineup. Now what you have is a GameCube game with some Wii 
 Remote sword swinging thrown in. Even as a Zelda game, Twilight Princess doesn't quite live up 
 to its expectations. The boss battles are insanely easy, the game still has a soundtrack that sounds 
 like it was scored for a catridge, and when the game ends you can't help but be disappointed.
 
  
  The game's graphics are not the best technically, they certainly fit the bill. Artistically speaking, 
 it fits the game perfectly and it's easy to dismiss the jagged edges and low-res textures. The 
 bosses look gigantic and epic, and every temple has a nice theme and feel to it.
  
  The audio is where the game loses a few points. The game's score, while fittingly epic, is not 
 orchestral. It sounds like a really high quality catridge, but not the amazing movie-like quality 
 epic you would hope for with this latest installment. Link still doesn't talk, which is fine, but 
 reading all of the text is getting old. I know that voice overs can kill a game, but one of the 
 problems with this installment of Zelda was that it didnt try to break any rules or show us anything 
 new. Putting some voices in there could have done that.
  
  This game stays true to the basic formula of Zelda gameplay. It has eight temples, each will take 
 a satisfying amount of time to complete. The temples never feel particularly challenging (and by 
 challenging I don't mean N64 Water Temple) . The game is not hard, and the less-than-thrilling boss 
 fights stay easy from the first to the final boss. Some of them even feel more than a little inspred 
 from Shadow of the Colossus. Their patterns and weaknesses are not difficult to figure out in the 
 least, and if you're stuck, Midna will probably give you the hint you need. The bosses do seem 
 pretty epic for the most part, so that element of the game isnt a total bust.
  
  The wolf elements of the game are fun and provide a nice transition from temple to temple. The 
 beast for has several cool moves as well as a sense that can allow you to see ghosts or follow 
 scents.
  
  The story in the game will take you roughly 30-35 hours to complete, and it wraps up quite nicely, 
 with the credits closing any lose ends to the smaller parts of the plot. The ending is predictable, 
 but that doesn't necesarily mean it's a bad ending. In fact, it's rather fitting.
  
  Overall, Twilight Princess is still a great game, but leaves things to be desired. It is a great, 
 solid game that every Wii owner should have, it's just too bad it didn't reach it's potential to 
 be the best Zelda game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbmonkeyjerk
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I know graphics aren't everything but they account for something in a game. And this game is not 
 pretty in the least bit, the only time it shows any graphical power is when you fight large enemies 
 or bosses but human characters with hair show how out dated this engine is. Also I liked Orcarina 
 of Time's combat system not Wind Wakers, so why give me Wind Waker? Also for such a big title such 
 as a new Zelda why did they recycle Wind Waker so much? Not to say this is the worst game ever, 
 which it clearly is not. But is it the best game for the Wii? No. The reason? I believe with any 
 new system with new form of controls you should have a game that truly shows those new abilities 
 off well. I read my game informer and they gave Twilight Princess at 10/10 I wonder which game 
 they played. The game overall feels like a Gamecube game with small Wii controls tacked on but 
 it totally does not feel like a Wii game. Look at the new Smash Bros coming out it has way better 
 graphics than Twilight Princess. So I am waiting for the next Zelda game to see if they can save 
 this franchise from only being enjoyable to 12 yr olds. Also the lack of voice overs was exceptable 
 for the Gamecube but the Wii? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobtom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a great game but nothing more the bosses wer just to 
 easy and ther wer only a few puzzle (witch was also quite easy) but you get ues to the controls 
 rather quickly. ther is alot to do in the game and once you have beaten the main game you can still 
 go back and finish the side quests, the gameplay is superb and the graphics are good but at times 
 lack in texture. the sound are good but also get repetitive it is good value for money but after 
 completing it it will leave you wanting more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow230990
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  For a game that's taken this long in the making, you'd expect it to be good. Well, combined with 
 the new wow factor that's given with the Wii Remote, this game is truly outstanding to play.
  
  The game starts off nice and slow in your forest home town, where there's a nice little area 
 you can explore, yet enough is implemented here to ease you into the game's new control system. 
 Very useful indeed, and a great way to start off the game.
  However, it does blend into the main storyline not too far into the game, as Link is shortly afterwards 
 captured and transformed into his wolfy self in the twilight .
  
  The graphics of the game are nice and solid. Players of The Ocarina of TIme will likely spend a 
 few minutes checking out all the new little details that the classic characters (such as the Gorons, 
 for example) are given. But brushing aside the comparison to an old game, the graphics, although 
 consistant, are plagued with lo-res textures a tad too often, and some models could have had the 
 polycount bolstered up a bit. Also adding to this is the low antialiasing multiplier is really 
 evident in some shots. However, this is to be expected on a game developed on a less powerful console.
 
  The character modelling is very complementary to the style of game and the attention to detail 
 down to the point of Link's clothes getting wet and dripping when in water is phenomenal.
  The buildings and architecture is nice and solid, and the attention to detail some places are given 
 is astounding.
  
  The game's sound is very familiar, if you've played any LOZ game in the past. Although this is 
 a nice addition, it wears thin rather quickly. The Wii Remote does a splendid job of helping the 
 action be intensified with the sound effects that come through it. However, too often should these 
 sound effects (especially in menus) be played through the TV, as they are given the audial focus 
 at some points and these sound effects are really tinny and low-quality when listened to. The game's 
 value is pretty understandable for a LOZ game, it's a good 20&lt; hours main story, and the amount 
 of unlockables/hidden stuff really helps the game's depth too. But however, one thing I found is 
 that although this game has a very nice, long storyline to it, it doesn't last as long as OoT's 
 story did. The dungeons are decidedly smaller, and the large Hyrule Field feels as if it is compensating 
 for the small towns.
  
  The gameplay aspect is extremely good, but is only hampered by the Wii Remote's usage. The movements 
 you make with the Wii Remote are nice at getting you into the game, and allowing for more precise 
 aiming, but the game frequently misinterprets your movements, especially at points when special 
 moves are unlocked. A nice addition to the game is the ability to skip cutscenes, something that 
 was desperately lacking from previous titles.
  
  The game's storyline, as you'd expect, is rather deep and involved. The variation between levels 
 is very nice, and cutscenes are done to a good effect. However, there is a slight annoyance to 
 be found in the lack of voiceovers, since this is a game on a (debatably) next-gen console. I can't 
 comment too much on the story without giving important points away, but I'll leave saying there's 
 some good plot twists. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthd008
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  I've always considered the Zelda series a series that just progressively got better as it went 
 on, even when you thought it would never get any better. And this Zelda is no different.
  
  Once again the land of Hyrule and it's up to Link to save the world from Twilight
  Twilight Princess 
 isn't the same light these torches, push this block, and get the key to move on the next room. 
 The puzzles are similar but different enough for you think about it in stead of running in a room 
 and leaving 2 seconds later. The design of this games is great. You also get a massive world to 
 explore and the dungeons aren't repetitive in appearance and in gameplay.
  
  The graphics are the best for the Wii at this time. Once you turn on the game you still look and 
 go.... wow . They're not Xbox 360 but still pretty good for what the Wii is going to show us for 
 now.
  
  With the Wii-mote, amazing graphics, and just the unforgettable world of Twilight Princess alone 
 already makes this one of if not the best in the series. but the one thing that i found that really 
 stood out for me was the re-thought out puzzles you run across in the dungeons. It gives the player 
 that this isn't like the games before it. Twilight Princess stands out as the best in the series 
 hands down and have a place as one of the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbRipken
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, let me just start by saying something that I think is very important for you to know. I am 
 NOT really a Zelda fan. I like the Zelda games. But Wind Waker was my first. I didn't really get 
 too far into Ocarina, because I played it in 2003 when it was pretty outdated. I can assure you 
 that when I review this game, there's no bias at all. First off:
  Gameplay:
  This game plays very well. The Wii elements do feel added on, and so they could have been a little 
 better. The controller can occasionally be a bit unresponsive, but overall it works really well. 
 The game has more action than some of the previous Zelda games. The puzzle solving elements are 
 pretty varied and pretty clever. They're never overly difficult though. I'm someone that's only 
 played Wind Waker and half of OOT. I really didn' thave that much trouble. So as long as you go 
 into it not expecting it to be too challeneging, you should enjoy it.
  Graphics:
  On one hand, this game is really quite beautfiul to look at. I think it's that artistic style that 
 the game has. On the other hand, I found myself wondering why this game didn't look better than 
 Resident Evil 4, 2 years later. I even found myself saying that in certain respects it was that 
 much of a jump from Star Fox Adventures which was made 4 years ago. Graphically this game just 
 wasn't what I was expecting it to be. But in any event, I stopped on several occasions to observe 
 the world because it was beautiful. Sound:
  Okay, this is where the game lacks. This is a big issue for a lot of people. This is just my opinion, 
 but I'm going to just be straight up about it. Having voice overs is a standard today. So I just 
 don't understand what's so hard about it. Just have Link NOT speak, and everyone else can speak. 
 The voice overs wouldn't work in a Zelda game line is just sad. If every other game out there can 
 do it, then there's no reason Zelda can't. Also the fact that this game didn't have orchestrated 
 music is extremely disappointing to me. If it'd had them, I might just put this down on my list 
 as one of best games ever made for music. Now I will say that the music in the game worked very 
 well for what it was doing. And the lack of voiceovers didn't kill the game or anything, it just 
 makes me think that for how long this game spent in developement, it could've done more. They could 
 have at least done one of those two things for us, music or voices! I wouldn't have complained 
 if they'd done one of them. Overall, sound is the game's weakness. Which I guess is better than 
 it screwing up on a gameplay front.
  Value:
  Long game. I finished the game at 50 hours. Generally speaking, I'm ready for games to be done 
 at about 10 to 15 hours. I don't like long games. But this one held my attention. So that is meant 
 as a huge complement to the game. Lots of games are long, but what makes this one so great is that 
 it does it without the cheap stuff. No random encounter battles that take you 30 minutes, no 38 
 hours of cut scenes. There's just simply a lot to do in this game. Final Review:
  I made my criticisms very clear because I think it's important to know the things that could have 
 been better about it before you buy it. These criticisms are just my personal opinion. So just 
 take that into consideration. I would highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a great 
 adventure game with a really good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaloudakabooba
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Greatest game of all time. This game includes everything from the perfect games!
  
  Graphics are really great no they 're perfect!
  
  The gameplay is very easy on tha Wii I learned 
 to play the game in 20 minutes for the first time.
  
  The game is great heck Zelda and tha Wii together are PERFECT so buy this game or regret it!!
 
  
  I feel I must punish myself for never having played Ocarina of Time or any other Zelda game until 
 now. I was extremely lucky to get my Wii, and extremely pleased that this was the game I picked 
 up with it. This game is epic on every scale. With a deep storyline and immersive gameplay, this 
 is definately the game every Wii owner needs, NEEDS, to pick up. If you think the Wii is for kiddy 
 games, this is sure to change your perspective. If not, go back to your room and play Mobile Suit 
 Gundam Crossfire like you are begging to do. The game starts out with a not-so-heroic Link in the 
 villiage of Ordon. There are several things that you do here before you really get into the main 
 story line. The game is filled with many cleverly designed puzzles that, most of the times, really 
 make you think. The game is easy to pick up and play, but don't expect that to get you too far 
 into the game. The level/dungeon design is fantastic, probably the best in any game I've played 
 to date. There are many, many different puzzles in the dungeons that you'll have to solve with 
 the various items that you'll pick up throughout the game and, in the end, make you feel like a 
 true logician.
  
  Another thing that makes the gameplay so great is the variety you'll find throughout the game. 
 Horseback riding and fighting, a fantastic lure fishing game, ice skiing... this gmae has enough 
 to satisfy any gamers wants.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. No, you can't see every single individual blade of grass or 
 tree leave, but in the end, who cares? The only reason I gave the graphics a 9 is that some of 
 the people look a little... dorky. Not to say they look bad, they just look a little... funny (specifically, 
 the mail man) .
  
  The music in this game is great. The game features a powerful musical score that seems to fit in 
 perfectly with the environment to create a nice ambiance that imerses you further into the game. 
 At first i did have a problem with the Wiimote's speaker, but then realized I could turn it's volume 
 down and that gave a great improvement to the sound, though (rarely) it still got a littly etchy.
 
  
  To sum things up... The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a fantastic game. It kept me drawn 
 in throughout all 50 hours that it took me to beat the game and continued to give me that sense 
 of accomplishment after slashing down a few enemies with my trusty Wiimote and solving the many 
 challenging puzzles the game offers. I give Nintendo two thumbs up for this amazing game, possibly 
 the best I've ever had the chance to play. Now if only they'd get Ocarina of Time ready for the 
 Virtual Console.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spagnm5656
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first started to play Twilight princess i though this has pretty good graphics and as i 
 played through the game i had the same responce. So graphically this game is good. Game play also 
 was very good with many interactive side quests like flying through the sky on the back of a monster, 
 something i would have never suspected in a zelda game but it worked. Also how Nintendo introduced 
 back into the game the idea of fishing was brilliant. I loved fishing in Ocarina of time but they 
 just took it to the next level. The sound is good but not great with very simplistic songs which 
 work but do not give the best atmosphere. The music, like in a movie creates an atmosphere, but 
 i did not find that in this game althought the music was still alright. The one this i will say 
 that this game was lacking is during the game was heeps of mini games and side quests but i guess 
 they came later in the game.
  
  As for Value i think it is one of the best games money can buy and will keep you going for hours. 
 I will say for those who like long games with many things to do even after you finish the main 
 part of the game, this is the game for you. Time length is around 40 hours for people who rush 
 to about 100 hours for people who take it nice a slow.
  
  Bottom Line: Buy this game you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreepyNerd90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I feel I must punish myself for never having played Ocarina of Time or any other Zelda game until 
 now. I was extremely lucky to get my Wii, and extremely pleased that this was the game I picked 
 up with it. This game is epic on every scale. With a deep storyline and immersive gameplay, this 
 is definately the game every Wii owner needs, NEEDS, to pick up. If you think the Wii is for kiddy 
 games, this is sure to change your perspective. If not, go back to your room and play Mobile Suit 
 Gundam Crossfire like you are begging to do. The game starts out with a not-so-heroic Link in the 
 villiage of Ordon. There are several things that you do here before you really get into the main 
 story line. The game is filled with many cleverly designed puzzles that, most of the times, really 
 make you think. The game is easy to pick up and play, but don't expect that to get you too far 
 into the game. The level/dungeon design is fantastic, probably the best in any game I've played 
 to date. There are many, many different puzzles in the dungeons that you'll have to solve with 
 the various items that you'll pick up throughout the game and, in the end, make you feel like a 
 true logician.
  
  Another thing that makes the gameplay so great is the variety you'll find throughout the game. 
 Horseback riding and fighting, a fantastic lure fishing game, ice skiing... this gmae has enough 
 to satisfy any gamers wants.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. No, you can't see every single individual blade of grass or 
 tree leave, but in the end, who cares? The only reason I gave the graphics a 9 is that some of 
 the people look a little... dorky. Not to say they look bad, they just look a little... funny (specifically, 
 the mail man) .
  
  The music in this game is great. The game features a powerful musical score that seems to fit in 
 perfectly with the environment to create a nice ambiance that imerses you further into the game. 
 At first i did have a problem with the Wiimote's speaker, but then realized I could turn it's volume 
 down and that gave a great improvement to the sound, though (rarely) it still got a littly etchy.
 
  
  To sum things up... The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a fantastic game. It kept me drawn 
 in throughout all 50 hours that it took me to beat the game and continued to give me that sense 
 of accomplishment after slashing down a few enemies with my trusty Wiimote and solving the many 
 challenging puzzles the game offers. I give Nintendo two thumbs up for this amazing game, possibly 
 the best I've ever had the chance to play. Now if only they'd get Ocarina of Time ready for the 
 Virtual Console.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo-boy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is probably the best game in the Zelda series yet. The game 
 play was probably the best yet. Bringing back fun little extras such as fishing and the horse gave 
 you fun things to do while you pondered over puzzles and such. The graphics and sound were amazing 
 as well, except for the occasional cheap sound effect that popped out of the wiimote. I didn't 
 think the replay value was all that great though. The controls are very simple and fun to use, 
 and the game was the perfect length. It was long enough to get your monies worth, but not so long 
 that you lost interest in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  La verdad solo por este juego tengo el Wii, por que lka verdad las sagas de Link son bastante buenas 
 las juego desde que tengo memoria.
  Graficamente hablando es algo bueno no es anda extraordinario que aya visto antes pero las graficas 
 son buenas mas viendolo en una tele de plasma XD.
  Hacerca de la historia es buena como siempre hicieron un buen trabajo al sakar esto, tmb otro punto 
 a decir es la jugabilidad, creo que con el Wiimote esta bastantemente bien hecho para el jeugo 
 ya que al momento de apuntar o realizar los ataque reacciona bien y uno se acostumbra bastante 
 rapido.
  En pocas palabras este juego es perfecto.
  
  
  By Ed..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrackStarr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  In this review I'm going to try to honestly communicate to you the quality of this game. You're 
 probably wondering if it's as lame as Jeff says or as great as the fanboys say. The truth is that 
 it's somewhere in between those two extremes.
  
  Playing as link, you fight monsters, solve puzzles with your items, and take on bosses. It's all 
 very well done, and the adventure is the longest in the history of zelda. Fighting is very easy, 
 as usual. The wii-mote sword action feels better than pushing a button, but you can just shake 
 your wrist and the sword will swing. No need to get carried away. The puzzles, especially in the 
 dungeons, are pretty devious. For this reason, zelda newcomers and young children should pick up 
 a strategy guide. Another potential problem for children is that, like most rpg's, the player needs 
 to figure out what to do next with little hand-holding.
  
  The textures look bad, but the environments are huge and just look like this fantastic fantasy 
 world. My jaw literally dropped about a dozen times during the course of the game. Some of the 
 boss monsters are also huge and impressive-looking. The twilight zone also has this techno-looking 
 shield around it. Just great art direction, fun to look at.
  
  The sound is standard zelda tunes and sound effects. Highlights include howling songs as a wolf. 
 But for the most part they are actually pleasant to the ear. They just aren't anything fantastic, 
 so they didn't get a fantastic score. And while I think it's appropriate for Link to be silent, 
 some of the NPC's should have voicework but they don't.
  
  Value is huge. The main quest should last about 50 hours or so. Side activites include looking 
 for heart pieces, golden bugs, and poe souls. There are minigames like lure fishing (which could 
 be a game by itself) , the river-rapids shooting game, and the STAR minigame. So in terms of replay 
 vaue, the sky is the limit. The only game I can think of that trumps TP in scope is Oblivion. After 
 finding all of the extras and doing minigames to your heart's content, play time will be well over 
 100 hours. 50 cents an hour, if you like numbers.
  
  In conclusion, this is a massive zelda game with major personality. You aren't going to find any 
 other game like this. The closest things to it are the past zelda games, but even they can't match 
 the scope of this game. If a virtual adventure interests you in any way, you can not go wrong by 
 playing this. RECOMMENDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: POINTS: compelling characters and story, outstanding world and puzzle design,80+hours of 
 gameplay, TERRIFIC GRAPHICS {the best graphicsfor the WII {for now} , you can transform into a WOLF, exellent 
 use of the NUNCHUK and WII-REMOTE, many new weapons {like GALE BOOMERANG} . THE BAD POINTS: none [CONCLUSION] for 
 everybody that have a WII buy, because this is the best that you can {for now} or if you dont want 
 to buy a WII and have a GAMECUBE buy it, and its probaly the best LEGEND OF ZELDA GAME EVER. and 
 i dont understand that this gets a8.8 for the wii-version and the gamecube version a 8.9. THAT GUY 
 THAT REVIEWED IS TOTALY NUTS THAT HE GAVE A 8.8 and 8.9. THIS GAME DESERVES A FREACKING 9.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
 Ubeleavable Ubeleavable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  It's hard to review a game that is purely awesome in every way. The reviewer here at GameSpot surely 
 doesn not appreciate that this game uses the technology of the Wii to the best of its ability. 
 Yes, the noise is tinny in the remote speaker, but EVERY Wii GAME IS LIKE THAT. You can't judge 
 a game based on what your view on the technology is. PERIOD, END OF STORY. If you do, then no Wii 
 game will recieve a 9. Hell, if Zelda didn't, then no other Wii game, not even Smash Bros. Brawl 
 stands a chance.
  
  GRAPHICS- Pushes the limit of Xbox graphics with beautiful environments, rich detail, creative 
 character design, gorgeous scenery, and fluid character motions.
  
  GAMEPLAY- There is no flaw. The Wii motion sense controller is used perfectly with the gameplay. 
 From simple swings, to addictive fishing, to point and click projectile weapons, this game is easy 
 to play. Oh, let's not forget the awesome dungeons, the best in the series.
  
  SOUND- YES, a full orchestra would be nice. But it isn't necessary, and it wont hinder your experience 
 whatsoever. Voice acting will probably never be an addition to a Zelda game, so get used to it.
 
  
  VALUE- More than 40 hours of story, hundreds of hours of quests, and a game that will never get 
 old. If I still had Wind Waker, I'd be playing it now. I will have Zelda for years to come, just 
 because I will never grow tired of it.
  
  TILT- (I'm never sure what this means) This is my new favorite game of all time. I usually never 
 say that, but I can say it now.
  
  OVERALL: I never say a game is a perfect 10, but here I am, saying it loud and proud. This is my 
 favorite game of all time, and it is to everyone but Jeff. Anyone that has any value, that is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macpoule
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  At last a long awaited Zelda. As the legend begins, we are a bit confused in the story line but 
 when we are farther in the storyline, we understand it. The game's difficulty level is the problem. 
 It's just easy. It could have been a bit more challenging. Twilight Princess' graphics are not 
 the best because it's a game created for the gamecube so it has gamecube graphics. The game's A. I. 
 is well developed. It's well developed because enemies don't stay there and wait until it dies, 
 it tries to kill you. The Wiimotes sounds are very low quality and when the we put the sound on 
 the mote at zero, it channels through the t. v. so it makes good quality sounds. There are lots 
 of things to do when you're not doing the storyline like exploring Hyrule to find hearts and doing 
 side quests. Hyrule is huge in Twilight Princess. The gameplay is really great with the Wiimote. 
 This game is the longest adventure i've seen so far. It takes so much time to complete it. This 
 game is a must-have for a Zelda lover or a must-have if you have a Wii, even if you never played 
 a Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mardil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  The expectations for this game were really high. Not only did Nintendo had to convince the hardcore 
 gaming crowd the Wii was worth the $250 price tag, but also did it have to show off the capabilities 
 and advantages of the Wii on the action/adventure genre over other platforms. And as if it weren't 
 enough, it had to make sure it appealed and bring back the tons of gamers that were driven off 
 the last cell-shaded Zelda game, The Wind Waker (an amazing game, by the way) . And one last thing. 
 It had to best Nintendo's thousand-pound gorilla, Ocarina of Time, considered by many the best 
 game of all times. In this game you play the role of Link (or however you wish to name him) , a 
 resident from a Hyrule province. Your goal is to restore the peace in Hyrule, and to achieve this, 
 you will journey into the varied Hyrule locations, which include Lake Hylia, Kakariko Village, 
 Hyrule Castle, and some never-before seen locations such as City in the Sky. As the story evolves, 
 you will find a parallel world called the Twilight Realm , in which you will transform into a blue-eyed 
 wolf. The Twilight Realm is basically the same as the light world, but colored up with different 
 tones and with some rip-offs of the light world creatures.
  
  Throughout your journey in the game you will come to face temples, every one being recreated and 
 polished so well according to its theme. In example, the Forest Temple actually looks as if you 
 were inside an ancient forest, having leaves, insects, and statues all around. This game has such 
 an amazing art design that helps recreate the surroundings and makes it look great. If you spend 
 your time looking at walls and making close-ups to characters, though you will most probably notice 
 some low-resolution textures and jagged edges. This doesn't really affect how the game is played 
 or your overall experience, since everything looks fantastic from a considerable distance, but 
 it wouldve been nice that they upgraded the textures a bit, since the system supports higher-resolution 
 textures than the GCN.
  
  Most of the music you'll be hearing all through the game are remixes of old tunes that we have 
 heard in past Zelda games. They hold up pretty well, and are implemented in parts where you see 
 characters or places you have seen before, but in there are some times were you just want to hear 
 new music. The thing is, most of the tunes that are actually new are incredible, and if Nintendo 
 wouldve developed more new tunes, it wouldve been great. The lack of voice acting is kind of 
 disappointing in some way. I'm not saying Nintendo should give Link a voice, because the absence 
 of lines for Link is completely artistically, but characters such as Midna (your partner through 
 your adventure) and town people could benefit from it.
  
  The gameplay's as good as you could've come to expect from the series. It's basically the same 
 as it has been in the last Zelda games, which can't be something bad. You'll be facing some puzzles 
 and boss fights that will make your head ache (the twin-statues puzzle is particularly difficult) , 
 but after you solve them, you will feel a sense of reward. Boss fights are incredible and really 
 fun, but disappointingly easy. The Wii controls in the game work pretty good. To get Link to slash 
 his sword, you must move the Wiimote. The game doesn't capture and execute the exact movement you 
 are making with the remote, and shaking it will end up in pre-defined combos. This is not disappointing, 
 but rather relieving, because for most of the time shaking the remote will make Link attack. You 
 also get to use your remote for aiming weapons such as the Slingshot and your Bow. This mechanics 
 work so great and feel so fresh that going back to the original control scheme in which you have 
 to aim with an analog stick feels old and inaccurate.
  
  Throughout the game you will find some stones in where you have to mimic a tune by howling with 
 Wolf-Link. Finding this will gain you access to a new sword ability/combo. They work out pretty 
 well, except for one, which requires you to thrust your Nunchuck forward. Problem is, this will 
 most likely end up in another of your abilities, the spin attack. The good part is, you don't have 
 to use this ability if you don't want to, and there's almost no enemy that requires you to kill 
 him using it, making it completely optional, which at least saves you from struggling with the 
 controls.
  
  You'll be spending around 35-45 hours with this game, just to complete the main quest. Of course, 
 as it is traditional with Zelda games, there are a bunch of side-quests that could keep you busy 
 for another 10-20 hours. There aren't as many side quests as you could find in Majora's Mask, but 
 they're enough to keep you moving.
  
  One of the things I liked the most about the game is the expressiveness of Link. I liked how Nintendo 
 didn't dump the expressive Link after WW when changing back to the traditional art style. You'll 
 come to love Link after the first 10 hours, just because of how he reacts to the different situations.
 
  
  Last Point: This game is amazing. This is a must-have game to all Zelda fans and Wii/GCN owners. 
 Does this game live up to the hype? Yes it does.
  Is it better than Ocarina of Time? Overall, as a game it is.
  Is it as groundbreaking and incredibly 
 innovative as OoT was for it's time? No.
  Is it the best Zelda ever? Thats a question you'll have to answer for yourself. Play the game 
 =) .
  Do I recommend this game? Absolutely yes.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. Please leave feedback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinji_kyoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  From the get go Twilight Princess (TP) makes clear that although it will follow the same basic 
 aim (protect hyrule and in the process princess Zelda) as the other games in the franchise, the 
 new control system is going to be something amazing. Surprisingly, although the functionality of 
 the controls is completely new, the learning curve is relatively low, and this allows the player 
 to really get into being Link straight away.
  
  The Gameplay is simply outstanding. In both human and wolf form there is a seemlessness to movements 
 and the use of items/wolf abilities. After a deep scrutinization, the only very minor downpoint 
 to the gameplay is the slight lack of accuracy experienced with the sword motions. Although this 
 can be overcome with some practice using the Wiimote. The place of Navi being taken by Midna, the 
 imputous twilight dweler with her own agenda also works. There is a distinct lack of pointless 
 commentry on situations as Midna seems to be more intent upon helping Link rather than annoying 
 him. The visual properties of the game, back in the traditional OoT style, are outstanding. Certainly 
 one can argue that there are some better graphics out there in other next gen consoles, but it 
 is pretty damn good. There was a continual graphic quality throughout the game, however at some 
 points (like the fishing hole) that as a player you just have to sit back and enjoy the beautiful 
 scenery.
  
  Sound is also very good, with the classic music score accompanied by some other great tunes. In 
 place of the usual instrument found in most Zelda titles, there is the ability to howl at certain 
 places in wolf form, or play one of two different tunes on peices of grass. These are quite catchy, 
 and create a sense of nostalgia (especially with some of the howling tunes and their likeness to 
 some OoT favorites) . The speaker in the Wiimote adds another dimension to the sound which overall 
 is an effective one. However the speaker quality in the mote is noticably not that great, as the 
 sounds produced, while adding a lot to the game, are a bit tinny.
  
  Overall TP is a great game which stands up to the rest of the Legend of Zelda franchise. It is 
 jampacked with things to do, so even if you have finished the main storyline, you can still come 
 back and be sucked in again by the numerous side quests and minigames (especially the great fishing) .
 
  Deffinately a title to buy and not rent, as you will probably get so caight up in it that you 
 will forget to return it in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Everytime a new Zelda game comes out, it's almost a given that the game will be good, a series 
 so highly revered as Zelda has amassed around 15 or so games in the last 20 years. Through this 
 time there has been one game that has been widely regarded to be the best in the series: Ocarina 
 of Time. After playing through Twilight Princess, I can safely say that this is now the greatest 
 Zelda game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Gameplay is typical Zelda, which is definitely a good thing, but with new weapons and 
 items, abilities, the ability to transform into a wolf, and motion sensitive controls, all of these 
 new additions help improve an already excellent formula. It also makes nods to previous Zelda games 
 which makes it even better for Zelda veterans.
  
  GRAPHICS: While it certaintly isn't Gears of War, Zelda's graphics are fine by me, very realistic, 
 and surely pushing the limits of the Gamecube. The artisitic aspects of the world are what put 
 this game over the edge. From the lush environments to the brilliant character designs, Zelda is 
 artistically a masterpiece.
  
  SOUND: While the game lacks voice acting, the sound in Zelda impresses with SFX and the brilliant 
 original music. The lack of voice acting I actually see as a plus on account of the fact that it 
 adds originality to the series and has always been an unspoken rule of the Zelda universe.
  
  VALUE: For 50 bux, this is a steal. The main quest will take at least 50 hours to complete, 
 even if you're a Zelda veteran, while all the side quests and just goofing around will put this 
 game nearly to the 100 hour mark, the value is absolutely unbelievable.
  
  TILT: This is the greatest example of what any game should strive to become, and shall be remembered 
 fondly for years to come, in all aspects of the game. This is one of hte few games that is in all 
 ways, intents and purposes uttterly perfect. It is the reason to buy the Wii and will be known 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  As all stories go.... there is always going to be a great story in a Zelda game. In this game it 
 feels mostly the same, which is still good, it still feels intact and will be one of the best sellers 
 for the Wii in a long while. Everyone should have played at least one Zelda game in there lives.... This 
 one is a success but does it step up to the Zelda Series, fall down, or stay the same just like 
 every other Zelda to date....? Gameplay - The Wii makes the game feel more revolutionary and innotiative 
 for every game. This game is one of those games that makes that statement more true. Swinging the 
 controller around makes you use your sword, aiming the Wiimote at the TV makes you aim with a certain 
 item. Each and every item has it's own way of using it in this game... The only problem is it may 
 be hard to aim at first... but in about 20 - 30 minutes you'll get use to the new controls and you 
 might even like this new feel better than the Gamecube. There's also very numerous things you'll 
 enjoy about shooting your bow, slingshot, etc. It's quite fun to hear the Wiimote when you shoot 
 a bow or swing your sword..... but it's really annoying hearing it at night. So here's a tip. If 
 your playing with someone in the room who's asleep or if your SNEAKING then press the 'home button' 
 on the Wii mote and look for the Wiimote settings and quiet down the sound..... because if you try 
 muting the TV.... it will not WORK! The enemies in this game are fun to battle, including the bosses, 
 but the bosses are probably really easy to beat.... except the 2nd to last boss... and final boss. 
 Just a little hint for you. For me all the bosses before the two last bosses... took me between 
 2 - 5 minutes.... and I never died. Of course all the bosses are strategic and most of the time.... you'll 
 get stuck in puzzles besides getting stuck in bosses.... but of course you can always use the internet... but 
 if your savage then try figuring out yourself... or *cough* use the latest item you got... *cough* 
 There is alot of new features that help you play this game much easier.... Fishing is pretty good 
 if you know how to fish with the Wii controls.... And horseback riding is really fun specially if 
 you have a ranged weapon... but you don't really ride on horse back. You usually ride about 10% 
 of the game if you don't warp. Graphics The graphics are much better than Gamecube graphics... but 
 there is a lot of motion blurs and bad textures. Most of the time you'll see some bad body textures... on 
 Link most of the time. Most of the really good textures is the dungeons, bosses, and the WATER! 
 Yes the water looks good. The surroundings are pretty linear but I give the Graphics an 8/10 because 
 it looks better than the Gamecube version... and you got 16x9 only on the Wii. Sound - The only 
 problem with sound is having the Wiimote on at night.... besides that it's aboslutely perfect... and 
 I love the music no matter what people say. Value - The game should last people about 40 - 50 hours. 
 That's just the main story though... There is plenty of sidequests for you to come back to but that 
 should last an extra 10 hours at most. It took me 39 hours and 52 minutes to get to the last boss.... and 
 I had gotten a total of 19 hearts. The game total should take you at least 50 - 70 hours unless 
 your new to the game. Thanks for reading my review and I'll be writing more Wii Reviews soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbizzle979
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  this is definitely one of the longer zelda games, and i think the only zelda game that has more 
 dungeons/temples would be the origina nes games lol
  
  overall the storyline is very interesting, but it isnt really that great to me... i mean dont get 
 me wrong i think the storyline does a good job of pulling you in, but its almost too much of a 
 stretch from the previous storylines
  
  the wii conrols do feel a little bit forced and they aren't as intuitive as they say they are, 
 if you swing the wii remote horizontal its supposed to make link swing horizontal, but in my experience 
 it doesn't really matter which direction you swing the remote because link always seems to do the 
 vertical slash
  
  but the controls do work and they dont take very long to get used to, this is a great zelda game... not 
 the best but a pretty good one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidwell12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the is a Zelda game and we all know what to expect. Hacking and slashing and z-targeting 
 to stick the sword up Ganon's ass. Although this game has all the features of past Zelda games 
 it has so much more as well. There are tons of new items and hyrule is a vast land of beauty. Which 
 leads me to my next topic the graphics. All the reveiws have talked bad about the graphics but 
 personally i dont think they are terrible. I mean they aren't the quality of the 360 or anything 
 but they are tolerable. Which is all i expected from Nintendo anyways. But enough of that lets 
 move on to what makes this game one of the greatest of all time, the gameplay. The gameplay of 
 this game is amazing... enough said. Some people complain that this is the same gameplay as in 98 
 on Ocarina of Time. This is true in some ways but wasn't that an awsome game? The gameplay has 
 the same general layout and feel but Ocarina of Time didn't have the wii-mote. The wii-mote acts 
 like a sword, bow, clawshot and so many more things. Thirdly and lastly the sound of this game 
 is on level with some of the greatest audio of games ever, such as Halo. Overall this is an amazing 
 game and if you own a Wii it is a must have title. If you dont have a Wii go buy one so you can 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  this game was good on the gamecube but on the wii its alot better. with the motion sensor on the 
 remote all you have to do is swing the remote and link swings his sword. when you have the bow 
 you can aim with the remote instead of using the control stick. being the wolf in this game is 
 alot of fun too and ou can do so much as a wolf. being link is good when you aahve to find and 
 unlock the hidden skills in the game and oher hidden stuff. all the new items ar cool too like 
 the zora armor that allowes you to breath under water or the water bombs that can be used in the 
 water. also fishing with the remote is cool cause you really have to reel in the fish like you 
 would do in real life. the game is very long as well its like 40 hours long of gameplay. longest 
 zelda game ive played. longest action adventure game i think. if your into the zelda game then 
 this is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Now I'm pretty sure I'm going to get about a million death threats via PM for saying this but to 
 be honest I have been a little disappointed by the latest in the never ending Zelda series, don't 
 get me wrong it's a good game but don't believe the hype.
  
  First of all the graphics, seriously I love them, the art style within this game defiantly makes 
 up for the fact that this looks like a two year old gamecube game. The thing I am most disappointed 
 about is the fact that fighting is actually very boring, I was expecting to be slicing my way through 
 enemy's like no body's business but in fact no matter which direction you move the controller or 
 the speed and angle have any effect on his really simple and repetitive combos.... shame really, 
 but yet again, this is because it's really a gamecube game ported badly.
  
  I also found the puzzles a little uninspired, you see I'm what you call a Zelda veteran, been playing 
 this series for years and they have just rehashed the same old dungeons in the same old order as 
 they always have, seriously a little variation on the old fire dungeon would be nice.
  
  This game has been really over hyped and while it is a good game it doesn't deserve this much fan-dom 
 from kids who know no better, in my view wind waker is actually a better game.... and that's saying 
 something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdees505
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is not only the Game of the year but it is also the greatest 
 game of all time... come on gamespot gave windwaker a higher score... what were they thinking? 
 The game takes everything that fans have come to love about the franchise and suddenly makes it 
 new again, without losing anything in the process. Twilight princess is an acomplishment of video 
 games, it mereges story and gameplay into one irresitable product. But not only that twilight princess 
 stands as one of the greatest acheivements that mankind has ever made.
  Then there is the graphics, if every wii game is going to look this good than the 360 and PS3 dont 
 stand a chance, this game is gorgeus and filled with some of the most uniqe art i've ever seen 
 in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fragman435
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  After 20 years of giving us Zelda games that range from good to great they have finally gave us 
 the best zelda game ever. I won't explain the plot because i don't want to spoil it for you. This 
 game will keep you busy for upwards of 40 hours due to the many side quests and massive story mode. the 
 best thing about this game is the varitey of weapons and dungeons. the first three dungeons are 
 predictibale but after that it all changes when you start using the wiimote to do amazing things 
 like swing your sword or aim weapons like arrows or clawshot. The graphics won't be beating gears 
 of war but are still very good. i belive this game may have dealt a critical hit to the ps3 launch. 
 All the content in this game make szelda worth saving ... again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  In Zelda: The Twilight Princess, you play as Link. Basically the story unfolds that you are this 
 nice guy who is always helping people out in your town. You are a no name amateur adventurer who 
 is going to set off to the kingdom of Hyrule. You utilize the wii mote to slash with your sword, 
 shoot long range weaponry, and even fish. Its really nice how they use the remote in the gameplay 
 and adds a really good feel that will often pull you in to play more. The only problem is that 
 when your fighting youll be having a great time, but then they throw boring puzzles at you. Im 
 not a puzzle gamer, and if you arent either, you may want to rethink this game. I personally think 
 this game is rather boring, because the combat isnt really challenging and usually not very frequent. 
 The puzzles were a real turn off for me because they will just throw them in at any odd time to 
 add gameplay hours.
  
  Zelda: TP is a game that you will play for months if you enjoy it. Its extremely lengthy and has 
 tons of replay value. The graphics are pretty blan. There isnt anything amazing to be found here, 
 but thats not necessarily a bad point. Nothing great to be expected from the wii, but the environments 
 are nice. I personally hate the character models because its that wierd japan facial and bodily 
 physique that looks cartoony even though its detailed. Im not a japan game fan, so this doesnt 
 appeal to me. Another turn off was there was no voice acting, I was extremely dissappointed to 
 still see subtitles in a game released in 2006. The sound is pretty good, but the music is really 
 bad. I disliked it because its some ackward and wierd sounding chorus singing really high pitched. 
 Other than that, the music can be really beautifull, especially if you blow a flute or grass to 
 sumon an eagle, its a enchanting melody that really sounds great. Sound effects are great, but 
 whenever you attack it makes a noise on your wii mote. Thats actually a bad thing since it sounds 
 like one of those ancient hand held gamestations you get at Savon, or almost like a baby toy.
 
  
  Overall, this game is great if you can look past the boring, and often frustrating puzzles. If 
 your a fan of the series this is without a doubt a purchase. But if your a fan of shooters, this 
 game will feel alot less fast paced and almost a little boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  I sat down to write this review, and I looked at the five categories to be used to give the game 
 a numeric rating. Initially I tried to find fault in the game where I could to avoid looking like 
 a fanboy mindlessly giving a game he loved a perfect rating when it wasn't actually perfect. I 
 tried telling myself that there was some sort of fault in the graphics to be found, or that there 
 was some aspect of gameplay that I didn't like. But it was to no avail. In the end, my gut feeling 
 won through. This game cannot be improved in any way I can conceive of.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Like many people, I was slightly apprehensive about the idea of playing Zelda with a Wiimote. It 
 sounded like one of those all-or-nothing deals: either it works fabulously or it falls flat. And 
 oh, how it worked. The sword is wonderfully responsive to the player's actions, but not overly 
 so - I never once had a case where Link swung the sword when I hadn't intended him to, and yet 
 I also never had a case where he didn't when I had intended him to. I'm not quite sure exactly 
 the mechanism they used to detect what a swing is and isn't, but whatever it was, they certainly 
 got it dead on.
  
  The Wiimote also works fabulously for aiming things such as your bow or your boomerang. Gone are 
 the days when you needed to awkwardly hold down a button while maneuvering the joystick to aim 
 an item. The Wiimote makes it nothing more than a simple point-and-click interface, much akin to 
 what PC gamers are used to in FPS games like Half-Life 2. It's a much-needed improvement, and it 
 couldn't work better.
  
  As for the story in the game - well, what can I say? It's fabulous. Superb. I haven't had a game 
 draw me in this much since Tales of Symphonia. The odd thing is that it's not all that complicated, 
 and yet I honestly never even noticed. The characters are all well-designed, and the character 
 of Midna especially steals the show. I dare not speak more on the story lest I give anything away, 
 but it leaves nothing to be desired at all.
  
  And let's make no bones about it - this game is LONG. And I mean really long. Trust me when I say 
 that if you're contemplating staying up one more hour to try and beat it, then don't. You aren't 
 going to. And is this a plus? Heck yes. I finally completed this game after 44 hours of gameplay, 
 and in all honestly, I never wanted it to end. If there is a heaven, it will contain video games 
 like this one, only they go on as long as you like.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I've heard a lot of people complain about the graphics, and I fail to understand these complaints. 
 Sure they're not photorealistic. But who gives a darn? This is Nintendo. Great games first, then 
 we'll talk graphics. Though even with the above in mind, I can't say I had any complaints about 
 the graphics. They did what they were supposed to with style and were - dare I say this about a 
 Nintendo game - very pretty and enjoyable to look at in their own right. Especially character design. 
 Did I mention that Midna was designed well? Because she is.
  
  Sound:
  
  The funny thing about the background music about this game is that in certain places, you can often 
 even forget it's even there. But when you do notice its existence, it works very well in unobtrusively 
 giving that certain mood that the player should be feeling in any given circumstance. It's not 
 a triumphant score that will go down as the greatest masterpiece ever created, but it doesn't need 
 to be, and doesn't even want to be, either.
  
  As for the sound effects, I have no complaints to offer. They sounded... well, like they should. 
 Swords hitting solid objects sounded like swords hitting solid objects. Bombs exploding sounded 
 like bombs exploding. Nothing more to say here.
  
  Since Midna was your advisor in the game - essentially Twilight Princess' version of Navi or Tatl 
 - the game carries on the tradition of having her make sounds to get your attention or to indicate 
 the fact that she's talking. If I may get off on a slight tangent, I'll make no bones about my 
 opinion of Navi in Ocarina of Time. She was annoying as all heck. The game was great, but if I 
 have to hear HEY!! LISTEN!!!! one more time, I'm going to kill the first faerie I find. How this 
 relates to Twilight Princess is simple - I liked the fact that your new adviser's way of talking 
 was much more subdued. Midna gets your attention through a girlish giggle, and has a much less 
 grating form of talking. I consider this a huge improvement over the faerie way of talking in Ocarina 
 of Time and Majora's Mask.
  
  Value:
  
  This game cost me CDN$60 to buy. It took me 44 hours to complete. That's an average cost of $1.36/hour. 
 For a chance to play one of the greatest games ever, I'd say that's a pretty darn good value.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  
  What more can I say? I've already said that I consider it one of the greatest games ever. So go 
 buy it. Now. This is your reason to own a Wii. It's the best launch title I've ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalas05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Let's just start it off by saying I hated windwaker, so I've been waiting for this game for about 
 6 years.
  
  The gameplay was the best of any zelda yet, with the best use of the weapons and accessories so 
 far. While not incredibly difficult, some of the puzzles were hard enough to stump you for a little 
 while, which is what zelda is all about. There were far more techniques with the sword than you've 
 ever been able to do in a zelda game, which was nice. It also had what I think was the best story 
 of any of the zelda games. I think the only thing that could be changed for the better would be 
 increasing the difficulty of the bosses, because they were pretty much a joke.
  
  I haven't played any other wii games yet, so i don't have much to compare it to, but I was definitely 
 satisfied with the graphics for the game. They may not compare to 360 graphics, but then again, 
 they aren't supposed to. The number one complaint people will have about this game is the lack 
 of voice acting, but the fact that link doesn't speak would make that a little awkward. The music 
 is the same as its always been, which i'm completely fine with.... It just wouldn't be zelda without 
 it. I beat the game in about 45 hours, but I also didn't get about 10 heart pieces, 8 golden bugs, 
 25 poes, and i didn't even enter the cave of ordeals, so you could easily get many more hours out 
 of it than that.
  
  So, I believe this is the best zelda game with both ocarina of time and majora's mask falling very 
 close behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fapoiuytr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Look I'm not going to sit here and say OH WOW ITS THE BEST GAME EVER!! But it does come pretty 
 damn close! The Legend of Zelda : Twilight Princess Deffinatly does bring a lot to the table. This 
 game WILL take you HOURS upon HOURS of gameplay to beat, no matter how fast you try to get through 
 it. It took me 35 hours to beat it my first time through, (Doing minimal side missions) , and I'm 
 on my second time around doing everything.
  The World that this new Zelda brings is Massive! and takes a good amount to time to get from place 
 to place if you don't warp. (It's always fun to just take a nice horse back ride across the plains 
 of Hyrule) The storyline is so in depth, you really get into the game. At some point I've gotten 
 so into it thats with the music and the storyline I've been on the verge of tears.
  
  Some of the Pros are : + Graphics! Wow very very good, It's so good at some points, it almost seems 
 real.
  
  + Sound! The Music to this game really bring out the full authentic Zelda feel. Bringing back some 
 old songs and introducing some new ones. Also all of the sounds for the Characters, sword clanging, 
 arrows whizzing and Bombs exploding are really good and make you feel like your there. (Especially 
 with the Wii Remote)
  
  + Storyline! MASSIVE! It really pulls you in and gives you a chance to really like the characters.
 
  
  + Extras! Outside of the Large storyline there are many many many extra missions you can do, which 
 will take you all over Hyrule.
  
  + Fishing! Enough said.
  
  Some of the Cons are :
  
  -Some Spots can get a little difficult, but after a while you'll get it.
  
  -Wii Speaker. 
 I didn't want to put this in the Cons section because it really isn't that bad, but the Wii remote 
 speaker can break up rarely.
  
  There isn't a lot of bad things about the game that can be said. It really does bring a lot, and 
 will keep you busy for hours! This is deffinatly a game Gamecube and Wii should buy.
  
  Having said all I have said,
  I give The Legend of Zelda : Twilight Princess
  A Hard to Believe,
 
  Superb 9.9!
  
  I hope my Review has really done what Gamespot seemed to overlook, and that is that games are not 
 always about HD graphics.
  I would like to hear some feed back if you guys want to get a hold of me.
  Have a Good one! -Fapoiuytr 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is finally here. After many delays on the Gamecube installment, 
 it's finally here! Ever since I got a Wii and a copy of TP launch day, I've been (like many people 
 out there) playing the game nearly continuously. I've honestly never have been amazed with a Zelda 
 game since the original Legend of Zelda, Ocarina of Time, and Wind Waker. Zelda for the Wii is 
 an immensive experience and it's definitely something to smile about!
  
  Zelda TP may possibly be the best in the series (mostly compared to Ocarina of Time) , but it's 
 100% pure Zelda and pretty much the longest in the franchise. You've got around 40-50 hours of 
 hardcore gameplay and about 70 hours if you include the fun little side quests all around the kingdom 
 of Hyrule. It's true when people state that Twilight Princess presents a darker, more bad-ass Link 
 that makes killing enemies and going through 9-10 temples o-so-satisfying. There are actually points 
 in the game where you ACTUALLY feel like your in the game, which makes situations that you wouldn't 
 find realistic on the gamecube version intense. The control scheme starts out pretty simple as 
 you slash the remote slightly for a slash move, tilting the anolog stick up as you slash the Wiimote 
 for multiple stabs, and a slight shake or twirl of the nunchuck for Link's spin attack. But as 
 you go more deep into the game, you'll learn some new moves along the way like the finishing move, 
 shield attack, and much more.
  
  Let's not forget Wolf Link! The control scheme is pretty much the same as when you are human. But 
 you can dig to secretly go into houses or find rupees or you can use your senses to track scents 
 of other people or to find invisible items or enemies. So what if the graphics aren't that good? 
 It's the best I've seen out of all the Wii lauch titles so far. The Twilight Realm in the game 
 sets a perfect example of decent graphics as everything is bleak and there are little black particles 
 in the air. It's sort of like the entire world is crumbling to pieces. But if you're strictly for 
 gameplay, you don't need to waste your money on component cables to play TP on 480p.
  
  The story is pretty much what you'd expect. Hryule is covered in Twilight by the Twilight King 
 and you have to clear the provinces of the kingdom that have been covered in the blankets of the 
 Twilight Realm. You clear the lands as a wolf and play through temples as a human. But later on, 
 you'll get to a point where you can change from human to a wolf, or vise versa anytime. The temples 
 are pretty long and full of satisfying puzzles. The boss battles are also extremely awesome by 
 the way!
  
  Though there are some times when the game becomes a little too difficult, The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess is a fantastic game overall. It's certainly not perfect, but it's still a living 
 masterpiece. If you get a Wii, you just have to get Twilight Princess. It's just common sense. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terry_tate
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been a long-lasting series, and each game associated with it has been a 
 cult classic, with Ocarina Of Time leading the pack.
  
  Here at Gamespot this game is very under-appreciated. While it only received an 8.8 from Jeff, 
 I believe it deserves a 9.5 at the very least. It's simply a solid and entertaining game, isn't 
 that what the rating AAA is supposed to signify?.
  
  Gameplay:
  If it ain't broke, don't fix it. That's basically been Zelda's philosophy for the past few installments. 
 Now of course you can argue the fact that the wiimote completely changes the gameplay. Well this 
 is just not true. I'm not saying it's bad one bit, it is definitely fun. But the core gameplay 
 is nearly the same as previous games, but again, it's top notch.
  
  Graphics:
  It's blurry and can not compare to to the 360 or PS3's graphics engine, blah blah blah... so what? 
 For a Zelda game it's the best yet. Nothing more I can say about that really, without droning on 
 too much.
  
  Sound:
  Solid. Definitely solid. Not outstanding, but good quality. To me the music isn't dated , it's 
 nostalgic, having played Zelda extensively since Ocarina Of Time. The tune for the opening scene 
 made me shed a tear for the old days when I heard it. Especially the warped version of the flute 
 sounds right after the wolf howls. I always loved that sound, and when I heard the warped version 
 it sent shivers down my spine and made me really think Hey, something is REALLY wrong in Hyrule 
 this time isn't there? .
  
  Overall The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an exceptional game, with few flaws. I hope this 
 debunks the gamespot review slightly, if at all.
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  In the entire history of videogames, there aren't many franchises that manage to excel The Legend 
 of Zelda in sheer popularity or quality. In Twilight Princess, Nintendo casts you back into the 
 role of the legendary hero Link and embarks you on a quest to save Hyrule from a dark shadow so 
 that order may be returned and the Princess Zelda restored to her position. Sound familiar? It 
 should. Twilight Princess, while offering a very familiar quality in its gameplay experience, never 
 manages to truly distinguish itself from the rest of the other Zelda games nor excel beyond them 
 in any way. Ultimately, Twilight Princess feels like a game uninspired, one we'll remember as a 
 sub-par Zelda game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Nothing much has truly changed, I'm afraid. To be fair, nobody expected this game to reinvent itself, 
 but neither did we expect it to blatantly repeat itself. However, everything seems much too familiar 
 and you're given a sense of deja vu as you play through this game. From the order of the temples 
 you visit, to the puzzles you solve, to the items you discover - everything is nearly the same. 
 Outside of the new and well done Wii control scheme, the content within Zelda sticks too much to 
 the formula and makes it near tedious as you trounce about for the near 40 hours of the campaign. 
 Actually, I beat it in under 30, but I'm pretty good at this stuff, so dont' be surprised if it 
 takes you longer. Meanwhile, the puzzles and the bosses are much too simple and straightforward 
 at times to really capture your imagination. And though Twilight Princess tries to make each tool 
 important, most of the game you'll go about using just the one tool you discovered in each temple 
 to solve that temple's puzzles. That, and there's really no challenge in boss fights or skirmishes 
 with dungeon minions. Neat, but not nearly challenging. Ultimately, it's too much the same and 
 not enough intrigue that really holds Twilight Princess back.
  
  OVERALL.......8/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  While it may lack the next-generation glaze, Twilight Princess is definitely not 
 a bad looking game. True, the technical aspect isn't too impressive and we can only imagine what 
 Hyrule might look like if made for the 360 or PS3, but the majesty in the graphics is in the artistic 
 design. The world of the Twilight is just shocking when you first enter and remains very fresh 
 and quirky as the game progresses. The land of Hyrule is so vast that you nearly stand in awe at 
 it all. But I said nearly. For as vast as it is, not many polygons are being pushed for the environments, 
 which can sometimes look quite bland and dull for stretches at a time. The graphics are really, 
 really good, but not quite on the orgasmic scale.
  
  OVERALL.......9/10
  
  SOUND
  
  My god. For as much attention as this series gets from Nintendo, this is an epic blunder and a 
 travesty. The game lacks orchestral music period and only consists of somewhat obnoxious and repetitive 
 MIDI files. The most distracting is, without a doubt, the battle music. Whenever you come across 
 an enemy, an odd series of just low-pitch blips and beeps sounds off. It doesn't sound like anything 
 at all but a five year old who's slamming his hand on the low keys of an electric keyboard. It's 
 really awful, is all I can say. Sound effects are great and so are some of the dramatic segments, 
 but god, how many times can we endure such painful MIDI tracks?
  
  OVERALL.........5/10
  
  PRESENTATION
  
  Now, typically you'll see this part empty since there really is no story 
 or anything positive worth mentioning regarding The Legend of Zelda's storyline or presentation. 
 Well, don't expect much from this segment. Twilight Princess, while attempting to give itself some 
 much needed cinematic elements, fails disappointingly in the end. There is no closure at the end 
 of the plot, characters are never progressed nor do they play any vital roles in the plot, and 
 there's very little we recall that really makes us think back and say Wow, that was cool. It's 
 nice Nintendo at least gave it some effort, but they've got a long ways to go before The Legend 
 of Zelda can ever be considered worth remembering for its presentation.
  
  OVERALL..............3/10
  
  I may have seem overly harsh, but it's only because I see so much 
 potential from this game that went wasted. It hurts to say this, but Twilight Princess, even being 
 5 years in development, could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda The Twilight Princess
  1 player
  Published/Developed by Nintendo
  Rated T for Teen
  
  Pros:
  + A masterpiece. All the characters in the game are extremely 
 distinct and fully realized.
  + Hyrule is vast and surrounded by all kinds of turmoil just waiting for an adventurer to set things 
 straight.
  + Every dungeon brings something new to the game.
  + For the first time I felt like Link was a real character in the game and not just an embodiment 
 of you the player (due in large part to his close connection with Ilia) . It still amazes me how 
 he's able to convey so much with merely a handful of expressions but it works so well.
  + Tied in nicely with a certain past Zelda game.
  + Plenty of unexpected twist (and some expected 
 ones too!) .
  + Added Wii controls in my opinion felt great. I particularly prefer the Wii controls (in comparison 
 to Wind Waker, I don't have the GC version of Twilight Princess) when using the bow&amp; arrow which 
 is always one of my favorite weapons. Using it for the sword didn't matter that much to me, I would 
 have been cool either way on that but the pointer is great for weapons that you can aim with (I 
 like manually aiming instead of using lock-on features) .
  
  Cons:
  - Sound bites for different characters are great, particularly for characters like Midna who I 
 suspect wouldn't be able to speak english (or hyrulean, etc.) but for Zelda and other English speaking 
 characters a little bit of (good) voice-acting could have really put the game over the top and 
 added to those extremely climatic points in the game. I agree with other players that Link himself 
 should never have voice-acting or talk. Also, characters who do not speak English in the game shouldn't 
 speak English and text should show as a translation of their language (think of Metroid Prime) . 
 Plus voice-acting should only be reserved for those real pinnacle moments in the game where it 
 would really matter. I think we'll see Nintendo start to put in some voice-acting with Metroid 
 Prime 3 Corruption. - Auto-jump kills me, literally lol. Maybe Nintendo can evolve the current 
 game engine into something more specific for Wii controller? I think it's possible. The current 
 setup is not bad, maybe just some slight adjustment or something could help smooth out the equipment 
 allocation for your items (like a seperate button for healing items?) . For whatever reason I found 
 myself fumbling to pull out the right weapon at the right time. It was rare but just noticeable. 
 (I don't mean this specifically for the Wii, I had the same problem on the GC with Wind Waker lol)
 
  - Characters look great and the backgrounds are simple but beautiful. Some have noted that there 
 are fuzzy textures in the backgrounds and I think that is due in large part to the game's size 
 and that it was originally made for the GC. I expect that if/when we get another full-length Zelda 
 game for the Wii you will see a much more detailed universe. Final Thoughts: The Legend of Zelda 
 The Twilight Princess is a great game that everyone who owns a Wii/GC should experience. The Gameplay 
 is great, the music is incredible, and the world of Hyrule is beautiful. What more could an adventurer 
 want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidSnake24
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess, What can i say, one of the best games i have ever played in 
 my life, The Graphics, the game play, the story line are everything that you would expect from a 
 LOZ game, But Better. The New Side Quest and mini-games also are great fun to play around with. The 
 Wii Remote works perfectly well with LOZ, swing the remote to attack with you sword, Pure Genius. 
 Dungeons in view are very well done and pose challenges harder than any other LOZ game to date. 
 in retrospect, if your going to Buy a Wii i Strongly recommend Purchasing Legend Of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess as it will be a gaming experience of a life time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda is a fun game, and addictive to wanna conquer and play through all the wonderful 
 and magical dungeons. The art is beautiful and universe of hyrule is large. You can have lots of 
 freedom in the game to do many fun side quests, like fishing, or the claw game which can win you 
 prizes like arrow quivers for example. Link is all grown up and his destiny is calling him with 
 his friend Midna by his side. Midna is basically is his new fairy partner, who plays an importan 
 role in this new zelda game. You will have a lot fun playing this game and it will take you plenty 
 of time so you will most definitely get your money's worth out of it. The only con to the game 
 is that I did not enjoy the wii mote, it was cool at first but got annoying by the end of it, but 
 some people dissagree with me on this, so it is 50/50 on that scale. Also no voice acting in this 
 game either, but let us not forget that this is port off a GC game, so im sure in the future games 
 they will have that. All in all it is an excellent with hours of fun, and stress lol. The difficulty 
 is just right, but you just need the patience. Nine out of Ten is what I give this game. I think 
 most will agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottNak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  You can't go wrong by buying this game. Sure, call it a GC port if you want, but it feels so right 
 on the Wii that its impossible to invision it as nothing more than a port . The wiimote works perfectly. 
 It's your sword -- flick it first to unsheathe it, then flick it again to start perform the oh-so 
 satisfying swings. You've got the nunchuck to move you around, take a closer look at things, and 
 the ever fun spin-attack.
  
  The puzzles are there, and they're not all easy tasks but very entertaining to deal with. The side-quests 
 you need to do don't feel tacked on or completely out of the way. Its easy to do what you need 
 to as well as dealing with the extras at the same time. Graphics, sure they aren't what one would 
 expect from a next gen . But by no means are they sore on the eyes. In fact, the experience of 
 actually playing certainly makes up for what it is lacking (and isn't that what the whole point 
 of the Wii was?) You've got extensive hours of play time to invest into this game, so there's no 
 worries of finishing this game too quick. There's too much that can be done to let that happen!
 
  
  A must have game, that'll keep you thinking-looking-enjoying. I'm about half-way through this game 
 (~40 hr mark) and I still have ways to go... and only the fact night gets late (+ exams) keep me 
 from finishing this game already. You wont regret getting this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Guilty Pleasure is an understatement. This game actually made me put down my Gears Of War Controller! 
 It's Immersive, sounds great, enables you to explore vast worlds, think like an animal, and best 
 of all, chop stuff until it bleeds. New weapons, new puzzles, new missions, new story, new Link 
 all make this game amazing for what it is. You will most definetely need a strategy guide / walkthrough. 
 Its a gripping adventure beginning to end, that will leave you on the edge of your seat through 
 every boss and cutscene. I would higly reccommend the game to fans of the series, or anyone who 
 can get their hands on Wii, becasue 3rd person swordfighting is much better in person, than with 
 a Gamecube controller, trust me.
  Go Out and buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaulian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game, not 5 minutes ago, and all I can say is wow. This is easily the best 
 Zelda game to date. It took me over 80 hours to beat the game, which is awesome. The storyline 
 is beautifully written and expertly designed. It takes you down several paths and allows you enough 
 room to explore all of Hyrule many times over. And believe me when I say it is the largest Hyrule 
 ever created. Lake Hylia alone is easily 10 times the size of the Lake in Ocarina. You can spend 
 hours exploring the land and still find new things, I know, I did, it took me a couple hours to 
 find the last 2 Poes in this one. The graphics in the game, while not on par with 360 games, are 
 still excellent and beautifully rendered, creating a wonderful look and feel to the game. There 
 are lots of dungeons and extra areas to explore in this game. The lack of voice work may seem like 
 the game is behind the times, but it allows the player to use their imagination, as we did in the 
 past. While good voice acting can help a game, bad voice acting can destroy it, and I would rather 
 have no voice acting than bad voice acting. Now I am not saying that the geniuses behind Zelda 
 would have bad voice acting, but sometimes, the voices that the designers envision for the game 
 are not the voices they get, or not the voices the fans want, which can end badly. However, the 
 music more than makes up for the lack of voice acting. It is wonderfully made, and adds much to 
 the story. Finally, the gameplay is perfectly suited to Zelda. Using the Wii Remote was a little 
 awkward at the start, but because of the intuitiveness of the controller and the controls, I quickly 
 became used to the controls. There really is nothing quite like playing Zelda on the Wii. It is 
 definitely a game everyone should try once. As I said before, this game is the best Zelda to date. 
 And as there has not truly been a bad Zelda game (excluding the ones on the Phillips CD-i, as they 
 were not made by Nintendo) , I expect great things in future Zelda titles.
  
  After playing through the game, I can safely reiterate my ranking in my previous post: a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiFi-Kid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an absolutely wondrous and amazing game that has captured 
 all the arts that have made video games what hey are today! The music is absolutely wonderful and 
 energetic and some fights even have you standing up! This game has it all from Game Play to Graphics 
 to Music, Sounds, Value, much Tilt, and so much more! I break it down to you and give you the score!
 
  
  Game Play: The Wii-Remote and Nunchuk feel just so natural in your hand. All the extra unlockables 
 and even the ranged weapons make you feel like you are the chosen hero of the gods! The Game Play 
 is absolutely amazing!
  
  Graphics: The art direction in this game is amazing! Congratulations to Nintendo for this amazing 
 and wonderfully luscious show of Graphics! BRAVO NINTENDO BRAVO!
  
  Music: Same old same old amazingly and positively catchy tunes and music!
  
  Sounds: I love 
 those little sounds that come out of the Wii Remote!
  
  Value: Many Many Side Quest add up to over 100 hours of Game Play alone for this game!
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: It took me over 60 hours to complete this game (ALMOST 70 HOURS!)
  
  OVERALL: AMAZING
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess IS A SUCCESS AND LEAVES YOU SATISFIED! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon211
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most remarkable games I've ever played. The game is a big rush from 
 the start to the end. I have played so many hours on this thing already and still I come back for 
 more. The game isn't too difficult but then it isn't easy either, in fact it is just right when 
 it comes down to difficulty. I strongly agree with Alastair86 when he said that GameSpot must have 
 something against Nintendo to shoot it down like that. It is an outrage that this game did not 
 get a 9.5 MINIMUM and on top of that they felt that the Gamecube's version is better? No way, it 
 doesn't compare. This may be just an opinion, but I am sure that I am supported by a very good 
 number of people who played the game. The game brought to me a whole entire new experience to video 
 gaming. This may sound weird but I never felt like I was in the game as much as I did when I was 
 playing this game. When I jumped off ever cliff, I actually felt my heart rush as I accelerate 
 to the ground. The game has some awesome puzzles that will have to cracking for hours without end, 
 but at the same time it doesn't make it feel like it's a chore. The games graphics are excellent 
 as well. I love all the drawings in the games and the sounds is something else. The sound on the 
 controller isn't NEARLY as bad as all the critics may have pointed out. They were just looking 
 for flaws, and that really can't even count considering how hard it must have been to make the 
 sounds come in sync with the newly launched console. I can really see myself playing this game 
 again, and I recommend you buy this game whether you are fan or not. It is really worth every penny. 
 THIS GAME IS AMAZING !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takeru51
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  If you don't have a Twilight Princess yet, get it. I don't just mean get it if you already have 
 a Wii. I also mean if you don't have a Wii yet, get it so you can play Twilight Princess.
  
  I am not a fanboy, during the last generation I had every console (although I bought them after 
 some price drops) , and I don't look just for games by one company, I look for games that are good, 
 period. That said, I've always been into Zelda, and it's continued quality has made it by far my 
 favorite franchise on any system. I think that the Gamespot review must have been written by someone 
 who didn't play the game for more than 30 minutes, because they truely do not know what they are 
 talking about.
  
  Not much new? How about new weapons, new temples, and, oh yeah I almost forgot, an entirely new 
 control scheme and set of moves for wolf Link. Not to mention new sword abilities, and a fantastic 
 storyline. I don't want to give too much away though, because the storyline is one of the greatest 
 yet. What confounded me the most about the Gamespot review was that they claimed they were looking 
 for a new set up, like a new way to control Link. They complained that it's still a third person 
 action-adventure game. Well, gee whiz, what do you expect? I have to say that that was the worst 
 criticizm I have seen leveled at any game so far. What they said is the equivalent of saying that 
 an FPS is stale because it's still from the first person point of view. By their logic, every FPS, 
 and RTS should be knocked down for having the same kind of view that they're supposed to. I really 
 get the feeling that Gamespot just doesn't like the Wii. Reviews aren't supposed to be about graphics, 
 unless the graphics make the game impossible to enjoy. Reviews are supposed to be about how much 
 fun you had while playing the game, and i think some review sites have forgotten that.
  
  Another funny complaint is about the use of text to tell the storyline instead of voice overs. 
 Well, let me tell you, I've seen some pretty crappy voice acting, and I think it would have taken 
 away from the game. One of the most important facets of the text-based storyline is that it gives 
 away hints on what you're supposed to do, you know, by highlighting certain words. How do they 
 do that with voice acting? Have the actors emphasize the most important words? The dialogue is 
 the most important part of the game, you need the text so that you can read over things and get 
 whats most important, it's a key part of the game. Maybe in the next game they'll find a way to 
 incorporate both without it being cheesy, but that sounds to me like a complaint made by kids who 
 can't read, and if that's the case, I'd just like to say that I'm sorry the Wii hurts your brain.
 
  
  This is the longest Zelda ever, with the best storyline yet. You can be any age and appreciate 
 it, and if you really let yourself get into it, you will, like me, be hard pressed to find a better 
 game. This really is the best game I have ever played, and I've played quite a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troymaboy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the greatest Zelda game ever with all the things you can do it truly is the 
 golden age for the Zelda saga the game-play is magnificent not to mention the side-quests makes 
 the game longer and more fun with the upgrades. while this game is the 1 that I have to say has 
 broken the mould it has not forgotten to keep the tradition such as link never talking. It has 
 loads of cool features such as the speaker on the wii remote makes you feel like they're right 
 next to you. With the wii remote it feels like your actually swinging the sword. I give this game 
 a perfect 10 out of 10 and anyone who has the Nintendo wii should definitely buy this game it will 
 blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tengen23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  If you've played a Zelda game before, then you know a lot about what to expect here: swordplay, 
 big dungeons, lots of puzzles to solve, etc. However, with Twilight Princess you get a distinctive 
 contribution to the series that is one of the best so far. This game far outstrips the recent Zelda 
 game, the Minish Cap, as well as all of the gameboy variants on the series, and the disastrous 
 GC game the Wind Waker. In fact, the only Zelda games that stand up to the quality of this one 
 are the two best in the series, Link to the Past (SNES) and the Ocarina of Time (N64) .
  
  One thing that adds to the fun of this Zelda game is the Wii control scheme. The addition of gesture 
 controls is nice, and while it took me a lot longer to acclimate to the controls for this game 
 than previous Zelda games, it was worth the effort. The depth of fighting alone is highly improved 
 and excels beyond any previous Zelda game by leaps and bounds. You've all heard about the twilight 
 realm by now and you know that Link transforms into a wolf, but what you don't know is how much 
 fun that transformation can be. At first I was really awkward playing as the wolf, but once I got 
 used to it I really came to appreciate some of his abilities. This really adds to the charm of 
 the game by providing an additional layer of gameplay variety.
  
  Another thing I've always appreciated in good Zelda games is the sense of atmosphere provided by 
 great music and sound effects. Twilight Princess does not disappoint on those grounds. In particular, 
 I've enjoyed being in the twilight realm where the music and background sounds change dramatically 
 to create an extremely eerie sense of being in a different, and very frightening, world.
  
  I have very little to say against the game right now except that the story is a bit strange. I 
 understand that all gets resolved by the end of the game, so I won't be too harsh on it for now. 
 The only thing I will say is that you don't really get an extremely compelling story in this game, 
 at least not right off the bat. There is a thin background plot moving you from task to task, but 
 it sometimes feels a bit disjointed.
  
  Overall, highly recommended. Definitely one of the best Zelda games, and by far the best Wii game 
 currently available. Try it out today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game truly is genius from start to about half-way through (that's where I am) . The controls 
 feel great and has an amazing story.
  
  The game does begin slows you have to herd sheep and save a cat etc. just like you would in a usual 
 game but once it begins it kicks in and is awesome.
  
  Controls
  They feel great and is very comfortable unlike many have said it really sdoes feel as though your 
 swinging the sword. The little speaker in the remote makes the game really absorbing with midna's 
 voice comign from it and the sound of the sword. Graphics:
  Should not really mention this to be honest and the wii really is not about graphcis it is more 
 about gameplay however it is nto acceptable to make the graphics look less than a average xbox 
 title. Sound
  The music is till as awesome as ever and makes the game really immerisive.
  
  Story
  The story is really good once you have beaten the gororn mines the adventure really 
 begins... that's all i'm going to say.
  
  Conclusion:
  Everyone must own a wii and own this. It will take away many hours of your day as you travel along 
 Hyrule on horse-back. It is let-down by the lack of voice-acting and graphics but hey it's zelda 
 and one of the greatest yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  I had two reasons for buying a Wii at launch. 1 - I wanted to get some of the virtual console games, 
 and 2 - I love Zelda. It was with much expectation that I unpacked my new Wii last week and slipped 
 The Legend of Zelda - Twilight Princess into the disk drive. Was the wait and expense worth it,... you 
 bet.
  
  If you haven't played The Legend of Zelda - Ocarina of Time or Majora's Mask then you have probably 
 missed the two greatest video games ever made. Ocarina really set a new benchmark in video gaming, 
 and introduced so many gameplay mechanics that have now become common features of current games. 
 The two N64 games set new standards in production, quality, longevity and gameplay. Now 7 years 
 later we have the first true sequel to Ocarina in the Twilight Princess .
  
  On first play, nothing seems to have changed. A huge sense of nostalgia greats you as you begin 
 playing as Link again in a friendly village inhabited by weird and wonderful characters. The transition 
 from N64 to Wii (via cell shaded GameCube installment The Wind Waker ) is seamless and comforting. 
 The Wii controllers, both nunchuck and remote, and employed sensibly with the nunchuck's control 
 stick used for movement and the remote for sword and item use.
  
  All the classic Zelda conventions are present: great characters, nasty puzzles, perfectly designed 
 dungeons, quests, mini-games, Epona, catapults, exploding objects,... and so on.... everything fits 
 together in a cohesive story and plays great. The are a number of new features in Twilight Princess 
 , including the introduction of a oil lamp, and a new twilight nether-world where you become a 
 wolf with super-senses and canine abilities. Graphically, the locations and characters are varied 
 and nicely rendered, but you do feel slightly disappointed as many of the textures and animations 
 feel GameCube-esque. The presentation is also a little dated, and can at times look flat and old 
 fashioned; almost N64 like in fact. I suspect the presentation style was deliberate to tie in the 
 with the series, but it wouldn't have hurt to update it a little and make it more contemporary.
 
  
  The main in-game sounds and music are pleasant and classic Zelda. You've heard them before and 
 they sound, on the whole, great. I do, however, have a major criticism of the Wii Remote speaker: 
 The speaker is used to play the classic discovery , sword slash , and item sound effects and it 
 really isn't up the the job. The sound can often be distorted and tinny. It feels cheap and nasty 
 compared to the quality of the normal in-game sounds.
  
  Twilight Princess , as with all Zelda games, represents great value for money as there is always 
 so much to discover, collect and do. I am only a little way into the game, yet I have clocked up 
 nearly 10 hours already - this is longer than most current games in their entirety.
  
  In Summary, Twilight Princess is a return to series' best installments and features the same quality 
 gameplay and compelling story that distinguishes all the Nintendo Zelda games to date. The presentation 
 and Wii Remote sound effects may disappoint initially, but you'll largely ignore it once you get 
 into the game. Basically, if you are lucky enough to have a Wii then Twilight Princess is a must 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango7192
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  There has never been a deeper Zelda than Twilight Princess. Twilight Princess is the best launch 
 title for the Wii, and one of the best titles ever made.
  
  Link is a rancher in the Ordona Province on the outskirts of Hyrule, who, while assigned to a mission 
 by the blacksmith Rusl, is dragged into the Twilight. The Twilight is the result of the Twilight 
 Realm being merged with Hyrule by the Twilight King, Zant. Link becomes a werewolf and escapes 
 imprisonment with the help of Midna, and the adventure begins.
  
  The controls are revolutionary, realistic, and very smooth. The bow and arrow controls are as simple 
 as point and click. I hate the remote speaker sounds, very tinny, but if you lower the volume on 
 the remote all the way, the sounds come from the tv and are much better.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to anyone, even if you're not a zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burli_24
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is, without any form of doubt, the greatest Zelda game ever created. Simple as 
 that, it has everything OOT had, but ten times more, and that's being literal.
  
  The simple fact is, and it has to be said, there's absolutely no excuse for the review that Game 
 spot gave, either the reviewer has no passion for gaming, and simply likes fornicating with microchips, 
 or he has some kind of irreversible brain tumour that stunts intelligent thinking, because if you 
 do not think this is anything but gaming brilliance, then you truly can never be happy with life, 
 because NOTHING can be good enough for you, if this isn't.
  
  Now, I may sound biased, I am a huge Zelda fan after all, but with a reason, it's just THAT good, 
 That's why I love it. This game does in fact, have Gamecube graphics, heck, I loved good graphics, 
 heck, I'm an artist myself, I love good looking stuff. Twilight Princess looks beautiful to me, 
 no terra-bytes, no mogga-flops, no HD-lighting that makes everything look like it's coated with 
 olive oil. All it requires, is artistry to the point of magnificence, it looks incredible, and 
 in my opinion, which I think should generally be thought of as true, artistry in games is much 
 more important than mega-doo-dah graphics. Sure you can make a piece of poo look realistic, shiny, 
 with an amazing poo like texture, but it's still a piece of poo. Zelda turns pieces of poo, into 
 pieces of art.
  
  Sounds again, not advancing technology, but even the MIDI music, and the humorous voice noises 
 has the kind of charm I never want to see spoiled by bad voice acting, which is extremely common.
 
  
  Now I'm not saying that I don't want to see a next-gen Zelda, but too think badly of this game 
 because it doesn't meet next gen requirements, is quite frankly, proof of shallow gaming. We're 
 losing the true innovation, soul, passion, history and love for gaming, in site of realistic baked 
 beans, and rehashed formula's which play exactly the same, but look good enough to marry. I plead 
 with all gamers, stop being technical, start being passionate.
  
  So quite frankly, this game cannot score less than 10, If I were to give it less, I would be saying 
 that it doesn't achieve everything that a game should, it doesn't baffle me, the sheer size and 
 amazement. It does, I have never been more surprised and treated by any form of entertainment in 
 my life, and I like entertainment.
  
  Simple, your gaming life depends on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  the game of zelda is great, but it stands nowhere near the rest of the series, wind-waker is better!
 
  the puzzles aren't like the puzzles of teh rest of the series
  
  ex.
  how are you supposed to know that you can fish without bait?
  
  the story is good, but it can 
 take a while to get used to changing forms
  
  it moves perfectly onto the wii, except for the pointer, you only use it for picking things in 
 the menus, and using ranged weapons.
  
  one thing that never ceases to annoy me is that you ALWAYS start with the forest dungeon, then 
 fire, then water. HOW ABOUT A LITTLE CHANGE?
  
  o well. it definatly draws you in, ive been playing for over 14 hours, yet it seems ive gotten 
 nowhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CabeBiken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess picks up the Zelda Saga as link enters Hyrule I'll try not 
 to give anything away . This game is one of the Best Games of all times the fight scenes the weapons. The 
 enemies can consist from fighting dragons miles in a sky city to jousting Boar riders on bridges 
 I will admit i havent beaten the gamefully but ive played enough to make a Review Hyrule is under 
 a dark cures called the Twilight Infested with twilight monsters and bandits. its the same concept 
 as the other Zeldas with temples and bosses but an amazing features in the game is how big it is 
 Hyrule field is a very large map with deserts forest medows Lakes {Like Lake Hyila} covering all 
 the land of Hyrule
  
  If you consiter geting The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess I Promis you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esphestoscarry
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess is a major success and accomplishment in the gaming 
 industry that concerns all issues of innovation and creativity. Personally, the game is good and 
 solid, bottom line. It should be used as a base of accomplishment that all other games after this 
 should refer back to. Everything about this game is worked out just enough so that you feel directly 
 in the game, and that is what the Wii tries to make happen, and it does. Starting off the game 
 was extremely hard, and at times made me feel as though I wanted to throw the controller at my 
 TV and sue Nintendo, just like everyone of those stupid people out there who dont realize that 
 if you get angry and throw your controller, that doesnt mean Nintendo purposely made it happen. 
 Personally, if you buy the system you should already know all the precautions of what can and cant 
 happen. Nevertheless, getting back to the game, I liked it, I am not a major fan of Zelda, but 
 I am one for action games, and this game was filled with it. It is a definite buy for any fan, 
 and any person that wants to see the Wii perform at its best thus far. Game of the year? Its a 
 tough call, but definitely up for consideration, personally, its not the best Ive seen this far, 
 so it does not get a vote from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage01aba
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess we all have waited just over two years to play the game by 
 that name. On top of that it is now the essential must have triple A title for the brand spanking 
 new Nintendo Wii. So after that introduction lets dive in the review.
  
  Graphics: No more cell shading for those who complained the so called mature graphics have made 
 their triumphant return. The graphics look superb in standard def and will make anyone who does 
 not have a high definition TV absolutely ecstatic. The graphics receive a 10/10.
  
  Sound: Its classic Zelda music and sound. The speaker in the Wii remote allows for even more immersive 
 gaming than my 5.1 surround sound gives. The sound gets a well deserved 10/10.
  
  Game play: This is truly the category where this game and the Wii itself truly stands apart from 
 the rest either currently or in history. Where do I begin? exclusive to the Wii version is the 
 fishing mini game. In this mini game the Wii remote acts very well as the rod and reel. In fact 
 it does it better than any fishing game ever has. It will take the player an average between seven 
 and nine hours to reach the first of nine temples/dungeons. In wolf form while it will take some 
 time to get used to but it controls very well and is a sheer joy to play. It will take the player 
 45 real time minutes to ride on horse back from one side of Hyrule to the other one word huge. 
 Variety is the key here as well. I dare anyone who is a Zelda fan to get bored with this game. 
 There has been a reported 90 hours of game play including side quests. I am also betting that this 
 game has a harder version unlocked after beating the normal one, but I can not confirm that. Every 
 other Zelda game has though. Game play can only sadly receive a 10/10 I wish I could give it more.
 
  
  Story: Its a run of the mill Zelda story line. They do explain wolf form reasonable well. Story 
 gets a thank god for a new Zelda 10/10.
  
  It could very well become clear that on November 19th 2006 gaming as we know it could have changed 
 because of the Wii. If that is he case the Twilight Princess was the first triple A title in the 
 brand new interactive era of gaming. If you have or are planning on getting a Wii then the Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess has to be the first title you buy period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersaiyanbrad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  To any Zelda fan it is a must buy but even to new comers it is a must try. This game is amazing 
 and is by far one of the good ones in the series. Well worth the wait and make the experience on 
 the Wii alot of fun. It might not cut the greatness of the perfect Orcarina but it cuts it close. 
 Go now and buy this if you already have it get off the computer and go play it it is amazing. Truly 
 what I have been waiting for a while a great game that keeps you hooked to the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRUEpwnage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is great one of the best Zelda game I had played for a bit. The only thing that i didn't 
 like about Wind Waker is that it was to easy. But this year installment was pretty hard and thats 
 is what Zelda is all about. The most thing that get me mad at this game was that the graphics and 
 the game play. first of all the graphics look like real good game cube I was a bit mad at that. 
 The game play was good don't get me wrong but I was hoping that they will do more with the Wii 
 remote. its still a real good game don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Allow me to repeat myself I don't think there is another game out there that has the same type 
 of game play. Ok maybe you're not inside the game or actually telling the direction of the sword, 
 but I still loved this game. Ok the story, like always, starts out in a little town few have heard 
 of. Obviously one thing leads to another and Link is off to save the Princess again. A dark force 
 known as the Twilight is beginning to take over the land of Hyrule and it is your mission to save 
 your friends and the Princess. This time it's a little different, so different that there would 
 be a spoiler involved so ignore that for now.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing even if the graphics aren't as good as the PS3 they are still 
 so artistic and dark looking. You feel like you're in the game. The graphics are just awesome. 
 The short movies (can't think of the right word) are great. Link looks awesome. Midna, your Navi 
 in this game, is adorable and evil at the same time. Ok at some points in the game there are some 
 graphical glitches, but still nothing that'll make your eyes bleed. Obviously the big thing in 
 this game is turning into a wolf. Well lemme tell ya it's awesome! Ok now gameplay. The aiming 
 in this game with your hookshot, slingshot, and bow is so much fun. And even I was amazed at how 
 responsive the controls were. Another big issue is tired arms/hands. Non-existent, unless your 
 pretty damn lazy, there shouldn't be any problems. The sword fights are just so cool even if the 
 enemies are extremely weak. One problem is the enemies they don't change it's a few slashes of 
 the sword for most or a bite if you're a wolf. The bosses are, as always, massive and huge. And 
 kind gives a Shadow of the Colossus kind of feel to it. I love the boss fights, I always have and 
 I always will. The puzzles in this game can at times be real head scratchers especially if your 
 new to the series. For Zelda veterans it shouldn't take you more than a few minutes to figure this 
 one out ;) . This game is long. With an upwards of 40 hours for the main story and many more hours 
 for the teens of side quests. The music in this game brings a tear to your eye as you listen to 
 the game's many old melodies from the days of OOT. Songs like the.... well I forget the names, 
 but the songs from the Water Temple, the Temple of Time, the Light Temple, the Forest Temple. Also 
 songs like Epona's song and the Zelda's Lullaby. They're all in here and they sound absolutely 
 amazing on the new platform.
  
  Nintendo has once again raised the bar on video games. By staying with the old and presenting something 
 totally new. This game is not only great, but it could surpass OOT (people getting pissed) in many 
 ways. I could also say it is the greatest game I've ever played and quite possibly the greatest 
 game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games that have lasted 20 years, but Zelda is the only franchise that has been 
 able to come out with top quality gameplay in every installment, and each Zelda game is always 
 one of the best in its respective generation. Twilight Princess is in an interesting position, 
 coming in at the very end of the GameCubes life and also being a launch title for the Nintendo 
 Wii. In short, the Wii version is better, but I will be going more into depth with that later on. 
 Like every other Zelda, Twilight Princess starts you off as a boy named Link who lives in a forest. 
 He has been requested to go to Hyrule Castle town, but before he is able to leave, some of Links 
 friends are kidnapped by mysterious creatures. This is where the real story begins, and if you 
 are familiar with the Zelda franchise, most of this sounds pretty standard. What makes Twilight 
 Princess stand out is its immense world. Hyrule is bigger than it has ever been, with the exception 
 of Wind Waker, which was 80 percent water. When first leaving the woods, you come to the first 
 piece of Hyrule field, one that is roughly the size of Ocarina of Times Hyrule. Then, I later 
 realized that field is just one eighth the size of the full Hyrule. It is no wonder than you start 
 with your horse from the beginning. For those who are familiar with Zelda, you can expect plenty 
 of secrets scattered all around, but that does not necessarily mean every square foot is used. 
 You will have to travel to all areas of Hyrule at least once either on foot or by horse, but there 
 will come a point where you can warp to one of many spots on the world.
  
  If you have played any of the 3-D Zelda games like Ocarina of Time or Wind Waker, you can expect 
 the same gameplay and controls with Twilight Princess. However, this is where the Wii separates 
 itself. In order to swing your sword, you swing the Wii Remote. Unfortunately, the movement is 
 not one to one, in which Link would slice the exact way you slice. He basically will swing his 
 sword as if you pressed B on the GameCube. Although this may sound like a negative, it works well 
 enough. You do not need to slice very hard for the game to read it. A simple shake of the wrist 
 will do the job, and since the slice animation is fast, repeated shakes will result in repeated 
 slices. I found myself exaggerating slice motions in boss fights or other critical battles, which 
 shows that it can be immersive if you let it be. The real benefits of sword swinging come with 
 the nunchuk controller. When you shake it, Link does the spinning sword attack. This attack is 
 in every single Zelda game, but since it was slow and annoying to pull off, nobody ever bothered 
 doing it. Now, all you have to do is shake the nunchuk and Link will break out with the most effective 
 move in the game. The best part is, Twilight Princess throws tons of enemies at you at once. Hack 
 away with the Wii Remote for a few seconds, and when the enemies get too close, shake the nunchuk 
 and everyone goes flying off in all directions. It is a very satisfying move to pull off and most 
 effective in all sword fights. Other benefits of the Wii are with the secondary weapons. Aiming 
 your bow and arrow or hookshot are as simple as aiming the crosshairs with the Wii Remote. Any 
 secondary weapon you use is mapped to the B trigger, so when you hold it, the crosshair appears. 
 Aim anywhere you like and release the trigger to fire the weapon. It became so easy to shoot arrows 
 that I went for head shots just to challenge myself, even though hitting an enemy in the foot has 
 the same results as hitting them in the head. The hookshot also works great on the Wii Remote, 
 but I cannot get into it more because of possible spoilers. All I can say is that it is quick, 
 effective, and it feels great doing it. On top of all that, each weapon produces a sound that comes 
 out of the Wi Remote speaker. Sure, the quality of the speaker itself is not so great, so the sounds 
 may come off sounding like those cheap action figures that say one of several phrases, but it works 
 best when you lower the volume of the Wii Remote so the sound does not come off sounding loud and 
 obnoxious. Another note about the gameplay is that Link will transform into wolf form. This is 
 not a spoiler as it happens early in the game and is something that is revealed in trailers. As 
 a wolf, you cannot use any items, but you can fight in similar fashion with targeting enemies, 
 and melee attacking. The reason why Link turns into a wolf has to deal with entering another realm, 
 called the Twilight Realm, which acts almost as a dark world as seen in A Link to the Past, but 
 not entirely so. You have the ability to see smells, which will come in handy to solve certain 
 puzzles and progress through the game, as well as see other things that the normal human eye cannot. 
 There will come a point where you can transform in and out of wolf form any time of the game. All 
 of this just adds another layer of good gameplay to a game that already has tons of it. I liked 
 the visual art style of Twilight Princess. Everything had a weathered look and feel to it. The 
 colors were strong and sharp, while at the same time, giving a worn out look to everything. The 
 Wii is no powerful machine, so that port looks nearly identical to the GameCube version. The only 
 difference is the Wii version supports 480p resolution, which will make the picture a little sharper. 
 I should note that it is the best looking GameCube game, but I feel that the Wii should be able 
 to push a little more than that. Granted, Twilighlight Princess was originally designed to be a 
 GameCube game, so the strengths of the Wii, although used in the game, were not fully utilized. 
 This brings up the topic of music in the game. In all, the music is very good. It uses songs and 
 themes found in other Zelda games, as well as having new and original music. The problem is that 
 all of the music is in MIDI format, which is a format that takes up very small disc space and the 
 sound quality is noticeably sub-par. It is understandable that everything had to fit on one GameCube 
 disc, considering the immensity of this game, and so I would let it slide on the GameCube. However, 
 the Wii uses larger discs, and therefore would be able to support fully orchestrated tracks, as 
 well as some much desired voice acting. If Nintendo does not want Link to speak, they can at least 
 make all of the non playable characters speak. I just feel that a game with such high production 
 values has a huge hole in the audio department. Since this has the unique situation of being originally 
 developed for the GameCube, I will let it slide this time.
  
  Twilight Princess definitely matches the high standard for a Zelda game, so you know that you just 
 cannot go wrong with this title. The question is if this is the best one, and for me, it is not 
 something that I can attach a simple yes or no to. It is an argument that I would enjoy having. 
 However, I can say that it is one of the top three Zelda games, and considering how all Zelda games 
 have been top quality, this means it is the best of the best. You cannot go wrong with getting 
 it for the GameCube or Wii, but for the experienced Zelda players, I would suggest playing the 
 Wii version just to get a new take on gameplay that has stood the test of time. If you do not own 
 a GameCube, this is the main reason to buy a Wii. Nintendo, you have done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ismakun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This was the game I bought with my Nintendo Wii and I can say you it was the best choice.
  
  As for the game play, this game covers everything. You will be going through very challenging 
 puzzles, great cinematic and the storyline is one of the best so far in the Zelda series. For the 
 controllers, they are very easy to get used too. You'll find yourself targeting with your Wii remote 
 to fire bows or the claw shot and making quick movement with the nun chuck to the spin attack. 
 I personally didn't gave it a 10 in game play because through the course of the game I had problems 
 sometimes with the response of my controller when I wanted to attack, making me yell at the game 
 sometimes. But you'll find this is nothing to worry about since it wont be happening continuously.
 
  
  The game graphics are excellent. Nintendo always do a great job there. It is not a Gears of War 
 but why you need a Zelda with all that horsepower, it looks beautiful just the way it is. Clearly 
 the graphics are excellent but still I expect better graphics for future Wii games. Still I loved 
 stopping my quest in the game to look at the beautiful environment details. Nintendo did a great 
 thing by making the music fill exactly as older games. It made made feel kind of nostalgic since 
 it will take you to the days of Zelda in SNES. Some reviews say sound are kind of midi quality 
 but I got the picture of what Nintendo wanted for the sounds in the game.
  
  This game has great value and after you finish it you still have to find many more things in order 
 to say you completely finished the game. There are 60 poes to find, 24 bugs and lots of upgrades. 
 Believe me when I tell you'll be spending some time. Also prepare yourself to play the game at 
 least one more time.
  
  In conclusion this is The Best Zelda game so far! If you have a Wii and you don't have this game 
 shame on you. If you are planning to get a Wii or you are still undecided, this is the game you 
 are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiberalsareSCUM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are by far the best thing ive ever seen. So its not high def. But you know what? Its still 
 the most impressive thing ive ever seen. Yes ive seen PS3 and 360 games. And they dont capture 
 me quite like this game.
  
  Audio: Incredible. Jeff complains about the midi songs. Im VERY pro-midi. I dont mind the big orchestrated 
 sounds, or the synth or whatever. But midi just has a certain feeling. Im glad they stuck with 
 it.
  
  Controls, pretty well on gamecube. Some issues. Nothing major really.
  
  Difficulty: Fairly hard. Boss battles are easy. the real meat is just in the adventure. The dungeons 
 are way cooler than in Ocarina (Exluding the forest, spirit and water temple but theyre definately 
 on par with these) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilrotheSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I expected this Zelda to be good... It blew my mind. The game is completely perfect, from the moment 
 you start playing till the moment you stop (Not that it happens) . You play as Link as usual in 
 this action adventure game and you find classic items such as the Hero's Bow, Bombs, Slingshot 
 and the Master Sword. Now for this style of game the adventure is long (clocks in about 30-40 hours 
 main quest, with side quests 60-80 hours) and beautiful. You can tell Nintendo poured they're soul 
 into this game. From the beginning you can see the lush green forests of Ordona Province and then 
 the gigantic beauty of Hyrule Field, the epic size of the boss creatures, and the perfect effects. 
 This game is truly a high point of gaming. The gameplay is a complete revolution, never has it 
 been easier to swing your weapon and use it effectively. Aiming a bow has never been more accurate 
 or fun and playing with the new items such as Ball and Chain, Dominion Rod and the Double Clawshot 
 never gets old. You owe it to yourself to get this game.
  
  In the end I have one complaint... only some parts of the music is orchestrated which is annoying 
 for me doesn't bog the game down at all, you still move at a fast pace through this revolution 
 in gaming.
  
  Of all the things to think about this holiday season, this should be the only one on your mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaMan_X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is an amazing game with a great but confusing story that can surprise you 
 when you least expect it. Like other Zelda game this one has a huge map with many twists and turns 
 and hidden areas where you least expect it. However I beat the game way fast and now I have nothing 
 to do but collect poe souls and I cant even go back and fight the bosses I've already beaten. However 
 it seems that although the game was too easy for me many other people who have it come to ask me, 
 where to go, or , what to do, which makes me believe that the game is much more difficult if your 
 not a puzzle master like me. The game takes an unexpected turn in weaponry though when you expect 
 to get a weapon from a previous game like the megaton hammer or the mirror shield you get new weapons 
 never seen before. The bad part about these new weapons is that only one is really useful and the 
 others are really only used in the dungeons you find them in which may disappoint you because they 
 are really fun to use. The final boss was also a little two easy and needed some more work seeing 
 as he rarely attacked you on the final stage and if he did he usually missed or was too slow and 
 way too dodge-able. His attacks were also much too weak and had to small of a verity of moves. 
 I think that the game creators focused a little too much on the amount of stages he had, (seeing 
 as he had 4 stages) and not enough on what he can do. The game is greatly improved with wii controls 
 and allows you to perform specialized moves and new aiming techniques with things like the bow, 
 boomerang, and the Grappling hook. The controls are fun and you don't actually have to swing the 
 controller if you don't want to for those who worry about there arm getting tired. The enemies 
 are mainly the same as most other Zelda games but lacks challenging enemies. The enemies are usually 
 one to three hit kill and barely harm you. However i think this game is ment for all ages so they 
 couldn't put in too challengeing enemies or they would get too many complaints however the least 
 they could have done was added a hard mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoRevo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  I want to play this game since I saw the fishing parts on the trailers of E3.
  I think that this will easily be one of the best games ever created. The gameplay is improved by 
 the capabilities of the Wii, thought graphics doesn&acute; t look so great like it could.
  In my opinion this is an almost flawless title, so I give an 9.8. What I would like to see a little 
 bit better were the graphics and sound, thought I give more value to the great gameplay of The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  I love this game and I hope that many others will buy it and love it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alastair86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Not only is this by far the best game on the Wii, the best zelda game, but it may also be one of 
 the best games that I have ever played. So how come gamespot is slamming it. Well the short version 
 is that gamespot sucks. They have been really weak and slanted with their reviews. They like a 
 lot of other sites and shows have been focusing only on xbox 360, ( which came out months ago and 
 we already no enough about) and PS3 (which due to an awful production almost nobody has yet) . A 
 lot of people I have talked to have not bought zelda because gamespot gave it a bad review, well 
 screw that because any gamer I talk to say the same things I do, that everything about this game 
 is what makes gaming good and this game is almost everything you could ask for from a zelda game. 
 Gamespot you really blew it on this one whether you are trying to screw over nintendo or you just 
 dont know how to use the controller, you really need to have someone else on your staff take a 
 look at this game and give it a real review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great use of Wiimote for puzzles and Z-Targeting Moves. Definitely the most engaging storyline 
 and characters of any Zelda ever. Beautiful world, if this is what the Wii is capable of at launch 
 then cant wait for the future. In the same vein as the Ocarina of Time
  
  Cons: The game, especially the bosses seems alittle on the easy side. Alot of the sound effects 
 especially for characters, and the Wiimote speaker can be annoying. Almost too similar to Ocarina 
 of Time, but is that a bad thing? Heralded as one of the greatest game series of all time, it's 
 no surprise that LoZ: TP continues the trend. While not totally changing the formula, TP adds some 
 fresh ideas, engaging characters, and great puzzles that makes it stand on it's own compared to 
 Zelda games of old. The storyline seems formulaic in that a great evil is cast over Hyrule, and 
 you must save it and help Zelda, sounds familiar right? Well it's true that in a sense it's the 
 same as always, how TP is different is how the storyline progresses and the characters along with 
 it. It seems in previous Zeldas that it really has never been strong in the way of personality 
 for it's characters and story. You always had to go to different dungeons defeat the badguy and 
 restore peace, but in Twilight Princess you seems to care about it alot more than in previous titles. 
 This is due in most part to the people and characters that you meet, and although they dont have 
 voice acting, the dialogue is strong enough to keep your heart in it. You'll start the game as 
 in any Zelda, a lowly who uses a stick for a weapon and nothing to do. Soon you'll come across 
 new swords and items and this is definitely another strong suit of Twilight Princess. The Wiimote 
 isn't necessarily used in drastic fashion, but you'll get used to swinging it around to defeat 
 your enemies with your sword. The items on the other hand is where the Wiimote shines, from aiming 
 your bow and other things i dont give away, the Wiimote is definitely used in such a way that it 
 adds a whole new element to Zelda. Where the Wiimote shines again is with your Z-Targeting moves. 
 As you progress in TP you will come across moves that will require certain actions with your Wiimote 
 and executing them is fun and definitely rewarding. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princes is definitely 
 one of the most gorgeous games Nintendo has put out. While not as graphically impressive on a technical 
 sense as games on other more powerful systems, I would go so far to say as it's definitely the 
 most beautfiul game on the next gen (or current gen, however you see it) systems.
  
  Of course no game is perfect, and while i'd love to give it a 10 like alot of the Zelda fanboys 
 are rating it, it does have it's faults (but there's no such thing as a perfect game anyway, in 
 my opinion) . Where Legend of Zelda falls short is in two areas, one of them pretty key. LoZ: TP 
 is definitely one of if not the easiest Zelda game, atleast in the combat portion. No time did 
 I ever really have to put forth much effort to bring down a boss or a group of enemies, all the 
 bosses moved pretty slow and were easy to dodge or counter. There also just always happened to 
 be hearts around and I never really got the sense of urgency to survive. But if your into Zelda 
 more for the puzzles then fear not cause there are definitely enough challenging puzzles to go 
 around. But if you really loved the challenge of alot of the bosses in Ocarina of Time and other 
 titles you'll be alittle dissappointed. Another shortcoming of TP is the use of sound effects especially 
 for characters. More characters in the game have annoying sounds for their voices than not so have 
 to list it as a definite negative. The Wiimote speaker could definitely had sounded better as well. 
 All around i'd have to put Twilight Princess as my favorite Zelda game of all time. The original 
 sat at the top for awhile but the great characters and story really bring take this Zelda in the 
 right direction and i'm always a sucker for an emotional story and deeper characters. If you love 
 great characters or story, or if you like the idea of the Wiimote in an adventure game, or wrapping 
 your mind around a puzzle then this game is easily for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorlok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since Nintendo made a full-fledged, no nonsense sequel to the arguably best game 
 of all time, Ocarina of Time.
  Wind Waker was a new turn for the series, both graphically and game play wise, breathing some fresh 
 air into the series.
  Twilight Princess does the exact opposite, talking the original, well known formula and perfecting 
 it. This game offers very little new to the series, or the genre as a whole, but neither does it 
 wish to be.
  Twilight Princess is the game that fans cried out for when Wind Waker was released.
  
  The 
 Twilight Princess is once again set in the kingdom of Hyrule, which our young protagonist, Link, 
 must save from certain doom.
  In this run, the lands will be covered by darkness, quite literally as a matter of fact, as a dark 
 shadow, called the Twilight, is slowly taking over key points of the kingdom, turning everyone 
 into ghost like spir-its in it's path.
  The people who suffer this terrible fate, does not know what has happened to them, and partially 
 con-tinue their lives.
  Link however, will not be turned into a ghost, but will be transformed into a wild and powerful 
 wolf that is a fast and agile, as well as being powerful in combat.
  The games follows the standard Zelda formula, a slow beginning, explore through several temples, 
 and obtain lots of different weapons and items which will help you both in combat, and to complete 
 the game.
  
  The temple's also follow the same pattern, where your main job is to get the hidden Weapon, and 
 ad-vance to the end, to kill the boss and get your reward, using keys, maps and compasses to guide 
 you through.
  These temple's are well designed, alas, a little too easy, where you will never get stuck more 
 than a few minutes, I also found that the temple's had very little backtracking, with a few exceptions, 
 you simply follow a path from A-B and you will do just fine.
  Once you get to the finish, you will have to fight the temples final boss, often times a huge 
 vile creature of sorts with immense power, these will be killed by the help of your earlier acquired 
 item, and your wits.
  These bosses, are mostly spectacular, huge in scale, interesting tactics and incredibly beautiful 
 looks, but they suffer from what is either a problem with the developers underestimating the players, 
 or the players simply being better than anyone can imagine, because these bosses are too easy.
 
  They are incredibly fun and well made, but none of them will pose any real challenge if you engage 
 them with full health and/or a Farie in a bottle.
  
  The overworld is divided into different sections, in which you will venture back and fourth several 
 times in-between Temples. This land is large; and it will take you a long time to travel from 
 one end to an-other, if you are one foot, or paws. If you on the other hand are riding on your 
 grand steed, you will cover these grounds in no time.
  These lands are somewhat infested with enemies and critters, which only gets worse as night falls.
 
  
  The games presentation is a half and half experience, on one hand, the game does suffer from the 
 fact that the game was made for a Last Gen console, with a slightly lower poly count then what 
 is to be ex-pected, and worse, low resolution textures, which is not only visible up close, but 
 in some spots even from far away. On the other hand, the game is astoundingly well designed artistically. 
 Each city has its own feel and vibe; small cultural differences will make each place seem different 
 and new. From the mountain tops to watery depths, with everything in between as grassy hills, blooming 
 forests and bare deserts, each has its own distinctive feel, yet still seems connected. The sound 
 part of the game is also a somewhat touchy subject, because it also falls under the curse of last 
 generation technology, and the music sounds somewhat dated, which is sad, because the music is 
 well written and feels both grand will leave you humming for days.
  The sound effects once again sports a Mr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde quality, where the sounds you will hear 
 from your TV speakers sound pleasant and convincing, but the sounds coming from your Wii Remote 
 will some times come out scratchy, stop half way trough, or even worse, not play at all.
  
  The controls are different from any Zelda game released earlier, but thats not a bad thing, they 
 are in-novative and easy to use, if you want to swing a sword, you simply flick the remote, want 
 to shoot a bow, simply point and click. This allows for very immersive game play, which can, and 
 will make you feel more part of the game then you ever have before.
  When in wolf form, you run faster, and jump higher and talk to animals, but will loose the ability 
 to use any items such as swords, bows or bombs. In wolf form, you will also be able to use a special 
 sensing ability that allows you to see dead people, aswell as see scents.
  
  The citizens of Hyrule follow the standard Zelda lore, where you have the simple Hylians (humans) , 
 mighty Gorons (huge creatures made of stone) , and the clever Zoras (Half fish, half man) that 
 live in their own respective area, but few of them live in different races cities.
  These 3 races are all friendly, and will help you advance through the story.
  But ofcause, these 
 friendly races live solely to be pestered by the evil races, of which we have Orcs, wild beasts 
 and most vile of all, the Twilight, these creatures are powerful beings from another realm, cast 
 upon this land to wreck havoc, and ensure the Twilight King to conquer the kingdom of Hyrule.
 
  Each race has a few notable characters that stand out of the crowd, such as princes and princesss 
 and they all get intertwined with your quest in some way or another.
  
  The story is well told and well shown with a fair share of plot twists and depth, yet simple enough 
 to never overwhelm the player.
  
  The main Characters of the game are well defined, with their own distinct personality, all of them 
 very believable and creative. Link, the non-speaking protagonist, played by you, is the embodiment 
 of courage and heroism; he has no special character traits, except what comes from you. But you 
 are not alone in your journey, you have a follower, a little, flying, creepy looking, smart talking 
 Twilight girl, who has a lot of powers and history that will unfold slowly but surely as you venture 
 on-wards through the story.
  She is the main story point, as she will grow in character during the game, and she will help you 
 learn the reason whats going on, and why things are happening with both you, and the world.
  When you are in human form, she will remain as your shadow, and will only pop up once in a while 
 when you need help, where her job is to give you hints and information about situations and the 
 world in gen-eral.
  When you are in wolf form on the other hand, she will ride you, and perform the things you will 
 have lost the ability to do when transformed, such as opening doors, chests and other things of 
 the sort.
  She will however, also lend you some of her power, in the form a powerful attack, strong enough 
 to take down several mighty foes with a single, swift attack.
  
  Outside the main story, there is a lot to see and do, such as collecting certain objects, doing 
 quests for people, and a lot of small mini games that is not only fun, but can be difficult. 
 On top of that, you pretty much get a complete second game half way through the game, namely Fish-ing, 
 you get introduced to this quite early on, but its later in the game where this part really takes 
 shape.
  This game is both simple and deep, you can go to any pond, lake or river and start fishing, and 
 you might even get lucky to catch a fish or two, or you can enter the fishing pond, where you not 
 only gets to sail around in a little boat, but you will also get to use reels and lures, as well 
 as different types of bait.
  You fish by simply making a throw movement with the arm, and then wait for the fish to bite, once 
 they do, you have to reel in, making reeling motion with your left hand and pulling back with 
 rod when the fish tries to struggle.
  
  Overall the game is a grand success, an achievement both visually, sound wise and game play wise 
 with vast amounts of great scenery, story and characters.
  The game play is solid, everything is perfected to the smallest detail, and you will at never feel 
 as though it could have been made any better.
  Technically, aside from the slightly low resolution textures and poly count, the game is flawless, 
 you will at no point run into slowdown, FPS issues, or even bugs.
  
  This game is arguably the best game in the series, which is a grand statement, considering many 
 people perceive Ocarina of Time to be the best game of all time. With the only factor that its 
 a little too easy, and it technically falls short of what it could have been, its compelling story, 
 grand scale, perfect game play and great music, this game can, and should, be played by everyone 
 owned a Wii, this cannot be stretched enough, and whether or not you are a Zelda fan is irrelevant, 
 but if you are one, you will get even more out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnnoyingKid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Whoever thinks Orcarina of Time is the best better buy this game. Even though the story is short, 
 the sidequests keep you really busy. The boss battles are epic, from fighting a Mutated Deku Baba 
 to killing Ganondorf, The game never loses it's sensation.
  
  And the controls on the Wii make it 10x as fun. Getting everything in this game takes a while, 
 but well worth it. The puzzles are also a bit challenging, but nothing to hard. The bosses are 
 huge and really fun.
  
  After playing Zelda on the Wii, you'll never want to go back to, no, you'll never want to think 
 about going back to old controls
  
  To wrap this up, if you are a die-hard hardcore gamer, I recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErnestoBananez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Since the first screens of Wind Waker were shown, many Zelda fans have been clamoring for the more 
 realistic graphical style of Ocarina of Time. Nintendo listened- and the result is Twilight Princess. 
 Not only is the graphical style similar, but Nintendo has decided to inject other portions of Ocarina 
 into Twilight princess (most notably locations- although these locations are completely new, and 
 are similar in name and spirit only) . These connections between the Zelda games are so prevalent 
 that it almost seems Nintendo is trying to manufacture nostalgia. It makes me wish Nintendo had 
 broken all ties to Ocarina, and created a game world that was completely new and original. With 
 this in mind, know that Nintendo has created some truly unique and awe-inspiring locations and 
 environments. Ah, the sound... while the music is certainly well composed, it sounds... very dated, 
 at times. It is hugely apparent that they are still creating music in the same way they did on 
 the N64. Orchestrated music is a must in the next Zelda, in this reviewer's humble opinion. Also, 
 with how cinematic this game is, forcing us to read dialogue while the action is playing out is 
 almost inexcusable. Nintendo would be foolish not to include voice acting in the next Zelda.
  
  The graphics, while obviously Gamecube quality, are balanced out by how undeniably beautiful 
 the games environments and characters are. The animation in cutscenes is masterfully done, and 
 the facial expressions of the characters (Midna and Link in particular) really add a lot to the 
 game's presentation. The only flaw I could find, gameplay-wise, is that the pacing could have used 
 some work. The first few hours are boring, and finding what you have to do is incredibly unintuitive. 
 The early wolf segments also tend to drag on, and completing your objective as a wolf is sometimes 
 frustrating and boring. Other than these blemishes, the gameplay is time-tested Zelda through and 
 through. More than enough is added so that the game feels fresh, yet the same dungeon-boss-get 
 to next dungeon formula is used. I would argue that the dungeons are some of the best in the series, 
 and even the worst one (the sixth for those who have played it) is still about as fun as any temple 
 from Wind Waker. The designers have also outdone themselves when it comes to items. Every item 
 reused from an older Zelda has a new function (You can walk on walls with the magnetic iron boots, 
 and thats just one of their uses!) , and many completely new items make appearances. Difficulty-wise, 
 the game is between Wind Waker and Ocarina. It isnt quite hard, but there are a few tough bosses 
 later on, and many of the puzzles had me scratching my head.
  
  The story is amazing, and its certainly better than any seen before in a Zelda game. Thats all 
 Im gonna say about that. Is this game better than Ocarina? I would say yes. Will it become legendary 
 like Ocarina? My guess is no. While it is an amazing game, the fact still remains that Ocarina 
 was revolutionary, and Twilight Princess is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surreal-Alias
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow gamespot can't even give the best Zelda game at least a 9.
  
  Gameplay
  It's tons more fun with the Wii Remote then ever before. All new items. WIth the new items its 
 kinda like sonic mixed with tony hawk mixed with spiderman. Its real fun and creative. The temples 
 are nice and long, they are the real challenge in the game so my advice to you would be not to 
 buy a guide or else the game would not nearly be as fun.
  
  Graphics
  Best graphics so far for any Zelda game
  
  Sound
  Best sound for any Zelda game. You will 
 instantly fall in love with the hyrule overworld theme song and many more.
  
  Value
  The game gives you a lot to do even after you beat it. Collect poe's, bugs, or my favorite kill 
 all in the CAVE OF ORDEALS.
  
  Tilt
  This is the best Zelda game of all time and probably my favorite game of all time. If your going 
 to buy it buy it for the Wii so you can have the full affect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has got a great deal of very devoted fans. It is a series that no matter 
 what game is played, it will focus around a character named Link and in some way or form have the 
 end result of rescuing Princess Zelda. The current title in the series, Twilight Princess, is no 
 exception to this formula.
  
  The game starts up simple enough; Link must take a tribute to Princess Zelda at Hyrule Castle. 
 Before he can leave, a strange black vortex comes out of the sky and kidnaps all of the children, 
 turns the adults into ghosts and Link becomes a wolf. He is then thrown into jail when a little 
 imp character named Midna helps him break out. It turns out Link in no longer in the Hyrule he 
 knew, but in a world of shadows. Midna is his guide through this dark world. Needless to say, this 
 would not be much of a Zelda game if the whole game is spent in the form of a wolf. Eventually, 
 Link finds his way back to his Hyrule and releases it from the curse of shadow it was put under. 
 This is only the beginning of the adventure for he must stop the evil king who brought the shadows 
 in the first place.
  
  The story is not overly deep and lacks a certain complexity, but it plays well as a classic good 
 versus evil. The characters throughout the game are very colorful and often whimsical. And the 
 true driving force of the game is just completing the section of the game currently being played 
 to be able to move into the next section. And to tell, this game is very large for an action adventure. 
 The Zelda series has long been known for its dungeons and temples, but this game has some of the 
 longest and well thought dungeons that have ever been seen in the series. There are a lot of great 
 puzzles and exploration to perform in each and every location that is visited. Without a guide, 
 it is possible to spend three to four hours in some of them. The downside is that because of some 
 of the lengths of these temples, there are a few that seem just a bit too long. And the combat 
 is not always the most interesting especially when the temple is running long.
  
  Combat in the title is almost identical to The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. Granted, Wind Waker 
 used the formula for The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, but it streamlined it and with the help 
 of a better 3-D engine, it worked better as well. The locking on target is still seen, the shield, 
 the rotation swing, all of it is there. The problem is that the combat is not all that difficult. 
 Once the enemy is locked into Links sight, the sword is swung a time or two and it is over. Even 
 the hard enemies fall with ease once the weakness is learned. It would have been nice to have 
 a difficulty setting available for more combat options. On the upside, the vast assortments of 
 gadgets that have appeared throughout the series are in this title as well.
  
  The 007-like tools that Link uses in the Zelda series border more on magic than practicality, but 
 always make the games more interesting. The joy of throwing a boomerang to grab a coin; grappling 
 a chandelier with the Claw-chain or riding on a spinning gear up a wall, these are the gadgets 
 of the Zelda series. Each temple has a special gadget within it. The gizmo will appear about half-way 
 through the temple to be used to defeat the final boss of the level. Some gadgets are used all 
 of the time once they are found; however, a lot of the gadgets are not used much outside of the 
 temple that it was found. Since the gadget must be used to defeat the levels final boss, it makes 
 each boss fight unique, but not all that difficult. The bosses are all huge in scope, but it is 
 very possible to not die once during any boss battle. The bosses are usually very large and look 
 good in the widescreen format along with the rest of the game.
  
  The game itself has a good look to it. It has more of a fantasy look to its cinematography. It 
 looks even better it a set of component cables can be located for the Wii, but in many ways, the 
 games does not look next generation. The game looks like it was developed for the GameCube and 
 not a next generation system. It does not look poor in any way, just a bit dated. Even the sound 
 seems a bit dated.
  
  Music from the Zelda series has always been pretty famous among fans of the series. The same songs 
 and jingles find ways into each new title. They may be updated a bit, but it is the same music. 
 The game sounds decent in 5.1 surround sound, but it is not a rich an full of sound that a player 
 would expect in a game as vast as this one. The sound effects sound decent and it is even more 
 entertaining to have Midnas giggle come out of the little speaker that is in the Wii Remote. And 
 there are other interesting aspects about the Wii remote as well.
  
  The Wii remote adds a unique aspect to Twilight Princess. Instead of pressing a button to swing 
 Links sword, the actual Wii Remote is swung. By jabbing at the screen, Link jabs. By swinging 
 the Wii Remote, Links swings his sword. Shake the Nunchuck and Link will perform the charged swing. 
 All of this seems pretty nifty, but that wears off after awhile. It would have been nice to have 
 just button combat for an option because ones wrist can actually get pretty tired after extended 
 gaming sessions. In many ways the Wii Remote extras are a neat touch, but feel a bit tacked onto 
 the game. The features do make the game memorable.
  
  In the end, Twilight Princess is as vast as an action-adventure game can get. It took me 53 hours 
 to finish it, but with a guide it should take less time. The story is nothing groundbreaking, but 
 entertaining and in many ways reminds me heavily of the story from Ocarina of Time. As a matter 
 of fact, the game in general reminds me heavily of Ocarina of Time just that in this one Link gets 
 to ride a horse and transform into a wolf. It is a great game just nothing really new. It is one 
 of the best launch titles to come out for any video game system and it is a great precursor of 
 what is to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  We'll start off with some people's biggest gripe
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are great for it being a port from the Gamecube
  One of the creators 
 even stated that he wants us all to think of this game as
  the maximum a GC can doo and just the base of what the Wii is capable of.
  
  Sound
  The music 
 in this game is excellent, it brings back alot of songs from the old days only redone the .Some 
 of ou may disagree with me on this next part But I think the sounds coming out of the controller 
 were good made me
  fell as if I was clanging my sword off of something and (I found that a few of my friends unhappy 
 with the sounds coming out of the controller liked it better when they turned down the volume on 
 it) The in game sounds are excellent as to be expected.
  
  Controls
  One of the best parts of this game is the Wiimote
  fighting a boss or even any enemy and actually 
 feeling like your doing it is such a rush and the game takes time to teach you how to use each 
 attack so it's easy to learn and works really well.
  
  Game Play
  Some of the ways you have to fight the enemies or bosses
  are really clever and make you feel 
 like a true swordsman
  and this is by far the most innovative Zelda to date.
  The boss are relatively easy but take some thought on how to find there sweet spot but once you 
 have you should have them crumbling at your knees in no time.
  The puzzles in the game might stump you at first but make you
  feel very satisfied and that I'm 
 so smart feeling
  other puzzels are pretty obvious especially for veterans of the series.
  
  Story
  The story of this game starts off like many Zelda's so not to spoil it for new comers 
 I won't say what that is
  but after that the games story is very deep and has alot of twist and will keep you playing to 
 see what happens next.
  
  If your along time Zelda fan your defiantly enjoy this game
  if your a newcomer and like action adventure games then
  your in for one of the best games you've 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FespGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The main focus in Twilight Princess is the functions of the Wii remote. Swordplay works pretty 
 well by simply swinging your sword. Skills, such as the ending blow, that you learn from a dead 
 warrior spice up the combat. To spin attack, you swing the nunchuk from side to side; though, I 
 found it a little annoying to wait for your sword to charge up to do a simple spin attack. What 
 I really enjoyed the most is the shooting. To shoot, simply point at the TV screen; then, hold 
 the trigger button (B) and release. If it's hard to keep a steady aim, you can always put it on 
 your lap, or you can change the settings so you can shoot traditionally with the thumb stick. It's 
 up to you. In the beginning, the slingshot is weak and lame, but that's all history once you get 
 the sweet Hero's Bow. This weapon is powerful, taking out an annoying goblin archer with one, easy 
 hit. If that's not enough, you can combine your bombs and arrows to make bomb arrows. Specifically 
 designed to destroy rocks at a distance, this weapon can also blast the living daylights out almost 
 any enemy. Other items, including the ball and chain and the clawshot, also use the pointing system 
 Fishing is very innovating and fun. You cast your line by flinging your Wii remote like a real 
 rod. You can move the lure by swinging the remote side to side to grab the fish's attention. Then, 
 when you get a bite, you pull the remote back and reel the fish in with the nunchuk. Then, you 
 grab the fish with A and B once it's close enough, and there you have it. Your invincible, noble 
 steed also makes a return in the game, and you can name her whatever you want, from words I can't 
 say in this review to Epona. Instead of playing Epona's song on your Ocarina of Time, you can pick 
 up a plant and whistle the tune. Unfortunately, in the beginning, the plants scattered across Hyrule, 
 so get used to walking in the vast land of Hyrule until you can find one, or Midna can warp you 
 at certain places. Late in the game, you receive a special charm that can call Epona anytime. Combat 
 on horseback is very fun. It's similar to the N64 games, where you increase your speed with A and 
 wait for the dash meter to fill up again. Only this time, you can attack with your sword, as well 
 as other items you have in your inventory, and she gallops like the wind. This game finally captures 
 the realism of truly fast horseback- riding. Very intense combat involves goblins on boars, where 
 they will be shooting fire arrows at you and knocking you half-way down with clubs. And there's 
 that big, ugly guy whom you've seen in the finale of the first loz tp trailer. This mini boss can 
 be very frustrating if you can't time your movement and slashing correctly, but it'll have this 
 awesome cut-scene where Link will show you his superior own-age after you defeat him for first 
 time. You'll fight him three more times: one on horseback and the other two on the ground. There 
 will be only two intense battles with goblins in the game, but fortunately, there's a huge field 
 where mounted goblins will appear. Nine, enjoyable dungeons make Twilight Princess a lengthy game 
 without doing extra side-quests and mini-games. They are not too easy like the dungeons in the 
 Wind Waker, but it's not too hard either. There is a water temple, but it's not as insane as Ocarina's. 
 New items like the spinner and the double clawshot add a new twist to the dungeon gameplay. Boss 
 battles and enjoyable and memorable, especially the Desert boss and the last three, but most of 
 them are pretty easy to beat. You won't really need much help from Midna, but talk to her in case 
 you are stuck. Ganon, as usual, is the final boss in the game. There are four forms, but I'm not 
 going to give them away to those who haven't reached that point in the game. The 3rd stage is relatively 
 easy and disappointing when it's comes to the point when the you know what is introduced, and you 
 can't use it. The 4th stage of the boss is where it gets fun, but I'm not going any farther than 
 that. The graphics in the game are very nice when you compare them with the other Zelda games. 
 They're visually great even if they don't come to what the Wii is fully capable of, but only those 
 who own a 360 or a PS3 really care about that. HD graphics don't really matter to me and any true 
 Zelda fan either; in general, its the best looking Wii game to date. Orchestra music in Twilight 
 Princess is very touching and well done. Old tunes are back, and they're nice to hear once in a 
 while. Sound effects in the speaker are a neat idea, but it doesn't quite capture some of the realistic 
 sounds that you expect to hear. For example, swinging your sword makes a loud whoosh sound rather 
 than a clean slice. You can hear a more realistic sound as well as other sound effects if you turn 
 off the speaker, but they are soft and weak, so you might as well stick to hearing them on the 
 speaker. I'm not saying it's bad. It's just that they have could have done a better job with it. 
 Also, the game has no voice acting, but text is just fine. I'm not complaining. When it comes to 
 collecting money, it can be very annoying if you are not a big money-spender. I suggest that you 
 spend until you're broke, because you will find a lot of chests that contain money, and you'll 
 have to put the money back if it doesn't fit in your wallet. For example, if you get an orange 
 rupee, which is worth 100 rupees, and you are carrying 268 rupees in a wallet that contains 300 
 rupees, you'll have to put it back. Then when you are short of rupees, you may have to go back 
 to dungeons and specific places to get some dough; other ways of getting money fast include killing 
 a flock of crows, giving bugs to a princess (not Zelda) , getting instant cash from a rich guy (but 
 you'll have to collect 60 Poe souls first) , and defeating enemies in the Cave of Ordeals, which 
 is a place in the desert where you'll have to kill a group of enemies from floor to floor. It's 
 very similar to that of the Wind Waker's. Mini cut-scenes, which will tell you that you've collected 
 a blue or yellow rupee, are frequent and also very annoying. For accessories, you have four bottles. 
 Three you'll have to find on your own. You can get two more bomb bags, so you can carry all three 
 types: normal, water, which are bombs that you can use in water, and something (I forget what it's 
 called) similar to a bomb-chu. There is the Hawk Eye, which acts as binoculars or a sniper scope 
 when combined with your bow. Tunics include Zora Armor, which is needed to swim underwater, and 
 Magic Armor, which you can buy at a store in Hyrule that opens as a result of donating money. Magic 
 Armor will keep you invincible but only at the cost of rupees. It's not wise to use it often unless 
 you've collected all 60 Poe souls. Hyrule is humongous in this game, which means there are lots 
 to do during and after the game. There are essential side-quests during the story, such as rescuing 
 your fellow villagers, which leads to those intense goblin battles and finding clues that can restore 
 your friend's memory. Extras include collecting 24 bugs for a princess (not Zelda) , collecting 
 60 Poe souls for a guy made of gold, and donating money to fix a bridge and open up a shop in Hyrule. 
 Mini-games include destroying pots with bomb arrows downstream, popping balloons while flying on 
 a huge bird upstream, collecting stars in a circus cage, co-coo flying from a high platform, sledding, 
 goat-herding, and fishing. Collecting heart pieces will keep you busy since you now need five of 
 them to make a full container, but there will be a fortune teller who will tell you where every 
 piece is for a small fee of 10 rupees. To learn skills, you first must find a stone and howl the 
 tune that is given to you in wolf form. You make contact with a golden wolf, which represents the 
 soul of the dead warrior. Then you must find him to learn a new skill (His location will be shown 
 on the map) . There are seven skills in all, so that will too keep you busy. The Cave of Ordeals 
 is enjoyable for those who are looking for a challenge. If you complete it, you'll be rewarded 
 with fairies in three fairy fountains. All of this can keep you busy for hours. The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess is a fantastic game. Anyone who owns a Wii should definitely buy this game. If 
 you are getting a Wii for the holidays, I suggest that you wait and not buy the Gamecube version. 
 If you are not expecting a get a Wii at all, you can always buy or rent it for the Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronMachine
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Second best 3D Zelda game, after OOT. Gameplay is excellent, well not always a piece of cake, it 
 is generally not hard to master. It takes a while to get used to the sword fighting, but once you 
 get it, it'll be a whole lot of fun. The sound is a bit off at times especially on the wiimote, 
 where it sound muffled. The boss fights tend to be really easy, while only one or two are at all 
 challenging. Story wise this game gets a bit confusing and seems that the story is out of place, 
 and some characters and items are forced in. The secondary characters are great, but in some parts 
 they lack the maturity that goes with the story. All in all it deserves its 9.8. (not 8.8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is by far one of the best games ever made. The detailed 
 graphics, amazing sound, unbelievably long quest and unique controls all add up to create one of 
 the greatest experiences in gaming.
  
  The gameplay in Twilight Princess is superior. Whilst still following the same Zelda mechanics 
 from Ocarina of Time, the motion sensing controls make a great new addition that really helps make 
 the game as fun as possible.
  
  The graphics in Twilight Princess for the Wii may be tuned up GameCube graphics, but they still 
 look fantastic because you can still see every single detail that Nintendo has put in to make the 
 game look fantastic. After all, people still play PS2 games, don't they?
  
  The sound in Twilight Princess is great. The music really puts you into the game and makes you 
 feel the emotions which is a great effect. Some of the sound may be nostalgic... but who cares? 
 Mario games have had the same Mario tune in it since the original and do you hear anyone complaining? 
 The only problem with the sound is some of the noises that come out of the remote. The sword swinging 
 sound just doesn't sound right, but if you really don't like it this can be easily fixed by turning 
 the Wii remote volume down.
  
  Twilight Princess is an amazingly long game. It takes approximately 70 hours to complete everything 
 in the game which is much longer than any other Zelda game. This makes Twilight Princess worth 
 every dollar because it has massive replay value.
  
  All in all, Zelda: Twilight Princess is a mind-blowing game that provides one of the greatest gaming 
 experiences ever. Twilight Princess is hands down, the Wii's killer app. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The hype for this game was through the roof all the way until its release. This is, no doubt, one 
 of the best launch titles ever for a machine, even though there was a little cheating involved 
 to get it on; meaning, this was originally intended for the Nintendo GameCube, but when Nintendo 
 saw that its new console, the Nintendo Wii, would not be getting any killer titles to compete during 
 the PlayStation 3s launch, obviously there was some debate.
  
  So effort was made to make The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Wii-worthy. Considering that 
 money is definitely involved, Nintendo obviously wanted to push Wii sales and Zelda would be perfect. 
 Even though it was taken away from GameCubers for a few weeks, the controls are very comfortable 
 and noteworthy compared to traditional ones.
  
  Swinging your sword is now done by shaking or nudging the Wiimote instead of traditionally pressing 
 B. And instead of using your control stick to aim when switching to first-person mode, you can 
 use the 3-Dimensional-reading Wiimote which resembles a mouse on a computer. The controls are welcome, 
 but not necessary, to be honest. But you wont want to change back since it does open up doors 
 for freedom.
  
  The gameplay is what we expect from the usual Zelda library. The big question is Is Twilight Princess 
 the best Zelda ever?? My answer is yes. But not much compared to truly brand new experience Ocarina 
 of Time brought us back in 1998. Expect many great puzzles to solve, immersive and sometimes too-easy 
 battles, and great formulaic gameplay that makes Zelda great. In other words, Twilight Princess 
 is better than Ocarina of Time, but it doesnt add a humungous layer of greatness that Ocarina 
 of Time did to the Zelda franchise.
  
  This game looks absolutely gorgeous. Even though there are odd graphical oddities like the jaggies 
 or stairs (not perfectly smooth edges) , the environments blow you away. The characters look beautiful, 
 the temples look beautiful, Link moves beautifully. Old *friends* are very, very beautiful. But 
 the graphics are not up to par with Wii's capabilities.
  
  The sound, as it usually has been, is a huge part of this game. Links voice is deeper, mirroring 
 his age. And even though there wasnt voice acting, which would help from a cinematic standpoint, 
 the gameplay is not marred by it. The music is absolutely wonderful. Most of it consists of MIDI-format 
 sound files, but lots of orchestration also went into this. It is so well blended together that 
 it still is just stunning to listen to. Old themes come back, and new themes permeate strongly. 
 You will find yourself humming them now and then. Lots of older sounds are brought back for this, 
 which can be good and bad.
  
  Most people in this world who play this game will love it. There is no doubt in my mind about that. 
 It will last you at least 40 hours without any outside help of any kind. Expect to get your moneys 
 worth.
  
  This game was not a disappointment for me. It wasnt perfect, mainly because it relied heavily 
 on formula from past titles. The difficulty is also a point to mention. There are extremely challenging 
 puzzles involved, and then there will be a not-so-difficult boss to top it all off. It is very 
 friendly to the casual gamer, especially when it comes to the main quest. The challenging portion 
 of fights is usually figuring out how to defeat the enemy. But the fact does remain that they dont 
 offer a particularly difficult challenge sometimes. Despite old formulas being used and some easy 
 gameplay, what really shines out is the immersive story and characters and the hours you will spend 
 going through it. Expect a perfect Zelda title, but not a perfectly revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game as been in production for a very long time. Originally for the GC it made it's way to 
 the Wii as a launch title. And it definately is a great way to start the console of with a bang. 
 For anybody considering to purchase a Wii, this game should be the first game that pops up in your 
 mind when deciding on a game to go along with. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an epic story 
 of a young Ordonian named Link who's world is rocked when an evil being called the king of the 
 twilight starts transforming the land of Hyrule into a realm of twilight. The first thing to know 
 about the Wii version of Twilight Princess is how well does the wiimote come into play with this 
 game. The answer is amazing. The wiimote doesn't need to be waved around all over the place because 
 the sensitivity is tuned just right that all you have to do is a wiggle for a sword slash. To perform 
 a spin attack you wiggle the nunchuck and there is definately a lot of other cool things to do 
 with the wiimote later in the game.
  
  One of the more fun aspects about the wiimote is aiming. It definatley feels a lot better aiming 
 with the wiimote than it would with an analog stick. You can aim with things like the slingshot, 
 bow or boomerang aswell as others. To use long range weapons you select it by pressing the B trigger 
 and the analog acts to turn the camera to make it more easier. One minor complaint I have about 
 the wiimote is sometimes it won't react so quickly when you make a wiggle motion to draw Link's 
 sword but this is on a rare occasion.
  
  One of the few things that makes a Zelda game is its puzzles. There's a lot of it in this game 
 and they can be quite tricky, a lot of the times fustrating but not too hard that you be completely 
 stuck. Another apect is strategy. How to tackle the boss of the dungeon and as epic as the boss 
 battles may be I felt not much strategy was really needed. Usually the boss had an obvious weak 
 spot or can be killed with the item you recently obtained.
  
  The graphics in this game while some people complain that is doesn't look as good as 360 or ps3 
 games, I would argue that the game has beauty. Looking far into the distance in hyrule fields with 
 a blue sunny sky just looks gorgious, a real eye candy. The draw distance in this game is breath-taking 
 and any structure you see in the distance you can probably reach it when riding your horse Epona. 
 Whats cool about this game is that it won't stay only at one time of day. The game goes from day 
 to night without you doing anything. This game has great lighting effects and shadowing such as 
 being in Kakiriko village and seeing ths shadows of the clouds slowly moving across.
  
  Sound has been a subject of concern for reviewers. Not orchestrated but instead midi music and 
 no voice acting. These are points that are a little concerning but the Midi music isn't that bad 
 and is enjoyable to listen to the village theme songs or the hyrule field theme song and as for 
 no voice acting, that really isn't new to the franchise and any Zelda fan knows that. What's one 
 of the cool, aspects of sound is the wiimote speaker. Every slash you make from your sword, the 
 sound comes out of the speaker and even the chime you hear when you achieved something.
  
  This game is definately a great way to start playing the Wii. It is a huge game that clocks up 
 to 60 hours and has one of the most best epic stories for a game. Brimming with everything that 
 makes a Zelda game awesome, Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the reason you'll want a Wii 
 because there is no better way of playing this game than with the wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review by saying that I have only devoted my time to two Zelda titles in my entire 
 life (The Legend of Zelda and Ocarina of Time) before Twilight Princess came along. Hate me if 
 you will, but I was just never good at them and never went very far in either.
  
  This highly anticipated game has had everyone wondering for a long time, and the release of Twilight 
 Princess now comes to de-mystify any rumors.
  
  The game begins with two characters sitting by a lake. A middle-aged man tells the story of the 
 Twilight Princess, and sitting next to him, listening attentively, is our hero, Link. I personally 
 like how Link has grown into a teenager and you can see during gameplay how he is connected to 
 the townsfolk.
  
  This man has a special sword and shield that need delivered to Castle Hyrule, and he asks Link 
 to take it there.
  
  But obviously, you don't just go and set out to Castle Hyrule. Before you actually leave Ordon 
 Village there is a series of mini-quests to do. The game starts you with a little mini-game where 
 you get to ride Epona and guide a herd of goats into the barn. After completing the menial task, 
 you will be free to explore the village, interact with people, do little tasks for them, and eventually 
 equip yourself to go save the kids who got in trouble. It's a process of getting used to how the 
 controls work.
  
  I wasn't sure how well the nunchuck and remote would work for this game, and it took me quite a 
 while to adjust. The nunchuck analog is used to move Link around, the C button switches to first-person 
 so you can look around, and the Z button is used to lock on targets. On the remote, you use the 
 A button to interact with people and objects, the control pad uses shortcuts for items and talks 
 to Midna, B uses an item, 1 shows the map and 2 toggles the mini-map, while the + and - display 
 menu screens. All these buttons got me really confused at first, but the way you hold both controllers 
 (nunchuck on the left hand, remote on the right) makes everything seem to fall into place after 
 a while.
  
  While fishing, the remote becomes your fishing rod and the nunchuck works as your reel. During 
 combat, both controllers become Link's sword: swing the remote to do a sword slash, shake the nunchuck 
 side to side to do a spin slash. It's pretty cool to see how versatile the controls are for a number 
 of activities.
  
  Now, the whole premise of Twilight Princess is that there is a world stuck in between light and 
 darkness. This is the Twilight Realm, and it's here that Link assumes the form of a wolf. I have 
 to say, Wolf Link isn't as fun to play as regular Link. You get a little mysterious helper named 
 Midna, who gives you hints (you can hear the giggles coming out of the remote if she has something 
 to tell you) and a helping hand when you need to jump to apparently unreachable places. It's very 
 clear that she's not helping because she's nice, she wants something from you. As a wolf, you have 
 limited capabilities (obviously, I mean, you're a beast after all) . You have no weapons but you 
 can pounce on enemies and run really fast. You can dig, tug on chains and use your senses to find 
 hidden things. Later on, you gain more combat abilities that make things a little more interesting.
 
  
  Maybe it's not just the wolf-form gameplay but the way the Twilight Realm looks that makes it seem 
 like such as chore. It's dark, blurry, it all looks very strange. It's a really huge difference 
 to come out of Ordon, a lovely bright town with wonderful people and into this depressing dungeon 
 where you meet Midna for the first time.
  
  It's while playing Link that you can truly experience what Twilight Princess has to offer, and 
 not just in the sword combat with shield offense. Link gets other useful weapons as well, a bow 
 and a boomerang controlled by wind, which becomes an integral part of solving environmental puzzles 
 and defeating certain bosses. The Gale Boomerang is so helpful that it can even transport things 
 to you or another targeted location.
  
  A very convenient save system lets you save your progress anywhere in the game, and considering 
 the proportions of the areas in the game, this saving whenever you want feature is your friend, 
 particularly in the vast dungeons filled with enemies, treasure chests and puzzles to solve.
  
  The game has a very unique look to it. The overall graphic aspect is somewhat hazy, soft, like 
 a dream-like state. It's not the crisp, sharp image you would get from Xbox 360 games, but it still 
 looks beautiful. The animated cutscenes are gorgeous, and even if some textures seem a little pixelated, 
 the level designs (particularly in the dungeons) are clearly the result of massive amounts of thought 
 and hard work. The sound effects are fairly good, but those that come from the remote seem a little 
 odd. Maybe because they sound like the remote is going to fall apart when they happen, it's a sort 
 of vibrating sound (hard to explain) . A volume control for the remote would probably take care 
 of this. There is no voice acting so to speak, which would have made a really nice addition, but 
 the text dialogs and story are very well presented. In the end, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 seems very familiar; it emanates this nostalgic feeling that takes you back to previous titles, 
 but it has a huge novelty factor of its own at the same time. Fans of the series will greatly enjoy 
 it, as will newcomers to Link's adventures and everyone in between.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=zeldatwilightprincess 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallycar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Everything in this game is great. The music, story, gameplay, graphics. Almost the whole world 
 gives this game more than 9/10. Disappointing gamespot, i'm very disappointed at you. And Gears 
 of War? Just because it looks great, it does NOT deserve 9.6.
  
  Zelda and Final Fantasy for the win!
  
  If you are looking for a great game on the Wii, this 
 is the one you shall get. I promise you, this game REALLY deserves 10/10. Go Nintendo! You have 
 done it again, bigger than Sony and Microsoft once again :)
  
  At first, this controlls may be a little difficult but after some hour or two, you will learn more 
 and more how to master it. It works perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrio
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight princess... You may be thinking 8.8? Hmm this game looks pretty good 
 but I may want to give Monkey ball a spin, Or take a swing at Surgery... (Dot Dot Dot) These titles 
 may have great game play and maybe just alltogether great games. (I have nothing against rolling 
 cute monkeys in balls) But Have you second looked Zelda? I hope you havent... You see that Nintendo 
 It went For a good launch. They got an incredible one. They trie for a New innovative 
  system... It becomes the most popular but (Dot Dot Dot.) When Befuddled with the fact of intense 
 titles come up like Gears of war From the 360 Nintendo seemed a little less awsome . I wondered 
 if the Wii was gonna flunk... Badly... (Dumb mistake upon my part) You see... as in a line for about 
 6-10 hours on end you know this wait is not going to be futile, because you know you are gonna 
 need a game to play A. S. A. P. I tell my dad who is about to go to ToysRus to purchase Twilight princess 
 I repeat it over a dozen times so that just in case he may pick up some other random title (Blech)
 
  
  The moment of truth... He gets it i am so pleased... :' ]
  But at that moment of joy it is spliced into a million peices when i realize.. There is a chance 
 of total Flumpage from the fact that the controller may not be User friendly . I begin to panic. 
 Suddenly my number is called... I go in... get my Wii w/ extra conroller and stroll out. That day 
 i was busy but when i got back home. I or... Mii played.............
  
  Please enter your name:
  Date of Birth:
  Favorite Sports team:
  (The wii asks me or... Mii)
 
  As i aim at the screen i find that the control is Ideal ... I am pleased. So i pop in the Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess ... Nov 19 06 at approx 1:30 to Dec 17 11:42 i have spent a total of 
 43:32... And throuout that entire time
  i was... Comptent 
  
  This game wiil bring you pure Euphoria from when you first cut away at a scare crow with your... 
 sword Till you end when you end the True King of Darkness with the Blade of Evils bane...
  
  I truly could go on for at least 2 more pages but i would prefer to keep it short and sweet... so 
 in a nut shell...
  You cannot go wrong with this true masterpeice of a game. The Gameplay will bring you back, The 
 graphics will awe you, The orchestrated music will
  charm you and The Pure story will Grip you. And i think i say this for everyone but... Wii love 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has been considered the greatest franchise of all of video games to 
 many people. It carried Nintendo to the promised land every time a new entry comes out since the 
 NES days. Ocarina of Time is still one of the greatest games of all-time and this entry, Twlight 
 Princess, uses what worked in that game and succeeds at it, but that reason alone makes this Zelda 
 game not as perfect everyone hoped it to be. Even though this is still the Wii game to get at launch, 
 those who played the series to death will recognize that there are too many familiar elements that 
 OOT had as if Nintendo copied and pasted most of OOT's greatness to this new Zelda. Since this 
 is the year 2006, Nintendo sticks to what worked in 1998 and it is about time the series needs 
 some significant changes.
  
  The story of Twlight Princess is probably the best one in the series, but it still has its problems 
 (prepare for major spoilers if you have not played this game) . Link is some random boy living in 
 a village and all of a sudden becomes the chosen one to save Hyrule and Princess Zelda from creatures 
 of the Twlight Realm. The main villain is still Ganon or Ganondorf, but he uses the king of the 
 Twlight Realm, Zant, to return to the Light Realm and conquer Hyrule again. Zant puts Hyrule into 
 darkness of the Twlight and it is up to Link to save the kingdom. Once Link steps into the Twlight, 
 he changes into a wolf and cannot change back until later in the game or collecting light sources 
 to destroy the Twlight of different areas. Your sidekick is Midna, who is basically the Twlight 
 Princess, and it is placed under a spell by Zant for betraying him resulting with Midna being a 
 little creature. Midna uses Link to get revenge on Zant. The only thing about the story that feels 
 a little wrong is that Zelda, Ganon, and Link are just thrown to this mess having little involvement 
 as Midna and Zant are the focus points of the story. Despite the issues, the story is still good, 
 but you wish there was more character involvement with the main characters of the series.
  
  Since this game is on the Wii, Twlight Princess uses the unique controller and nunchuk attachment 
 instead of a standard controller like the Gamecube one. The sword attacks are basically done by 
 swinging the Wiimote like a sword, but you don't need to over-exaggerate it like those commercials. 
 There are sword attacks that don't need the Wiimote motions, which are the basic jump attack and 
 the infamous spin attack (you shake the nunchuk to do it) . There are moments in the game that the 
 sword controls are not just meant for this game and it is better done with a normal controller, 
 but it is still good. The greatest thing about the Wii controls is the aiming, which is needed 
 since it is not that great in the earlier 3D Zelda games. If you are using the bow, boomerang, 
 or the clawshot, there is an aiming reticle on the screen and you use the Wiimote to aim at the 
 screen doing your business. Other than that, the controls work fine on the Wii and those who go 
 back to the earlier 3D games will be wishing it had the aiming this Wii version has.
  
  Most of the gameplay of Twlight Princess is straight up copied from Ocarina of Time. The core 3D 
 Zelda formula is still being used in which you do three dungeons collecting parts of a item, then 
 something big happens resulting in doing more dungeons collecting parts of another item before 
 going to the final stretch. Some puzzles are way similar to some from Ocarina, but there are unique 
 puzzles as well. The weapons and items in this Zelda are the share of classic and some new ones. 
 There's your bow with arrows, bombs, boomerang, and hookshot (Clawshot in this game) . The new items 
 and weapons are more into movement besides offensive purposes, which are the Spinner, Ball and 
 Chain, and the Dominion Rod. The spinner reminds you of the Spider Ball in the Metroid Prime games 
 since it uses rails for movement. There are some weapons or items that are missing in this game 
 that are in earlier games such as the Mirror Shield, some type of hammer, and even the magic meter 
 is gone from this game (no special arrows but there are the bomb arrows in this one) .
  
  The battles in this game are mostly easy including all the boss battles. Normal enemy battles can 
 be done by just using the sword. Speaking of the sword, there are battle skills that are spread 
 throughout Hyrule where you gain more abilities with the sword. These abilities are a great addition 
 to the game and help out significantly in the later portion of the game. As you get the weapon 
 in the dungeon, it is likely you have to use that certain weapon for the boss. Even though they 
 are easy, the boss battles do require different tactics which make them diverse and epic in some 
 way. There are little changes to the whole collecting part of the game. Heart Containers are gained 
 by beating the dungeons and collecting five Pieces of Heart instead of four. You also collect Poe 
 Souls and Golden Bugs that help out in situations if you get them all. There are still four bottles 
 to get in this game and upgrades for certain weapons. The average length for Twlight Princess is 
 usually 40 hours, but if you want to do the collecting side-quests and other mini-games, the experience 
 can easily last more than 50 hours.
  
  The graphics of Twlight Princess are great based on an artistic perspective, but there are spots 
 that make the game look ugly. In addition, this game was made for the Gamecube in the first place 
 so the graphics can be dated at times if the Wii is considered more powerful than the Gamecube. 
 The backgrounds are diverse and colorful with all the different regions of Hyrule, but the same 
 themes are used once again with the Forest region, Goron region, Zora region, and the Gerudo region. 
 The Twlight Realm is perhaps the best looking part of the game and some characters look like they 
 are rushed. Other than that, this is the best graphical game for the Wii especially being a launch 
 game.
  
  The sound of this Zelda is a mix of good and bad. The music is great but most of the songs are 
 straight out remixes of classic tunes from earlier 3D Zelda games, but there are some original 
 tunes for those who wanted that. You still wished that an orchestral score would make the music 
 way better especially in a Zelda game, but Nintendo is still stuck using recycled songs. Since 
 this is the year 2006, voice acting has become a necessity in this genre of games and Twlight Princess 
 has none of it. The only voices are basically Midna's weird speech and random grunts. Link still 
 does not speak which makes the game seem it was made in the late 90s. Nintendo needs to add good 
 voice acting in future Zelda games to make it modern to compared to the other hits of today. Another 
 bad thing about the sound is the speaker on the Wiimote. It mostly sounds weak and cuts off at 
 some points wishing these sound effects would stay in the game and not on the speaker.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twlight Princess is a great game and lives up to the series, but you feel 
 like it is deja vu because the core formula is still being used wishing Nintendo would mix it up 
 someday. It is still a large game in terms of stuff to do in the huge overworld and still fun doing 
 them. The Wii controls do work despite some issues and the nostalgic factor does kick in going 
 through the dungeons. The story is interesting for once in a Zelda game instead of simple stuff. 
 This is the Wii game to get when you're buying your Wii if you like playing alone being a must 
 play. Other than that, the series needs a change and undergo some crazy transformation that makes 
 these games classics they are supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esikhafan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  When wind waker anounsed for Gamecube for the first time ever Fans of Nintendo were divided to 
 two part, first part liked the change but second part didn't like cartoonish graphic of the game. I'm 
 not writing this review for WW I'm writing it for the last release of LoZ series twilight prince. First 
 of all I need to tell you that this one of the best games ever made, if you are a gamer one of the 
 worste things in your life is not trying this game.
  50 hours game play !!! thats too much! if you want to play minigames you can easily play this game 
 more than 100 hours with no problem! this game could easily be divided to 2 parts and no one would 
 be sad.
  Graphic is the best you could find, best use of hardware. I can't tell you more but remember with 
 a HD-TV and the special cable it looks very better and I strongly recomend to anybody who wants 
 to play this game.
  Again there is no sound for charachter for many of non-zelda players this is very anouing, I realy 
 don't care about it becuse I know that if it was going to make the game better Miyamoto did it, other 
 sound are prefect.
  Gameplay has taken advantage of the Wii-mote and Nunchuck, even with this bog change controls and 
 camera is very good and you could play without usuall contoll problems.
  even this is a launch game everything is prefect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StripesOrBars
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Ah, another Zelda game. Nintendo has to release at least one of these for every system it has, 
 save for the Virtual Boy (but who cares) . This one, like all the others, is a masterpiece,
  
  You start off as a farm boy in a small village. A couple mini game type quests will get you 
 familiarized with the controls, then your chick gets kidnapped and you're off on an adventure. 
 Not before you yourself is kidnapped and taken to a paralel universe, where Link is transformed 
 into a wolf.
  
  That's just the beggining. The game itself is huge and easily the biggest in the series. You HAVE 
 to have a horse to get around or else you'll be spending alot more time getting from point A to 
 point B (unless you have all the portals like I did (: ) .
  
  Game play is stellar, using the wiimote to aim you various weapons such as your bow and arrow, 
 your clawshots (yes you get 2 of them) , and you even use the wiimote to steer an evil bird you take 
 over. This is all fine and dandy, but I liked using the control stick to aim and such. You will 
 never find yourself saying I dont feel like doing this right now . The game play ALWAYS feels fresh. 
 You never do the same thing twice. The bosses are so cleverly designed, that you'll wish you could 
 fight them again and again.
  
  Even, the music, which is somewhat dark, is a pefect fit for this title. The Hyrule field night 
 time music is essentialy my favorite tune. The voices, too, are nice and clever. No real dialogue 
 is spoken, but the story is still amazingly riviting to the point where you want to watch certain 
 scenes 2 and 3 times after you watch them the first time (ahem, can you say Ganon crushing someones 
 face with him hands?) .
  
  The graphics, considering this was supposed to be a GameCube title, hold up remarkably well. I 
 never said to myself, Geez this looks bad . Of course its not XBOX 360 or PS3 standards, but the 
 Wii is solely about gameplay, which this game is all about.
  
  Perfect in every single way. That's an understatement folks. How games like Elite Beat Agents and 
 Gears of War got a higher grade than this on GameSpot is beyond me. Buy it. Buy it for both the 
 Wii and GC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gi1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Zelda tp for the wii is the best game on the wii because it has such good game play its easy and 
 very addictive also the story is very elaborate i think it should get 10.0 but that would make 
 me a lier so the bad sides are that the graphics are meant for the game cube and not for the wii 
 itself also the bosses were very easy comparing it to ocarina of time i would have to say that 
 ocarina of time had state of the art graphics (of that time) and had much more harder dungeons 
 and bosses while tp has easy dungeons and easy bosses obviously Nintendo wanted a fool proof game 
 to support the wii so that is why they ported tp to the wii from the gamecube 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blokey99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, easy learning curve with the Wii remote, the game itself has everything you would 
 have expected in quality although some of the motions and graphics seem very stuck in the past 
 with Ocarina of Time. Having said that it still will keep you hooked even after completion, the 
 sheer size of the areas available to you are beyond comprehension.
  
  The fishing deserves a paragraph of its own, the fishing hole makes use of the Wii remote perfectly 
 reacting to your motions just how you would want. Even if your not there for the fishing the detail 
 in graphics of that one small area are outstanding.
  
  The game also refreshes many of the old ideas from previous games in the series however brings 
 in many many brand new items, abilities and challenges (Whoever thought Link could snowboard!?) .
 
  
  All in all i strongly recommend purchasing this game if you have a Wii, in fact recommendation 
 is out of the question, you MUST get this game. As for the game cube version you could get it but 
 it will be infinitely more difficult without the extra controls of the Wii remote. Not to mention 
 half the fun comes from cleaving an imaginary orc's head your remote ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhaygood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm not usually a big fan of non-RPG games. It takes a special FPS, adventure game, or RTS game 
 to drag me away from my comfort zone. But, for some reason, the Zelda series has always had the 
 ability to capture my imagination. I have, quite literally, beaten every Zelda game there is, and 
 Twilight Princess too shall be beaten, in due time.
  
  The Good: The best thing about this game is the controller. It's so easy and intuitive. Once you 
 get the hang of it, you'll cry if you ever have to go back to a normal controller. Also taking 
 tops in this game is the story -- classic Zelda goodness. Some may say that the tried-and-true 
 formula of princess in danger + long awaited hero is played out, but... no. The story always feels 
 fresh and inviting every time we get to play a Zelda game, and it doesn't matter that the game 
 is formulaic -- the formula works, by the Triforce, and deviation is unnecessary.
  
  The Bad: Well, yeah, the graphics suck compared to HD-capable systems. Oh well. Not too much of 
 a loss.
  
  Overall: I only wish Nintendo had made this system HD-capable. HD Zelda sounds beyond awesome. 
 As it is, the game is still absorbing in that way all Zelda games have been. I actually get scared 
 of dying in a way that doesn't happen with other games. In other games, if I die, then I just reload 
 from my last save point, no trouble. Not so in Zelda. I feel like if I die, then the world is going 
 bye-bye, and it's all my fault. That's good storytelling from a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moon_of_Majora
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess begins on an enigmatic note. There you -- that is, Link 
 -- are, talking to the blacksmith of your village, discussing... dusk. No, that wasn't a typo. 
 The first sentences of this game are about dusk. This is a fitting beginning for Twilight Princess, 
 because this is certainly an enigmatic game. It is also a Zelda game, which means it is filled 
 with puzzles, dungeons, very strange characters, and the Zelda-ness we've come to love.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  As this is the Wii version of Twilight Princess, this time around you'll 
 be using the Wii remote and Nunchuck to attack with your sword and aim an arrow. Although many 
 say that the Wii remote controls are tacked on, which at times feel like that are, it doesn't take 
 away from the gameplay. Aiming the bow, for example, is actually better on the Wii version compared 
 to the past Zelda games' aiming. Being able to do a quick spin attack with the nunchuck is a plus 
 as well, and does come in handy. There are, unfortunately, annoying flaws when it comes to the 
 Wii controls. Sometimes when you are pushing the analog stick up when Link is climbing, he will 
 go either left or right. Also, there are times when the Wii doesn't register the fact that you 
 are trying to get the sword out, which is especially annoying when fighting an enemy that is coming 
 at you. However, these two flaws happen only once in awhile and won't ruin the fun.
  
  The puzzles in Twilight Princess range from ridiculously easy to very hard. If you've played past 
 Zelda games you will be able to get past many of the puzzles without a blink. There are also puzzles 
 that are medium in difficulty -- they may take you a minute or two to figure out. The very hard 
 puzzles, however, can take you a very long time to figure out, but fortunately (or unfortunately, 
 depending on how you look at it) there are only one or two very hard puzzles. All the puzzles are 
 fun however, and it is very nice to hear the Zelda chime when you figure out the puzzles -- especially 
 the hard ones.
  
  The dungeons in the game are long. The first few dungeons feel too much like Ocarina of Times 
 and Majoras Masks, but they are still good. The third dungeon itself is one of those very hard 
 puzzles if you don't know what you are doing or miss something. The rest of the dungeons are original 
 and amazing. Almost every dungeon has a special weapon you need to defeat the boss. I won't spoil 
 anything here, but while many of the old weapons return, some of the are new and just plain awesome. 
 The bosses are easy for the most part, although the seventh boss can be tricky. All of them are 
 fun, and the last fight can be considered a classic.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The art style is amazing, and everything is detailed. While it could have been updated to have 
 Wii graphics, I don't mind because the game looks awesome anyway and it's one of the best-looking 
 games on the Gamecube.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  MIDI or not, the music in Zelda is good. The dungeons' background music fit the mood for each one. 
 This Hyrule Field has the best music compared to the others, and hearing the old Hyrule Castle 
 tune is wonderful. I also loved hearing old Majora's Mask and Ocarina of Time tunes again. The 
 other tunes in the game, like the gasps and laughs of the people are good. It's really entertaining 
 to listen to the band in Hyrule Castle town. Midna's voice is well done -- childish yet creepy. 
 However, some of the songs are rehashed and really don't fit in with the game at all, and at points 
 I did wish there was voice acting. Maybe Hylian voice overs next time?
  
  Value: 9/10 It'll take you at least around fifty hours to complete Twilight Princess, without any 
 sidequests. Speaking of sidequests, though... Nintendo, Nintendo, Nintendo. Shame on you. I was 
 expecting great sidequests -- Majora's Mask or The Wind Waker quality. Instead I get Ocarina of 
 Time quality, which means collecting stupid bugs and poes most of the time. While getting the biggest 
 wallet or another bottle is great, it really feels like the Nintendo took a step back. It can be 
 very disappointing.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Twilight Princess is enigmatic -- it's not as dark as Majora's Mask, and it isn't scary by any 
 means, but there will be times when you will say, Whoa because of the enigmatic creepiness in this 
 game. While most of this enigmatic creepiness is good, the confusing ending and how a certain character 
 got out of a certain realm will leave you wondering what in the world is going on. Leaving things 
 unexplained can be good, as is the case of Majora's Mask, but when it concerns the main storyline 
 and doesn't make much sense, it's really best just to explain what happened instead of leaving 
 everyone in the dark. Nonetheless, the story is amazing, and the characters are superb. Midna and 
 Zant really add to the series. The very strange characters I mentioned before are neat as well, 
 like Agatha who thinks she is a bug princess, and the two clown-like creatures who live at Lake 
 Hylia. Oddly enough, I miss Tingle and his rupee-stealing ways. Anyway, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess is a must-have, and I recommended the Wii version to you, although both versions are awesome.
 
  
  Overall Score: 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkman223
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  this is the most mature and best looking zelda adventure yet. the ending is absolutly the best 
 i have seen since final fantasy 10. the cinemas keep u on the edge of your seat withthe amazing 
 adventrous story. nintendo has defiently took a succesful step to next gen, however there is one 
 flaw i have to point out. sometimes i feel like the game sounds better without the unnecessary 
 sounds coming from the wiimote. the sounds from the swing of your sword arent the best, but it 
 sounds better with the bow. i am currently playing it the second time around and now i turned off 
 the wiimote speaker. i wouldnt say its better without the speaker but its a good difference, just 
 listen for the difference and you can decide which way you prefer. the graphics are stunning for 
 gamecube, and hyrule field is HUGE. there are no load times between different sections in hyrule 
 field either which i find amazng. overall, a must have zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shurikenmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  If I could buy any five games in the world that gamespot totally reviewed like they were eating 
 **** one would be Zelda: The Twilight Princess. I don't know what happens when they hire a nerd 
 from college to write scores based totally on nothing and just wants more time to hide in a closet 
 and masterbait, but one thing I definitely know is that they **** Zelda sideways. This game is 
 better than The Ocarina of Time. Which is something I didn't have to say that much after psone. 
 Wii kicked some major ass at launch if you ask me and I went out to buy the God damned system, 
 just for this. If gamespot has something to say to me after I'm done writing this review they can 
 go fuck themselves, after all they deserve it. Anyways, Twilight Princess perfectly brings the 
 control of the Wii remote full circle (ha ha ha take that 360) . It runs smooth and has an increadible 
 storyline. The boss fights are challenging and two hands on two controllers is pretty hard to get 
 used to. It brings video gaming to a whole new level of fun though. Whats more fun than making 
 a fool of yourself eh. I'll tell you what making a fool of yourself by yourself. This is byfar 
 a masterpiece and when more Wii's become available it will be legendary. I' m telling you just 
 for this game its worth spending $250.00 even if nintendo doesnt make another decent game again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralMBison
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest series in Nintendo comes to the Wii and this time we see one hero with two 
 sides of him. Yes Link finally turns into Wolf Link. So here is the basic story from it, Hyrule 
 is now threaten by a realm called the Twilight Realm. It takes over the lands and provinces/states 
 of the Hyrule Kingdom one by one. In the province of Ordona is where Links lives and works in the 
 Ordon Village and Ordon Ranch. Then the evil Twilight monsters attack the Ordon Spring Lake which 
 houses last free protector of the Hyrule Kingdom. Link saves the protector and kills the enemies. 
 Then Link embarks on a mission to free the other protectors, the Ordon village kids that were taken 
 by the enemies, and collect Fused Shadows for Midna who he meets when he turns into a wolf. Together, 
 they visit many new and familiar places that we have seen in other Zelda games. And the ending.... I'm 
 not going to tell you what it is or who is in it. You got to find out for yourself.
  
  The graphics are outstanding and beautiful. Also the places and temples are well-done with great 
 bosses and characters. The music is so great that one of them, the Hyrule Field song, is stuck 
 in my head and whistle to it when I hear it, that's how good the music is. The weapons are cool 
 even the new Gale Boomerang. The replay value is good even though everyone else and I hasn't passed 
 the game yet. Right now I have passed the game in 46 hours and 13 minutes. So the question is does 
 Twilight Princess surpasses Ocarina of Time? Well you need to play this game in order to find in 
 your opinions if it does. For me as of now, it is a tie because both of the games were cool for 
 their systems that it came out. Wasting $50 in this game is a good deal if you are a person who 
 loves action, adventure, a game with good story and past history, and a continuing series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboy2177
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the Wii (three days after launch thanks to my pre-order 3 months earlier) this 
 title was the one that I wanted to get day 1. However due to a cash flow situation I had to wait 
 another two weeks later to finally get my hands on this game and I couldn't be happier. Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess is simply a magnificent game that could be one of the best Zelda games 
 to ever come out. Gameplay- The gameplay at first was one of my biggest concerns. I had my doubts 
 about using the motion sensing technology to handle the tasks that I would normally just use a 
 button to do. However once I got use to the mechanics the game became a truly grand experience. 
 I couldn't get enough of swinging around the wii remote to swing my sword and destroy my enemies. 
 Combat is also very much improved over previous Zelda titles and that is impart do to the simplicity 
 of the motion controls. You can accomplish all sorts of moves that really add alot of depth to 
 the game by simple motions with the controller. Someone can easily play this game for hours straight 
 and really not notice that they're swinging their arms around. There are also lots of other motions 
 you can do using the remote like aim your bow and arrows and my personal favorite go fishing. Using 
 the pointer was a tad difficult since any little movement you do with your arm automatically throws 
 you off, but overall it was OK. I prefer using a control stick and the game does give you that 
 option. Playing as a wolf also makes the game pretty fun as well and adds something new to the 
 Zelda formula. the classic Zelda dungeons are also a lot better than previous Zeldas with some 
 awesome puzzles that truly have some interesting solutions. Overall the gameplay is fantastic and 
 the motion control makes the game that much funner.
  
  Graphics- Graphics in the game are pretty good with some nice looking character models and enviornments 
 that are truly massive and beautiful. The dungeons also look spectacular and play great as well. 
 However in a generation that has great looking games like Gears of War with photo realistic graphics 
 going back to a game like this can prove to be a bit difficult. However if you go into this game 
 with your expectations in check you should be able to truly appreciate the beauty of this game 
 and just the massive size of the world. Sound- The sound is classic Zelda meaning that it is truly 
 remarkable. You have the classic Zelda grunts and shouts along with the beautiful musical score 
 will bring back that nostalgic feeling you had when you first put Zelda in your NES for the first 
 time or for the younger crowd your N64. My only complaint with the sound is that the sounds that 
 come out of the wii remote sounds pretty cheesy and had a pretty bad quality muffled sound. However 
 that's a minor complaint compared to the musical score and classic Zelda vibe.
  
  Value- As it is with every Zelda game the game is flippin huge and will take you months to truly 
 discover and explore the entire world of this game. There is literally hours and hours of thing 
 to do here. The main quest alone will take even a devoted game player a month to complete (or at 
 least a few weeks) and that's if you just blow through the story without doing any of the several 
 side missions. Of course if you do that you are missing out on the entire Zelda experience. Not 
 only that but this game is $10 cheaper than most other next-gen games out there right now. Overall 
 this is a classic Zelda game that adds a lot of new things while keeping the central gameplay intact. 
 This could very well be the greatest Zelda game of all time and a great game to get at launch with 
 the Nintendo Wii (no duh) . Don't let the motion sensing thing freak you out, this game is better 
 for having it in there. This game is truly a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaedahewson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't misunderstand me, this is a Zelda game and as a result to me, a 9.2 isn't up to scratch.
 
  
  Zelda is quite possibly the most respected and loved franchise in gaming, and as such, should not 
 only live up to its predecessors but should make them look obsolete with the way they look, play 
 and sound. However they should also be a benchmark for the system as a whole and while the graphics 
 are impressive it is obvious that this game was made for the GCN then ported and modified for the 
 Wii. Even if the GCN version wasn't due for release it would still be a conclusion thats relatively 
 easily attained. The textures are muddy, sometimes there is pixellation and sometimes even slight 
 blockiness with the lighting. Don't get me wrong the graphics LOOK amazing but technically speaking 
 they are less than I would have expected for the first nintendo release on the next generation 
 of consoles and from the look of Mario Galaxy the weaknesses in the graphical quality of Twilight 
 Princess will become more and more noticable. I suppose its one of the downsides of using a projector 
 instead of a normal TV. However even for all those graphical glitches the game is extremely artistic, 
 not quite as stylized as games like Shadow of the Colossus, but certainly along those lines for 
 sheer beauty and it lets you forget the minor niggles and nitpicks in the graphics.
  
  The gameplay is astounding, the Wiimote has seemed slightly poor to respond at times and during 
 the tradional magic tennis fight that has occured in every battle against Ganondorf since the series 
 went 3D will no doubt be made innately harder as a result. But that will be a short time in the 
 at least 40 hours of gameplay to finish the main quest and the 30+ hours also required to finish 
 all of the sidequests (At the time of writing I've been playing almost 30 hours and with the help 
 of a guide for all the sidequests I have 30 Heart Pieces, 23 Bugs and 30 or so Poes, but am only 
 just after the first trip to the Gerudo Desert.) The puzzles are engaging but logical and occasionally 
 require some lateral thinking to get the job done - so far no puzzles have truly had me stumped 
 and I was pleasantly surprised at the simplicity of the dreaded water dungeon. Then again I am 
 only half way through the game so far and I know it won't be getting easier. The progression of 
 items and abilities works well within the story and the combat system has some new and innovative 
 upgrades.
  
  The sound is good but in all honesty is still using the same tracks from the N64 game, all MIDI 
 nothing real, which I must say disappointed me somewhat I had been hoping that the game would have 
 a full orchestral soundtrack as well as voices added in the FMVs. However as is the tradition, 
 each major character has some phrases that make no sense or are area specific that eventually start 
 to grind you down (at least its better than HEY!!!! repeated so many times you actually started 
 saying hello again)
  
  The Value for money in this game is unquestionable. You can easily eek 100+ hours of gameplay out 
 of a single quest and its long complex and involving enough to kill a week off work with nothing 
 to do. As usual the story is astounding and Midna makes a much more interesting and characterised 
 sidekick than Navi. Unfortunately the comparisons with OoT are what drag the score down. OoT changed 
 the genre. MM made Zelda all about the characters. Wind Waker shocked you with a new graphical 
 perspective and one of the most expressive Link's so far. This game turns you into a Wolf a mechanic 
 that seems underused so far once you become able to switch between Wolf and Human form at will. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Zelda 12. Well Wii finally have another Zelda game since Wind waker got us all either loving it 
 or hating it. Can Twlight Princess bring back the Zelda series as a power hose name. The answer 
 is Yes. This game was amazing and the graphics are by far the best for a Game cube title. Yes a 
 Game cube title! This game is nothing more then a complicated port of the GCN. All the things Nintendo 
 was suppose to do like add real music instead of midi. Or connect the Zelda series to make sense 
 again. However; they did give us the longest Zelda game evermade, but I don't know about the best. 
 In my mind that still goes to A Link to the past for the Snes. Anyway the Wii version does not 
 look any different then its counterpart on GC. Plus the controls are great for a while, but Zelda 
 is over a 70 hr a game, and the Wiimote batteries only last for 40 hrs or less. Without speaker 
 on and rumble you can get 55 or 60 hrs, but its not as fun. This Zelda game was not meant to be 
 played like this. Actually it wasn't designed for it really untill June or July of 06. When NIntendo 
 made it relase first for Wii, the GC at Christmas. A brilliant, marketing strategy, but still wish 
 that they released this game back when I got married in June of 2006, like they were suppose too. 
 The version's controls are great and aiming the bow is much easier and faster on Wii. However; 
 thats it. Everything else is all messed up. I see why Zelda Wii only got a 8.8 on GS. I give you 
 another example Hyrule on Wii is changed around to not even look like the map from OOt or ALTP. 
 Why did they do that? Simple the creator of Zelda said he wanted it simplified for people who had 
 never played a Zelda game, and that the GCN version (the real game) would continue in the hard 
 core Zelda fashion. Zelda Twlight Princess is the Best Zelda game evermade, but its not for the 
 Wii. I look foward to replaying this master peice on the gamecube, I give this game an 8.8 same 
 as GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehPickle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  To cut a long review short, LOZ: TP is every bit as good as any of it's predecessors and is spoilt 
 by the Wii specific controls that feel incredibly tacked on, almost to the point of idiocy. Controls 
 aside however, any adventure game fan is bound to get a lot of enjoyment out of this game.
  
  When you buy into any Zelda game, you're essentially getting a game that plays almost identically 
 to any of the previous Zelda games of yore: You find out what's troubling the land, explore a bunch 
 of dungeons to recieve special items (which have for the most parts remained largely the same since 
 the franchises inception) solve many puzzles that can have you stuck for hours at a time only to 
 realise the answer was painfully obvious all along, defeat some rather epic-sized boss characters 
 all too easily, save the world and everything within it and for the most parts have an absolute 
 ball in the process. For the most parts, it does all these things perfectly, like any other Zelda 
 game. The story remains interesting from start to finish, with a few twists along the way, the 
 characters are very expressive and for the most parts fit within the game world perfectly. You 
 may even find yourself chuckling from time to time. The world is vast with plenty of nooks and 
 crannies for you to explore, usually reaping extra benefits in the process such as extra health, 
 larger quivers for arrows or bags for bombs and so on.
  
  So why isn't it as good as the superior (though admittedly, not by much) Ocarina Of Time originally 
 released on the N64? For me, the game is *almost* a carbon copy of that game. Obviously it's a 
 different game but there are a striking amount of similarities between the 2 games that leaves 
 me feeling that Nintendo couldn't help but play it safe. A number of the creatures you'll fight 
 you'll feel as though you've seen them before, many of the sound effects and themes feel somewhat 
 recycled and overall lacks any real evolution. Zelda fanatics (like myself) of course will not 
 have a problem with this, afterall, if it ain't broke, don't fix it... right?
  
  Overall, the game looks fantastic stylistically, though it's certainly no Gears Of War. As I'm 
 sure many readers would be aware, it's very hard to judge a consoles launch titles graphically 
 off the bat so they can really only be judged by style rather than the amount of polygons being 
 pushed around the screen. Nonetheless, it looks great.
  
  The games audio is a very mixed bag, although the instantly recognisable tunes bring back fantastic 
 memories of waltzing around Hyrule field on the N64 or from games either further back, it sounds 
 too familiar, right down to the naff synthesized samples. If you're looking for a zelda that sounds 
 distinclty old school , you can't go far wrong. Those looking for a fully orchestrated score should 
 really look elsewhere. It's also worth noting that sound that emitted from the Wii remote itself 
 has the occasional tendancy to sound a little cheap. The sounds are too repetetive and too frequent 
 for my liking. I can give this the benefit of the doubt down to its sheer novelty value (it's a 
 launch title afterall, though my patience will eventually wane) and general old-schooliness.
  
  The game is really quite lengthy and should take most players around 40 to 50 hours to get 
 through, give or take a few hours for the odd infuriating puzzle. There's plenty to see and do, 
 mini-games and optional places to explore at your own leisure. Though there isn't a great deal 
 of replay value (if at all) .
  
  Now if this was a review of the Cube version of the game, it would've stopped somewhere around 
 around there and recieved a slightly better overall score. But since since the review is based 
 soley on the Wii, it would be worth pointing out some of the problems with the Wii specific controls 
 and how it hinders the experience overall.
  
  Basic movement is controlled via the traditional method of moving an analogue stick, which works 
 just as well as should be expected. It's the process of combat however, which is the problems lie. 
 Swinging your sword is done with the remote and rather than using a button it was decided that 
 the best method would be to flail your arm around like an idiot, feeling completely out of control 
 of what your character is doing. Eventually you'll come to realise that a simple shake will suffice 
 which, for me, totally detracts from the point of the motion sensing in the first place. It feels 
 totally tacked on and completely unpolished. Ranged controls however are handled very competently 
 and are about as intuitive as you could possibly want. A target is displayed on screen and doing 
 what you want to do is as easy pointing and pressing. A joy! Another bone of contention for me 
 is the motion sensor within the Nunchuk. A quick shake will deliver a spinning sword attack, whereas 
 a quick jerk forwards (like a punch) excecutes a shield bash attack. The nunchuk does occasionally 
 have problems distinguishing exactly what variety of attack you'd like to perform leaving you wondering 
 just what the hell young Link is doing.
  
  To be blunt, I'd just much much rather have a pad for a game like this. But with that slight discrepancy 
 aside, I'd recommend this game to just about anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  The Zelda series is one of the most reliable series in games to count on always being a good experience. 
 While this was another good game to add to the series, it wasn't one of the best.
  
  I waited for a very long time to play Twilight Princess (as everyone did) and throughout this time, 
 especially around E3, I heard talk from Nintendo of how this was going to be the greatest Zelda 
 game ever made; it was going to top Ocarina. Well, this got me pretty excited to say the least. 
 By the time the Wii was released I could think nothing but how grand and amazingly awesome Zelda: 
 TP was going to be. Well, it wasn't....
  
  TP looks amazing from a graphical stand point, there's no denying it. It's the most beautiful Hyrule 
 has ever looked. This is great and all, but it will only carry the game so far. The Wii remote 
 controls the game perfectly. It doesn't feel sloppy or anything, it seems to work just as it should. 
 The controller makes a lot of things in the game (such as any item requiring first person view) 
 much easier and intuitive to learn. The speaker in the control was a nice touch as well for things 
 like shooting the bow. My problems with the game come from the actual gameplay. Through the first 
 three dungeons of the game all I wanted to do was stop because it was no good at all. I don't want 
 to spoil anything in perticular, but throughout this beginning part of the game I wanted to just 
 score it at about a 6 for trying. Luckily after that it picked up. This is where I give the game 
 most of its credit, after those three dungeons the fun level increased exponentially. In fact, 
 it kept me sitting for 16 hours straight cause I couldn't stop playing. What went wrong at the 
 beginning there? The boss fights were the biggest let down of the game. They were short and simple. 
 Zelda has been a game in the past with multiple steps to taking down each boss, a lot of which 
 are not completely obvious to figure out. But there's no thinking when it comes to the bosses of 
 this game. What item did I get in the current dungeon and where can I apply it is all you need 
 to think about. Each boss will basically require only the item from the dungeon, and after each 
 dungeon that item basically becomes obsolete (except for maybe in heart piece searching) .
  
  My final big complaint is how uninspired the game is. The names of many villages and dungeons 
 isn't even changed from Ocarina. It seems to me they wanted to make a remake of Ocarina, but tried 
 to hide it... poorly. The idea of the wolf is kind of cool to, but its underused and in comparison 
 to a game like Okami it just plays like crap. I know I complained a lot, and a lot of hardcore 
 Zelda people would disagree with me or whatever, but thats what I think of the game. Uninspired, 
 way too easy, but pretty. The main amount of my points for the game come from the fact that it 
 kept me going for 16 hours straight and I couldn't put it down for whatever reason it may have 
 been. I guess you should play this game cause its a part of the Zelda series, but I'd wait till 
 it drops in price. In the meantime just keep working on Ocarina and/or Wind Waker, whatever you 
 prefer. We'll keep our fingers crossed that Zelda DS isn't such a big letdown as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeflyboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The dungeons are beautiful, well designed and full of fun puzzles. I love the diversity in new 
 weapons you aquire. The bosses are fun, not entirely tough, but tough enough to make you feel like 
 you did something to beat them. The wolf form is a great addition and adds a fun level to the game.
 
  Me and my wife love it and switch off playing and watching, it's just as fun to watch and help 
 solve the puzzles and such. We haven't played zelda since the 2nd one in the series but this one 
 really has come a LONG way and was worth the price we payed for it and will even inspire us to 
 buy the game before it :) and definaly games after it. On the whole a very good game. Oh almost 
 forgot the horse riding, it's a great addition, and a blast to fight while on horse back swinging 
 a sword then shootnig a bow. The escort sequence was a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Churie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Ocarina of Time came out, the standard for all Zelda games has been raised significantly. 
 Twilight Princess makes a valiant effort to raise the standards past those of Ocarina and succeeds 
 in many, many ways. The game doesn't just spit you out into Hyrule and expect you to win. The first 
 6 or 7 hours is all cleverly disguised as a tutorial. The first dungeon, venture into Hyrule Field 
 and wolf play is all plot-based gameplay, but also TUTORIAL. The tutorial doesn't stop until before 
 the second dungeon. This may sound unappealing, but trust me, you will NEVER know that there were 
 tutorials in the game at all. Th game really picks up after the 3rd temple. The story moves faster, 
 Link gets stronger, and you have enough equipment to get to many places in Hyrule. Speaking of 
 which, Hyrule is HUGE, and it is the same Hyrule as in Ocarina of Time, although it is mirrored 
 (to make Link right handed) . It never gets tedious to go across Hyrule, because you have Epona 
 right from the get-go. Epona is also much faster than she was in Ocarina of Time. Later on, you 
 can teleport around Hyrule too, so yeah. You'll also never get bored. Hyrule has treasure chests 
 scattered everywhere, and finding them is just the matter of using the right tools. Also, there 
 is an amazing amount of incentive to do sidequests. There are things like bug collecting (yields 
 bigger wallets) and poe hunting ( after finding all 60, the man who you run the quest for will 
 give you 200 rupees whenever you ask) Now comes the topic that all of you are scared of: controls. 
 Yes, you swing the Wiimote, but it's not as bad as you think. Right now, pick up a remote, it dosen't 
 matter what remote, and wiggle it: that's all you do. Sword control is NOT 1:1. Now, pick up the 
 mouse that's in your hand while swinging our remote, and occasionally stop wiggling the remote 
 and shake the nunchuk. That's how Twilight princess fells. You don't need your arm outstretched 
 to aim; all you do is tilt the remote upwards toward the screen (or your sensor bar, if it's badly 
 placed) , aim, and shoot: simple. The dungeons are great, and never puts forth ANYTHING that's 
 impossible to do. Granted, there are block puzzles that made me want to pull my air out, but all 
 I had to do was plan ahead. The music is also amazing. The new desert theme is awesome, and so 
 many of the Ocarina songs are reused and revamped (The Temple of time music has more added to it, 
 and the lost woods theme has a better, more mysterious harmony) The sound starts off cheery and 
 gets progressively darker. There is also a seamless change of music when an enemy is nearby, especially 
 in the Twilight Relam (wolf link is great by the way) . I don't personally care f the music is MIDI, 
 as long as it's god, I'm fine. Flaws: The bosses are WAYYYYY too easy. I mean, not as easy as Wind 
 Waker, but there is no boss as hard as Puppet Ganon in snake form. Rarely are the puzzles harder 
 than some of the old ones. There is also to much money. The most your biggest wallet can hold is 
 1000, so in dungeons, you'll be finding treasure chests with money, but Link will put the money 
 back (granted THAT is good) but still, I don't want to go back through dungeons to find twenty 
 rupees. Over all the game is just easy, there is an escort mission (don't worry) that goes from 
 castle town to Kakariko, and it's WAY too easy even with all the enemies. The easiness is balanced 
 out with puzzles and combat though, so no worries. There is also a lack of playing music at will. 
 The only thing howling does is get new moves. There are also special grass whistles, but they do 
 the same things over and over again. Twilight Princess surpasses Ocarina in almost every category 
 except gameplay. However, the positive aspects far outweigh the negative ones, and make the Wii 
 worth buying just for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Drastic changes have came upon the Legend of Zelda title from it's modest beginnings back on the 
 NES. Many of those changes have happened in Nintendo's latest installment: Twilight Princess. An 
 absolutely huge land to explore, luscious looking landscapes, an impressive array of enemies, fighting 
 on horseback, and some unusually complicated character personalities. By far the best improvement 
 in my opinion is the fighting style. Link's vast new array of moves combined with his old abilities 
 and maneuvers it actually makes you want to go fight those baddies over in the corner that have't 
 seen you yet. The combat in this game is getting pretty close to that of pure fighting games which 
 is something I like It definitely adds a lot to all aspects of the game.
  
  Besides being more technically sound, Twilight Princess is also much more interesting as far as 
 the plot goes. Characters in the game get fairly in-depth personalities. The children in the village 
 and Link's long time friend are some of the better examples but, by far the best example is Midna. 
 She is actually a very complex and mysterious with many many hidden motives and, for once, actually 
 isn't annoying! Yes that's a first since Zelda became 3d but the guide of the game or once isn't 
 extremely annoying.
  
  The game is pretty lengthy. It is by far the largest Zelda to date. The maps is outrageously large 
 compared to previous games and you will be glad that you have both the horse and later on an ability 
 to teleport. While the bosses borderline from easy to pathetic in most situations the Dungeons 
 themselves are still very interesting and the bosses are still fun even if they aren't very challenging. 
 Plus, I believe this was the developer's purpose to make it easy for people to get used to the 
 entirely new control scheme. The game play can get a bit repetitive sometimes but it is still varied 
 enough to keep interest.
  
  The adaptation to the Wii was mediocre. It worked fairly well but as you play you realize what 
 possibilities the controls of the game could have had with just some more time. The sword play 
 using motion control is pretty shallow. You pretty much shake the wii mote to do a normal attack 
 and the Nunchuck to do the stab. All the other attacks are either add-ons to those motions or don't 
 even use the the motion control at all.
  
  A lot of people have been griping about the graphics but for one, this game was originally designed 
 for the Game Cube and also, in my opinion, they are pretty good. The graphics don't push the processor 
 to it's max but they are still very well done and are very appealing to the eye.
  
  Really when it comes down to it the only issues I had with the game are the repetitiveness and 
 the wasted possibilities in the motion control.
  
  In my opinion the best launch title for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgostonF
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, it goes without saying that this is one of the most anticipated games of the year.. Here 
 goes.
  
  First let me say I'll divide the sections into subsections.
  
  Gameplay: (A) . General: The combat in the game (as expected) is hack and slash esque for the most 
 part. Along the course of the game you will unlock new weapons and tools. Some old ones like the 
 slingshot, bow &amp; arrows, bombs, ect. Plus some new ones, like the ball and chain, spinner ect. 
 The spinner is a gear you can ride over quicksand and in special tracks in the wall. This is a 
 very fun tool, but the game doesn't use it nearly enough as most people expect it to. There's lots 
 of sidequests and stuff in the game, lots (and the most important ones) involve around collecting 
 things, like golden bugs, souls from ghosts called poe's, and ect. They are certainly rewarding 
 enough. (B) . Dungeons: The dungeons are so-so. Most are kind of fun, some are very frustrating 
 though, and maybe a little too long for their own good. There's enough variety in them, and the 
 environments are changing with distinct different themes. The puzzles, while frustrating at times 
 are very fun and unique. They're good overall.
  
  (C) . Bosses: The bosses are , I'm sorry to say horrible. They are WAY TOO EASY. I mean like WAY. 
 Sometimes the difficulty just comes from figuring out how the actually hurt the boss, which can 
 lead to frustration. I've never died from a boss, ever, and I'm not even close to a Zelda Veteran. 
 The worst part is, they're very anticlimatic. They don't have any memorable intros, even the last 
 boss.. It's way too easy and just.. Bleh boring. Some of the bosses are more Circle around them 
 with your shield constantly up looking for a small opening battles. They are sometimes fun and 
 add some variety though.. But not enough.
  
  (D) . Twilight Realm: Now, this is a pretty bad part to the gameplay. At 3 parts in the game, you 
 have to go in and are stuck in the Twilight Realm. You have to go throught the tedious task of 
 collecting little evil electric bugs, and you cannot leave, change human, communicate with anybody 
 other than animals or do a number of things. You're sort of trapped, and these stages aren't just 
 some 5 minute minigames. They drag on for what seems like ages and they just seem uneseccary. They're 
 a pain to play through.
  
  Graphics: Well there's not much to say. The graphics aren't amazing, but they're pretty enough. 
 The textures are okay. The effects like explosions are pretty nice, the character models are good, 
 and the monsters look and animate really nice.
  
  Sound: Probably the worst part of the game. The same music is often repeated in different sounding 
 themes. It gets annoying, the battle music also gets very repetitive aswell as the boss battle 
 music. The music itself isn't bad, but your ears will grow tired of it after a while. The best 
 part of the soundtrack is probably Saria's Song, but it's played twice in the whole game. The Wiimote 
 sound effects are nicely implemented though. Especially Midna's giggle.
  
  Value: Very good value. Pretty long lasting, I finished most sidequests and at the last boss battle, 
 I was at about 50 hours. There's enough to keep you going for a good while, and if you're a real 
 hardcore Zelda fan, you'll be occupied for a long while. The dungeons are good sizes too.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda : Twilight Princess is still a great game an should defenitely 
 not be missed, but it didn't quite live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msteryx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was one of the launch titles for the Nintendo Wii and it 
 stands on top for the best that the Wii has to offer!! With new inovative gameplay and ways to 
 kill all the foes in your path, this game can get highly addictive and if you play it 15 hours 
 straight you still won't finish the game!! This game is the longest Zelda ever, it can take you 
 up to 70 hours if you want to get everything in the game which can and will get hard! It's still 
 the same method with the get the item in the dungeon and use it to take the boss still but this 
 game resolves more around puzzles then combat.
  
  As with most Zelda game your a boy named Link that comes from a small village in the outskirts 
 of the Golden Land of Hyrule and are destined to save it from a great evil which in this game is 
 the Twilight and the king of the twilight in this game. Earily in the game you get pulled into 
 the twilight and are transformed into a legendary wolf with blue eyes and are imprisoned in a castle. 
 You then meet a twilight girl named Minda who you will be with for the game and you are asked to 
 break out of the castle and meet someone. This person just so happens to be Princess Zelda herself 
 and she tells you the story of thw twilight and your asked to find all the four light spirts and 
 free them from the twilight. Midna also asks you to find Fused Shadow.
  
  The game starts off with you in your village ( Like most Zelda games) and you do simple tasks that 
 can take some thinking to perform. Once you get through that you with the combat part of the game 
 but your only fighting weak enemys which are great to fight in the beginning! You quickly get to 
 use your projectiles to which will make it easier for later on in the game.
  
  The characters in this game are great and can be funny but confusing at the same time! Take the 
 mail man for example! He makes really weird noises and if you walk buy him when your a wolf then 
 he knows its you! There is also a cool skeleton that teaches you cool moves and he also resembles 
 a hero of old!
  
  The controls are superb when it comes to fighting off the multiple different enemys you will have 
 to face in Twilight Princess. The sword combat has been simply put into a swing of the Wii-Mote 
 or a sake with Nunchuck. THe same goes for horse combat as well. Shooting arrows and other projectiles 
 are a breaze! You just simply point and click with the mote! But its not that simple! No its takes 
 practice because most of the time you might have to be moving when your trying to hit something! 
 It doesn't matter if your horse or your feet aiming will be a challenge at first but becomes easy 
 and fun!!
  
  Sadly when your swinging the sword and you hear the sound coming from the speaker in the Wii-Mote 
 it sounds horrible! ( just the sword) It sounds incredibly weird and you will not like at all! 
 It doesn't even sound like swinging anything! It's just off the head weird sound! But it doesn't 
 really effect it all that much if your in combat and are focused in.
  
  Most of the music in this game is reused OoT music but it still sounds great and really fits into 
 a lot of places that could have no better music! But a nice bit of it is new and great and you 
 will be happy to know the music when you solve a puzzle is in this game you will feel happy and 
 warm!
  
  The amount of new enemys is this game is great and all the bosses are perfect and fun to beat! 
 Sadly the bosses are way to easy to beat but can get hard in puzzle form. They only take a few 
 hits but the last boss and take time. Some old enemys have also made it into the game such as Stalfos 
 Knights and Chu-Chus!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The process of changing from button mashing to moving the Wiimote will take a bit to 
 get used to, but when you do.... it will probably be one of the best gaming experiences you've 
 had. Once you get used to pointing to shoot your bow and other items, you'll be firing the arrows 
 off thousands of times faster than you EVER would with an analog stick. Swinging the Wiimote to 
 use your sword is simply outstanding, and it holds together very well. The battles in Twilight 
 Princess are by far better than any you would've ever experienced in a Zelda game before. Forget 
 Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker (when it comes to battles) , this game has it beat by miles. The 
 final battle will leave you aching, but you'll never notice it because of the adrenaline rush and 
 the satisfaction of such an amazing fight. Many other battles in the game are terrific as well, 
 and sometimes you'll probably find yourself toying with your opponent so you can enjoy every second 
 of it. The puzzles are terrific, but I thought they were much too easy, but it might be because 
 I'm a veteran of Zelda games. The boss fights are great, but much too easy because you can heal 
 yourself in the pots around the room anytime you get hurt. The horse-back fighting system is one 
 of the best parts of the game as well. Trampling any Moblins that get in your way never gets old, 
 and neither does gashing any Moblins that get too close on boars. Once you get used to it, you 
 should be able to pick off 5-10 Moblins within about 5 seconds with your bow (on Epona or on your 
 feet) , and WOW, it is FUN. The only problem with the gameplay is the shield-thrust. Sometimes you 
 can't get it too work, but you'll get used to it eventually and be just fine.
  
  Graphics- Even though it has GC graphics, it is still amazing. The art style is beautiful and all 
 the people of Hyrule seem to have their own personality. Just the way everything moves along in 
 this game will make you think this game was built ground-up for the Wii. The huge mountains, waterfalls, 
 rivers, lakes, buildings, castles, hills, forests, and any other scenery you can think of is just 
 breath-taking. The lighting in the background with the sun setting or rising will make you stare 
 with your mouth open. Also, this game is just LOADED with content. The land in this game is far 
 greater than anything you would've imagined, and it's amazing. However it is a GC game and would've 
 looked much better if made from the ground up for the Wii.
  
  Story- I'm not going to say much in this category because i don't want to ruin anything. Anyway, 
 the game starts off nice and slow as you get used to Link's daily life. It quickly picks up and 
 you'll find it a very dark-themed, but moving tale. After many twists and touching moments, you'll 
 see what is arguably the best ending in any Zelda game.
  
  Sound/Music- The sound effects are good, but the clashes of steel seem too...... dull? It just 
 seems like it could sound a whole lot more realistic. Other than that, they aren't bad. I don't 
 really care either way too much, but I really think voice-acting is needed. It would make you seem 
 more in the game . The music is grand. Every area has its own, but it always matches it perfectly. 
 It should be more orchestral for the type of game this is, but it sounds great anyway. The Twilight 
 Realm music will sound horrid to you at first, but it matches it very well, and you usually don't 
 stay there too long. Also, it could have more Zelda theme music, but in some ways, I'm glad it 
 doesn't.
  
  Difficulty- This game will take a little time to get used to, but when you do, you'll be very glad 
 you got the Wii version of this game. The puzzles take time to think about, but i saw them as being 
 way too easy, but that's just my opinion. The boss fights were way too easy no matter how you look 
 at it. Being able to completely heal yourself in the room any time you get hurt without a fairy 
 in a bottle makes the boss fights less intense and you don't even have to worry much. It does keep 
 the frustrated feeling out of you though. The only real hard things is trying to find golden bugs 
 and heart pieces spread across the vast landscape.
  
  Replay Value- This game's great story and gameplay will have you coming back for more. After beating 
 it once, I think I'm gonna tackle it again 2 or 3 more times in the future, even though it's a 
 very long game (about 40 hours if you do a decent amount of the side quests, maybe up to 60-70 
 hours if you do them all) .
  
  Overall- This is easily the best game the Wii has to offer right now, and an ABSOLUTE must-buy 
 if you're a Zelda fan... just kidding. It's an absolute must-have no matter who you are. Is it 
 better than Ocarina of Time? You're hearing it from me..... it's not. It's far superior in every 
 aspect except for the story, and I don't think it can match the tragedy that took place in OoT. 
 While I can play OoT 20-30 times through, I will only beat TP about 3 or 4 times. So, IMO, it's 
 the second-best Zelda and an instant masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbriell
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess is a gargantuan game. Maybe the only Zelda game I poured more hours into 
 than Twilight was the Original Legend of Zelda, only because it was so tough to know where to go 
 next to advance the quest. Knowing where to go next in Zelda TP is rarely a problem.
  
  Zelda is a must own for fans of the series and fans of adventure games or even RPGs in general. 
 You need to be able to commit some serious time to get the most out of this game. Overtime workers, 
 career types, people that like the outdoors, and family folk needn't apply. Zelda is an epic adventure 
 whose story immerses players faithfully in a relatively ritualized fashion: figure out where to 
 go next, spend some effort getting there (talking to people, helping them, traveling, and backtracking) , 
 duke it out in a two to four hour dungeon, emerge victorious and press on to get closer to goals 
 that require multiple steps. The gameplay serves up ample doses of nostalgia with both subtle and 
 overt references to past games in the long running series. Some familiarity with these past games 
 will heighten the experience. Think music, weapons, towns, people, races, terrain, and minigames. 
 The game's visuals won't blow anyone away, but they will excite those that have clamoured for years 
 for a return to a more realistic looking Zelda game on a console. For its part Zelda TP's art style 
 is solid enough to get a player into the game and keep him or her there. The games sounds, as other 
 review outfits have suggested, would benefit from a full ochestral score. Reading text is fine, 
 we're used to it. However I believe I am in the majority when I say that some solid voice acting 
 is long overdue. There are really only a few sticking points in this game. Some of dungeons closer 
 to end of the game incite a little regret. Hats off to Nintendo for varying the dungeon experiences, 
 but after you begin to lose count of how many you've slugged your way through, you begin to wish 
 for even more variety. Also, the boss battles although epic in size and scope, and never short 
 on fun, do lack challenge. In a word they are tame. It's a strange feeling to know you will win 
 so easily yet also be excited to figure out how to win a battle against such a large foe. Boss 
 battles are fun, not challenging in Zelda Twilight Princess. My heart always pumped when I reached 
 a boss in 8 and 16 bit Nintendo Zeldas. In Zelda TP your heart will not race. The boss battles 
 are nearly a forgone conclusion -- you will win -- usually without dying. What is true about boss battle 
 difficulty holds up for other baddies in the game as well. The minions of TP are no match for our 
 Hero.
  
  As far as control goes the Wiimote is intuitive and fun to use. The control scheme requires only 
 small movements of the remotes and will rarely if ever tax your arms. Zelda Twilight Princess is 
 a fully realized game that would have been more impressive two years ago when it was originally 
 promised. But thanks to the love the designers put into this game and a well implemented Wiimote 
 tack-on the game not only survives into Nintendo's new generation, it promises the finest adventure 
 experience of the system launch and likely will continue to well into 2007. In closing, and as 
 an aside, what's up with the similarities between Okami and Zelda TP? It's almost as if the folks 
 over at Clover caught wind of Zelda TP's concept and raced to beat them to the punch with their 
 own massive adventure game starring a wolf and awakened gods. Granted I played the games very close 
 together, but a few times I had trouble separating the story arcs and game specifics in my head. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over. Zelda fans have been waiting for years for this new Zelda and it's finally 
 here. Nintendo has boasted many aspects of this game including the immense size, improved story, 
 and challenging puzzles. They also announced that it would be available for the Wii using its new 
 controller, which raised a lot of concerns over whether not it work (It did- see my control section) . 
 Many fans wanted a return to the Ocarina of Time style of graphics and challenge, and Nintendo 
 delivered perfectly. Well, almost perfectly.
  
  CONTROLS- 10/10
  One of the biggest worries about Twilight Princess and the Wii in general is whether or not its 
 control system was accurate and responsive enough to make playable games and whether or not developers 
 will use the motion-sensing abilities to its full potential. In twilight princess, they pulled 
 it off flawlessly. The control system is confusing at first (I am still very used to pressing C-up 
 to get a first-person perspective, but the corresponding button on the Wii controller has a different 
 function) . One One thing that may put people off is that the player's control over the sword is 
 not exact; If the player swing the controller to the left, Link may swing his sword to the right 
 or will do a vertical slash depending on the circumstances. Personally, I do not see this as a 
 problem. In a way, this may make it better. It allows for those who really want to get into the 
 game to stand up and swing the controller like a real sword, while those who don't want to go that 
 far can simply move the controller with their wrist. Another very cool feature is this game's use 
 of the Wii remote to target arrows and the hookshot and similar items. Instead of using the joystick 
 to aim, which can be very difficult if the target is moving, the player simply points the remote 
 at the screen and a target appears which follows the movement of the controller. I recommend the 
 Wii version to everybody because of the controller alone.
  
  GRAPHICS- 10/10
  I really don't place too much importance in graphics, but I know some do. To sum it up, this game 
 is simply beautiful. When compared to some of the most graphics-intensive games of the ps3 it may 
 not look as good, but I have absolutely no complaints here.
  
  STORY- 9/10
  I don't want to say too much here for fear of ruining the story, but the game's story is executed 
 very well. Between each dungeon (Of which there are several) is at some points several hours of 
 story-driven action, all of it fun. I took a point off because at one time and one time only, it 
 feels like you're just going from dungeon to dungeon with little in between, but the game rectifies 
 this quickly.
  
  MUSIC- 7/10
  Music is the weakest point in the game. Don't take that wrong, because there is some very good 
 background music for some areas (Zelda fans will immediately recognize the Faron Woods music, the 
 Hyrule field overworld music fits the mood of the area perfectly, as does the Twilight overworld 
 music, and the lost woods music is wonderful) . Overall, the music is just weak.
  
  GAMEPLAY- 10/10
  After Wind Waker, many fans wanted more challenging dungeons and puzzles, and 
 again, Nintendo delivered perfectly. Each of the several dungeons has its own unique theme and 
 all deliver challenging puzzles and problems for the player to solve.
  
  MISCELLANEOUS
  The game starts out VERY strong- the first three dungeons and the quests surrounding them will 
 leave you tempted to simply skip work, skip school, and just play nonstop. Unfortunately, the game 
 overall starts to weaken after that. As I mentioned above, for a short while, it feels like you're 
 just moving from one dungeon to the next, but it doesn't last long.
  
  SUMMARY
  I recommend the Wii version of Twilight Princess to everybody. Despite its flaws (which are few 
 and far in between) it is easily the best of the Zelda series, and next time around, Nintendo will 
 be hard-pressed to produce a game that has such a large world, such a depth of story, and to best 
 all the other great qualities this game has. The controller, which many were worried about, works 
 perfectly. The game looks beautiful, but it's lacking a little bit in the music department. The 
 story and difficulty are both amazing, and I am already looking forward to how Nintendo plans to 
 beat this game, which can only be called a masterpiece.
  
  Twilight Princess, in my opinion, is easily the best game in the Zelda series, and has earned a 
 spot in my list of greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laz3r15
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  To begin, you jump into the game and get used to the controls almost instantly. There is very little 
 storyline given away at the beginning and the more you play, the bigger pieces of storyline you 
 figure out. The graphics in comparison to Ocarina of Time, well, it's just impossible to say anything 
 other than sexy! The water looks extremely nice, the environment throughout the game gets better 
 and better looking, and lots of cool effects were added to the game that weren't possible in Ocarina 
 of Time.
  
  The sound in the game and in your controller made me actually feel like I was shooting a bow 'n 
 arrow or hookshotting onto something. The only reason I gave it a 9/10 in terms of sound was because 
 Midna's laugh can sometimes become very frustrating due to the frequency in jumping involved in 
 some cases throughout the game. Other than that, it was very well made.
  
  It took me 43 hours to beat the game, missing many side quests along the way, which probably would've 
 got me wll over 50-60 hours.
  
  The dungeons were simply amazing. I spent over 4-5 hours on some dungeons just because there were 
 some puzzling situations which wanted to cause me to throw my wiimote at the wall, but I calmed 
 myself down a bit before I could do that! For $59.99 + tax, I think this game is WELL worth it 
 and was very pleased with what came out of this game. Was overall another classic Zelda made by 
 Nintendo in my honest opinion. (Still trying to understand how it got an 8.8 by you Gamespot :P) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaRyan984
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever since spaceworld 2000 I have been looknig forward to a title like this! I was not let down! 
 I've waited six years for a realistic and mature Legend of Zelda experience and it is finally here.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are highly immersive and put you directly into the Zelda universe. I feel sorry for 
 anyone who has to experience this on gamecube. Sword slicing with the Wii-mote is an experience 
 i look forward to in future titles and this one surpassed my very expectations!
  
  Graphics:
  Now, I'm used to playing games like Oblivion on my 360 so I was a little let down 
 with the graphics of this next gen game. But, the graphics are still beautiful. I only found myself 
 dissatisfied with the graphics one during a cutscene where they did a close up of someones face... Meh... whatever... still 
 best graphics I've seen in any Zelda game!
  
  Sound:
  I am a little disappointed that they didnt bring back the old-school overworld theme, but a bunch 
 of other old favorites sneak their way into the game and make for a pleasurable experience and 
 really surprised me. You'll have to play to see what i'm talking about!
  
  All in all I'de say this is totally worth buying! The only thing i would really like changed would 
 be to have a more open world with less areas.... but hey, can't always have what you want! So, go 
 get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTails
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Very good. If it wasn't for gamecube at the start (Nintendo put it also on WII) I would say that 
 the graphics suck. The game play is good and a bit funny using the stick. (You can also hit monsters 
 by swinging the stick like you play your d...; P) The storyline is very well made and interesting 
 but sometimes a bit boring, because you do the same thing over and over that goes also for the 
 dungeons. In the past Zelda games you did two dungeons in the time you do one in twilight princess. 
 I haven't finished it yet, but Im close at finishing it. Its worth spending your time playing. 
 My total score without the score up its 9.
  I hope you'll enjoy it and my review was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jer0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  If you cant find any other reason to buy a wii, then this is the main one. Out of all the things 
 that turned me onto the wii, Zelda: Twilight Princess excited me more than any game has in a very, 
 very long time.
  
  The gameplay entices you, the world submerses you, and the wii has you. With one game. A launch 
 title no less.
  
  I have honestly only played this game for about 20 hours, and everything about it is so much fun. 
 The control scheme is amazing, and the story unfolds before your eyes and you remember the first 
 zelda and why it was so great.
  
  Now you think ahead to this zelda and as the story unfolds, im amazed at each turn of events.
 
  
  A must buy game of the year candidate with a no holds bared approach to exciting new emersive gameplay 
 that will addict you like the worst drug you can think of. Dont pass this one up, or youll be missing 
 a critical venue in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarule2002zw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  hey l have never played a zelda game before until l bought my wii and twilight princess and that 
 was the best choice l made about the game l got. this game is amazing its so easy to control and 
 highly addictive. l was playing it the other night and looked at the time l noticed that l had 
 been playing for 4 hours. this game's graphics really do show that the wii is a great console. 
 the sound, graphics and gameplay are just fantastic. this is the type of game that u jkno u will 
 be playing for months and months and even then it wont get boring. there s just so much to do its 
 unbelievable. GET THIS GAME FOR UR Wii IF U WANT TO TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE OF IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRoising
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  When i first tried Twilight Princess, I was shocked!! This game is so nice shaped up.. Link looks 
 great, all the new items looks great, the graphics is awsome, everything is totaly perfect!!
  
  Gameplay: Perfect!!
  Graphics: Very nice..
  Sound: Good old Zelda stile!!
  Tilt: Totaly 
 perfect!!
  
  The story line is also one of the best in all Zelda games.. I think this game beat Ocarina of time. 
 This is a MUST for all Wii owners and a very good starting game.. I recomand this game SO much!! 
 I have played in about 15 hours in four days and im gonna play much more.. ALL WII OWNERS, BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  As a fan of LOZ series I wanted this game the first day! The music and sounds were incredible and 
 the WII remote made the game more fun. The controlls were really good and easy. And the graphics 
 were superior. This game had many items and a large map. But the story, I didnt like... Its kinda 
 goofy. Im not gonna spoil anything but the story flip flops. And the wolf mode is very boring. 
 I remember playing, saying to myself Can't wait to Link again! . The game however is really short, 
 The first day I got it I played it and beat it. And the only major thing I didnt like was after 
 you beat it, thats it! I know most LOZ games dont have anything afterwards but this one should 
 of had it! I just cant wait to see the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cazman2015
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  The first thing to say is that this game really does look, feel, and sound like Ocarina did. If 
 you hated that (how could you?!) then this game isn't likely to turn you into an instant Nintendo-fanboy. 
 If, as I would suggest is likely, you do love the Zelda series (come on, nobody just 'likes' Zelda, 
 do they?) then there is absolutely zero chance of you not loving this game. Quite simply, you need 
 to own it.
  
  (Some very, very minor spoilers follow)
  
  I'll get straight to the aspect of the game which could have made or broken it - the controls. 
 Rest assured young Link wannabes, the controls work nearly to perfection. I say nearly, because 
 there are a few minor details which have been omitted, but for the most part the controls are nothing 
 short of wonderful and you will soon find it hard to get back into those big, bulky stick thingies. 
 The sword isn't one-to-one, i. e. Link doesn't follow exactly what you do with the Wiimote, but 
 then this is far from necessary - the mapping works great as it is. If you thrust the Wiimote forward 
 in a stabbing motion, Link stabs, if you slash the air with the Wiimote, Link slashes. Simple. 
 Any worries about developing one Popeye-esque arm can also be forgotten about, if you want, you 
 can throw huge swings, but small flicks of the wrist suffice, all with no loss of control. The 
 pointer also works excellently with the various items you acquire (eg the boomerang and Hero bow) 
 and it becomes infinitely easier to pick off distant enemies or targets than in Ocarina, which 
 hardly had a bad system itself.
  
  Another bone of contention for the Wii has been the graphics output. Twilight Princess has a similar 
 look about to it Ocarina, although obviously updated. Some of the textures still lack any great 
 detail, but generally these go unnoticed as they belong to naturally boring objects - walls, and 
 whatnot. However, the new characters, towns and cities and monsters have all clearly had a lot 
 of time and effort put into them, they look fantastic. Yes, a 360 or PS3 could turn them into gigillion 
 polygon models but artistically I have seen nothing on either console thus far that matches the 
 aesthetic value of them on the Wii. In particular, Lake Hylia and the Zora's Domain provide spectacular 
 views that you drag you in - you won't even realise that you've been standing still for 5 minutes 
 solid, just observing the view. A case of making the most of what you have, if you will, especially 
 for a first-wave title.
  
  With reference again to Ocarina, the layout of the game fairly similar in that you will often find 
 yourself battling through dungeons in an effort to find a certain treasure, which is then used 
 in some way to complete the dungeon, culminating in a somewhat epic boss fight. Some may see this 
 as boring and repetitive, but the dungeons in Twilight Princess feel familiar, yet completely new. 
 This gives experience players the confidence to go forward without too much caution and time wasting, 
 whilst easing new Zelda players in without too much difficulty. Some of the new ideas for navigating 
 around the dungeons are nothing short of genius, and put their Ocarina counterparts to shame. In 
 short, you won't be getting bored of them anytime soon. The boss fights are even more grand than 
 in Ocarina, with the majority of the beasts simply seeming like overwhleming tasks, purely because 
 of their daunting size. As usual though, they have weak spots, and the key to defeating them is 
 finding this spot and ruthlessly exposing it. After completing 3 of said dungeons, I have personally 
 found the boss fights to be a little on the easy side, but a lot of satisfaction is gained from 
 figuring out exactly how to expose the bosses' weak spots and subsequently destroying them. Also, 
 interestingly, the dungeons now seem to all have a sub-boss as well as a main boss. As for the 
 common monsters, they too are generally not too much hassle to deal with, although a nice new touch 
 is that ocassionally you will yourself up against many enemies as once, requiring you to be swift 
 in thinking, evading and attacking quickly and effectively. These sections are infrequent enough 
 to be able to catch you off guard whilst still being fantastic fun.
  
  The one major difference in the layout of the game, as I'm sure everyone knows, is the Wolf sections. 
 Equivalent in some ways to the difference between young and old Link in Ocarina, playing as Wolf-Link 
 and Link in human form are both great fun and you are never constrained in one form for too long. 
 Naturally it also throws up some intriguing puzzles and fights, leading to a very fresh challenge. 
 The Wolf sections certainly don't feel half-baked, you'll have to use all of Link's new abilities 
 (digging, sniffing, long jumps etc) just to progress in the game. The dark feel the pervades the 
 the first few Wolf sections of the game is a new step for a Zelda game, and works great. Nintendo 
 clearly wanted Twilight Princess to feel like an dark, epic adventure, and have succeded with ease.
 
  
  Without giving too much away, you will revisit some areas you will be familiar with from previous 
 Zeldas. Generally the music and sound effects that accompany these sections are based around themes 
 from previous game, which is fantastic... usually. Some themes have been reworked to the point that 
 they bring back great memories whilst still sounding fresh and new, but ocassionally you find yourself 
 thinking that Nintendo have copped out slightly. More innovative music certainly wouldn't have 
 gone amiss. Saying that, there are certain excellent musical additions that do add to the atmosphere 
 of the game at certain key points. However as far as sound goes, easily the best part of Twilight 
 Princess is the superb use of the Wiimote speaker. Used for pretty much everything you can think 
 of, from that little jingle when you find a secret to every sword slash or boomerang throw, the 
 speaker does everything it can to make feel more like Link himself. As for the voice acting / text 
 speech argument, I personally cannot see the need for voice acting. The text works fine how it 
 is, and surely voice acting would only lead to more delays in the future, along with numerous bad 
 lip sync (etc) complaints. Most characters make some sort of noise just before they talk, and whist 
 most are simple, they do enough to convey their emotions at that time. In particular the weird 
 ramblings of Midna (your new helper, as it were) and the sheer madness of the Postman (it has to 
 be heard to be believed, honestly) that go along with their text speech fit their characters perfectly.
 
  
  The depth of Twilight Princess is simply scary - I have played around 18 hours and only just feel 
 like the story is beginning to really develop. The usual challenge of collecting every heart piece 
 (5 pieces to one container now, eek!) along with all the other sidequests is sure to last even 
 those who mastered Ocarina well into next year. The only people that should be considering getting 
 Twilight Princess are those without a Wii. The game is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drxym
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a beautiful and imaginative title in the series. It is also a strictly Japanese RPG 
 in the classic sense where you spend most of your time running between one person and another in 
 a closed world, performing tasks and solving puzzles to unlock doors that lead you to other places. 
 If you were expecting an entirely open sandbox game such as Oblivion, you can forget about it. 
 Where the game scores is in its inventive use of puzzles, variation of locations and sheer sense 
 of joy. If you liked previous Zelda titles you will definitely love this one. Total play time to 
 completion is probably 30-40 hours. However if you have played an Oblivion or similar you might 
 wonder if the designers had spent the last few years asleep. Also this game is just a Gamecube 
 game with last-gen graphics (low polys &amp; textures) and some Wii specific controls strapped 
 on. If another console pulled that stunt, they would be crucified. If you own a Gamecube, there 
 is absolutely no point paying for a Wii to play this title since the experience and graphics will 
 be virtually identical on the older console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boardion
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Remember the good old 90's, I don't remember exactly how old I was when I got my first console 
 (nes) but I do remember that instead of getting Super Mario Bros. with it I opted for Zelda and 
 Pro Am. It's weird thinking back to all those moments of being stuck somewhere in the game just 
 because you didn't have the right tools to solve a particular puzzle. Today though, most people 
 have played Zelda and know the lay of the land, and although it has changed a lot over the years 
 it is basically the same, even with the great control schema. Today the nintendo wii is my second 
 console (after the nes) and I think the amount of change is similar from what was before ( 286 
 pc games anyone ) and it's just a joy to play, I don't even know why I'm typing this in instead 
 of playing it, since it is long enough to play for such a long time. Buy or Preorder the wii so 
 you can play Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanWare
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  It has been eight long years since Ocarina of Time revolutionized the 3D adventure genre, and it's 
 the perfect place to begin when discussing Twilight Princess. Nintendo's latest Zelda epic is a 
 complete OoT fan service, which to those who adore OoT's world (and who doesn't?) sounds like a 
 dream come true. And in some respects, it is. However, TP's similarities to this eight-year-old 
 game, and indeed practically every other Zelda game, are ultimately why it fails to reach the lofty 
 heights of its predecessors.
  
  The gameplay is classic Zelda. Combat remains virtually unchanged from Wind Waker, with the only 
 new feature being the input method. The Wii remote at first feels cumbersome and, yes, gimmicky. 
 And not everyone will be convinced the Wii controls are better than the traditional setup. But 
 one thing is for sure: the controls work, and they work well. Swinging the remote felt intuitive 
 enough, and aiming it at the screen for projectile weapons was second nature. It isn't without 
 its flaws, though. Having to assign weapons to the B button before use is a minor gripe that most 
 should soon forget to notice. But loosing the free camera control that Wind Waker introduced is 
 painful, and can cause frustration at points. Overall, though, the Wii controls do the traditional 
 Zelda controls proud.
  
  Similarly, the Zelda formula remains solidly intact. You hit a dungeon, unlocking doors with small 
 keys, using the obligatory map and compass to find your way around. You become annoyed at the numerous 
 treasure chests containing rupees your wallet cannot hold. You battle a sub-boss for the dungeon's 
 prized item, and immediately use it to solve puzzles and eventually defeat the dungeon's final 
 boss, after which youre rewarded with a full heart container. No surprises here. After leaving 
 said dungeon with your shiny new item, you can now reach new corners of the overworld, and ultimately... 
 reach the next dungeon. This gameplay process has remained intact ever since the very first Zelda 
 game, and indeed, many of the same items from previous games in the series return once again such 
 as the bow, boomerang, and clawshot. Alongside these, of course, are a few new items that serve 
 unique, albeit far less important purposes. As such, TP's new items merely collect dust in your 
 pockets until the rare opportunity to use them presents itself.
  
  It is clear already, then, why the gameplay is not perfect. TP relies far too heavily on the features 
 found in previous Zelda titles, and it does not introduce any significant changes. Ooccoo, a bird-like 
 creature, can be found in each dungeon and allows you to warp outside if you so desire. But you 
 likely won't. At least Link is able to learn some new combat moves this time around, though several 
 arent new to the series and the method of acquiring them  howling tunes as a wolf  is poorly 
 executed and feels like a cheap afterthought and half-hearted homage to the musical aspects of 
 Zeldas past. The game's defining feature is the ability for Link to transform into a wolf, at 
 first when in the Twilight Realm, and later at will. Wolf Link is able to use his canine senses 
 to uncover otherwise invisible objects and events, as well as dig into loose earth. This is the 
 one unique twist that saves TP from a complete identity crisis, and is well-integrated into puzzle 
 solving. Also, it thankfully bears little resemblance to the dark world aspect of A Link to the 
 Past, despite what misinformed naysayers may claim.
  
  The games story is worth mentioning, as it is hands down the most involved and mature tale of 
 any Zelda game to date. TP most certainly sets a precedent for future Zelda games to feature more 
 fleshed-out plots than we have come to expect previously. Midna especially grows on the player 
 as she slowly exposes her true character throughout the game. Despite the surprisingly intricate 
 story, though, the ending is disgracefully predictable and left me thoroughly disappointed. This 
 story also unfolds through many events and locations that are unashamedly ripped straight from 
 OoT. As a consequence, TP loses significant personality and fails to create any truly memorable 
 events of its own.
  
  Wrapping up this package is a graphics engine that offers large vistas, detailed characters, tranquil 
 ponds, and a heaping helping of bloom lighting. The games art is second to none, from the clever 
 and unique character designs to the breathtaking landscapes; Twilight Princess offers a feast for 
 the artful eye. Unfortunately, its no secret that TP is a GameCube game, and it shows. Textures 
 are blurry, especially those draping the vast grassy fields of Hyrule. Aliasing is no stranger, 
 though the addition of bloom lighting helps smooth its otherwise harsh effects and gives the game 
 a softer look, especially in the twilight realm. There is no doubt that the Wii is capable of a 
 more technically impressive world, but despite this, TP deserves high marks for its outstanding 
 artistic achievements.
  
  Unfortunately, the game does not fair quite as well in the audio department. I absolutely adore 
 the classic Zelda tunes, especially those pulled from OoT, but they are admittedly tried and technically 
 outdated in their MIDI form. TPs soundtrack would have undeniably benefited from more new, fully 
 orchestrated music. But despite the audios outdated feel, the tunes themselves still stand out 
 as some of the most memorable in gaming. Voice acting is a topic of much debate, and one that is 
 difficult to praise or criticize without experiencing its inclusion in a Zelda game yet. Even so, 
 with TPs increased reliance on cutscenes to tell its story, well-execute voice acting would have 
 added that much more ambiance. The text dialogue occasionally makes identifying which character 
 is speaking momentarily confusing, and creates an awkward silence during conversations that may 
 not have seemed so out of place just a few years ago, but today feels antiquated. Finally, the 
 Wii remotes accursed speaker handily mutilates every sound effect that passes through it. Luckily 
 the speaker can be turned off, and the less said of it, the better.
  
  For the average person, a reasonable estimate for completion of the main quest and a large portion 
 of the side quests is 40-50 hours. This is a very respectable length, especially when compared 
 with previous, significantly shorter Zeldas. Several hours can be lost to exploring the worlds 
 immensity, but aside from the occasional piece of heart or other collectible, most of Hyrule is 
 wasted on needlessly large, empty fields. Still, TP features plenty of time-wasting minigames, 
 which are yet another Zelda staple. The rewards for completionists are not worth the effort, though, 
 so most people will feel that finding everything in the game is largely pointless. Rupees, especially, 
 are worthless for most of the game. Pieces of heart are still the only reward that you can truly 
 appreciate throughout the entire game.
  
  And that brings us back to the original issue: TPs originality. For those of us who have played 
 several Zelda games already, or indeed all of them, Twilight Princess will feel eerily familiar. 
 By all means TP is an impressive accomplishment, and there is much enjoyment to be had from it. 
 Because of this, its a great game that should not be missed. However, it is irresponsible to simply 
 overlook the games glaring reliance on past gameplay mechanics with very few improvements to the 
 formula. That, coupled with the games blatant stealing of events from OoT, causes TP to be one 
 of the least memorable and unique Zelda titles. Because it is the spiritual successor to OoT, many 
 will overlook its failings, but TP would have been more at home having been released a few years 
 ago. Now, its time for Nintendo to reinvent and update the series before it gets any staler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyruzDraxs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is, of course, most known for it's great puzzles and this game certainly brings more complex 
 puzzles to the table for us to think our way out of. There's nothing quite as satisfying as thinking 
 your way through the dungeon. It keeps your mind sharp and it let's your creativity add to the 
 gameplay.
  
  There is all the usual weapons and items with the addition of some cool new one's like waterproof 
 bombs. All the new items expand the puzzle-solving fun even more. Making this one of, if not THE, 
 strongest Zelda game yet.
  
  Some people have said the Wii's motion sensing functionality feels tacked on at the last minute 
 because of this title originally being in development for the Gamecube. I feel the new controller 
 was applied very well to the gameplay. The bow and slingshot both track like an FPS would. Only 
 the sword, which doesn't move the same direction as the player's hand, doesn't track hand motion 
 but that's understandable as the game was originally intended to be a GC game so the attack animations 
 we're likely already completed and it would take a great deal of work to completely remodel the 
 whole character to support skeleton tracked animation.
  
  The sound is interesting and unique, providing a good accent to the story but holding back on power 
 until the right moment to unleash it with a stronger force.
  
  The graphics, though undeniably not harnessing the full power of the Wii, are certainly beautiful 
 in design and is beyond what the GC is comfortably capable of even if only by a small degree.
 
  
  Overall this game is hard to turn off from just being so much fun. It's a good challenge but not 
 to the point of being impossible. The graphics and sound are both very stylish and appealing. This 
 game is just plain good; an excellent addition to the Zelda series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about The legend of Zelda Twilight Princess , Im a Zelda freak so I think 
 this is the best game in the world I love this game to bits. Any Zelda fan will absolutely love 
 this game, Twilight Princess has components from all sorts of past Zelda games like moves from 
 Wind Walker and the look of Link from Ocarina of Time and as all Zelda games are, Twilight Princess 
 has awesome dungeons and puzzles you have to figure out and the story is amazing. The bosses are 
 easy but in most Zelda games the bosses are usually easy. In Twilight Princess you can choose to 
 do just the main quest and follow the story or you can do that and the mini quests which are extremely 
 fun and you wont get tired of them easily. The legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the best Zelda 
 game so far and the new element for this game is being able to talk to animals in your new wolf 
 form, doing this was a risky move for Shigeru Miyamoto and Todo Sobre who also helped with Wind 
 Walker, but in the end it worked. Another new feature to Twilight Princess is that you can now 
 fight on horse back which I find really fun and all of this in one Zelda game. It gets really exiting 
 and its a lot to take in all at once. Any Zelda fans out there that hasnt bought Twilight Princess 
 yet need to go to the nearest game store and buy it, it is defiantly worth it. The last thing I 
 need to say is that I frikin LOVE this game so much I dont know how to describe how much I love 
 this game so buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flasheypants
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is simply put... amazing. This is what we all saw when we played the very first Zelda. 
 This is how Link should have looked all along. The graphics are beautifully done. You feel like 
 you are actually in Hyrule. While the overall value of the game could have been a little better, 
 there is a quiet balance between action, and just walking around the world.
  
  By the time you get the hang of the controls, you will be so immersed in this game you will not 
 want to put it down. Nintendo has really outdone themselves with this game as well as out done 
 themselves with the Wii in general.
  
  Overall this is a pleasant experience, that anyone can pick up and enjoy. While there is a Gamecube 
 version of the game I would highly suggest picking this for your Wii. That is, if you have managed 
 to get your hands on one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: path_of_hope
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Its so brilliant:
  
  It's been a long ride for Zelda fans. After the long droughts without news, the delay, the porting 
 to the Wii for the sake of tacking on controls, as well as a new realization of just how loose 
 the term Coming Soon is, the boy in green has finally landed. Now the only question that remains 
 is whether or not the roller coaster ride was worth it and if the game could possibly live up to 
 all the hype.
  
  If someone were to get on your case for comparing Twilight Princess to the legendary Ocarina of 
 Time, feel free to slap them silly. It is perfectly fair to compare the two, in large part because 
 the game does most of the work for you. In a scenario that is familiar enough, our hero Link starts 
 out in a small village on the outskirts of Hyrule kingdom. While preparing to set off for Hyrule 
 with a gift for the royal family, a series of odd and dramatic events results in Link finding himself 
 on a mission of far greater importance. Soon the player will start seeing areas and temples that 
 are familiar sounding, and sights and sounds that will bring a whiff of nostalgia to any Ocarina 
 of Time veteran. But worry not, while many of the locales have similar names to those in previous 
 games, that is about where the similarities end. True, Twilight Princess throws several bones and 
 fan service moments to players, and also walks the line between nostalgic and recycled once or 
 twice, but never does it fail to be its own game.
  
  After finding himself sucked into the mysterious Twilight Realm which has covered Hyrule, and being 
 transformed into a wolf for undiscovered reasons, Link meets up with Midna, a creepy and rather 
 demanding inhabitant of this new world. While I can't say any more of what happens due to spoilers, 
 suffice it to say that Twilight Princess easily has the best story of any Zelda game to date. With 
 twists and turns that will keep even the most hardcore Zelda fans guessing to the end, you may 
 find yourself not wanting to put the controller down not only because it is a blast to play, but 
 also because you just can't stand not knowing what happens next.
  
  If Twilight Princess were a book I could best describe it as a page turner . And in actuality this 
 isn't terribly far from the truth. Nintendo has again chosen to not have any voiceover work in 
 Zelda. Instead, all dialogue and story narration must be read on-screen. While myself and countless 
 others couldn't see Link being anything other than a heroic mute, and the game itself even makes 
 a tease of this fact at one point, it is time for his supporting cast to speak up. Nintendo has 
 done a fantastic job creating the world of Hyrule and all of its interesting inhabitants, but after 
 a while it can all start to feel a bit hollow and the game can start to lose some of its immersiveness. 
 Also disappointing in the audio department is the lack of orchestrated music to help push the story 
 along. While the MIDI-based music sounds alright, it is a shame to see such a fantastic adventure 
 blemished due to a cheaper form of presentation.
  
  While there is a bit to be desired in what you hear during Link's latest adventure, rarely will 
 you be disappointed in what you see. Even being the GameCube port that it is, Twilight Princess 
 has some great looking visuals. Obviously Link and the rest of the inhabitants of Hyrule feature 
 far more detail than ever before, and this goes for more than just polygon count. Despite the fact 
 that he may not speak a word, Link is given a lot of character and emotion via his ever changing 
 facial expressions. And this goes for all characters. Even with the total lack of spoken dialogue, 
 never before has the Zelda universe felt so alive and compelling. Of course, the actual world of 
 Hyrule looks great too. Both the overworld as well as dungeons are elaborately designed and are 
 easily the biggest Link has ever been tasked to explore. Water in particular is fantastic looking, 
 as well as the lighting effects both in and out of the Twilight Realm. Still, this is a port of 
 a last-gen title and the Wii is capable of far more than what is on display here.
  
  So why put this game on the Wii in the first place? So Nintendo could show off their new controller. 
 And when posed with the question of whether or not they succeeded in mapping the Zelda controls 
 to the Wii remote and nunchuk, the answer is almost . Instead of using button presses to control 
 Link's sword and items, you now just swing the Wii remote as if you were swinging the blade yourself. 
 No, the movements do not translate one-to-one. And this is the biggest problem with the system. 
 While there are admittedly battles in which you are completely immersed and actually feel like 
 Link himself, other times you feel like you are doing nothing more than putting forth extra effort 
 to simulate a button press. Still, the good times outweigh the annoying and the new sword controls 
 are a net-gain in terms of fun. No, you don't need to freak out and swing your arms all over the 
 place. Small gestures work just fine. Also, no, you won't get tired. Multiple 14 hour sessions 
 of nothing but Zelda and not once did my arms begin to ache.
  
  But if I were to show someone why the Wii controls are superior, I would pull out Link's bow and 
 arrow. After merely going through the slingshot tutorial 15 minutes into the game it is painfully 
 clear just how awesome aiming is with the Wii remote. And after a little practice you will be busing 
 out headshots left and right and be more immersed in a Zelda game than ever before. Simply put, 
 this new method annihilates aiming with a control stick and once you experience it you won't even 
 want to look back.
  
  In addition to the new controls, Twilight Princess also shakes up the classic Zelda gameplay style 
 by throwing in the new wolf mechanic. Although Link becomes trapped in this form whenever he enters 
 the Twilight Realm early in the game and must fight to return to his human form, he eventually 
 gains the ability to transform at will and this mechanic is utilized in puzzles and challenges 
 throughout the rest of the game. Along with increased speed and a cool energy field ability that 
 stuns enemies, wolf-Link can also use his sense ability to find hidden items and trails or see 
 trapped spirits. Perhaps most importantly, through the use of Midna riding on his back, Link can 
 eventually warp all across Hyrule at will. And as big as it is, this feature feels like a godsend.
 
  
  One thing that has been a big mystery to those anticipating the launch of this latest Zelda is 
 exactly how hard it would be. This concern stemming from the oft-criticized Wind Waker difficulty 
 and how many who played it have no idea what the game over screen even looks like. While I was 
 disappointed to see that Nintendo chose not to give Twilight Princess selectable/unlockable difficultly 
 levels, the game is definitely harder than both Wind Waker and Ocarina of Time. You will be tested. 
 Not only is the game longer and more complex with almost 10 dungeons and at least 40 hours of play 
 time for most, but the dungeons themselves can be quite the brain-teasers. Many enemies also hit 
 harder and it is also a bit more difficult to find hearts, and to a greater extent fairies, to 
 replenish your health. The only real problem is that dungeon bosses are far too easy. In fact, 
 this is my biggest disappointment in the whole game. Bosses are consistently awesome looking and 
 will make your jaw drop. Unfortunately, the also consistently lack challenge with the exception 
 of a couple and, as much as I hate to say it, tend to be complete pushovers. So now the time comes 
 to ask: Does Twilight Princess trump Ocarina of Time, a game many consider to be the best video 
 game ever? In this writer's opinion: absolutely. As a game, Twilight Princess is deeper, longer, 
 better looking, and the combat controls, especially for aiming, blow the legendary title away. 
 So does this make it one of the best games ever? Only time will tell. Ocarina of Time was great 
 not only because it was one of the crowning moments of the N64 and topped anything else out at 
 the time, but also because it was a visionary game that helped shape the action-adventure genre. 
 But for the time being, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess should be near to or at the top 
 of nearly every gamer's Christmas list this year. Actually, with the exception of stores being 
 sold out, I don't know how anyone could still not be experiencing this awesome title as well as 
 one of the best launch games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, I totally DO NOT agree with the Gamespot review of this game. 8.8, you have got to be 
 kidding me. I thought this game was FRICKIN AWESOME! First off, the graphics in this game were 
 marvelous. I thought that the Wii would have about the same graphics as the gamecube, to me at 
 least, these were awesome graphics. The music, I was very disappointed that it was not orchestrated, 
 but it is still awesome music. It has the original classic tunes but with a twist to it which I 
 enjoyed greatly. The gameplay was fantastic. I was a bit worried about how the Wii would be with 
 the playing, like swinging the Wii Remote to swing the sword, but to my surprise, I REALLY REALLY 
 LIKED IT! It is awesome. The only things that I did not like: the thing that bugged me the most 
 was that everytime you start playing again and you pick up a rupee, it'll do the stupid thing that 
 says you picked up a blue rupee . I know, little things bug me, but that got on my nerves. Another 
 thing that I didn't like is the speaker on the Wii Remote. It is a very cheap speaker, but the 
 annoyance is easily avoided by turning down the volume of the Wii Remote. Other than that, I LOVED 
 the game. It is a wonderful masterpiece with a great story, and to me that is what matters in a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelink551
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is most definately worth the wait. True, it may not live up to Ocarina of Time, but then 
 again Wind Waker and Majora's Mask were never compared to that. While this may not beat OoT, it 
 comes very close. The controls work and are a great addition. Everythin is more satistfying with 
 the remotes speaker. The dungeons are great, well designed, and are the perfect length. The graphics 
 are great and probably the best for the Wii now. If theres a reason for the Wii, its this. My only 
 fault with this game was the speaker, occasionally it crackles and goes offline for a while, but 
 this is rare. Overall, a great game and EVERYONE should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scape45273
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Firstly I have to say I completely disagree with Gamespots statements that the Wii controls feel 
 tacked on. They don't infact once you've fully got in to the swing of things they feel great. The 
 speaker on the Wii remote does sound a bit cheap and I personally found it a bit annoying but that 
 does not bring the games score down as you can do as I did and turn the remote speaker off...... Problem 
 solved.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great the game has a real Ocarina of Time feel which can only be a good 
 thing. Quick call the police the Wii isn't HD. They are not 360 or PS3 but they still look fantastic 
 none the less. Zelda fans will love seeing Hyrule field again and it looks great.
  
  Sound: The sound is incredible the music has that destinctive Zelda feel and the bit that really 
 made me smile was hearing the updated version of the Goron music. Sound effects and music are all 
 spot on. AAHHGG run save yourself theres text to read. The fact that there isn't speech is a plus 
 to me as I'm sick of bad voice acting and all Zelda games have had text and why change that. I 
 personally like reading as it leaves up to me to imagine what the characters sound like.
  
  Length: I haven't finished yet but it appears to be huge about 60 - 80 hours if you really take 
 a look at the world of Hyrule.
  
  All in all I don't think this game is quite as good as Ocarina of time but it is only a hair away 
 and is a stunning and memorable zelda game. This game lives up to what it promised and more definitely 
 will be appreciated by zelda fans more. It definitely deserves more than the 8.8 that gamespot 
 gave it.
  
  That was all before I finished the game.
  
  After completing the game I have to say I really noticed some big flaws in this game.
  First 
 off the game is set on extremely easy mode and couldn't possible challenge anyone. Bare in mind 
 what I love about Zelda games is that sometimes you can wonder around looking for a clue as to 
 what you have to do next which in twilight princess never happens as your always being told exactly 
 where you have to go, who you have to speak to and what you have to do. The end boss Ganon is a 
 joke especially compared to ganon from Ocarina of Time.
  The second gripe is the length I didn't get to do hardly any of the side missions as I finished 
 the game before I had a chance. Not to mention that the extra bonuses are useless as the game is 
 soooooo easy. And why do you only use the slingshot a couple of times?
  Don't get me wrong this is still a good game but just isn't what I was expecting and once I finished 
 it I was just plain dissappointed.
  
  I gave TP 9.8 originally but now it is an 7.7 due to the difficulty mostly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Twilight Princess and and really impressed with the game - after 75 hours of the 
 best adventure in Hyrule to date, I give you my review. There's not alot to say about a Zelda game 
 that we don't already know (if you don't know - learn) so jumping straight into the meat:
  
  The story is the most in depth and twisted version Nintendo has given us, it's deep and some 
 of it may go over some peoples heads who are not familier with the series. I was impressed with 
 this story, expertly told. Through the course of the game it may seem at times to be missing important 
 points... why exactly do you care what's going on? and what's her deal anyway?, we don't even know 
 one another. Things are wrapped up nicely at the end, there are of course some questions that you 
 have and they don't get answered... but that's just the way the legend is.... always something left 
 for you to ponder on. If you are looking for a game with a great story - look no further - this 
 is it.
  
  Sound, now I am from the camp of the very first Zelda, so I've seen the sound design change since 
 day one. The sound does not dissapoint me at all. A good mix of MIDI and live instruments spread 
 out quite well across the game, with old themes appearing, my favorite is the dark overworld theme 
 from A Link to the Past... it just sounds evil as hell in this game. You'll also hear other familier 
 sound themes and sounds in general here. I do think however this title should be the last to feature 
 all text box dialogs for a console release, yeah - keep Link silent, but give the other characters 
 a voice. That's my only beef... oh... there is one more - I did not care for the wolf howling episodes, 
 it did not carry a feel of music to me and was somewhat unfriendly to learn 'songs'.. but that is 
 very minor.
  
  The graphics of this game are great, forget people talking 'jaggy this and jaggy that' - this is 
 the most gorgeous Hyrule ever. Birds flutter about, bugs crawl and fly... enemies dot the landscape 
 and speaking about the landscape - it's huge. Something very satisfying about looking at something 
 in the horizon and then taking a journey to that place. I'd say if you're used to HD programming 
 on a HD TV and play most games in HD, yeah - this isn't going to be on that level. The game still 
 looks absolutly great, and the twilight is really nice, I prefer the light world myself with it's 
 rich blue sky and clouds and lush greenery everywhere - to the barren dust filled canyon and desert 
 areas. This is the world Ocarina wanted to be, but couldn't be.
  
  Gameplay is still solid, I enjoyed the remote controls very much. It was fun to swing the remote 
 for sword swipes and aim by actually aiming my arm like the hero does. A number of new mechanics 
 have been added and work well, the wolf is great with the abilities that come with that, old routines 
 are fresh with the remote mechanics added to the mix - it's a sense of familier with a dose of 
 new injected. I rarley found myself wanting my wavebird to play this - although I am picking up 
 the Cube version and will be playing it through classic style. My only complaint in the gameplay 
 department is the difficulty, I feel it could have been a bit more challenging, it's a bit on the 
 easy side - it gave me a bit more time to strategize and kill my enemies. Future installments should 
 be a bit tougher though.
  
  Overall this game does very little wrong and most everything right, it's a true blue addition to 
 the series - one most of us have wanted since 1998. There were things I was suprised to see and 
 some I was SO happy I didn't see. I think it's time to mix up the story, but this is an excellent 
 end to an era, and a great way to start a new era. Worth the long wait since E3 2004, worth the 
 money, worth the time to play... side quests are fun and don't feel like a chore.
  
  If you are an old school Zelda gamer like myself - you'll love this. If you are a n00b to the series, 
 this is a great game to play.
  
  Twilight Princess delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilght Princess
  As is the way of Legend, it continues to grow
  
  Presentation (10%) - 10
  Controls (12.5%) - 9.25
  Variety (25%) - 10
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) 
 - 10
  Sound (7.5%) - 9.5
  Depth (15%) - 9.5
  
  OVERALL - 9.76
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Multiplayer Importance: None.
  
  Previously played game in the series: Almost all. For context, my rating of Legend of Zelda: The 
 Wind Waker was 8.65.
  
  Television set-up: 19 Sylvania CRT, SDTV 480i, composite cables.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay 
 Outline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an action-adventure game, and is the sequel to The 
 Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker (released in 2003 on GameCube) . The Legend of Zelda games are based 
 on the game's own legend that when the dark wizard Ganon appears to spread darkness across the 
 land, the Hero of Time will appear and defeat him. The Hero of Time, is Link, of whom you are in 
 control. The game takes place in Hyrule, which is a land you are free to roam around in as you 
 wish. The game was originally developed for the GameCube, but was adjusted in controls and delayed 
 for a release on Wii which ended up releasing first.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 40%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  While Twilight 
 Princess is very long, it's not a game that you have to put a ton of time in to get a return, nor 
 have to play much each day to enjoy the experience. The lack of difficulty actual helps those who 
 aren't going to play several hours per day as there isn't a steep learning curve to jump back into 
 the game. In the end, though, to finish the game is a 40 hour endeavour, and when you start a game, 
 to get the most out of it, you have to finish.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  While Twilight Princess is in all technical aspects a GameCube title, aside from polygon count 
 this is of the best presented titles every created. The character designs are easily the best in 
 the series and arguably ever seen; the faces even manage to remain as expressive they were in The 
 Wind Waker. The characters are part of the strange ability of the game to maintain a cohesive realism 
 in a markedly unrealistic world; little under the scope of realistic actions makes sense, but in 
 Hyrule, it manages to all come together in a realistic manner. There are nice touches everywhere, 
 such as that Link now turns his head to look at things you can lock on to such as other characters, 
 enemies, signs, items and switches. There's also, as typical of 3D Zelda, an in-game day-night 
 cycle. And capping it off, the animations are incredible.
  
  The composition of the world feels very Lord of the Rings influenced right down to several enemies, 
 and it fits very well. Perhaps related, the enemy design is also best in series as perhaps for 
 the first time ever, the enemies in a Zelda game appear particularly menacing. It's also fitting 
 that a game influenced by a book manages to have beautiful storytelling. The art direction in the 
 cinematic scenes surpass even The Wind Waker and manage to create scenes as effective through the 
 real-time engine as CG. The character development in the story is near-perfect creating extremely 
 likeable characters and utterly distainful foes. The story also introduces Midna, who will be your 
 guide for much of the game, who is simply the best single supporting character ever introduced 
 to a Zelda game. Ultimately, the story is spread a little thin over the very lengthy game, but 
 it all comes together to drive the desire to make the world right again.
  
  The contrast between the Twilight Realm and Light World makes the Twilight Realm stand out further 
 with stellar effects that only improve up to the end. Cel-shaded particles used in various instances 
 work exceptionally well, and the lighting does an incredible job creating a weird blurry effect. 
 In the Twilight Realm, you are transformed into a wolf and can interact with animals, which really 
 shows how much detail has been put into the game. Just the nature of the animals and their actions 
 and responses fit so perfectly.
  
  There are absolutely no frame-rate drops throughout the game, which is a big plus. When striking 
 many characters, though, it can seem that way due to the game's design of a slight delay when you 
 hit an enemy to create the illusion of impact. The maps are very well designed and detailed, and 
 having it persistent in the corner is a huge improvement. The HUD in the game, aside from the map, 
 is typical Zelda fare with which items assigned to which buttons shown clear in the top-right corner.
 
  
  Overall, while Twilight Princess will be surpassed technically on Wii if it has not happened already, 
 the game is genuinely artful and some improvement in ground textures and some extra polygons in 
 the characters isn't going to improve the experience above an already beautiful game. From stunning 
 introduction to sweetly end, the entire visual approach couldn't have been done better.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 9.25
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The controls are mapped pretty much perfectly for the actions involved in the game. Normal attacks 
 are executed by swinging the Wiimote, action and rolling is set to A, equipped item to B, consulting 
 Midna to the top arrow on the directional page, switchable items to the rest of the D-pad, first-person 
 look to C on the nunchuck and camera behind/lock-on to Z.
  
  A cause of concern is whether attacking through motion will become tiresome. While it's true that 
 the motion sensor is basically a substitution for a button, it feels surprisingly natural and works 
 just as well. Arguably, though, it works better in that use of the nunchuck helps balance the use 
 of different abilities. The spin attack is used by shaking the nunchuck left and right making it, 
 for the first time in a Zelda game, actually useful. More techniques are learned throughout the 
 game that all fit into the control scheme well.
  
  Due to the sheer variety in gameplay, there are many other individual controls and all of them 
 work near perfectly and give a good sense of what you're supposed to do. The fishing, however, 
 isn't properly explained and can be utterly frustrating if you don't understand.
  
  There were problems with control in The Wind Waker and they've mostly been covered. After knocking 
 down an enemy, there's still a period in which the enemy is invulnerable, but there's now some 
 collision during that period that makes it feel more natural and eliminates the annoyance. There 
 are also finishing strikes to grounded enemies that are very viceral and rewarding. Another problem 
 was that movement of Link was a bit jerky and quick, which is much smoother in Twilight Princess. 
 The camera is also much improved. The last of issues was touchy first person controls, which thanks 
 to the Wiimote is endlessly better.
  
  There are some minor control issues, though. The dungeon map control is a bit unweildy as you're 
 not controlling the camera that views the map, but the map itself, which means everything is the 
 opposite and it can be very hard to adjust. The fairy that shows where the pointer is when you're 
 not using a projectile item is pretty useless and can be a little annoying as well as disrupt first-person 
 look if it's just on the edge of the screen. The only issue that has any actual importance, though, 
 is that when you're trying to switch the camera but there's something you can lock-on to in the 
 area, such as an enemy, it will keep locking onto the enemy and moving the camera behind you, which 
 is annoying. Fortunately, I only found this occur 2-4 times in the entire game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 10
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There is more to Twilight Princess than any Zelda game before it. It's not that there's a bunch 
 of mini-games or tons of little things to collect, but the entire story-driven game stays incredibly 
 fresh and varying throughout the game without ever having to get into sidequests. Progression through 
 the story unlocks minigames by nature of the expanding world and not just here's a town, there's 
 some games. Related to that is that the game isn't just going dungeon to dungeon; there is a lot 
 going on just getting from place to place.
  
  In the end it is indeed the dungeons that brings people into Zelda, and there are more dungeons 
 than any prior 3D Zelda game. Not only are there many dungeons to trek through, each takes about 
 two hours to finish, each with a very memorable inventive boss in the end. The puzzles throughout 
 the dungeons stay markably original, intriguing, and simply fun, which accents the whole game. 
 While there are repeated themes compared to previous games, each stands on its own as a Twilght 
 Princess dungeon, and not just another Zelda dungeon.
  
  Zelda isn't Zelda without the items, and Twilight Princess hasn't come empty-handed. With approximately 
 10 new items, that's more than any Zelda game since Link to the Past. Those new items include some 
 of the best additions to the series since the hookshot and aren't just one-trick-wonders. In the 
 past, items seemed to be relegated to a position of being single-use items for solving the puzzle 
 repeatedly -- not so for the new additions to Twilight Princess, which makes using the items in various 
 situations some of the highlights of the game.
  
  The one consistent complaint about the Zelda series (especially in 3D) is that the combat is very 
 simplified and normal enemies are just big targets to button mash pass. Twilight Princess has taken 
 as many measures to rectify this, and is done mostly through sheer variety. Many new enemies, including 
 armoured ones, plenty of fresh situations that make you change your approach, plenty of new battle 
 techniques including horseback. Everything about how you combat has been upgraded and expanded 
 in every way shape and form. You couldn't ask for more.
  
  Aside from completing the story, there are sidequests and minigames. There are multiple collection 
 quests that span the whole game trying to find each of a particular thing which can occupy you 
 for a while if you can swept up in it, which is easy to do. The minigames are there also, with 
 a very flushed out fishing game. What's strange about the minigames is that while they are as well-developed 
 as any minigames in the series, the main quest so greatly outshines it that you just don't want 
 to stop and mingle.
  
  When it comes to Twilight Princess, if there's something that's been in a Zelda game before that 
 isn't directly related to the story of a previous game, it's probably in Twilight Princess and 
 made better. From the quirky mailman to the return of the fortune teller, there's a lot here.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 9.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Strangely, one of the most talked about subjects of Twilight Princess has been the audio. From 
 debates about whether there should be voice-acting to intolerance about reused music to outrage 
 over MIDI music. Take heart, as what's in the game is excellent.
  
  Firstly, there's a lot of new music. In fact, there's more new than old, and anything old has been 
 redone. Hyrule field alone has at least three new songs itself, with the one played during the 
 night being particularly captivating. The music really fits the mood of particular scenes well 
 and genuinely impacts the enjoyment of the game. While yes, the music is in MIDI format, it's not 
 as if you're listening to MIDIs from your computer -- there is very high-quality synthesis and at 
 times I personally can not tell the difference. An actual benefit is that some of the music has 
 such strange instrumentation that it may not have even been possible to produce the equivalent 
 in orchestral form. The only repeat songs are some of the best in the series such as Zelda's Lullaby. 
 All that feels lacking here is just one particularly epic moving score.
  
  As for voice-acting, as in The Wind Waker, there is a form of voice-acting; more of a pseudo voice-acting. 
 There will be sounds from the character such as a sigh, grunt of speaking gibberish. This is much 
 improved over The Wind Waker, and Midna in particular is near perfect. However, it is a bit lacking 
 for some characters. Fully utilized, I really enjoy this method, and it makes the mailman far more 
 entertaining than if I had to hear his annoying voice actually say something.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 9.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  First and foremost, combat is by far the most in-depth and rewarding in the series. Building on 
 the mechanics of The Wind Waker in which there were prompts to press A to perform a manoeuvre, 
 you now perform those through combinations, which makes battle flow much better and give the user 
 more options and eliminate much of the repetition in combat. On top of that, there are more manoeuvres 
 than what appeared in The Wind Waker, and are all quite practical, depending on your style and 
 the situation.
  
  Battle doesn't just come down to your sword and shield, as you have many weapons available to you. 
 Most items actually have some use in battle and mixes things up fairly well. There aren't too many 
 enemies in which are divied up into this item for this enemy, this item for this enemy etc. , most 
 it depends on simply what you feel is appropriate. Items have also always been an integral part 
 of boss battles, and Twilight Princess is no different. While the bosses lack difficulty, how you 
 go about defeating them isn't simplistic or bland; they're engaging and well-thought out. The final 
 twist to battle is that you have a wolf-form with different strengths and weaknesses. Later in 
 the game, there is more focus on human form as wolf would likely have gotten tiresome, but it is 
 a change that improves the depth for the better.
  
  Puzzles have also taken a big step forward. The Wind Waker bordered on blatantly obvious, while 
 Twilight Princess maintains a subtlty that avoids being frustrating. Most puzzles are very involving 
 and clever. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; Fun - 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Twilight Princess has a lot going for it. While you can pick apart some little details and see 
 what's there. The longest dungeons ever seen in a Zelda game make the game a lot more enjoyable; 
 expect to spend over 20 hours in dungeons alone. Among those lengthy dungeons (the fifth) , is what 
 I consider the single greatest dungeon ever; it's incredibly imaginative with almost Metroid-like 
 expansion, a terrific item, grand boss, even humour sprinkled throughout. On top of that, it also 
 has the best first dungeon that does an excellent job of drawing you into the world, developing 
 characters and setting up the plot for the entire game. The bosses in the game start a bit too 
 simply, but ramp up in intensity and creativity although a bit lacking in difficulty, which manages 
 to not detract from the fun due to how involved they are. The length in dungeons helped the game 
 reach over 40 hours for my completion, which absolutely flew by when thinking about how long other 
 games of equal length felt.
  
  The improved combat really improves the experience. Battle never gets tiresome, right down to the 
 end. There are not only a lot more armoured enemies than seen before, there are not all defeated 
 the same way and there is more to defeating them than finding a weak spot. There are also instances 
 where tactics play a much larger role. Riding on horseback is better than ever, with it now feeling 
 and controlling as if your at the reins of a powerful steed, which is only amplified in horseback 
 combat. There really are times when it's better to be a wolf, and those sections are as well done 
 as any in the game.
  
  In fact, the wolf sections really carry the first 10 hours of the game. There have been criticisms 
 of the first part of the game being slow and/or boring, but I fail to see it. I found the wolf-form 
 done so well that it was as much fun as I had in any Zelda game. There are great uses of senses 
 in the game, which are possibly influenced by the obscure title Dog's Life . You can pick up scents 
 and find things buried in the ground, but your vision is narrowed and shortened which a hazy feel 
 and dark border. It's also quite fun once you can find people while in wolf form to see the reactions, 
 which is another little detail that makes the game stand out. The wolf mechanic works so well that 
 I hope for its return in some form in the future. However, in retrospect, the game only got better.
 
  
  Improvements in the general design are also evident. Being able to talk to Midna at any time for 
 a hint is a concept that is a big plus and has been in the last couple Zelda games, although never 
 always available in a 3D Zelda. There is now a persistent map in the bottom left corner that is 
 invaluable and makes navigating a dungeon, overworld or otherwise far more intuitive. The portal 
 system for warping between areas is introduced as most coherently as any Zelda game has and it 
 comes with some very nice effects along with excellent placement. The fortune teller is also a 
 nice touch as if you get lost, you can get detailed direction for 10 rupees; also, for the same 
 cost, you can ask about Love and see the image of an area with a heart-piece that you haven't collected.
 
  
  The slight drawbacks are that fishing isn't explained well and at certain points is required for 
 progression in the game. Not properly understanding the mechanics can create frustration. Also, 
 while the difficulty is increased, it is still a bit lacking. Ultimately, though, fishing could 
 be a non-issue and difficulty is enough that you never become apathetic -- if you do, you're likely 
 to die (which happened to me) . There's so much to like they utterly overwhelm these nit-picky problems.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 9.76
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, it's Ocarina of Time... except with a completely different 
 story, characters, dungeons, audio, controls, items, enemies, bosses, overworld, minigames, sidequests 
 and combat mechanics. Oh, and that wolf thing. In all seriousness, there is more new content and 
 mechanics in Twilight Princess than any Zelda game since Link to the Past; in fact, it's more comparable 
 to Link to the Past; the number of dungeons, the dark/light world motif, even the world layout. 
 In the end, it's not a matter of what Twilight Princess is like, it's about what it is. What is 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess? Best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greebster1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game has all the greatness of the Ocarina of time, the puzzles are clever and challenging. 
 The hints you get from Midna keep you on track so your not wasting a lot of time. The mini games 
 are fun and a nice break from the hunt for the next Boss. I spent 70 hours playing and still didnt 
 find all the Poes or heart pieces. All in all there are a lot of satisfying moments and a game 
 that deserves a replay.
  The new controls and easy to get used to and the targeting feels right, the different weapons are 
 fun and add newness to each area you visit.
  The fishing feels about as real as you can get without having to dig for worms. Memorable game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjycord99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off as all the Zelda games go. A ordinary person (link) who is in a small town and 
 then all of a sudden becomes the well known hero. In the start you just get a good feel for the 
 controls which are very smooth. Once you get into the game the Dungeons and puzzles are great. 
 Will my hand start to hurt after a while of playing this game? No, not at all. The littlest movements 
 wil make the sword swing. You dont need to be flailing your arms around and making sweet moves. 
 You will be learnings new moves which is something new in a Zelda series such as a shield bash. 
 The game follows well known Zelda: OOT. The order goes pretty much the same. Forest, fire, water 
 and so on. Once you get into this game you will hardly every want to stop. The graphics in Zelda: TP 
 are pretty good for a wii game. While if you add the component cables they will make them look 
 that much more crispier. These graphics are very well playable and this really shows that whole 
 gameplay&gt; graphics aspect people talk about. The left Nunchuck will be moving like around and 
 Z-targeting enemies. The wiimote does several different things. Pointing the Wiimote at the screen 
 makes a blue fairy fly around kinda like Navi from OOT. Doing this does nothing in the actual gameplay 
 but in menu screens it chooses options like save or choosing your weapon. The d-pad is the weapons 
 you are using then B uses them. The wiimote also points for such things as bows and slingshots. 
 You might think that this will get annoying but remember you can Z-target for a quick kill for 
 these enemies. Overall i will have to say this is the best game for the wii so far and might be 
 the best ever. I feel Twilight Princess this dosn't beat OOT. I love this game but i feel like Zelda: 
 OOT was better for the time. If you want a game you will be playing for long times look into this 
 game a must-buy for a wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_mastaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is, flat out, the best game on the wii. The Wii controller fits in perfect with the gameplay 
 style and works like a dream. First, we'll start off with the good. It has an extremely good story 
 line that will hook you the minute you start playing. These cut-senes are well put together and 
 look very nice. The weapons all work so well and feel so natural. Take the bow and arrow for instance. 
 I played this on the Wii and it felt so natural with the bow and could be used so easily, but when 
 I go back to Wind Waker, it is almost impossible to manually aim in a battle. The sword works nicely 
 too, but the bow and arrow are the main attraction if you are talking about motion sensitivity. 
 Now, to the wolf. The wolf is very fun to play as, and looks nice too. The attacks, surprisingly, 
 are alot like when playing as Link. Now, the temples in this game are incredible. They all put 
 good use to the weapon you get and the boss fight does as well. The bosses are all very enjoyable 
 fights. Now, riding the horse is very fun in Zelda. The swordplay on the horse works well, and 
 the arrows work pretty well too. Midna is very helpful in the game, and it looks awesome when you 
 use her to warp places. Now for the bad. One thing that really annoys me is when you are near a 
 wall and die, you fall right through. This was in Wind Waker and you would have thought they'd 
 have fixed this. Also, when he falls on the ground and dies, he stands up and falls back down! 
 The graphics, I must admit, are a little disappointing, but it seems they did the best with what 
 they could. Sometimes playing as the wolf gets lengthy too, and you can't change back to a human 
 at will. The bosses, at least in my opinion, although fun, are a little on the easy side. LINK 
 STILL CAN'T TALK! That sucks too. And for my last complaint, you can't control the horse while 
 aiming the bow and arrow. All these complaints are minor though, and this is still overall, an 
 incredible game that everyone buying a Wii should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADollins
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the Best Zelda, hands down period, end of statement. You would do well to pick it up. If 
 you don't like the controls then you probably won't like the WII. I think this game has it all 
 even grafix, well for a nintendo game it's not bad on the eyes. I think it was developed for the 
 GC and then ported to the WII. We will see if my asumption is true when it comes out on GC. There 
 is really not much to dislike with the game, at all. Playing it awhile will fully remind you of 
 the Zelda, of past. However the visuals, and the play is definatly great. This would have sold 
 some GC's, but nintedo did I wise thing and used it on the WII. I don't see why the reviewer gave 
 it such a low score, 8.8 isn't bad. However I do have to disagree with the Score, pick it up you 
 will like it.
  
  This zelda is the masterpiece of zelda so far, and one that many future installements will be compared 
 against. Can't belive nintendo sucked me in again with another zelda, damn them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_n64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  It made me remember my old Wind waker times taking the control of Link, naming your horse, striking 
 with a wooden sword and dropping a bee hive with a slingshot. The control is almost perfect and 
 Midna is pretty cool almost as Navi and the game is somehow challenging makes you stay for a long 
 while and even go to sleep later... or don't sleep-ha ha. I didn't gave it 10 because Navi doesn't 
 has much importance and no TLOZ: OoT character appears (as long as I done to now) but anyways fighting 
 with Epona and old Gorons and Zora makes me almost cry jaja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTB_rider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Once you have mastered the controller, this game will be the best Zelda game you have ever played. 
 The other good thing about the Wii is that you can download the old school zelda games as well. 
 It may take some time getting used to the bow and arrow / slingshot, the combos to perform but 
 when you do, you wont want to put it down. Like most zelda games, it does take about 1hour before 
 it starts to get really good, that you will always be playing it. Another good feature is how Link 
 can turn into the wolf, some of the moves he does are pretty awesome. I strongly recomend this 
 game to anyone who enjoys action / adventure style games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Don't say I rushed through the game or didn't spend time doing everything I could've done, because 
 I did EVERYTHING. This game was given a generous score in my opinion. The graphics are the best 
 on the Wii, but just wasn't fun and quite easy. I never died once throughout the whole game, the 
 bosses were owned the first time, except one that I re-did, and there was not enough CPU to fight. 
 They expanded the Ocarina of Time field by x7 but then didn't fill any of it with enemies. One 
 of the biggest sections of the field has maybe 6 easily defeatable enemies and few birds spread 
 around. There should also be more towns to visit and more interactable characters. The fishing 
 was way overrated as well as I spent 4 hours doing so and the fishies didn't varry too much in 
 size or different types of fish. There are only 3 lures you can use, and 2 more I've heard of but 
 if they do exsists, it's not worth going to get. Very dissapointed, don't believe the hype. Most 
 will prob love this game so don't just look at this review alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  So here it is, GC Zelda 2 or Wii Zelda 1, whatever you prefer. In any case, it's an awesome game. 
 Don't take me wrong, I concur with much of what the GameSpot review says about its flaws, and I 
 really miss Wind Waker's bold, fun new graphic style, but Twilight Princess is undeniably the best 
 action/adventure game to come out all year, not to mention the best Wii launch title and an instant 
 classic.
  
  There are two reasons for my score to be higher than GS's. Fist is my feel for the Wii's control 
 scheme. I found it almost perfect. I could almost play with my hands in my pockets, if I wanted 
 to. There's no need to have a line of sight between the controllers and the sensor bar unless you're 
 trying to use a cursor onscreen. Fighting and navigation can all be handled regardless of your 
 relative position to the screen, which means it's really no problem playing sitting on your sofa 
 or even while tucked in bed, if you want to. That was a concern of mine before trying the game, 
 since what I'd seen from the Wii made it look like you could pretty much only play right in front 
 of the TV and only sitting straight with your arms aiming at the screen at all times. That would 
 have been tiring for a game that requires long sessions, but the control scheme is handled very 
 nicely. You can go crazy and mimick slashing during battles or keep it quiet and just flick your 
 wrist a little. It works. Whatever sensitivity is lost compared to a classc gamepad is replaced 
 by lots of fun in the game's more intense moments (and there are plenty) , when you just can't help 
 going ninja with the Wii-mote.
  
  My second reason is precisely the insane amount of epic, thrilling moments during the course of 
 the game. Everytime you have to fight on horseback the game becomes the most exciting thing you've 
 seen on any console since Shadow of the Colossus. It helps a lot that characters actually emote 
 and get to act a little for pretty much the first time in a Zelda game (WW was great, but the plot 
 and character development were as flat as they were cute) . This time, when you go off to rescue 
 a missing kid or Link's love interest there's actually a feeling that what you're doing matters 
 in an involving story. It's still basic good vs. evil, but it's much better told this time around. 
 Take, for instance, the first time Link goes wolf. You can feel the rage and frustration in him, 
 not just on the cutscenes, but during gameplay. Level design, art direction and storytelling come 
 together perfectly in this game.
  
  Also, at least for me, the way the game revisists locales from Ocarina of Time, keeping the geography 
 and design consistent, was actually a good thing. Some parts of the game do feel a bit like a remake 
 of OoT, but the nostalgia factor and the gorgeous new renditions of those classic levels more than 
 make up for it.
  
  On the minus side, the new cursor-based interface pretty much forces you to play on a 16:9 tv, 
 unless you want your actual gaming space restricted to N-Gage proportions. The Wii-mote's speaker 
 does sound tinny and cheap and sometimes actually breaks the atmosphere instead of building it 
 (piece of advice, keep the volume low, you'll save batteries and it will sound better) . If you 
 have a Wii, you probably have this game. If you don't plan on getting Nintendo's latest fun machine, 
 do yourself a favor and at least invest 100/$ in getting a second hand GameCube with this and 
 Wind Waker. You might change your mind after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When The Legend of Zelda series first switched to 3D graphics which was The Legend of Zelda Ocarina 
 of Time the game was considered the greatest game of all time. Next came Majoras Mask and Wind 
 Waker and although both games were amazing them never really surpassed the original. Than along 
 came the announcement that a new Zelda was coming, a Zelda that would surpass Ocarina of Time and 
 that game was The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. Although I can't say this game is better it 
 definitely lives up to the Zelda name. The game went through many delays and than was eventually 
 pushed back more to be released along side the Nintendo Wii. The wait was worth it. Twilight Princess 
 is an absolutely amazing game and should be considered as one of the greatest games of all time. 
 The game has its flaws but it is so close to perfection that anyone who considers themselves a 
 gamer should play this game. The game play in this game is simply amazing. The Wii-specific elements 
 are not perfect but they are great. From swinging your sword to aiming the bow and arrow, everything 
 is great. Although they could have been better. I know what Jeff means when he says that they were 
 tacked on, but they are much better than that and I can't see ever going back to playing the old 
 way of Zelda. Soon enough you will come upon the Twilight Realm and change into your beast form 
 which is a blue eyed wolf. At first the wolf elements are slow, but their at their best when you 
 are able to change between your human and beast form. You can sense, seeing things Link could never 
 see, dig, and reach higher ledges using Midna. Thankfully the human form of Link remains the dominant 
 character throughout the game. Many of the same items that you have seen in previous games return, 
 such as the clawshot, bow, and bombs, but there are also some great new editions such as the spinner, 
 ball and chain and dominion rod. Throughout each temple you will find a new item that you will 
 use in the dungeon and eventually on the final boss. Some of the items are used extensively such 
 as the bombs and clawshot, while others like the spinner and ball and chain are not used much other 
 than in the dungeon, but that's not to say that the items are bad its just that they could of been 
 used more often.
  
  The combat in the game is great, however many of the enemies are way too easy and may just take 
 a single sword slash to take out. You can lock on with the z target and simply swing the remote. 
 Your arm never gets tired as some have suggested. You simply rest the Wii-mote on your lap and 
 gently swing the controller. The game contains many of the same moves from previous Zelda games 
 such as the spin attack and jump attack but there are also seven hidden skills that you learn throughout 
 the game which adds a great deal of depth to the combat .The game also has beautiful boss fights. 
 They range from huge spiders (Ghoma) to dragons that you will have to clawshot your way onto. However 
 the boss battles are all very easy. I never got stuck on a boss let alone die more than once. This 
 game still contains amazing dungeons, nine in total, which is the most for any Zelda game to date. 
 You'll make your way through the traditional forest, fire and water temple, but once you are able 
 to change from wolf to human form, dungeons such as Arbiters Grounds and Snowpeak Ruins really 
 come alive. They are all expertly designed and very unique. The puzzles may seem difficult but 
 if you take your time and try to figure them out they are not too hard. This game contains the 
 best Zelda dungeons to date.
  
  The story in this game follows the same Zelda story that everybody loves but it's much different 
 at the same time. You start off as an adolescent named Link from a village called Ordon. You are 
 a goat herder until the children of the village are captured and you are sent on your adventure. 
 Soon after you will meet up with an impish girl named Midna who happens to be the Twilight Princess 
 but you do not know this until the end of the game. She is much like Navi from Ocarina of Time 
 and she gives you helpful hints throughout your journey. You originally seek out three fused shadows 
 returning the light to the land that has been taken over by twilight. However Zant, King of the 
 Twilight, takes them all and takes Midna's power. Zelda transfers her power to Midna and you head 
 to Gerudo desert to obtain the mirror of twilight. However it has been broken into four pieces. 
 You eventually venture to the Twilight Realm defeating Zant who is working for you guessed it, 
 Ganon. You defeat Ganondorf at Hyrule castle and Midna returns to the Twilight Realm. Overall the 
 game is very easy, a bit harder than Wind Waker, but you can go through the game without having 
 any trouble with combat, but you can get stuck on a few hard puzzles. However the game is very 
 long definitely the longest Zelda game to date. It will take you around forty to seventy hours 
 to beat the game including the many side quests. Their is even an entire fishing game which uses 
 the ability of the Wii-mote. Their are also three major collection quests. Their are sixty poes 
 within the game which you can only kill when you are in wolf form, their is a twenty four bug collection 
 that you will find throughout the land of Hyrule, and finally their are the heart pieces which 
 are made up of five pieces this time around. This game has a lot of action with no filler like 
 the sailing in Wind Waker. Twilight Realm portals pop up throughout the game when you defeat Twili 
 monsters. These portals are great because you don't have to travel from point a to point b, you 
 can just warp their. The size of Hyrule this time is huge. You'll return to many of the same places 
 such as Death Mountain, Lake Hylia, and Gerudo Desert, but their are also new places such as Snowpeak 
 and the City in the Sky. This game also sees the return of Epona. Horse riding is really fun, especially 
 horse combat which has its share of great boss fights. Overall the game play in this game is a 
 great achievement and anyone who has ever loved Zelda will enjoy this game. This game like its 
 predecessors has great graphics. We have to consider that this game was ported from the Gamecube 
 so the graphics don't live up to the full capabilities of the Nintendo Wii, but if this were on 
 the Gamecube than graphics are amazing. The art style in this game is also great. The game returns 
 to realistic graphics rather than the cell shaded Wind Waker, and it looks great. The game also 
 has a dark feel to it, especially the Twilight Realm which looks beautiful. I don't see why this 
 game would be rated teen because their is no blood but the game does have a dark feel to it. Places 
 such as Hyrule Castle are breathtaking and beautiful. Overall the visual presentation of this game 
 is beautiful. The music in this game is great but not perfect. Many of the great Zelda songs return 
 in this game, but are not as great as they once were. Many of the songs are pulled out of previous 
 Zelda games. The music is still really good but it could have been better. The biggest problem 
 I have with this game is that their is no voice acting. I know that is traditional to the series, 
 but it would be so much better if their was voice acting rather than text. The Wii speaker on the 
 remote is really bad so I turned it off right away. The sounds of Link and your sword are great 
 but overall the sound in this game could have been so much better. Overall the Legend of Zelda 
 Twilight Princess is one of the greatest games of all time. If you have ever enjoyed a Zelda game 
 you will love this game as well. Although the game has its flaws its no where short of perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palgeius
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  twilight princess has spent 3 years in the making and it it well worth the wait. the wii version 
 take's advantage of the new control system and uses it to it's best content. you slash your sword 
 by moving the wii remote and by doing that every move you make is more emersive and it really works. 
 the land in twilight princess is huge but it has sufficient warping systems to keep traveling from 
 becoming a chore. you will find your self much more engaged in the story line because the presentation 
 is much better and the story is much more darker than previous zelda games. but one major letdown 
 is the music, although nintedo has some of the best compsition in music most of the soundtrack's 
 are midi and not orchestrated. but over all tiwlight princess is a fantastic game and one of the 
 best zelda games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkz22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  best zelda ever!! we all been waiting for this game for a very long time and it was worth it. gameplay: 
 its just right, it feels similar to the windwaker/oot in my opinion, graphics: simply amazing , 
 even though its a port of the gamecube version, this is one of the most realistic zelda games of 
 our time. sound: nice sound effects when u hit enemys, you can just hear everything on the speaker 
 of the wiimote, value: its worth the $50.00 usd , theres at least 50- 70 hours of gameplay, and 
 youll never get bored of it, once ur playing it youll never want to put the controllers down. legend 
 of zelda twilight princess is the best zelda ever, theres more temples than ever, new characters, 
 a bigger hyrule to travel around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeWii60
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Zelda TP is AMAZING. So far I'm 25 hours in, and it's the best Zelda game I've ever played, and 
 I've played them all. The motion sensing isn't as big a problem as I thought it would be as you 
 don't have to use it very often, and it's still easy to use. Anyone worried about the graphics 
 need not worry, it's a beautiful game that will have you stopping and staring at the landscapes 
 with awe, amazing use of colours and the best art style I've seen in a game makes you forget it's 
 a Gamecube game. It's as pretty as any game you'll find out there in it's own way. And of course 
 it plays amazing, every ounce of gameplay has been finely polished to make it fun at every turn.
 
  
  You're in for a amazing time with this game. If you've ever liked a Zelda game get it. Last month 
 I beat Gears of war twice, I've put 80 hours into Oblivion, both great games and GOTY contendors 
 for many. But this is in another league, best game in years.
  
  Last gen my favourite game was RE4 on Cube
  generation before that, Zelda OOT
  Zelda TP is 
 better than both of those.
  
  Jeff must have been having a bad hair day or something, because this is one of the best games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The first Zelda game to ever launch next to a Nintendo console, the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 has seen around a three year delay before its release, and without a doubt I can say that it was 
 well worth the wait. According to Eiji Aonuma; Miyamoto, the head of Nintendo himself, was more 
 involved with Twilight Princess than any other Zelda game before, making Twilight Princess that 
 much better.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess feels natural from the beginning. You start off in a small 
 farm town, similar to alot of Zelda games, and immediately must start by herding sheep with your 
 horse Epona. After herding the sheep you will be able to do something more enjoyable, learning 
 to shoot a slingshot, and using a sword. A slingshot is a simple weapon to use, simply point at 
 the screen and press B (the trigger on the Wii Remote) ; sword usage on the other hand is a little 
 more difficult. Using a sword you must swing the Wii Remote from side-to-side or up and down to 
 perform either a horizontal slash, or vertical slash; one downside to this is that the game doesn't 
 always recognize a vertical slash. There are a few other things you can do with the sword, but 
 to not spoil any of the more advanced techniques I will not mention them. Around the same time 
 you will also acquire your fishing rod, a handy little tool for catching ... you guessed it, fish. 
 Although fishing may sound like a nice way to relax, it really isn't; fishing like in real life, 
 takes patience, unfortunately it may take a while to learn when the fish has taken a bite, and 
 even harder to reel it in; luckily fishing doesn't play much of a role except for early in the 
 game and then side quests later on. A little bonus, when using almost any weapon, you can hold 
 down Z on the Nunchuck for a more precise aim with weapons. Now getting back to herding sheep, 
 there will be a few times throughout the game where you will need to herd sheep (or even move on 
 Epona) , the downside to this is Epona may seem somewhat difficult to maneuver around corners because 
 of the added speed of riding on horseback; it can also be hard to turn around with Epona without 
 some practice at it first. One satisfying thing to Epona is the ability to use weapons while on 
 her back, making for some very fun, fast fighting. Like you would expect from Zelda games, the 
 dungeons are long and may take hours to complete if you get stuck somewhere, but still thats a 
 good thing in Zelda games. A Twilight Princess Dungeon is fairly long, and even the little mini-dungeons 
 early on may take a good amount of time to complete. If you were expecting a game similar in length 
 to that of Wind Waker, you will be in for a huge surprise; Twilight Princess can take up to 70 
 hours to fully complete with every side quest and heart piece found. Unlike in some previous games, 
 because of the length to Twilight Princess it will take you longer than before to complete a heart 
 container (5 heart pieces) . One downside to the overall massive world, though, is the fact that 
 there are very few villages of great size; the villages seem fairly small and won't even take you 
 a minute to explore most towns. Luckily there is so much more that makes up for the small villages 
 that it somewhat evens itself out.
  Now for something you all have been waiting for, the Wolf. About an hour or two into the game Link 
 will meet the denizens of Twilight and get captured in the Twilight Realm in the form of a wolf. 
 After becoming a wolf you will awaken chained up in a dungeon, and will quickly be greeted by a 
 strange Twilight creature called Midna who will help you throughout your journey. After Midna laughs 
 at you, you will break free from the chain, and be able to roam around your little cell trying 
 to figure out what to do, what some people may not realize is the attack commands for the Wolf 
 are similar to that of Link, minus weapons. After breaking out of your cell you will enter some 
 mysterious sewers and throughout your time there, Midna will be teaching you how to use your abilities 
 as a Wolf to your advantage. The Wolf controls very easily to my surprise after riding Epona, its 
 very easy to make turns and the ability to use animal-like sense comes in handy and is a valuable 
 asset to multiple parts of the game. Overall the Wolf is a nice addition to the Zelda franchise, 
 but I don't believe it will ever make a come back unless a direct sequel to Twilight Princess is 
 already in the works. Overall the game plays very well and sets a new way to play Zelda games for 
 future additions to the series.
  
  Taking into consideration that this game was designed for the Game Cube, the graphics are very 
 good. The detail in the landscape is something not seen very often in Game Cube games. The dark 
 tone in the Twilight World is very cool, although I am not too happy with the pixilated design 
 for most parts of the Twilight Realm, it is still good. The forest areas look more realistic than 
 previous Zelda games (or most all Game Cube quality games) ; the world is slightly blurry, but hardly 
 noticeable at all. The overall look to the game is far nicer than what appalled many fans in Wind 
 Waker, it fits the storyline and dark themes well, and anyone that was offended by Wind Wakers 
 cartoon graphics will be able to breathe a sigh of relief, because the look and feel of Twilight 
 Princess is almost anything by cartoony. 
  
  The regular sounds of the game are very classic tunes; it almost feels like the sound from Ocarina 
 of Time. Sadly the addition of the Wii Remotes MIC is not as nice as people had thought it would 
 be. The MIC can getting annoying from Midna's laughing whenever she has something to say to you 
 (whether it is helpful or not) ; you may here some static or crackling noise come from the Remotes 
 MIC, which doesn't really help the already annoying sounds that it emits. A nice little thing about 
 the MIC, though is the fact that it gives the sounds of sword slashes, slingshot firing, and fishing 
 rod reeling in a catch, it almost feels like you are Link doing the actions himself because of 
 these few sounds. Anyone who is a fan of Ocarina of Times music is going to love the music in Twilight 
 Princess, some people may be heading out to buy the soundtrack (yes, there is a soundtrack) as 
 soon as they play an hour into the game.
  
  You may have been hoping for a game to finally beat Ocarina of Time, unfortunately this is not 
 it. While Twilight Princess is a very fun game, it is just not as rewarding as Ocarina of Time 
 was for its time. We have reached a new age and the bar is higher now than it was when Ocarina 
 was released so Twilight Princess comes close, but misses by a little bit of being perfect. The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess may not have become the greatest game of all time, but it still 
 set a base for future Zelda games, and with the improvements the next game will most likely have, 
 we may see a game to finally de-throne Ocarina of Time not to far in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZebethOrZebes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Delays are a good thing. Yes, instant gratification is the day's trend, and many publishers respond 
 to it by rushing to release games that are not ready for human consumption. The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess is the polar opposite of this growingly apparent phenomenon. We all were dazzled 
 and in awe when Shigeru Miyamoto appeared on stage at E3 holding a Master Sword and Hylian Shield, 
 and from there we waited, wide-eyed. As the months-long anticipation turned into years-long anguish, 
 the human hype machine that is spawned by notoriety and global electronic communication built this 
 iteration up to impossible standards, and Nintendo only added to it by releasing it for the Wii 
 first. Among all the chaos of the release, those who are lucky enough to sit down and PLAY this 
 game all come to the same conclusions about the game. This is a launch title par excellence  because 
 it does everything right  it contains the proper mix of familiar faces, new use of familiar symbolism, 
 an extensive and moving story, an endearing visual aesthetic, peerless pacing and structure, and 
 plenty of enjoyable surprises. They all conspire to put this game at the top wrung in the Zelda 
 hierarchy.
  
  Link (or whatever the player names him) is back in an all-new adventure. Unlike the abrupt beginning 
 to Ocarina of Time and Link to the Past; the player is eased into Link's shoes among the people 
 of Ordon village. Link starts out as a farm-hand, herding goats for a living. Of course, the opening 
 village sequence serves a double purpose: To foreshadow Link as the be-all-do-all hero of Hyrule, 
 and to get new players and rusty players a chance to get acquainted with the structure of Zelda 
 games that has been in place since the original on the NES. Soon after giving the player a sense 
 of the gratitude that comes from non-player characters whom one helps, the game thrusts Link into 
 a bizarre and wonderful story with a unique and extremely interesting interpretation of the Zelda 
 mythology. Of course, the overture is that the land becomes tainted by an evil power, and needless 
 to say Link is the one responsible for vanquishing it. Just how he does it, how long it takes him 
 to do it, and in what kinds of skills the player is tested, are some of the aspects most worthy 
 of praise.
  
  This is the first Zelda game that makes manual aiming more fun than locking on, and of course, 
 this is a good thing. Aiming with the Wii remote with all of Link's range attacks are perfectly 
 intuitive. In stark contrast to using the N64 or GameCube analog stick for aiming, the pointer 
 is a natural integration and adds to the game's excellent sense of immersion. The same is true 
 for sword combat. Though it requires both physical and psychological agility to contemplate the 
 idea of movement as a type of video game command, once the player gets the opportunity to swing 
 at an enemy while riding horseback, one understands its importance. Twilight Princess has superb 
 pacing and structure, and this game represents the perfection of the Zelda formula. In this iteration 
 the dungeons are spaced perfectly, cinematic cut-scenes as plot devices are insightful, intriguing 
  and, most importantly  entertaining. Moreover, the boss fights and overall combat improve in 
 challenge and enjoyment as the game progresses, and the same is true for the puzzles. An important 
 part of pacing in all games is how much of it is left to the player, especially in an open-ended 
 game like Zelda. Twilight Princess contains an almost ideal amount and variety of side-quests and 
 mini dungeons; as well as bedeviling, yet enjoyable scavenger hunts. But no matter how well-constructed 
 a game's pacing, structure, and play mechanics; it is all meaningless without the right visuals 
 to tie it together.
  
  And Twilight Princess has just that. While it is true that the occasional aliasing problems and 
 pattern-repetition in textures are visible, the mesmerizing use of light bloom combined with the 
 spectacular architecture, and fantastic and surreal environmental details make this game's visual 
 appeal great. Link's various character models are all well-rendered and sufficiently different 
 from one another to be appealing in their own way, the heads-up display is not cluttered, despite 
 the omnipresence of on-screen prompts and information. The menus are cleanly designed and easy 
 to naviagate. The other characters all have lifelike and individuated (if purposely cartoonish) 
 countenances, and this adds to the game's charm. Accentuated by the spellbinding visuals, the outstanding 
 audio is the centrepiece of this game; artistically, and technically.
  
  The sound designers tease a desire for the old classics out of the player by putting eerie pseudo-replicas 
 of the movements Zelda fans have memorized; and the occasional battles, environments, and situations 
 that contain those old Zelda tunes are so well-placed they feel like rewards for reaching them. 
 Having said that, the new pieces of music, especially those heard in the new environments, are 
 excellent, and they supplement the tone of the plot, gameplay, and environment exceptionally well. 
 The sound effects, especially when experienced in surround sound are absolutely sublime. With the 
 Wii remote speaker turned off, the audio is no worse for wear, and in fact the experience is better 
 this way. Explosions, the sounds of horses and other wild animals running over a variety of types 
 of ground, the shrieks of other-worldly beasts, the sound of metal hitting metal, the flames crackling 
 and all the other effects all bear disparate degrees of conformity to reality, but all are believable, 
 and as a whole, the sound effects are engrossing. The audio is the game's best feature, and is 
 the point at which the bar is raised highest for future Zelda games.
  
  There is much to be done in Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and the vast majority of it is 
 thoroughly entertaining. As a whole, the game itself is quite long and the appeal of the story, 
 visuals, audio, and the ponderous variety in the game's play mechanics make this the best Zelda 
 game so far and easily one of the best games of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiFii
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Without spoiling anything outright, this was an overall GOOD entry into the long-running Legend 
 of Zelda series. A few twists and surprises are to be found, and will only be noticed by long-time 
 fans such as myself. The aiming system is cool and immersive, and I really liked some of the new 
 weaponry and gadgetry that were introduced into this edition... too bad some of it is only used 
 for a very short time before it has no use anywhere else in the game.
  All around, it was fun and all... but it's definitely not the best one so far... THAT title is STILL 
 held by Ocarina of Time!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishmobsta4eva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Three or so years ago, The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker was released. Personally, I thought 
 this game was great. It was an unexpected yet welcome change from the typical Ocarina of Time/Majora's 
 Mask Zelda gameplay. Yet, I couldn't help feel puzzled on how this all fit into the traditional 
 Zelda universe. In comes Twilight Princess, after a very long wait, to bring Zelda faithful the 
 traditional 3-D console gameplay they love, yet staying to the Wind Waker style storytelling. You 
 start the game as the town' of Ordon's cattle rancher assistant, constantly surrounded by little 
 kids begging for help. At a first glance, the game begins feeling so monotonous that one wonders 
 if it's really worth playing. After running some errands, you discover a barrier of darkness (twilight) 
 beyond the village. As you are absorbed into it, your adventure begins. You are transformed into 
 a wolf and are imprisoned in some dingy cell, where you meet Midna, a mysterious diety and one 
 of the main focuses of the game. Right about here you start to have fun. Now, as a minor complaint, 
 the storyline seems to be a little bit too reminiscent of old Zelda games. Can't really say much 
 more, but just my own opinion.
  
  First thing's first: the Wii remote not only makes gameplay so much more exciting in TP, it makes 
 things a whole lot smoother as well. I was worried at first about the lag between controller swing 
 and Link's actual swing, but rest easy, as it's basically non-existant. Now, certain fat losers 
 (some going by the name of Jeff) will disagree with me and tell me that their swings are always 
 off, but what you have to realize is all you need is a little flick from the remote. And as far 
 as hookshotting/bow-and-arrow battles go I have one thing to say: I wish there was more. The sense 
 you get shooting ugly mofo's off their pig-horses is just exhilarating. Finally, the sounds coming 
 out of the Wii's speaker make you feel right there: the sword slashes each have a different sound 
 depending on which direction/what move you use.
  
  Another thing a lot of you old Zelda fans are wondering is how Hyrule field looks. Well, like most 
 other things in the game, it's certainly beautfiul and smooth, but there's not a whole lot to do 
 in it despite its size. My biggest complaint about this game is lack of fun sidequests. I really 
 do not want to collect bugs or hunt for the same Poe enemy 60 times. And, falling under the same 
 category, a lot of you are probably wondering what the dungeons are like. Well, as to be expected 
 yet surprising nonetheless they are some of the most innovative/puzzling levels in all of video 
 gaming. The Yeti-themed snow level is my favorite Zelda-level of all time.
  
  But what really makes this game shine is the combat. Straying away from the old B-is-swing-your-sword, 
 you have a considerable amount of variety in deciding how to kill your enemy. The finishing move 
 and roll around slice from Wind Waker return, along with some more new tricks, each at your command 
 at any time. Mortal Draw FTW. Seriously, sword battles have never been this intense in a game. 
 On a last note, the new items in Twilight Princess don't get a whole lot of use. Outside of the 
 dungeon where I got an item, I could only find one or two spots that the item would come in handy. 
 And some of them are just downright stupid.
  
  All and all, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess draws everything you loved from Ocarina of 
 Time and Wind Waker to provide you with a fun, intense, and immersive game which will not leave 
 your Wii console for weeks. Truly one of the best launch titles for any system ever; it would be 
 a shame if you were to miss out on this buffet of awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megazombie55
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The best zelda game sence The ocarina of time ! This game is not only the best zelda game money 
 can buy, but it is one of the best games ever created! Game play
  The game play combines simple sword play with a hole lot of fun! Hack'in and slash'in enemys down 
 has never been so fun! The lay out works pefectliy! All the buttens on the controler make sence. 
 There are no odd butten place ments and omost no proplems with the wii remote and numcku. Basicly 
 you just swing the remote gentley to do diffent sword moves. The numcku is self-explaneitory, move 
 the analog stick to move link. If there is any thing bad about the lay out, it is that the remote 
 to sencitive to your movement. I mean you could be walking and link will swing aruptly. But its 
 easy to get used to. Score: 9 superb
  
  Graphics
  There has been alot of mixed opinions about the graphics. And some of them are right, some are 
 worng. But here is what i think. You got to understand that this is basicly a gamecube game brought 
 over to a newer system with a few tiwks. The armour on link looks very detailed. But the good looking 
 detail ends there. The small cracks walls and coners in the game are not smothed out and get abit 
 sloppy. But other than that there ok. But like I said its not next gen. But it is better than any 
 of the pevorous zedla games.
  score: 8 Great
  
  Sound
  The sound and music in twilight princess are epic and legendary! It combines classic zelda hits 
 with a few newer and twikied songs. Infact the sound track is so good that it is worth going to 
 game stop and buying the cd of it! And after you hear the tracks in the game, you can't but think 
 of the music while you think of the zelda seires. I think that it just might be one of the resons 
 so many people buy this game. That and that this game is AWSOME!
  Score: 10 perfect
  
  Value
  I personly think that this game should sell for 65$ instead of 50$. Its just epic!! What 
 they did with this game with a small limite of money to play with is nothing short of saggering!! 
 I have nothing eals to say but it is just a wonderful game that not only that long time fans of 
 the series should play, but newcomers! You will not be disopounted!!!!!
  Score: 10 pefect
  
  Reviewer's tilt
  score: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SithLordWookiee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is beautiful no matter what some people say, of course it could look better 
 but who that matters cares THAT much. The controls are nice and responsive. The story is great 
 and is quite interesting. Sound wise this game is great the sounds from the Wii-mote are a little 
 low quality but it still adds some extra realism. I'm a little disapointed that there is no voice 
 acting but i got over that after i started playing. Anybody that has a Wii I would tell to pick 
 this game up. Not the greatest Zelda but OoT is hard to beat. On the fun factor a definite ten 
 out of ten. A must-have for any Wii gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatGoomba
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay is a solid good. Twilight princess takes perfect charge of the the Wii remote's 
 capabilities while still holding onto the classic control style. The story is well-formed and easy 
 to follow adding a darker, cinematic story line. Graphics- A beautiful environment with great details 
 to enemies and link himself. The boss design has phenomenal graphical design and the water has 
 a great reflection. Sound- The sound effects are indescribable. they perfectly link the Controller 
 speaker to the Television speakers. Although repetitive music, it is still good music, like listening 
 to your favorite song over and over!
  
  Value- It takes a solid 30-70 hours to complete this game without sidequests included. (depending 
 on your Zelda Experience) I finished the game in 45 hours but I played 3 sidequests. I've played 
 Zelda since ALTTP. This game has HIGH replay value.
  
  Tilt- I'm digging the controls in this game. Swinging the sword, aiming the arrows, tossing bombs, 
 &amp; casting the Fishin' rod! Overall, this game deserves a 10 out of 10. And my opinion for best 
 game of all time! thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEITH1437
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  It's time my young Link. Time to ride again. Riding into the best dang game on the Wii yet. You 
 start out in the village of Ordon. ( I'm not going to give the whole story away) When you start 
 you have a couple of tasks involving a cat who is hungry, a bee hive in a tree, and ranching goats. 
 You later discover that your freind have been taken anfd it's up to you to save them. When you 
 go into the woods you are taken a transformed into a wolf and are greeted by a little monster named 
 Midna who is like your Navi from LOZ , Ocarina of Time. You are only a wolf when stumble into a 
 realm called the Twilight. With a great story, Good graphics , amazing sound, and superb controls, 
 you'll fall in love with Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonicKirby
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  On November 19th, 2006, a revolution occurred. Alongside that revolution, there was a game; a game 
 featuring a familiar face clothed in green and an equally familiar kingdom in need of a hero. Of 
 course, that revolution is the Nintendo Wii and its bold companion is The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. Without a doubt, Twilight Princess is possibly the greatest launch title since Super 
 Mario 64, and the greatest game since The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Not only does Twilight 
 Princess prove that the Wii works well, it also proves that even the most renowned series can throw 
 every thing it's know for out the window.
  
  Concerning gameplay, there is nothing quite like Twilight Princess out on the market. Everything 
 feels fresh and new; rarely, if ever, does the game feel clunky and unwieldy. The controls are 
 a perfect match for the game, and they're extremely responsive. Even though the sword doesn't match 
 the direction and angle of the Wii Remote's slashes, the feeling of slashing itself is intuitive. 
 Additionally, the player is given the ability to initiate a shield attack at a certain point in 
 the game. Although this shield attack is a subtle detail, it's one of the many things during combat 
 that add a whole new dimension to the game's motion-based combat; the motions made with the Wii 
 Remote and Nunchuk don't need to be exaggerated. In fact, light wrist flicks do the job nicely, 
 giving reassurance to those who are afraid they may hurt themselves during gameplay. In comparison, 
 the wolf version of Link controls exactly the same way, with a few surprising tidbits I can't detail 
 here for sake of spoilers.
  
  Aside from the motions of sword-slashing and shield-jabbing, there are two other types of gameplay 
 elements: Pointing the Wii Remote at the screen and conventional button pressing. Certain weapons 
 require pointing the Wii Remote at the screen; this then brings up an on-screen reticle used for 
 aiming. While the aiming portion is, at times, unforgivably accurate, the accuracy only adds to 
 the immersive feel, rather than taking from it as one is suspect to feel. If worse comes to worst, 
 there's an option to adjust the Wii Remote's sensitivity through the game's option menu. Thus, 
 any problems related to aiming become nonexistent.
  
  The third type of control, conventional button pressing, holds a surprising amount of dominance 
 over the other two control methods despite the innovations of the motion-sensing control. While 
 most of the sword slashes are influenced by motion, moving on the field, dodging attacks, locking 
 on enemies and even some snippets of attacking are controlled through traditional button presses 
 and control stick movement. At first there's some disappointment over the fact that Nintendo couldn't 
 take advantage of the motion sensing in some of these areas, but the different control schemes 
 blend together too well for anyone to truly care.
  
  The graphics for Twilight Princess are simply amazing, both visually and artistically, even for 
 the Wii's two times better than Gamecube hardware. The character models look awesome and don't 
 suffer any sort of compression throughout the game: Link will look as detailed as he was in the 
 beginning of the game, and will even remain consistent in detail with the cinematic cutscenes. 
 On top of that, the lighting effects and the lush environments make Twilight Princess the best-looking 
 and most immersive world the action-adventure genre has ever seen to date. Many, many cool effects 
 are also in store, but dishing them out here would only spoil the fun and the story.
  
  The sound is Twilight Princess' weakest spot, but for reasons concerning the last generation of 
 gaming. Even though the trailers from both E3 '04 and E3 '05 featured fully-orchestrated music, 
 the end product didn't follow through on the amazing score that could have been made. Furthermore, 
 none of the music in this game seems memorable with the exceptions of the beginning and ending 
 themes. Regardless of the oversights concerning orchestration, the other sounds in the game are 
 fit for the grandeur of any Zelda game: Many familiar sounds, like the chime that plays after uncovering 
 a secret or the subtle ring of a rupee hitting the ground, come back in this installment of the 
 series. Some of these sounds, like the chime, come out of the Wii Remote's speaker. The problem 
 with the speaker is that sometimes the sounds cut off or are much lower in quality than the sounds 
 coming out of a TV speaker. Even still, the sounds coming out of the Wii Remote aren't necessary 
 for gameplay and be turned down on the Wii's home menu if they're getting annoying.
  
  Value is a strong aspect of Twilight Princess and it shows right from the get-go: Heart containers 
 require five pieces, there are two realms to explore, and there are a huge number of sidequests 
 and puzzles to think through. The promise is that it'll take the average-yet-hardcore gamer roughly 
 30-40 hours to beat, but for those who have been fans of the series since the first game, it could 
 probably be beaten well under that time. That being said, completing the game is a whole different 
 story. Completion could probably run anywhere from 50-70+ hours even for the most dedicated Zelda 
 fan. So, players won't have an easy time putting this game down, even after they've beaten the 
 final boss.
  
  All in all, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has been a pleasure to play through and it definitely 
 carries out a guarantee of pure, unadulterated fun. Anyone picking up a Wii should definitely consider 
 picking this game up since it's a worthy purchase and probably couldn't be completed under a rental. 
 For better or for worse, the motion-sensing controller scheme works well and even the skeptical 
 should give it try before pretending they don't like it. The gameplay is accessible to anyone, 
 but it's hard enough of a game to push the run-of-a-mill gamer to hardcore status. The overall 
 package of Twilight Princess is truly astounding. If anything, I would have gladly paid more for 
 this game, but I'm twice as glad Nintendo didn't go that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  As any Zelda fan can tell you, the Legend of Zelda series is one of the greatest series in all 
 of gaming. The mind-blowing gameplay, amazing stories, and awesome music are the reason that this 
 series is so revered by gamers and critics alike. The newest game in the series, The Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess, is probably the best game in the series to date.
  
  Oh man, where should I start? The game opens to a scene of Link talking to a man from his hometown. 
 Just looking at the scenery gives you the hint that you are in for one huge adventure. After you 
 get a little farther into the game, you learn about the main bad guy and the main plot (I won't 
 tell what happens because I don't want to spoil any parts of the game) . The cutscenes in TP are 
 awesome. This is the most dramatic and well told Zelda game to date. Some moments are sad, some 
 moments are epic, and some moments are seriously creepy. TP does a beautiful job of telling an 
 epic tale of a hero, a dark world, and the rescue of a land being eaten alive by evil.
  
  The gameplay in TP is just as good as all the other Zelda games. You swing your sword, you shoot 
 your arrows, and you start things on fire. The gameplay is much more exciting and there are many 
 more things to do than I just descibed, but it will take to long to describe everything in detail. 
 Like I've already said, this game is massive, and that includes all of Link's attacks, weapons, 
 and items. Obviously, the controls are dramatically different in TP. The new Wii controls fit the 
 Zelda gameplay perfectly. And I mean PERFECTLY. Don't listen to gamespot's review, the controls 
 aren't tacked on . Swinging your sword with the Wii remote and aiming with the remote to shoot 
 arrows and target things with your clawshot is always satisfying.
  
  The graphics and sound are just amazing. Sure, the game started as a Gamecube title, but that doesn't 
 mean the game looks bad. The graphics don't use the Wii's full power, but this is one of the most 
 gorgeous games I've ever seen. As far as the sound goes, it is probably the best Zelda music I've 
 ever heard. Once again, don't listen to gamespot. Just because the music is MIDI doesn't mean it 
 sounds bad. TP has one of the most beautiful music scores I've ever heard in a game.
  
  I could blab on about TP all day, but I don't want to spoil anything. TP is, hands down, the best 
 game of 2006 and the best Wii launch title. Zelda fans can have their own thoughts on whether or 
 not TP is the best Zelda ever, that's their opinion. I personally think TP is the best game in 
 the epic series. If you are a Zelda fan, a gamer, or just someone looking for a good time, you 
 need to buy Zelda: TP for your Wii (or you can buy the upcoming Gamecube version) .
  
  There is no denying it. TP is one of the greatest games of all time. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I don't care what anyone says about this game being great. I did not like this game at all. The 
 graphics were the only thing that I liked about this game. I was ticked off having to read what 
 the characters was saying. what if I couldn't read? here is the thing. The last time I played Zelda 
 was on the original Nintendo. Yeah yeah I know that I had to read then, but give me a break.... get 
 with the program and give this characters some voices. I am sure that no one really cares about 
 the voice part, but I do and this review is all about what I think about the game so, therefore 
 I hated it and I am giving this game a 6.6. I have to give it up for the sound and the graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  So after reading Jeffs Review i was bitter at the fact that he gave it such a low score for reasons 
 that were not justified. So i couldn't wait to play it. I havent played the Ocrorina of time or 
 Majoras mask so i was a little bit Zelda Starved. Gameplay: When i first started playing It, I 
 was amazed at the music and the Graphics. Classic Zelda and the main menu movie was amazin. Navigation 
 is awesome and the control scheme is perfect. There is nothing wrong with gameplay at all. Its 
 just a amazing what the wii remote can do. I dont want to spoil too much for people but sword fighting 
 is awesome whether its on the ground or on your horse or as a wolf. Using the Fishing rod, Boomerang 
 , Bow and Arrow all works perfect
  
  Graphics:
  
  So all the wii graphic haters listen up. LOZ: TP has amazing graphics. I remember seeing the field 
 for the first time and i was so amazed at the graphics. The Devs did a wonderful job. The Characters 
 look amazing, Hyrule looks amazing, Every thing graphically look great
  
  Sound:
  
  The score is amazing. I love the Zelda music in TP. Despite what Jeff said that Sound on the Controller 
 works Really well and it plays a big part of the game and you will find out why. Its a mixture 
 of classic zelda music and new music. I think the adventure music that they have as your running 
 is perfect and you find yourself humming along. The only problem with sound is there is no Voice 
 dialogue. But i can get over that easily
  
  
  annoyances:
  
  I do have a couple of annoyances, The biggest annoyance is the no voices but i can get over that. 
 I am not a huge fan of playing as a wolf and midna is a little annoying but its not big deal
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall the game is the BEST in the series. The bosses are huge and incredible 
 and allot of fun to fight. You find your self really thinking on what to do next or how do i do 
 that... and you try something and it works. Its so awesome. I would have to say that its the best 
 in the zelda series even though i really liked the original and a link to the past. Bottom Line:
 
  
  Jeff needs to go back and play this game again. Hes a Nintendo Hater and really doest have a right 
 to do reviews for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogueJedi0x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  When someone speaks of Nintendo the two most prominent names often immediately mentioned are Mario 
 and Zelda. The Legend of Zelda has been a hallmark series from Nintendo since their first console, 
 its a classic and always come with great hype and expectation. One thing Zelda is good at is delivering 
 in terms of quality and that is what Twilight Princess does here. With the launch of a new console 
 and a new control scheme with the Wii mote, Nintendo needed a launch title that can prove this 
 scheme can work. More importantly they needed a title that can prove this scheme can work with 
 what people buy Nintendo for, their classic franchises. Twilight Princess is Nintendo's flag boat 
 to prove that the Wii mote will deliver. Controls:
  
  That being said you'll be glad to know that the new control scheme works very well. Controlling 
 Link's sword is as easy as a flick of the wrist. While some may be disappointed (or happy) to discover 
 you don't need to do full motion sword swipes with the Wii mote to attack. Just a simple left to 
 right-or vice versa- flick of the controller and Link will draw and attack with his sword. The 
 Nunchuka controls Link's movement and by flicking side to side you can perform a spin attack, or 
 a shield bash if you thrust it forward. Any device that requires aiming, such as the bow or boomer 
 rang, is aimed with the Wii mote pointed at the screen so it is fairly simple and accurate. The 
 only problems I've faced with this scheme is with the Nunchuka, sometimes when you try to pull 
 off a shield bash you do a spin attack or vice versa. Also there have been a couple jumping puzzles 
 where I've fallen to my doom due to Link's misdirection. This is a combination of not holding the 
 Nunchuka in a traditional joystick position and the fact that you can't control the camera. The 
 only way you can influence the camera is by holding Z to center it where your facing or adjusting 
 where your looking with the free look. After you get used to it you will forget that there were 
 camera controls but these rare instances where Link is facing the wrong way on a jump does bring 
 up that memory. Aside from these minor issues though the controls are solid and you'll soon be 
 accustomed and enjoying the Wii motes interesting features.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is what you come to expect from a Zelda game, the beginning will introduce to the 
 new controls and nuances right before tossing you into your first dungeon. The thing that really 
 deserves mentioning is the horseback riding though, it puts Oblivion's use of horses to shame. 
 Epona's animations and handling makes it feel like how a real horse would react. You can actually 
 see the reins this time around and the dash system is back. The biggest improvement is horseback 
 combat, there are three sections in the main quest where you will engage in epic horseback combat. 
 These are arguably the most exciting and satisfying pieces of the game because they are done so 
 well. Other than these sections you can also experience horse back combat just by riding around 
 Hyrule field but none on the scale of the quest sequences. The dungeons are well done once again 
 and none of them have impossible to solve puzzles. They are actually quite manageable although 
 some puzzles will have you thinking for a few moments (often times you'll feel dumb at the obviousness 
 when you figure it out) . The boss fights have an epic scale but some of them are extremely easy 
 and rather short. In fact the longer drawn out battles often either had time consuming conditions 
 to defeat them or simply took a while to figure out how to defeat them. The final boss battle is 
 definitely the most exciting as it draws on all elements of the game for you to prevail and it 
 is very well done. There are also new never before seen items that are very unique and fun to use. 
 In short the gameplay is solid and it takes around 40 hours to beat without side quests. That being 
 said the other major aspect of Zelda, the story, seems to fall short. Granted it is a good story 
 but a lot of it this time around seems random when it is first presented to you. Not until the 
 game's finale will things make sense and even then it will feel somewhat lacking in full explanation. 
 While the game does a good job of character development this time around the main plot line just 
 doesn't seem to flow as well in terms of the explanation behind them. For instance you spend a 
 good portion of the first part of the game hunting down three items of power only for them to be 
 shrugged off at the next major scene (following a very strange and somewhat confusing explanation) 
 until they reappear suddenly before the finale. It's not that you don't know what you're supposed 
 to do or fight for its just that the explanation in the game is very veiled this time around. Windwaker 
 had a much better story in my opinion and flowed better, it also followed Ocarina Time which is 
 the basic story of all 3D Zelda games thus far. Placing Twilight Princess in this time line is 
 difficult as it seems to follow Ocarina but also has deviations from Windwaker, suffice to say 
 it is either after Ocarina and before Windwaker or after Ocarina and in its own special time line. 
 Graphics:
  
  Being a 360 owner its hard for me not to notice how last gen this game seems. That being said it 
 is expected from the Wii and while it is not as mind blowing as Gears of War it is still a great 
 looking game. Much like Windwaker's ability to look beautiful with its anime style graphics, Twilight 
 Princess looks great with its darker toned art. The world and characters still look very colorful 
 and vibrant, while obviously not on par with the 360 and PS3 the graphics here still are solid 
 and immerse you in the world. The game has very good draw distance too, I've seen supposed next-gen 
 titles with worse and it never slow downs. Sound:
  
  Everything from the score to the sound effects are great with classics, remixes and new themes 
 among the soundtrack. I especially like how items and your sword sound effects come from the Wii 
 mote speaker. While Gamespot complained of the low quality I enjoyed it as it actually made you 
 feel you were wielding the sword or item and I can't wait to see where other Wii games take advantage 
 of this feature. Closing Remarks:
  
  While not without its flaws Twilight Princess is a solid gameplay experience and in the end very 
 enjoyable. At the same time it felt somewhat as a rehash, largely because this game has many aspects 
 that are very nostalgic to Ocarina of Time and other titles you almost feel as if playing the same 
 game. While true in other titles the story's subtle and not completely explained presentation makes 
 it stand out more. I likely feel this way because the last title I played was Windwaker which brought 
 cloture to the Ocarina of Time plot line and Twilight Princess takes you back in a somewhat different 
 direction. The best way for me to describe it would be to compare it to the reboot movies such 
 as Batman Begins and the new 007 Casino Royale which take a series that already moved on and bring 
 it back to the basics. So while the story may feel strange to some at times it is still good and 
 the gameplay and enjoyment value is still strong here. In the end Twilight Princess proves Nintendo's 
 control scheme does work and holds promise for the future. If you bought a Wii console at launch 
 this game is a reason to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Hmm, I already wrote a review, didn't I? Well, I have to say, after a second play through and just 
 another couple of opinions and statements that have passed by me, I had to revise my mis-wrote 
 review. Yes, I do think it is the most fun I've had in a Zelda game yet, but the whole Zelda formula 
 is a lot messed up with uninspired and disappointing Twilight sequences, and one too many promises 
 not kept. Nintendo said that this game would have the most dungeons and could be over 100 hours 
 long. True? Absolutely not. The game has 9 dungeons, the equivalent to OoT, and will only take 
 30-40 hours on a first play through. That's not a bad thing, just Nintendo lied and acted like 
 Sony, which kind of made me a bit disappointed. The dungeons are really fun and interesting. They're 
 littered with fun puzzles and tons of fun enemy encounters, but the games difficulty isn't quite 
 up to speed. Bosses that are easily 50 times your size only doing a quarter of a heart's amount 
 of damage? Especially when it's the boss before your final showdown with your favorite villain. 
 Yes, it is that easy. However, the game makes up for it with difficult and well crafted puzzles, 
 and an amazing story to boot. Unfortunately, the gameplay can't quite match the high standards 
 made by what the story sets out to tell. Sure, they took out the magic, the special arrows, and 
 a few enemies.... but they really do make up for it. TO BE CONTINUED BY A MORE EXTENSIVE VIDEO 
 REVIEW!!!! SORRY FOR THE MISLEAD 1st REVIEW... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I knew this game was going to be good, but my god i didnt expect this much. i LOVE this game. Sheer 
 brilliance. truly one of the best games ever created. Gamespot, this game deserves more than 8.8, 
 infact i think its off the scale on this rating system here. sure there are no voice overs. WHO 
 CARES? Sure the graphics arent brilianT. who cares? Cause this is gaming perfection in its best 
 form. its the game you MUST OWN. Its the game you'll tell people to get if they ask whats a good 
 game for thier wii, its the example of why nintendo is still up on top. I just annot stress how 
 good this is. all i can say is get it, try it for yourself. really. Sure, its easy to complete. 
 But that means more of us will see the ending, and less sleepless nights spent trying to think 
 of strategys or what the plot is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrusttx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I had a hard time getting this for my Wii, but I'm happy I did. I started playing this and before 
 I knew it I had over 20 hours on it. I love the story, truely a Zelda Classic. I admit using the 
 remote takes some getting used to and I wouldn't mind knowing more about optimum height of the 
 TV in comparison to the sensor bar. I will say that the only glitch I found was in the later level, 
 I found the broken sky cannon and saved before getting the guy to leave the room. I started playing 
 again the next day however the guy was gone but when I tried to leave the room he was in the room. 
 Had to start again to fix that problem. Otherwise I love the game. Would recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoys a good story or Zelda fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsguy464646
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Ah, sweet Twilight Princess. The most desired game for years, does not fail to disappoint our zelda-craving 
 world. The game itself is amazing, as expected, and yet a small portion seems old. The graphics 
 are absolutely perfect, the length will keep you busy for days, and maybe even weeks if you do 
 everything. The learning curve is perfect, although the Wii-based aiming can be rather difficult 
 at first. My best complaint for this game is that they used mostly the same old sounds from the 
 old games, which all us zelda fanatics have heard time and time again. In short, it's an amazing 
 game and anyone who can should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is possible to compete with Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 
 It has the best artistic style i've seen besides Okami. The gameplay is the old zelda we know and 
 love. Plus, they've added a wonderful twist... the Wii Remote. At some points, the sound coming 
 out of the controler, can be chopy, but it's not a big issue. The controls are put together extremly 
 well, you have that good old Z-targeting and Zelda moves that we all remember plus extras, which 
 you get by finding a howling stone and howl out the notes, then change to human to find a wolf 
 that will teach a new ability, (there are 7 total) . The dugeons are put together and designed amazingly 
 from room to room, and don't forget the exotic bosses. From one dungeon to the next they have the 
 most clever booses I've seen since Ocarina of Time. They have added new wepons this time and they're 
 better than ever! I don't want to spoil the fun, so I won't tell you what they are. This Zelda 
 games, is a lot longer than all of the other games. To finish the whole entire game 100%, you'd 
 have to play for more than 100 hours. I still haven't finished it because it's so long. The story 
 line is very well put together. This game has so may side missions, mini games etc.. that it's 
 mind numbing just trying to figure out how many there are. To sum it all up, this is the best Zelda 
 game up to date besides Ocarina of Time, and they're tied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSteve120
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I am sure you have read everyone saying why the love it so much so I won't bother you by telling 
 you the exact same thing.
  
  But this is why it did not get a perfect 10:
  
  Throughout out the entire first five hours of the game I had a serious case of deja vu since the 
 game plays out exactly like other Zeldas.
  
  The expansive environments and wii controls are the only innovative things here, otherwise story 
 and gameplay is 100% classic Zelda.
  
  The music is synthesized... SYNTHESIZED!!! This is zelda, a big budget game, the music should be 
 orchetral.
  
  And it uses the Wii controler's tinny low quality speaker way too much so the sound ends up gross.
 
  
  There are also no voice overs.... THIS IS 2006!!! ALL TEXT SCREENS!!!... grr sorry.
  
  But past all that it is an awesome game and in reality those are only minor flaws.
  
  9.0/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorjazzager
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game has all the makings of an amazing Zelda game.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii has all the ability to take you back to the 
 Nintendo 64 era when Zelda may just have been all that mattered to you. The story is deep and well 
 put together and introduces a plethora of new exciting plot while still remaining true to the classic 
 Save Zelda theme.
  
  The game makes great use of the Wii remote. The Controls are intuitive enough but at the same time, 
 simple enough to make the game very enjoyable.
  
  It introduces an array of new collection items and weapons to use... it's awesome. Visuals are 
 wonderful, even if they're not up to par with the Xbox 360 or Playstation 3. The game keeps you 
 wanting to play and it is longer than most Zeldas, which is a good thing for anyone who just can't 
 get enough of the hack and slash, z-targeting sword-fighting style of Link and all of his other 
 abilities.
  
  This game is absolutely wonderful and it is only a preview of what hopefully is to come of the 
 future Wii games and Zelda Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay : Simply really good for a zelda game and fit perfeclty with the game. Still have some 
 flaws in the camera. 9/10.
  
  Graphic : Way better then what I was waiting for. Really good at some place but can be poor at 
 other. Comepared to game on the ps3 or xbox360, it cant be perfect. 8/10
  
  Sound : All the sound effect are really nice and the music fit really well with the game (the music 
 have been change a bit and are not the same as in ocarina of time) . The sound is not perfect because 
 there is no voice actin and that the sound that come out of the Wiimote is crappy some time but 
 still a nice feature. 8/10
  
  Value : 50$ for more than 45h of play totaly worth it.
  
  Tilt : Simply just too fun to play. The story line is unique and really well done. It is a guilty 
 pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gragon2005
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Let me just say my friend has this, and I believe it is the greatest game so far, besides the upcoming 
 Brawlz, and Halo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordBrittish
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Strategy guide.
  
  I finally finished Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess tonight. It was such a great game. It was 
  Just like a Zelda game is supposed to be. The artistic styles 
 of the Twilight world were beautiful! It gave an awesome feel to the game. Definently a twist on 
 your typical Zelda art styles. Midna is links Navi in this game. She is WAY cooler than Navi though. 
 Navi was a fairy in the Ocarina of time. While helpful, she was pretty plain to look at. Midna 
 is alot cooler and acts really mean, but ends up saving your life a couple of times. From a one 
 to ten, I give it an 11. This game is a masterpiece and won't be forgotten. Just like Ocarina of 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  It seems odd how the olod approach can be so revitalising.
  I have to admit that the first look was somewhat of a shock. Not the graphics, not thee controls, 
 but it felt like something i had seen before. Not a deja vu, not a vision, but an appproach. It 
 feels so much like the start of the Nintendo 64 version. It is not a copy, it is not a remake. 
 This game is original, but i feel that the Nintendolites consider that to be the good starting 
 point, and i agree. This game is nothing less then brilliant. Just like i still admire the Ocarino 
 of time for what it offered. Now, close to a decade later that game is still in my mind. I feel 
 that the twilight will bring a new legend to our TV's.
  
  The game starts as all games start. with a stream, and a person seeking help. Don't all great RPG 
 games start in this way:
  'Let me help you!'
  
  That is what this game offers. a journey, and with the change of the moves and movements you never 
 made before, this game is one step closer to bringing your mind and body to the edge of the RPG 
 world. Soon you will no longer sit and feel the dry ness of sitting until you run out of energy 
 staring. This game will make you sore, the muscles and reflexes drained by fighting the opponents. 
 Perhaps this game will one day mmakke you the athlete, and make you the future athlete to compete 
 in the game for the crown of Hyrule. The beginning is now. The player?
  Are you game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmadeoDan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Can you ask for anything better than Zelda launching on a new innovative Nintendo System? Nope, 
 you sure cant. You cannot go wrong here either. This is the same Zelda you expect yet it upholds 
 tradition and exceeds with remarkable story telling and new twists on gameplay. The Wii mote works 
 so well for many of the mechanics in the game. Although, I have to admit when you get tired from 
 playing all night hitting the A button would be a great alternative to swinging the mote. However, 
 when you are alert it is a very immersive feautre. The boomerang and the bow work masterfully. 
 The traditional Zelda tunes are here that all Zelda fans have come to expect from the series. Saving 
 the best for last. The Dungeons. They are very well designed and very fun to play through. This 
 is a fantastic game and it should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RivalBattousai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has always been one of the best games. And Twilight Princess does not disappoint. 
 This is reason why you buy a Nintendo Wii. The story of this game is just amazing and very addictive. 
 I love the puzzles in the game too because it makes you think but they are pretty simple. I love 
 it how Nintendo made the controls very easy so anyone can pick it up and play. That is the soul 
 purpose of the Wii right? Easy to pick and play. This game leads by example. It revolutionizes 
 how a video game should be made by not caring much for graphics and all about the story and gameplay. 
 Zelda restored faith that i now have for nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sporkguy3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  There are already a slew of reviews out there for this game, but what would be a Nintendo blog 
 site without their own review of the most anticipated Nintendo game since, well, maybe ever. The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, for both the Wii and the GameCube, raised the roof off of Nintendos 
 E3 press conference in 2004 with its very first game trailer. Now Twilight Princess is the must 
 have launch title for the Wii console selling to 75 percent of the people who bought the Wii at 
 launch.
  
  I finally finished the main quest about an hour prior to the time I began writing this review. 
 It has been a busy holiday season for me so far, but I managed to fit in around 55 hours of gameplay 
 before I beat Twilight Princess, doing a lot of side quests along the way, but still not near completion 
 of everything. From what I hear, it generally takes 30-40 hours to complete the game when you only 
 complete a few side quests here and there.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess starts you off as Link, a goat herder in the village of 
 Ordon. Ordon is very much a tutorial town that you quickly move past. Link is given the job to 
 deliver a package to Hyrule Castle, but before he can do this his hometown sweetheart Ilia, as 
 well as a few children from Ordon, is kidnapped! Its now up to Link to save them unfortunately 
 he has somehow been transformed into a wolf. Welcome to Zelda.
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  
  We have known, even when this was announced for the Wii, that this game, graphics and all, was 
 built ground up for the Nintendo GameCube console. There is no way of getting around the fact that 
 Twilight Princess looks like a GameCube game, a fantastic GameCube game, but still a GameCube game. 
 However, I still love these graphics. They might not have worked so well if Wind Waker had sported 
 similar graphics, but it didnt, and this is our first taste of what good graphics can do with 
 a Zelda game. This is the realization and so much more of the jaw dropping spaceworld demo back 
 in 2001. The graphics of Twilight Princess are very artistic, and though most of it isnt anything 
 new, it looks and runs great. Dont listen to detractors of the Wii and Zelda about these graphics, 
 they only add to the game, and do nothing to take away.
  
  Fun Factor: 10/10
  
  I split my gameplay section into two parts, fun factor and controls. This allows more points to 
 go into my final scoring from the gameplay section of the review, which should be the most important 
 part. Fun factor gets the most points of all.
  
  I dont know if this is the most fun Zelda ever, but it just might be. In Twilight Princess you 
 will be in a world enveloped in light and a world enveloped in darkness, similar to Link to the 
 Past. Whats even better than that is you get to control Link in two forms, that of a human and 
 a wolf. Early in the game you are mostly restricted to being human in light and a wolf in the twilight, 
 but that changes later in the game. Being able to play as a wolf is definitely fun, and adds a 
 lot to the game. Wolf senses are cool, allowing you to see some things that are otherwise invisible, 
 pretty much replacing the eye of truth item from previous Zelda titles, and the ability to lock 
 onto and track a scent is also cool. That being said, theres still nothing like playing as Link 
 in human form.
  
  In human form, Link does pretty much the same kind of stuff that he does in Ocarina of Time and 
 Wind Waker. He uses many of the same items that have appeared in all of the Zelda games, as well 
 as some new innovative items, and even some new ways to use old items. Most of the items have good 
 use throughout the game. For example, I didnt use the gale boomerang nearly as much as I used 
 the boomerang in Wind Waker, but it was important for puzzles throughout the game, and could be 
 used to grab items and pull small enemies such as bats closer to you. The only item that seemed 
 completely, and I do mean completely, pointless was the slingshot. After the tutorial for it I 
 must have only used it once to shoot some spiders, and never again. It didnt help that the boomerang 
 is in the first dungeon, and the bow can be found very soon after.
  
  One major gameplay tweak is the hidden skills you can learn to sword fight better with. These skills 
 help your sword fighting expertise big time, although once you have them mastered sword fighting 
 with anything can sometimes become very easy, but still harder than Wind Waker, with enemies I 
 could have beaten in my sleep.
  
  There are plenty of side quests, and puzzles in this game. From about the time you leave Ordon 
 village throughout the rest of Twilight Princess you have a fast paced adventure game filled with 
 fun.
  
  Interface/Controls: 4.5/5
  
  Despite the innovative Wiimote, controls for Zelda are pretty straight forward. It runs much like 
 Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker using the Z-targeting system, and it runs very will at that. There 
 is no doubt that shooting arrows and using other ranged items is much better than previous Zelda 
 games, using the pointer to aim and shoot is very easy. Swinging the sword by swinging the Wiimote 
 is fine and works well, but it doesnt drop my jaw. The controls work well.
  
  Sound: 2/3
  
  Great nostalgic Zelda music throughout. I wouldnt have minded if they had made 
 the music with a real orchestra however, and it is a little annoying that NPCs dont have any voice 
 acting whatsoever. Everybody knows that the speaker on the Wiimote is a cheap speaker, but I personally 
 liked the applications of it in Twilight Princess.
  
  Replay Value/Longevity: 5/5
  
  Like I said earlier, I beat the game the first time after 55 hours of play time, and there are 
 still a lot of things I have left undone. To tell you the truth, Ive only dabbled in fishing so 
 far, and havent spent much time on it at all. This is a long game that is never boring. Hyrule 
 has something interesting to do in every turn. I have no doubt that I would enjoy it again if I 
 started a new game as well.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 5/5
  
  There is a great reason that Twilight Princess is selling almost as much as the Wii console itself. 
 It is a flat out excellent game. This is a very worthy game to add to the great launch games of 
 all time. It would be hard for me to say that Super Mario Bros., Super Mario World, or Super Mario 
 64 are better games than this, Twilight Princess should be considered a great game alongside of 
 them, and right alongside Ocarina of Time and Link to the Past as far as Zelda games are concerned.
 
  
  Overall Score: 30.5/33
  
  Out of Ten: 9.6
  
  Note: Out of Ten Score is scaled on a slightly different scoring system than the 33 point scale.
 
  
  Originally posted at http://onnintendo. com/Index. aspx? page=1&amp; post=4&amp; year=2006&amp; month=12 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaterLord0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The new installment of the Legends of Zelda for the nintendo wii is a very good game but thier 
 is some problems with. Let start with the bad the one bad thing I found was the aiming for the wepons 
 like the bow or slingshoot.
  Also it make take some getting use to on the new wii controler but after you get the hand of it. It's 
 pretty easy to do all of the the task ahead.
  This game includes so light puzzle elements but thier not to hard if you play legebd of zelda before. 
 If you love the Legend of Zelda series this game is a must have. Thier is a very big new feture 
 in this game and that is being able to turn in to a wolf. You only turn in to a wolf when you go 
 through the twilight. When you are the wolf tou mustly do puzzles. Usally after completing a wolf 
 mission Link is ready at the nest temple. You gather shadow fusses. Overall I recommend getting 
 this game in to your wii library is you have 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nkenobi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The urge to sing out the famous Zelda chime played during the discovery of a new item and hold 
 it high above my head was exceptionally difficult to resist on November the 19th. Holding my brand 
 new Nintendo Wii for the very first time almost had me doing cartwheels. But more important than 
 the Wii was the game that I bought with it. The Legend of Zelda, Twilight Princess.
  
  The game play is what I expected from a Zelda game. It has an incredibly well told story where 
 I have to fight my way through hordes of enemies and solve puzzles in some of the most professionally 
 designed dungeons in any game. The characters in the story were some of the best developed, and 
 always gave the right emotion when needed. There werent many new elements when it came down to 
 playing as link, but I wouldn't dare call that a flaw as changing the fundamentals of Zelda has 
 a very real potential of destroying the experience. Playing as a wolf on the other hand was a new 
 experience, and worthy of the Zelda name. To be honest, I didn't expect Wolf Link to be very fun 
 to play as, but I am thankful I was proved wrong. I have also gained a new respect for wolves as 
 this game gave Link's wolf form some unique, but amazing personality. The dungeons really make 
 this game. Getting stuck was never an issue because the dungeons were so well designed. In fact, 
 if I ever got stuck, I just found myself extra determined to figure it out, which I eventually 
 did. Combat was very strong and added some very cinematic like moments. However, combat was also 
 far too easy; I didn't have to try in order to defeat a single boss in the game. Which was somewhat 
 disappointing do to how epic the fights were.
  
  Graphically, considering the game was developed for Game Cube, is top of the line. The Wii may 
 be able to do a bit better, but this is a top notch Game Cube look. But better than the sharp visuals 
 are how creative and artistic the game is, many reviews have noted this, and so have I. However, 
 there are a few graphical glitches. In Castle Town and the Desert the ground has an issue re-rendering 
 the lighting as the world lighting changes from day to night. It was a shame to see it struggling 
 with values, especially considering The Wind Waker was a graphically seamless game. There is also 
 the odd low resolution texture, but that is hardly a problem because they arent that common.
 
  
  The games sound effects were very cool, and the music is another work of art by Koji Kondo. However, 
 the sounds that come through the Wii-Remote is of such poor quality, that it just gets annoying. 
 Though it is even more annoying turning the Wii speaker down and not hearing anything at all. The 
 music may sound a bit dated since it isn't a full orchestration. But they are still amazing pieces, 
 and the transitions that the Midi's allow, especially during boss fights, make for very cinematic 
 moments.
  
  Some people may complain that the game needs voice acting, who knows, it may. But I think that 
 may be one step to many that could easily destroy the Zelda experience.
  
  Over all, the game is both an instant classic and a masterpiece. A few minor flaws are present, 
 but they don't get in the way of the overall experience and it was definitely my favorite game 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCRCPBXBOXFAN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  No more of the Office. Zelda on the Wii is well hard to put into words. The controls are not cumbersome 
 at all. They actually let get you get into it, like say you wanted to stand up and start wailing 
 away you can, but your legs would get very stiif, or you can use easy flicks of the wrist. Sometimes 
 you will be staring at Link or whatever, and you'll notice some blockiness but that's after hours 
 of play. Epona's legs are like hourglasses, in a bad way, but i'm not gonna poke any fun at her 
 because she is now part of the legend. I didn't think the story was that exciting but that could 
 be due to the hype. The game is fun don't let me make you think it's bad because of these tiny 
 details. That is all you can do when someting like this is put together so well is pick out little 
 details. It is not at the same level as Ocarina of Time, but lets face it OoT is god-like. This 
 is a must have. I don't remember where I read it, but over 75% bought Twilight Princess when they 
 got their Wii. That 25% was either crazy or they sold out at the store. Maybe a SPOILER AHEAD dont 
 know. It is sad to not see magick or ocarina but at least we have the Master Sword. Most of the 
 items are still there but they are named differently like in most Zelda's. What is up with five 
 pieces of heart. I will never find them all. Great game, don't miss out and at least buy the Gamecube 
 version. If you have any Questions about the game I will be happy to answer them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowninja13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is possible to compete with Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 
 It has the best artistic style i've seen besides Okami. The gameplay is the old zelda we know and 
 love. Plus, they've added a wonderful twist... the Wii Remote. At some points, the sound coming 
 out of the controler, can be chopy, but it's not a big issue. The controls are put together extremly 
 well, you have that good old Z-targeting and Zelda moves that we all remember plus extras, which 
 you get by finding a howling stone and howl out the notes, then change to human to find a wolf 
 that will teach a new ability, (there are 7 total) . The dugeons are put together and designed amazingly 
 from room to room, and don't forget the exotic bosses. From one dungeon to the next they have the 
 most clever booses I've seen since Ocarina of Time. They have added new wepons this time and they're 
 better than ever! I don't want to spoil the fun, so I won't tell you what they are. This Zelda 
 games, is a lot longer than all of the other games. To finish the whole entire game 100%, you'd 
 have to play for more than 100 hours. I still haven't finished it because it's so long. The story 
 line is very well put together. This game has so may side missions, mini games etc.. that it's 
 mind numbing just trying to figure out how many there are. To sum it all up, this is the best Zelda 
 game up to date besides Ocarina of Time, and they're tied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedFox324
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to begin this review by giving it to you straight. In my whole and honest opinion, I 
 believe that The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is the greatest Zelda game ever made. But in 
 saying that I must also follow by saying, it didn't beat Ocarina by a huge margin.
  
  Now that that's over with, I'll move on. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is currently a 
 game only available on the Wii, but series purists can rejoice, as a Gamecube version utilizing 
 the traditional control is coming out soon. The game starts with our lovably mute hero, Link, living 
 in a small farming/ranching village just outside Hyrule. He is not sporting the traditional attire 
 of green cap and tunic we're all used to, but instead wearing a ranching outfit. This portion at 
 the beginning serves as your tutorial into the world os Twilight Princess, and will keep you busy 
 for a while.
  
  I'll spare you the entire tutorial walkthrough and move onto the important plot point of the game. 
 Link is at a spring with his friend Illia, his horse Epona and young pal Colin when Moblin riders 
 attack on mounted boars. Link is knocked out but awakens to find the villages children kidnapped, 
 and a strange darke force cutting through Ordana Province (his home) . I'm sure you've all heard 
 this story from here, Link enters the Twilight Realm, turns into a wolf, meets an Imp named Midna, 
 must save Hyrule from this Twilight.
  
  Now I get to the portion where I tell you about the Wii controls. I like them, alot. It feels natural 
 giving the Wiimote a little shake, and I wouldn't want to go back to the old, monotonous button 
 mash. Aiming for Bows, Slingshots, Boomerangs, and other fun toys are done with the Wiimote as 
 well. The only place I really felt hindered by Wii controls is while fighting a boss who attacked 
 much like Ganondorf or Phantom Ganon has in the past. Hitting balls of energy back at your opponent 
 takes precision, and it's easy to mess it up with the Wii remote. Other than that, the controls 
 are solid and not at all tacked on .
  
  Puzzles and fighting in the game prove difficult at times, but a tad easy in others. The few Game 
 Over screens I saw occured in Wolf Link mode (which I'll touch on soon enough) . Fans of the large 
 scale puzzles of the Water temple in Ocarina should be pleased to hear that a pretty similar (but 
 also very different) temple has been implemented with puzzles of similar difficulty. Fighting itself 
 as Link only really posed a threat to me in an Ice based dungeon where the enemies drain your health 
 quickly and are difficult to damage. Wolf Link is difficult to describe. He controls very well 
 and theres a great satisfaction in biting your enemy to death. His required portions of the game 
 are very fun, but at the same time I never really found myself exploring Hyrule Field (which is 
 huge by the way) and constantly think I would have more fun as Wolf Link, though I did have a few 
 moments like that.
  
  Now for the overall presentation of the game. Are the grpahics comparable to those of Oblivion 
 or Gears of War? Nowhere close. IS the game itself as beautiful? Yes, probably more so. Where the 
 game lacks in graphical power, it makes up in gorgeous artistry. The twilight realm in particular 
 had aesthetic beauty that was both beautiful and at the same time sad (the change from black and 
 white was a great idea) and I loved spending time there. The characters in the game were fleshed 
 out greatly in comparison to past games, thanks to more detailed and frequent cutscenes (all suberbly 
 directed) . The character of Link himself, once shallow and mysterious, was given a great sense 
 of depth just due to actions and facial expressions that were elaborated, but not exaggerated (hehe 
 I'm a poet and don't know it) . My favorite character in the game by far is Midna. Contrary to popular 
 belief, her character is not evil nor necesarily good (at the start at least) , just mischievous 
 and cynical. She has a very interesting chemistry with Link, in a way almost sharing banter with 
 a mute character. The sound in the game is incredibly, and although it's nostalgic, dated never 
 really popped into my head as most of the music was new to me.
  
  Now I will quickly cover my few complaints, and small ones at that. The speaker in the Wiimote 
 is kind of cool at times, but if they had left it out of this game, I wouldn't have missed it. 
 Some fo the sound effects that come out of the wiimote (the change items sound for instance) are 
 quite annoying at times. The other thing I have to complain about is the textures in Hyrule field 
 which are boring and at times ugly, but you also won't notice very often. One of the major changes 
 I missed from Windwaker was the open level, free camera design given to towns. I wish the towns 
 were a little more explorable like Windwakers were, but it's once again not a big deal. And although 
 this isn't a real complaint, I'd like to vent my dissapointment at the lack of Dark Link in the 
 game, who is merely given a cameo appearance in a very surreal dream sequence.
  
  I can't think of a single reason why owners of a Wii shouldn't get either the Gamecube or Wii versions 
 of this game. If you own a Wii, BUY THIS GAME ASAP! If you own a Gamecube, DITTO! This is a game 
 that truly immerses you in not only an outstanding gaming experience, but also an epic and amazing 
 story. This game was most definitely, without a doubt, worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is an amazing game, and everyone who has a Wii should have a copy (and for the 
 most part, they already do) .
  TP has a great story, awesome visuals and some awesome gameplay. Instead of listing off all of 
 the greatness of this game... I will list the things that keep this game from being perfect:
  
  1) The controls are sometimes a little bit rough with the wiimote and nunchuck. The rough spots 
 are easy to ignore... but they're there.
  
  2) The graphics could be a little bit better (say, in a few years when developers are able to fully 
 show what the Wii can do) .
  
  3) The main story ONLY takes 35-40 hours to complete. Now this is a lot, but once you're in the 
 game you want even more! I wouldn't be upset at all if it was a 70 hour game. Even though I spent 
 40 hours playing and beating Zelda... I wish I wasn't done with it.
  
  In closing, Zelda is a great game. Buy it. I can't wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kijuki_magazaki
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Since Ocarina of Time, everyone had wanted a game with the same feeling and same thrill, that kept 
 the same expectations and fun Ocarina had to offer. Majoras Mask only gave the thrill, but the 
 feeling wasnt there. Wind Waker gave the feeling but didnt give the thrill. But did Nintendos 
 newest release for the Wii, the Twilight Princess accomplish both? Well, thats for each one of 
 us to find out, but heres how my deduction went:
  
  Gameplay  8/10
  Nintendo kept this a bit active by giving us a wolf form, and being able to slash around while 
 being on a horse, and even teleporting. This kept the gameplay in some parts very vivid, and interesting. 
 However, looking at the standard Link play, sword hacking and slashing didnt over go a major transformation; 
 the skills put out through the quest to get, where nothing more ideas from the Wind Waker (except 
 for 1 or 2, that seems to be new ideas) . In the other hand, they did add new things that you 
 could not do before, like slash while running, and like mention, slash while riding a horse. These, 
 even though small changes do bring the in-gameplay value some jump. As while being in wolf form, 
 a lot of the same attacks did apply, but I guess one could say it is funner, just to launch at 
 an enemy and cling to it and bite it until it dies; that never got old. Sometimes as a wolf youll 
 have more fun, because the gameplay while being a wolf will be more dynamic, and same physics apply 
 with the Wii-mote, except you cant use items. Only your senses, claws, mouth, ear and nose oh 
 and tail.
  
  The Wii-mote on this game works like a charm. There where very few times where I had problems, 
 but that was because I wasnt using the Wii-mote right. The handling of the Wii-mote feels natural 
 and nothing near forced, and the same goes for the nun-chuck, which in my opinion rocks. Its comfortable, 
 easy to use and feels just right. There was a downside, but this may be with me; when selecting 
 the items you may often forget which button is which to put an item on your shortcut icons, and 
 may even accidentally put something else by mistake when you are in a fight and need a weapon fast, 
 so it is best to pause for a moment when changing items so you dont end up getting something you 
 are not looking for.
  
  Overall however, the controller scheme is awesome, and works well with the gameplay. Doubtful users 
 of the new controller WILL find it weird and gimmicky, but please keep that thought out of your 
 head, and if you do, youll do fine. The only people Ive seen had problems are those people which 
 think or believe the new controller is funny, weird, or akward. Think innovative, and keep an open 
 mind and you shouldnt have much problem adapting.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Yes, its a gamecube port. Yes, it has its graphic. No, they arent crappy. The graphics where 
 artistically beautiful and not glitchy looking. For the gamecube quality it had, I must say I was 
 impressed, for the best graphics Ive seen on a gamecube game was from Resident Evil 4, and for 
 me this was on par, but was able to show far more in range than RE4. There were vibrant, and vivid 
 colors, and very good use of physics when it came down to facial expression on characterss faces 
 and even on enemies themselves. When it was windy it showed; when you were falling it showed, when 
 you were wet from going swimming, it showed. All this gave the gamecube graphics a plus. A sense 
 of realism was present, even if the game did not have the Wiis full graphical power, and this 
 tops it to a 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  What can we say about the sound? Sure there was no voice acting, and no orchestrated soundtrack, 
 but a lot of the music in Twilight Princess was as good as most of the other songs found in past 
 Zelda games. A lot of the tunes heard in Ocarina of Time and Majoras Mask make a comeback with 
 some remixing and extra stuff thrown in there that really gives the music the pinch to love it. 
 The music felt about right in every occasion. More than enough times I wanted to hear the music 
 louder or for more time because it intrigued and fascinated me. For example, from one of characters 
 in the game brings back Serenade of Water as their little theme, and I must say it gave me the 
 good goosebumps because it was purely a good revamp of the original. Other songs like the song 
 of healing come back better as you play them, but not using an ocarina, with what? Well play and 
 see.
  
  Aside from music, sounds we hear are that of the characters quick action noises. But these sounds 
 are good quality nonetheless. Youll often hear Midnas giggle, that is both funny and creepy. 
 As you run through Hyrule field you may sometimes hear a certain character Oy!-ing at you and 
 giving you some nifty info. But out of all of the voices and noise, Midnas take the cake by having 
 the most. Shes the only with any voice acting even tho her voice acting is basically jibberwalk, 
 so you cant really understand her, but thats why theres always been text. Overall the sound is 
 awesome but not perfect, but it certainly is worthy of some kind of soundtrack.
  
  Value: 8/10 There are some things on this game that will rather feel unfulfilled or rehashed. This 
 is where certainly the game hurts: from its 30-40 hour quest play, to the small numbers of minigames 
 and sidequests, to seemingly collecting stuff to get something to be able to get something else, 
 to its seemingly empty fields.
  
  The main quest will not take you much if you have been playing Zelda games or adventure games for 
 a long time, but if you are a newbie, or you have played a few, then it might take you a while. 
 The game itself feels short, because of some unattended things (which Ill you to find out) . As 
 you go, the action seems to slow down and the traveling seems to get shorter, thus you may get 
 a sensation of come on!
  
  However, the storyline will keep you wanting to know what is next, even if you might feel what 
 it is already, and the few extras can still pose some fun for you to do. The ending might be good 
 depending how you did through the last part of the game. If you completed while wanting more, obviously, 
 you are going to be disappointed, but if you finish the game, while you did everything else, and 
 followed the storyline closely, then youll probably will be ok with it.
  
  Overall, even if the value of the game is damaged by the things mentioned, it keeps strong by keeping 
 the essence of a Zelda game, and even after you finish it, you might end up playing it again, just 
 to see how fast you can do it, or you can do the challenge by clearing the game only with three 
 hearts. Either way, youll have fun.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  
  I felt the game gave me half the feeling, and half the thrill I felt in Ocarina of Time, but in 
 a good way, kind of like half full. By no means this means it deserves a five; Majoras Mask and 
 Wind Waker did good on my scores, but this one does better, because it did keep me entertained 
 and coming back to play with no real boring or filler parts, and even after beating it, I still 
 come back and just roam around see what I can do, or find things I missed. So yes, in essence, 
 I liked Ocarina of Time more, but rest assured that Twilight Princess is no major huge disappointment. 
 You will have your quirks here and there, but nothing huge to strike down lower than the iCD games.
 
  
  Play it with an open mind, and with a Zeldian heart, and you might have yourself a winner for next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer768
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Greatest Zelda game ever especially on Wii. I can't even imagine this game on game-cube. If you 
 need a reason to buy a Wii this game is that reason. The beginning starts kinda slow but after 
 that it's fun and adventurous. Simply the best Zelda game ever. If you like Ocarina of Time you will 
 love this game. Better features (especially with the Wii remote) , Harder dungeons, a great story 
 line, and just amazing. Even know the Wii graphics are not up to par compared to the next-gen consoles 
 but the graphics for Zelda are superb. I recommend if you didn't get this game yet to get it now 
 and to stop wasting your time on Red Steel or any other Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  When Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker was released, many a gamer was appalled at the use of cel-shading 
 for the latest game in their dear franchise, but the game itself took us all by surprise. The puzzles 
 were interesting, the boss fights were intense and the ability to use the weapons of enemies was 
 a nice change from the games of old. But with its ungodly boring boat piloting that took forever 
 to get from one island to the other, the game didnt measure up to what gamers wanted from the 
 newest Zelda game, even if it did sell incredibly well and is hailed as being a great game in its 
 own right. When hearing about Twilight Princess and seeing its game play videos, many felt that 
 this game would have what The Wind Waker was missing. It does this, but it also fails in many areas 
 that Cel-da, as its detractors called Wind Waker, excelled and this is what is truly harsh about 
 Twilight Princess; it could have been an incredible game if it had built off of the last game, 
 but it sadly does not.
  
  Twilight Princess takes a refreshing change from the Zelda games of old in that Link is no longer 
 a post-pubescent savior of Hyrule. Here, we have what is at least a teenage Link, most reminiscent 
 of adult Link from The Ocarina of Time (ear piercing and all!) , who not only starts the game with 
 his horse, Epona, but he also has a girl, who isnt Zelda, who he spends time giving googly-eyes 
 to, named Ilia. The game gently ushers you in, giving you lessons on both combat, and how to ride 
 your horse before Links world is turned upside down. With a series of not so interesting plot 
 twists and turns, Link finds himself turned into a blue-eye wolf and being a ride for a twilight 
 creature named Midna who gives you tips on what to do as well as helping your wolf form get to 
 ledges you couldnt reach otherwise. Shes amusing to have around, and a much better sidekick than 
 Tingle without a doubt. Later on in the game, she can also aide you yet more as she gains the ability 
 to teleport you between certain set points on the world map. This can drastically reduce the boring 
 down times where youre sprinting from one end of the map to the other and this will happen often, 
 this is a Legend of Zelda game after all.
  
  Having two forms to master gives you a unique perspective when playing the game, as playing as 
 wolf link is simultaneously harder and easier than playing as regular link. When playing as Link, 
 you gain the normal repertoire of moves that you come to expect by now, including slashing combos, 
 thrusting combos, the leap attack and his ever abused spin attack, as well as his traditional bow 
 and arrow, boomerang and bombs. In addition, you can learn some hidden techniques that make your 
 fights, which are going to be easy as is, easier yet still, although the variety is appreciated. 
 The exploration component in this game is even more interesting with the new uses for bombs, with 
 bombs that are useable underwater, creatures that act as bombs and the ability to strap your bombs 
 to arrows and fire them to destroy obstacles from a distance. This leaves the exploration feeling 
 as interesting as ever. Wolf Link is stronger and faster, able to pounce on enemies and tear them 
 up very quickly, but he also has no shield to block with leaving him having to jump around to avoid 
 enemies. But as with all fights in this game, the ever abused spin attack will very quickly show 
 you that you can take anything by simply abusing this move. His exploration abilities, stemming 
 from his heightened senses, ability to dig and Midna guiding him, leaves this feeling just as well 
 thought out as regular Links exploration abilities which is always a major plus as this has always 
 figured prominently into Zelda games. A minor complaint however is that for the first third of 
 so of the game, whenever you are forced into Sacred Beast form, aka Wolf Link, you are basically 
 led in a straight line as to where to go. There is very little in the ways for anything interesting 
 to do as the wolf for much of the time. This ends soon enough, but its still annoying at the time.
 
  
  The visuals for Twilight Princess, while good, are nothing compared to the graphics we have pumping 
 out of the PS3 and Xbox 360, looking more like the Gamecube game that this should have been. While 
 this doesnt hinder the game in any way, it does hammer home the fact, that this is simply a Gamecube 
 game with Wii functionality crazy glued to it. However, the bosses and enemies do look very good 
 and are familiar in appearance and combat abilities to traditional enemies from previous Legend 
 of Zelda games. The sound is very good though, sounding authentic as it could get in most situations, 
 although the sword swinging noises that come from the Wii remote are annoying as all get out and 
 I frequently pondered turning the sound off on it simply to not hear that noise anymore. The sounds 
 from the enemies are all great though, from the twang of flaming arrows being fired at me to large 
 birds chasing me as I galloped off on Epona, I was able to quickly learn what sounds meant what 
 creature was coming and to react to it. This pulled my bacon out of the fire many times, as hearing 
 a bow being fired led me to roll just in time to avoid being hit, as one of many examples. This 
 is effective on bosses as well, many who make loud noises before being launching into their more 
 devastating attacks upon Link.
  
  Another complaint that I certainly can echo, is the that of certain bugs and glitches. Some of 
 these can be exploited in your favor, such as one that lets you push through a wall to get through 
 a timed puzzle quicker, but there is a few that are game ending glitches. For example, in one section 
 of the game a bridge is destroyed. If you happen to shut your game off shortly after this happens, 
 you will forever be stuck unable to cross the bridge. This will cause you, in the least, to do 
 all the work you accomplished from your last save or, in worst case scenarios, cause you to start 
 the entire game over. It goes without saying that youre going to want to keep at least two, if 
 not three, fairly spread out saves. Glitches in video games are to be expected to a degree, but 
 for a game thats been in the works for two years, if not more, this is pretty horrible. This isnt 
 some game that was rushed out for the holidays, this was given more than enough time to test for 
 glitches and it aggravates me to no end that game ending glitches such as these got through that.
 
  
  The controls with the Wii remote are far from the intuitive ones that Nintendo claimed it would 
 be. Jerking the controller around to do a sword combo is annoying where a button press would suffice 
 and the sensitive nunchuk will sometimes do spin attacks when all you wanted to do was a shield 
 bash and this can get old very fast. While aiming with the remote for bow, slingshot and clawshot 
 was way fun, the fishing was an exercise in annoyance and the combat was nowhere near as revolutionary 
 as it was made out to be. It all feels very tacked on, and this leads into my biggest complaint 
 with this game. It very much feels like what it is; a Gamecube game with Wii controls tacked on.
 
  
  It can't be said enough that Twilight Princess is most certainly not a bad game, far from it in 
 fact. However, when its lined up next to the pedigree that almost all of the other Zelda games 
 have given us, it very clearly fails at living up to such. Especially after having waited and waited 
 and waited for it to come out for the Gamecube and then Nintendo decides to push that back further 
 to give us version, with the Wii controls tacked onto it, it breaks my heart. This game could have 
 been incredible, but in the end it has become just another action RPG and this really does sadden 
 me. I wanted a game that would top Ocarina of Time or in the least beat out Wind Waker, but in 
 the end thats not what we got after our long wait.
  
  Score: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  when the Gamecube entry in the Zelda series hit - fans were in for a surprise. Instead of the realistic 
 Link, we saw a very cartoony title called Wind Waker. Wind Waker was a stylish, candy-coloured 
 take on the world of Zelda. Many fans were disappointed. Wind Waker was given the nickname Cel-da, 
 and Zelda enthusiasts filled the Internet forums complaining about the tease of the earlier video. 
 Finally, in the Nintendo Wii, Link returns in his realistic form, ready to take on Ganondorf and 
 all the classic Zelda baddies from tektites to dodongos. If you've played the N64 Zelda game Ocarina 
 of Time, Twilight Princess will feel very familiar. Puzzle your way as Link through three different 
 dungeons, and then the world opens up to reveal six or seven more before the final boss appears. 
 Each dungeon has a mini-boss who coughs up a new weapon for you that you must use to defeat the 
 final dungeon boss. Between the dungeons, you've got horse-riding, fishing, bug collecting, and 
 general Zelda-osity where you try to discover items to make you stronger, or to allow you to carry 
 more bombs and arrows and stuff. There's usually some back-and-forth and puzzle solving between 
 Light and Dark worlds. The Dark world here is called the Twilight Realm. In the Twilight Realm, 
 you must battle your way through the level in wolf form before you can tackle the dungeon as Link. 
 Link-as-wolf has no boomerangs or arrows or fancy gadgets; instead, you bark and snarl at enemies 
 to destroy them. You can use your doggy senses to follow interesting scents and dig holes. I didn't 
 see any fire hydrants in the game. Twilight Princess has been in development for the Gamecube for 
 a many years, and the GC version will be out in 2007. As a Wii launch title, the game takes advantage 
 the motion-sensing Wii remote. Your sword swipes are now mapped to the remote, so that every flick 
 of the wrist causes Link to wave his weapon around. Targeting weapons also make use of the remote, 
 which acts as a mouse pointer on-screen. It was tough to get used to it at first. Every time I 
 scratched my nose, Link would whip out his sword and stab something. Every time I tried to aim 
 at a bad guy, my cursor would point way off-screen, and I'd frantically wave the remote around 
 trying to find my target. Same deal with swordfighting! As soon as enemies showed up, I'd whirl 
 the remote around the room like a crazy person until they all blew up. Maybe I'm just a spaz? I 
 don't know. For those of you used to the XBox 360 or the PS3, the graphics in Twilight Princess 
 will disappoint. It looks better than any other Zelda game, but blockier than any other modern 
 game. It lacks the voice acting that nearly all modern games have. Everyone speaks in text bubbles. 
 That's nearly unheard of in 2006. And to tell you the truth, I'm getting a little tired of Zelda. 
 It feels like I've played this game 15 times before, and I have. Every single Zelda game follows 
 the same structure, uses the same equipment, and shows me the same puzzles in the dungeons. I was 
 nearly snoring through the game. The Zelda-ness won't be a problem for die-hard Zelda fans or gamers 
 who are new to the series, but despite the innovations  the wolf Link, new weapons, better animation 
  Zelda games are starting to feel like a chore to me. Twilight Princess is extremely slow to start; 
 you won't get a chance to freely explore the world until you've sunk about 15 hours into the game. 
 If that sounds like fun, then be my guest. But for all its polished adventuring and swashbuckling, 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess stays too close to the tried-and-true formula. I'm in the 
 mood to play something completely new, and this ain't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous graphics, superb gameplay, theres lots to do and places to see, great new twists 
 to the game, excellent looking bosses, horse combat is awesome, sounds fantastic, long story mode 
 and its also one of the best
  
  The Bad: Jeff was right, text is dull, recycled music from older games, lacks orchestra music.
 
  
  8 years ago, the world was struck by surprise by The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 5 years 
 later, Wind Waker came out and people were still astounded. Now after 2 delays, Twilight Princess 
 has arrived. Quite possibly the best Zelda game ever? Maybe.
  
  So you basically start as this young adult who makes a living by helping a rancher herd his goats 
 and whatnot. Also during your spare time, youll practice with a slingshot and wooden sword. However 
 while things seem perfect, you just know there not going to stay like that for long. After youve 
 gone through saving the day for the very first time, your friend, who is also the mayors daughter 
 gets kidnapped while you get bonked on the noggin. You wake up and soon after that your real adventure 
 begins. So the game has brought what you have come to expect. Youll get dozens of weapons that 
 you can use throughout the game. Youll get new and old weapons. Youll get your classics like 
 your bow, hookshot, sword, shield, some new armor, and other things. Youll go through some hardships 
 but in the end everything plays out properly. Youll go through the same general stuff as you have 
 in other games. Youll go through numerous temples and dungeons which will add up to somewhere 
 around 10. Each basing itself on an element for the most part. Therell be your fire temple, your 
 forest temple; ice is there, sky, twilight, the usual stuff. As you might expect, theres a lot 
 afoot in Hyrule. This game has to have the most amounts of extra activities then all other Zelda 
 games combined. Youll have plenty of fish to catch, 60 poes to collect, 45 heart pieces to find, 
 24 bugs to catch and several other minigames that can give you item upgrades, but when it comes 
 right down to it, you can live without them.
  
  One new feature that youll actually need to beat the game is the ability to turn into a wolf. 
 This definitely changes things up for the better. Youll be able to warp as the wolf, play music, 
 and have a good time while youre at it. Also by howling certain tunes at certain places youll 
 be enabled to learn a few different moves that will help you in later battles; some more useful 
 then others. The game does look fantastic. The sunset and sunrise do look much better then before, 
 and the game does a good job of making everything looking somewhat realistic. However some of the 
 up-close textures look kind of buggy, but dont take it to hard, as you wont be spending much time 
 on that anyways. The music in the game is somewhat original. However its not top quality. Most 
 of the music you here is old and recognizable stuff from previous games. For example the Song of 
 Healing from Marjoras Mask. While it still sounds fairly good, it wouldve been nice to here some 
 original tunes. The game does have a lot to offer. Mentioned before was the thing youll be searching 
 for. This offers some fairly good replay value. Youll absolutely HAVE to find every poe and have 
 to catch EVERY fish. Its also fun to explore the rest of Hyrule while finding everything else 
 along the way. This by the way will take no less then 15 minutes to go around. Its absolutely 
 huge. The game is divided into several provinces which will generally make up the world as you 
 know it. Youll also come across several familiar places. Plus to make things more interesting, 
 you wont be invincible on your horse. While your getting beaten on, you can fight back which is 
 quite fun. So the game does have some very minor flaws that you can forgive and even if they were 
 worse the game wouldnt be any less great. Its got at least 35 hours of gameplay to it if you 
 only do the story mode. It looks great, sounds great and has an intriguing story with it too. Add 
 this and a very good replay value and not to mention one of the best ending boss fights known to 
 man.
  
  Overall, the game isnt the best Zelda game in history, but it does come close. Its just missing 
 a certain spark of originality that Ocarina of Time held so dearly. If youve got a Wii, then youll 
 most likely be getting this game anyway, but if you didnt plan on it change your mind. You will 
 not be disappointed. The game does a fantastic job on everything and is worth the money you pay. 
 And even if youre not familiar with the series, and youre just looking for some kind of action 
 game to challenge you and keep you busy and interested at the same time, you should most definitely 
 check this game out.
  
  EDITORS CHOICE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Ocarina of Time was a one shot killer game released 9 years ago, and we still find it to be the 
 best game ever. Nintendo pulls it off again, with Twilight Princess. As hard as it is to believe, 
 the game still to has the same touch from the last zelda games, and to see that it's been nearly 
 10 years, that the game still keeps its famous lock-on system that many other games tried to immitate, 
 but failed. Storywise, YES, you are still trying to save Zelda somewhat (not to spoil anything) , 
 from an evil dude named Zant, who tries to put Hyrule and the rest of the world into twilight. 
 Being a shephard of an old village, you somehow part on a journey to save the world once as the 
 old Link did hundreds of years ago in Ocarina of Time. There are nearly 10 temples and dungeons 
 to explore from, ranging from snow levels, to volcano and forest themed places, and if you are 
 a Zelda veteran, you may find them to be easy for their concepts are similiar to those of the previous 
 games. Those of you who are new to the series, you'll still feel right at home, but you may struggle 
 a bit with these dungeons. The old weapons are back, such as the bow, boomerang, clawshot (aka hookshot) , 
 and back from the old games, the giant metal ball. Gameplay wise, im gonna have to say that NO, 
 i will never go back to using standard controllers again, becuz the control scheme here is so effective, 
 u literally just get soo into it. You simply wave the wii mote around to attack with your sword, 
 or u can aim it at the screen while shooting arrows. The analog attachment is used to move Link 
 around, as well as for trigering the auto aim on enemies. Enemies can range from swordwielding 
 lizards, to bats, and many other familiar ones as seen in OoT. The boss battles are amazing, yet 
 easy, but put in all sorts of situations that makes a boss battle, a boss battle. The fourth boss 
 is a big treat, so play the game to face him. This game has some of the best boss battles and sequences 
 since Shadow of the Collosus for the ps2, and tends to still keep Zelda's tradition of bosses as 
 well. Graphically.... this game is just gorgious. Many complain about textures, but if you are a 
 true gamer, you look at the overall quality. Next gen or not, this game will always look good. 
 Its a game with colorful environments and very detailed and look just as good as how OoT was then, 
 as TP is to us today. Sound wise, there arn't many disapointments. For you lazy people who hate 
 to read, well live with it. Zelda has always been known for text, and I don't think they'll get 
 there yet until their next installment. The sound from the wiimote, may lack sometimes, but do 
 give a lot of kick to the game. Overall, this is the best game ever, and if you bought a Wii without 
 this game, you should be shot, becuz every wii/gc owner needs this game!! IT'S THE BEST, AND WILL 
 STAY LEGENDARY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing. Many hours of gameplay, great graphics, and nice music from previous zelda 
 games. The reason this game is good is because the storyline flows well, the gameplay is good, 
 and many things to do.
  
  Like previous zelda games you will have to tavel to different temples and defeating bosses. Although 
 most bosses can be very, very easy; its a nice game to play while you are bored, or feel like playing 
 a game which you wont get tired of. Also after you beat the game, and havent gotten everything, 
 you can go back to previous place having the power to teleport to different part of the map with 
 midna, which is kind of like the ocarina in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  For a port from an dying system, it's hard to tell. The controls are added wonderfully, and the 
 game is just massive in its scale of things to do. The only problem you'll find, is that doing 
 it is a tad on the easy side (though definitely not short) , the recording methods (or lack there 
 of) are outdated, and fans of the Zelda series will be left wondering Why didn't we get more? Why 
 didn't we get any answers? 
  
  This game offers a whole new story in the Zelda series with some similarities to Ocarina of Time 
 and A Link to the Past, but it manages to stand on its own. Unfortunately, attempting to wed a 
 new story with the classic story leaves you feeling like SOMEONE has been shafted in some way, 
 whether its a character, many characters .... or you.
  
  You'll definitely see some harking back to previous stories in this game, specifically a certain 
 dungeon which I won't mention. Although the world shares some fundamental similarities with Ocarina 
 of Time, that's to be expected sense they're fairly close chronologically.
  
  The downside of this game is that you get a whole brand new story which includes a whole brand 
 new BACKSTORY, which includes a few artifacts we've never heard of before called the Fused Shadow, 
 a few ancestors who appear strangely like Dark Links, and a story on their banishment. When does 
 this occur? Why are we just now hearing about it? And various scenes at the end of the game proposed 
 more and more questions, and coincidently, not a single missing peice of the chronology puzzle 
 is given to us. Just more chronological questions.
  
  But as an adventure game, this episode of Zelda cannot be missed, though you'll definitely get 
 that bittersweet feeling once the game is finally over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCAmato
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for the Wii is one of the most fun games i have ever played 
 because the wii makes the game more player-interactive and the storyline is cool too. Also, it 
 isn't a short game being 40 hours long, making it even more enjoyable to the fans because you dont 
 beat it that fast. Who cares if it has some things from a previous game, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess... all series contain similar items. Things for you to do right now: 1. Get the Wii and 
 buy Twilight Princess 2. Set up the Wii 3. Play Twilight Princess and have a blast!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Although many think that the Wiimote hampers gameplay, I totally disagree. Never has 
 controlling link been easier. Plus, with all the new (and old) items, some of which have been changed 
 for the better, it's fun to just run around using all the new items. Plus, playing as a wolf really 
 changes up the gameplay, and up until the end, they are pretty evened out in terms of combat ability. 
 There are an equal amount of puzzles , exploration, and action, all of which define Zelda gameplay
 
  
  Graphics: Sure, compared to Xbox 360 the graphics are lacking, but nevertheless the lighting and 
 particle effects are dazzling and everything is very well done. Even some of the classic items 
 have new animations that just look plain cool.
  
  Sound: Gamespot said that the sounds feel stuck in the past, but if the game had all new sounds 
 and music and not the ones Zelda fans know and love, it just wouldn't be a Zelda game. The sound 
 effects that come out of the Wiimote add to the atmosphere, and are very well done.
  
  Value: If I were to give one aspect of the game an 11, it would be this. Second only to Majora's 
 Mask and Wind Waker in sidequests, Twilight Princess will keep you playing for hours and hours 
 on end. The Time Spent Playing I put is deceiving. It should say so far next to it. I know I'll 
 be playing this one for a LONG time.
  
  This is my favorite game of all time and I highly suggest you play it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The year was 2004 and we saw a trailer for the last hope the GameCube had. we were stunned! The 
 next year, 2005, we saw it again but then it was playable on the GameCube. The very next year the 
 game was announced to make a dual appearence, one on GameCube, and one for the new Wii. Fast forward 
 several months and Wii have the best Zelda game to ever be released!
  
  The gameplay was fine tuned for the new generation of gaming. The sword swinging is primarily controlled 
 by swinging the Wii remote. This doesn't have to be done by a large swinging motion so you won't 
 kill yourself after playing for several hours. The items are mapped on the D-Pad and then you can 
 use them one by one by switching them for use on the B trigger, given several exceptions like the 
 iron boots. The new items like a sniping scope (Hawkeye) , bomb arrows, and the Gale Boomerang make 
 for one of the deepest adventures in Zelda history. The nunchuck is used for the spin attack, the 
 shield shove, the C button is used for a first person view, and the Z button for the lock on. The 
 only disapointment is no camera control but hey, OoT didn't have it and TP doesn't really need 
 it.
  
  The raw graphics are good but definately far fro mgreat, but the reason I give them a 10 is for 
 the wonderfully done lighting effects. The game pretty much revolves around these effects. From 
 the dark dusk of the Twilight Realm, to the rainstorm outside Hyrule Castle, and the water effects 
 down the river while rafting. This game is about the lighting.
  
  The sound is composed of beautifully redone and remastered tracks from past Zelda titles and several 
 new ones as well. The really great thing is the Wii remote speaker which gives a whole new depth 
 to the game by letting you hear the sound of nearly every impact you make with your blade, or sometimes 
 your head.
  
  Replay value is amazing! I really want to play it right now! But alas I am bringing a review that 
 all four of you will read and then it will be lost for five years until Nintendo fan boys go and 
 recommend every review with a 10 and dissing all others. Seriously though you will be playing this 
 in five years.
  
  You will enjoy nearly every moment of this game, from watching the sunset in the opening cutscene, 
 to watching Midna leave you forever in the final one. This game speaks for itself, 10 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreenToad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Zelda fan. This Zelda was supposed to blow all of the others out of the water, even 
 Ocarina. This game simply could not live up to its hype. Don't misinterpret my words, I loved this 
 game. It was just below what I expected.
  
  Gameplay- This game plays like most of the recent Zeldas. You go from dungeon to dungeon, collecting 
 new items to make you slightly stronger. The Nunchuck attachment controls your movement and targeting 
 while the Wii Remote controls most swordplay, aiming and all of the extra things like pausing and 
 rolling. The control scheme works very nicely but more usage of the Wii capibilities would have 
 been nice. Nothing with the controls were hard to use after an hour, but more motion sensing would 
 have been nice. The only noticable change to the core gameplay is that the combat system has been 
 made a little more complicated. It works identically to Wind Waker except most of the counterattacks 
 are actual moves that can be done whenever. The new combat skills really make combat a little more 
 immersive, although no enemy was all the difficult. I think that this game could have used some 
 smarter or tougher common enemies. Graphics- The graphics in this game were very good. The art 
 style was subtle in some areas and more noticable in others. There was one major problem with the 
 graphics though. The textures were very poor. I know some slack should be cut for the Graphics 
 since they are Gamecube graphics but these textures were just not good. All the environments felt 
 like they had a huge damper on them. Still this game is pleasing to the eye.
  
  Sound- The music in this game was pretty good. Most of it was just different versions or remixes 
 from previous Zelda installments but what was new was very good, especially the field music. The 
 real problem with sound were the sound effects from the Controller Speaker. They just were below 
 par. The speaker would crack and hiss during simple sound effects like the puzzle solved theme. 
 The sound effects were really just annoying after a little while. The ones played from the TV however 
 worked just fine.
  
  Value- This game is probably going to take you about 30-40 hours to beat the main quest. If you 
 want to beat it 100% I doubt you will go over 60 hours to do so. This game is quite long, not to 
 mention that Hyrule Field is HUGE. There are all sorts of hidden niches and caves to find those 
 last heart pieces. This game will last you a while and was quite fun to play, enough to merit more 
 replays in the future.
  
  Tilt- This game overall was very good. It had a very epic feel to it. If there is anything wrong 
 with this game, it is that it just is not original like the other Zeldas. Ocarina, Majora's Mask 
 and Wind Waker all had a unique sort of feel and gameplay to them. This just felt like Ocarina 
 all over again with a few new elements thrown in. The wolf transformation was very cool and the 
 game did have a sort of fast pace to it but not enough was done for either of these aspects to 
 really shine. This game is a must get for anyone with a Wii who needs another good game to add 
 to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenster08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I am truly amazed with this game.
  
  Controls
  
  The remote seems intimidating but this game makes great use of it and it is very easy to learn.
 
  
  Game-play
  
  What can I say, Zelda has led in game play every time it has been released.
  A much more extensive 
 and interactive land than TLoZ: OoT makes this a great pickup. Many more bosses than usual Zelda 
 games = Great.
  
  Graphics
  
  Although it might not be Xbox360 or PS3; when taken for what they are, the graphics for this game 
 are amazing. It is by far the best graphics of any Zelda game to date. To have a Nintendo system 
 with more power than the original Xbox will make for some GREAT games.
  
  Sound
  
  What can I say, Zelda in surround sound!
  
  Conclusion
  
  This game is a must have for 
 any serious gamer. It is not that annoying kiddie style in WW but a more robust experience. I cannot 
 wait for another Zelda release on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I have tried almost every zelda, even the one on the NES, and the original gameboy. Since I was 
 young back then, I often got stuck and could never go any further, and I usually just gave up. 
 The last Zelda I tried was the n64 one, and I got stuck in the woods and gave up.
  
  But this Zelda, for some reason, is much more enjoyable. I haven't gotten stuck yet, and I am enjoying 
 it much more than any others. The puzzles in this game don't seem quite as impossible as the others, 
 or maybe it's just because I am older. I think this game is very approachable to someone who isn't 
 familair to the series.
  
  Using the Wii mote makes this game quite interesting, the combat works just great, and it seems 
 this game has alot of action. The action is broken up well though, it's not too much, and it's 
 not to little, the game has a very good pase. So far the story has been nothing short of excellent, 
 the dialogue is good, but not too long, which is good because you have to read it, since there 
 isn't any voice acting (Which honestly I don't mind at all, I like reading text better anyway.) 
 The reason I like reading better than hearing is because voice acting is often dissapointing, and 
 also it's more personal, like reading a book.
  
  It seems there's alot of tools in this game as well, and that's something I love. With every new 
 tool, you have new challanges that require you to use that tool in the right way, you're constantly 
 evolving. It isn't just more hitpoints or damage, it's using the tools you're given correctly, 
 but having extra hearts doesn't hurt.
  
  Another thing I feel compelled to comment on is the extremely short loading times, it really helps 
 that you don't have to sit and wait for loading.
  
  I'm not someone very familair with this type of game, I have tried in the past and it just hasn't 
 worked out, but this time around, it has. Maybe that's because I am older, or maybe it's because 
 the game is designed better for a gamer such as myself.
  
  I think the graphics are fine, I am using component cables and while it may look jaggy, it still 
 looks fine, and often the art is very attractive. The sound is good too, I don't think it sounds 
 cheap or distorted, and I turned my wii-mote volume up max so I could hear the sound effects through 
 it.
  
  Overall I am just happy I can actually enjoy this game, it doesn't feel like work. I can't stress 
 enough that this game is amazingly approachable, I usually play hack 'n' slash rpgs like D2, and 
 shooters, so this game is completely different than what I usually play.
  
  Some may complain that it's a gamecube port, but it uses the wii-mote very well, and it was a launch 
 title (the first time ever for zelda) so I don't know what more you can ask for. Hopefully I finish 
 this game, I want to take my time and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  As most of you know, more people think that Zelda's handheld game are more successful than console 
 games; that is with the exception of Ocarina of Time.
  
  You know, Majora's Mask was good, but not popular, and Wind Waker lost some of the stuff we loved 
 about console Zeldas.
  
  But this game is amazing. A brand new revolution of zelda games.
  When i first played it was 
 pretty much; boring, boring, boring... BAM! Freaking awesome storyline. You also have the original 
 searches for heart pieces, some nice new gadgets and some gnarley techniques to learn on your way 
 to save hyrule.
  
  In saying this, I still like Ocarina of Time as a whole, a lot more, but this game is cooler. I 
 give i a perfect ten.
  
  OoT is more like a 12...
  
  -Zelda 4EVER- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lost4wurds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  From the opening sequences, I am somewhat ashamed to say that I was somewhat underwhelmed. Here 
 Iw as with this game that was supposed to be the be all end all of Wii games, the reason I bought 
 the dame thing in the first place, and then I saw the graphics and lack of voice work. I was worried, 
 worried I'd put too much weight into this purchse. I had faitht that the game would pan out in 
 the end, but like Wind Waker, I thought that it would go well and then just fizzle somewhere near 
 the end.
  
  Never in a million years did I imagine that Zelda would unravel like a beautiful, delicate little 
 flower. I love it. The dungeons are amazing. The details in everything, hell that's what keeps 
 me coming back for more again and again! It's amazing! I love this game and the things that I thought 
 would get old (the Wii controls for the swordplay) , while clunky at first, have really come around. 
 I do have to take some issue with them though. There are really times when I feel as though I'm 
 accomlishing certain feats by accident rather than by my own hand, but I guess that's only because 
 I'm still getting better. Still, the game is great. I thought Okami would be hard to top. It'll 
 be a race to the finish, but I have little doubt that Zelda will come out on top in a big way! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxusrules
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I think that this Zelda is a masterpiece, everyone how can tell me the opposite I will appreciate, 
 this is one of the most amazing games I ever play, the way you use the Wii mote is just the innovation 
 that the series of Zelda need. The game in fact is just awesome, the graphics should be a little 
 more detallist but for the other things, I think that Nintendo made a wonderful game, there are 
 parts like the wolf parts that the graphics are better that in the normal game. I already am tired 
 so from now on I will say just Good job Nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanemonkey2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I am here to review The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Here is what I think of it. This review 
 has spoilers, so read at your own decresion.
  
  The gameplay in TP is very good. It's a new and fresh wave of playing zelda. You use the Wii Remote 
 to do a number of things. You can swing your sword, fish, and much more. Its mainly used to swing 
 your sword though. The nunchuk also has lots of contol options as well. This game is a lot like 
 OoT. In the begging of the game, you start out at a place called Ordan. This, is this game's, Link, 
 homeland. In Ordan, he is a herder, or farmer of sorts. As you get about a half hour or so into 
 the game, the kids of Ordan are kidnapped, Link as well. He is taken to the Twilight Realm, and 
 there he becomes a wolf. He turns into a wolf because he is The Chosen One by the godesses. You 
 are then imprisoned. It is that prison, where you meet the Navi of the game, Midna. She was once 
 the ruler of the Twilit. She despised the evil ruler, Zant, so she set out to find Link to help 
 herself in the Twilight Realm, but not Link. The controls in TP are pretty easy. You swing the 
 Wii Remote to swing your sword. Early in the game, you get the fishing rod. You pull back the Wii 
 Remote, then swing forward to cast the lure, like in real fishing. This adds realism to the game. 
 The speaker in the Wii Remote is kind of a let down though, it sometimes cuts off sounds, or doesn't 
 play them at all. It also sounds tinted. Other than that the controlls are excellent. Twirl the 
 nunchuk in a circular motion to do a sword spin. There are 7 sacred moves, that the Other Link 
 knows. Those moves are for you to find out yourself though. Epona makes a grand return in TP. You 
 can ride her around Hyrule, and she will be essential for completing the game. You can also use 
 your bow while riding her.
  
  The graphics in TP are amazing. When Nintendo said the game will have a more dark feel, they were 
 right. This game does feel very dark . The graphics in TP are on par with some of the games for 
 the 360. It doesn't take much time to learn the controls, so that is good. It took me about 50 
 hours to complete the game, without doing extras. But I left my Wii on while I wasn't playing it 
 so that added time. Now that I know the game, I could easily beat the game 30 hours or less. Fishing 
 is very fun also, and there are TONS of sidequests to do.
  
  All in all, I give The Legend of Zelda, a 9.5, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushidroid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is good and doesn't need to be restated, so I'll be brief and focus on what this game 
 does that may not be expected by the longtime series fan.
  
  The wolf-transformation mechanic aside, Twilight Princess goes to great lengths to change the dungeon 
 system, the core of the Zelda series. Mini-dungeons and boss dungeons included, Twilight possesses 
 only 8 in total (as opposed to 11 in Ocarina of Time) . Twilight has also shed a considerable amount 
 of trademark dungeon items from the series, or evolved them into new forms (the Iron Boots are 
 now also used for magnetic wall-walking puzzles, the Clawshot replaces the Hookshot and has new 
 capabilities) . The dungeons themselves are rarely so, and several are living, functional parts 
 of Hyrule under seige, with friendly NPC's that will help Link complete the area. The term dungeon 
 is taken very, very loosely in Twilight Princess, and makes the game feel refreshing. Locales including 
 an old mountain resort home occupied by two friendly yetis, a goron mining facility being raided 
 by bandits, and the Temple of Time pass as dungeons only on the most basic of gameplay levels; 
 the experience is completely different. The gamplay within the is more environment-interactive 
 (if one recalls Ocarina's Water Temple with changing water levels, there's a new parallel where 
 the player flows water down turnable staircases, creating a much more dynamic environment) . These 
 new situations are almost always intuitive, and very gratifying. However, the dungeon bosses are 
 less memorable than Ocarina of Time's (perhaps inevitably) , and are considerably easier to defeat. 
 While it's still possible to get stuck in the dungeons themselves on a switch or torch puzzle, 
 the bosses do not inflict enough damage per hit (typically half to one heart maximum) to present 
 any serious threat. They're still inventive and varied (some requiring multiple dungeon items at 
 once) , but the lack of serious threat makes them more of a laid-back experience than a brutal fight 
 to the death. That disappointment aside, this Zelda puts forth the effort to revamp the dungeon 
 system in a thoughtful and intelligent fashion, and on that alone the game should be considered 
 a must-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Huge world to explore, beautiful graphics, works well with Wii control, great story, plenty 
 of old and new music
  
  Cons: Doesn't look next gen, no voice acting, bosses are somewhat easy
  
  Since its premier 
 in 2004 on the Gamecube, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess has been one of the most anticipated 
 titles of the last two years. It was delayed several times for additions, and a new version on 
 Nintendos next system, Wii. Now, it has been released to the public and lives up to the promise 
 as being the best Zelda title ever created.
  
  Twilight Princess boasts a back story on out hero, Link. The story begins in Ordon, a village in 
 southern Hyrule. Link is asked to deliver a gift to the royal family, the sword of Ordon. However, 
 his journey is quickly altered by beasts who kidnap those he cares for and unnatural Twilight cloaks 
 the forest ahead. From his first steps into the Twilight and seeing what evils it brings, Link 
 is brought into an adventure to save his friends and become a hero that will in time save the realms 
 from destruction.
  
  At first glance, its obvious that this game is built for the Gamecube. However, that doesnt mean 
 this game isnt a graphical achievement on its own merits. Twilight Princess is beautiful, despite 
 its inferior polygon count. The world is lush and just pretty to look at in most areas. You will 
 run into the occasional extremely low-res texture, but its nothing that would interfere with the 
 gaming experience and can be overlooked if one isnt actually looking for it.
  
  Twilight Princess has an entirely different graphic style from its predecessor, Wind Waker. The 
 characters are no longer cel-shaded this time around. Characters are made to look much more realistic, 
 and have the looks and expressions to give each one personality. You will see more facial expressions 
 due to the graphic style that will in turn show more emotion in each cut scene. The character textures 
 look great up close, and in some cases, look better than they seem from a distance. The environment 
 in Twilight Princess is huge and the draw distance goes on for miles. From mountains, Hyrule Castle 
 can be seen looming in the distance, and Hyrule Lake from the desert. The terrain looks smooth 
 for the most part, but does have a few blemishes, such as immediate changes in the steepness. Water 
 effects are some of the most well done in the game. The water doesnt seem to have an immediate 
 breaking or curving point anywhere, and looks almost real.
  
  There is also the twilight realm, which is basically a dimly lit, surreal version of Hyrule. In 
 this realm, you still have the basic Hyrule idea, but there are far more particle effects and colors 
 become more bold. The twilight realm as mentioned before, is a dimly lit version of Hyrule, but 
 the lighting effects surrounding that concept are astounding and bring out the dark, yet somewhat 
 relaxed nature of the realm.
  
  Gameplay is Twilight Princesss strongest point. The main quest itself will have you going for 
 well over 20hrs, and theres still side quests, mini games, and items to collect after its all 
 said and done. Dungeons will be familiar to anyone who has played a Zelda game, but theyre a bit 
 tougher. Puzzles are no longer completely obvious, and take some thought to get by even for a veteran 
 Zelda player. Gameplay isnt just confined to dungeon exploring either; there are also sequences 
 where you have to direct flight, fight in intense horseback battles, and more.
  
  Some may be afraid to pick this one up for Wii because of the control. Rest assured, the controls 
 work great and immerse players in the experience. The Wii Remote controls Links sword; so if you 
 stab, he stabs; you slice, he slices. Where the Remote has an edge over standard control is when 
 it comes to aiming. Directly pointing at the object or enemy and firing is faster and easier than 
 with standard control.
  
  Sound is my only big complaint with Twilight Princess. This has to do with the graphics themselves 
 as well. Since the characters now have moving mouths and facial expressions, the last thing to 
 add is voice acting, which this game sadly doesnt have. With such moods generated by the characters 
 and background music, theres almost no excuse as to why voice acting hasnt been added.
  
  While the absence of voice acting is disappointing, the music and sound effects make up for the 
 fault. Background music comes in at the right time to highlight various cut scenes and combat within 
 Twilight Princess. Some will be tuned of melodies that Zelda players will recognize, and others 
 will be completely new. Effects like the arrows pulling back on Links bow, swords clashing, running 
 water, and etc, bring together the epic experience of combat and adventure.
  
  After the main quest is completed, there is still plenty to do in Hyrule. Mini games will be available 
 to play and upgrade your equipment. A few can be found in Castle Town, and others can be seen elsewhere. 
 They each pose a challenge, and like the dungeons, they wont be done without some thought. When 
 you tire of mini games, there is the option of going on quests to find the heart pieces, finding 
 poe souls, collecting golden bugs, and more.
  
  Twilight Princess, although not perfect, succeeds in its promise of being the greatest and largest 
 Zelda adventure ever. The graphics, gameplay, and sound bring together a sense of adventure that 
 so many Zelda fans have been waiting for that spans beyond that of the main storyline. Those who 
 buy a Wii should definitely pick up this game. Worry not about the controls, just jump into one 
 of the greatest adventure titles out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoxer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning game play, awesome graphics, innovative use of the Wii's controller, great to 
 see old places, and old faces. The Bad: Some parts of the dungeons are repetitive, while some characters 
 get some good voices overs people like Zelda and Link remain silent.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a console release game that looks stunning and handles 
 well with the user. The basics of the game like sword fighting and moving and using other neat 
 features and times are pretty easy to learn and won't take much time at all to master. The quest 
 in the game are mainly going to dungeons and finding an item or collecting tears. While some of 
 the dungeons may seem repetitive it balances out with smooth game play and hardly any lag time 
 from controller to TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeurlein
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was the first game to go into my Nintendo Wii, and from 
 the very beginning, I knew that I was in for a wild ride with this game. I instantly saw the best 
 graphics that I've ever seen in a Zelda game, and although the graphics aren't Xbox 360 or PS3 
 level, they were still amazing. The gameplay itself offered unique controls, which I felt were 
 better than those on a standard controller, and I found myself instantly absorbed in the game.
 
  
  The game starts off slow with Link living a few days in his normal life before he has to set off 
 to do an important errand. Without giving any of the plot away, I can tell you that on the day 
 when he's about to set off on his errand, things go out of control in a way one could not possibly 
 imagine. The event sets the stage for the journey ahead.
  
  The dungeons in this game had plenty to offer: they were the largest dungeons I've ever seen in 
 a Zelda game. It starts off with the traditional Forest, Fire, and Water dungeons, but then branches 
 off into a Mansion at the top of a Snowy Mountain, or a City in the Sky, and even includes a dungeon 
 that gives the greatest sense of nostalgia to anybody who's ever played Ocarina of Time. Each dungeon 
 has it's own unique item which ultimately ends up being used to help you defeat the boss of that 
 dungeon. Items vary from things that you've seen before in previous Zelda games, but can be used 
 in ways you've never seen before, such as the Iron Boots being used to cling to magnets on the 
 walls or ceilings, and the game introduces some items you never seen before.
  
  Between dungeons, you'll find yourself traveling across the fields of Hyrule. You'll instantly 
 notice that Hyrule is also bigger than in any other Zelda game. If you were to travel across Hyrule 
 on horseback, I would estimate it taking about a half hour of real to get from one end to the other. 
 It would obviously take at least twice as long if you were to travel on foot. Luckily, for those 
 who do not like to explore the fields of Hyrule and are just playing the game to beat it quickly 
 and move on, you're able to use various portals to warp from one point to another at will in later 
 stages of the game. However, if you warp, you miss out on a ton of collectible items such as heart 
 pieces, or things required for side quests.
  
  Now for the part people wonder about: But how do the Wii-mote controls affect the game, and how 
 tough is it to get used to? In three words, the controls work. To swing your sword, you just need 
 to give the Wii-mote a quick flick in any direction, and it's just as quick and accurate as a button 
 press. You assign items like the bow to the D-pad and B button, and you use most items by pressing 
 the B button. The obvious description I'll give now are the controls for aiming the bow. Imagine 
 using a mouse on your computer, and think about how easy it is to point at any part of the screen. 
 That is the ease that the Wii-mote brings to aiming the bow. Instead of using a sensitive analog 
 stick, you now just point and shoot, resulting in much quicker and more accurate shots. Many people 
 will gripe about the Nunchuck being unresponsive when trying to do a shield bash (moving the Nunchuck 
 forward) or a spin attack (moving the Nunchuck left and right or vice versa) . A simple solution 
 to that problem is to just hold the Nunchuck attachment upright like it's meant to be held, and 
 it works just fine.
  
  A very notable thing about the Wii-mote is the built in speaker. If you leave it on its default 
 volume, the sound that comes from it will be terrible. To make it sound a bit better, turn to Wii-mote 
 volume down. Also, if you just want all of the sound to be on the TV or surround sound, then just 
 turn the Wii-mote volume completely off. I played through the game with the Wii-mote volume off, 
 mainly because I just wanted my sound to be on the TV.
  
  The graphics in this game are quite impressive. The water effects like flowing water and waterfalls 
 look absolutely beautiful. The most work in graphics takes form in Link's appearance. Link has 
 to be the most detailed thing in this whole beautiful game. I was not let down by the graphics 
 at all. And you have to keep in mind that this is game is ported from the Gamecube and looks like 
 this, so just imagine a game built from scratch for the Wii.
  
  The music in this game is great. If you hear anybody saying that the music is terrible for any 
 reason at all, then just ignore them and listen for yourself... they're just grasping for straws. 
 There are some new songs for the soundtrack in this game, but plenty of familiar tunes also found 
 their way into the game, although I won't elaborate because of the chance of spoilers.
  
  All in all, I'd say the Twilight Princess is a very well-built game. It has an amazing (and long) 
 adventure leading up to an epic final battle. It has great graphics, sounds, and controls, and 
 offers a lot of puzzles and large areas to explore. There are plenty of hours logged in just to 
 get through the game, and plenty more if you're going through and getting every item (without any 
 kind of guide mind you) , or just stopping every now and then to appreciate some of the detail that 
 was put into this game. The game, although not perfect , still hits home and delivers an epic journey 
 filled with tons of exploring and numerous plot twists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keldonson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Deep as you want a story to go with all the bells and whistles of a true Zelda game. This is a 
 solid game through and through. A great game even for those who are new to the story (and everything 
 else you would expect from a Zelda game) .
  
  The lack of voice acting does not bother me, however, the lack of orchestrated music does.
  
 
  This game also makes great use of the new control scheme (just be sure to turn off the speaker 
 on the Wii-mote, it saves on battery life and your ears from the horrible speaker) . All-in all: 
 another great game from Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game quite a bit lately and i don't see myslef stopping anytime soon this 
 game has me hooked and i recommend anyone that has a liking for action adventure games to buy this 
 one. One of my biggest concerns before playing this game was will the controls really work with 
 a gamecube port and i have to say for me the do. I almost cant imagine playing this game without 
 the Wii controller now. Second the story is for the most part like anyother Zelda game but actually 
 mixes some Orcarina of Time with the classic SNES Zelda which was a cool bonus. Then of course 
 gameplay and pacing is amazing like any other Zelda game. Game is almost flawless my fav in the 
 Zelda game thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGxAxMxExRX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the best zelda game since Orcarina of Time (never played but really want to 
 play it) . First of all you start out with Link and learn the basic with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk 
 Attachment. After that you get more into the story which is a great storyline where I am right 
 now. There are a lot of puzzles that I really needed help with, but I found my way through. Sometimes 
 it gets on the easy side because of the boss fights. The Hyrule world is huge filled with sidequests 
 and enemies everywhere. Luckily you don't have to always walk and roll around and thats why you 
 have your horse Epona. What sucks about it you can't sometimes have when you really want it the 
 most. The sound gets played out sometimes and you can hear they use synthesizers for the music 
 when they should of had an orchestra. Another thing about the sound is that they don't have voiceovers 
 which they should of had. This is a game that every Wii owner must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clownofpoetry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Shigeru Miyamoto has done it again by creating a masterful game in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. Hailed as the greatest Zelda game to date, it applies the new control scheme and stays 
 true to its roots. It may take a while in order to use the new control system effectively. In time 
 you'll able to play with ease and the fluid motion will feel totally natural. After the exhaustive 
 first 3-5 hours of the game which is basically a tutorial for the new controls, the game gets in 
 the thick of things and does it in the same Zelda fashion. Gameplay is deep and intuitive as there 
 are many things to do and see. The main story of the game will last about 30-40 hours for the more 
 experienced veterans and that is a very long time for a single player adventure. This does not 
 include all of the side quests and other things that you can take on. These quests can add a lot 
 more hours to the game. The graphics arguably are made for the Gamecube. Not putting down the graphics 
 because they are magnificent but a lot of the textures are blurry at times and there are a couple 
 of jaggies present in certain areas. Despite these little problems, Hyrule is an expansive world 
 and looks great, even when the Wii can do better. The sound is the only thing that I don't like 
 a lot about this game. Although the sound effects are crisp and clear, but the music of the game 
 seems to be on the lower side. I find the music to be rushed and lacking quite a bit compared to 
 everything else in this fantastic game. Voiceovers are missing but it is Zelda, and I enjoyed it 
 even when it was text. If you are a fan of the series or not, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is one of those titles that no gamer would want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_Randazzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  November 1998, gamers and gaming outlets all across the world are in a rave, the N64 is groundbreaking, 
 unlike anything gamers have ever seen before, they've enjoyed their first 2 years with it. All 
 the Zelda fans and non-zelda fans across the world are in an uproar, Ocarina of Time had people 
 locked in their rooms for days on end, beating it over and over again, just trying to find that 
 last heartpiece. It completely revolutionized the zelda series and set the bar for what a 10/10 
 graphiced game looked like. November 2006, after what many considered to be the biggest letdown 
 in nintendo's career, Windwaker, Nintendo prepared to release The Legend of Zelda : Twilight princess 
 to the United states of America. They claim it is better than Ocarina of Time, is it? I've decided 
 to do this review not as a zelda fan, but as a critic, and i understand that some things I say 
 might make some of you mad, and I'm sorry, but here's what i've gathered based on my time with 
 Twilight princess. Just to set the record straight, 63 hours. It took me 63 hours to get all the 
 upgrades (bottles, quivers, bomb bags, etc) heartpieces, and secrets and beat the game. That is 
 (mind you) without any kind of guide, or looking anything up on the internet. I estimate that if 
 I had blown through the quest without doing any kind of side quests it would've taken me about 
 50 hours flat. Nintendo did something really smart with this, you need 5 heart pieces for 1 heart 
 container, that really expands how many sidequests the game can throw at you. I'd like to specificly 
 highlight this, the sidequests in this game are AWESOME. On this level there's no question in my 
 mind, it's far better than Ocarina of Time in that respect. (and that's saying something, because 
 I loved OOT's sidequests as well) In the sidequest department I'd kind of relate it to Link to 
 the Past in nature. Alot of the heartpieces you find aren't from chores, but from using the boomerang, 
 clawshot, bow and arrow, and other items in the overworld map to fly your way over to some items. 
 Money is required more than any other Zelda game, you need to have money on hand at many times 
 throughout your adventure, sometimes to get heart pieces, or to donate to charody to build a bridge 
 so a heart piece becomes available, and not just heartpieces, but bonus items. With almost 50 heart 
 pieces, this game keeps you searching. At first in the adventure, you might get angry because you 
 feel like there's nothing to do, let me tell you, it's not that there's nothing to do, it's just 
 that the sidequests require alot of thinking and effort.
  I give sidequests 10/10 Wolf: If you're thinking that the whole wolf mechanics are completely revolutionary 
 to the Zelda series, and will be something that has to be in every zelda from now on, think again. 
 I could be wrong, but I seriously think that it's just this zelda's personal gimmick. Just like 
 the ocarina in OOT, or the wind and water in WW, or the masks and 3 day time limit in MM. It's 
 just the gimmick they chose for this game, and it's really well done. Combat as the wolf is very 
 well done, and they well simulated how a wolf actually does attack. There's also other options 
 open as the wolf, like how you jump, and the use of midna. I give the wolf/twilight world a 10/10 
 Horse: remember a couple years ago when they showed the video of link riding around on Eponas back 
 fighting enemies, and we all thought, Wow! I loved epona in Ocarina of Time, I can't wait! After 
 playing TP, you'll never want to go back to OOT's horseback riding. Everything about it is fantastic, 
 fighting 30 enemies on the back of their boars at once, every so often whipping out the bow and 
 arrow to shoot down flying foes. Not only that, but riding all across hyrule field, it's all very 
 well implemented. Item use/combat/controller implementation: The wii controller obviously means 
 that things have to work a little differently. I know you guys are all terrified about swordplay, 
 but let me assure you, it works fine. Just as fine as pressing a button, i found that to swing 
 links sword, you don't even have to swing your arm, just flick your wrist, also, the spin attack 
 works great with the nunchuck. I'd say the best implement of the controller on sword play is the 
 shield bump. To make Link do a shield bump, just press the nunchuck forward and **** It's very 
 responsive. Overall, swordplay is absolutely the best it's ever been in any zelda game ever. Your 
 enemies actually fight you, you have a far greater sense of control with parrying and special moves 
 than in almost any game where you sword fight. You can look and feel like an absolute pro, the 
 game doesn't do everything for you like it did in WW, you have to fight, and dodge, and do back 
 slices and helmet splitting, and finishing moves. You'll quite frequently face 20 or 30 enemies 
 at once, some with bows, and some with clubs or swords. Combat has a huge focus in TP, far bigger 
 than any zelda before. The best implementation of the wii controller is when you have to aim something. 
 like a bow, or hookshot, like i said earlier, while on horse back, you can easily snipe someone 
 very, very far away. It's much better than using a analog stick. I give all of this a 10/10. Main 
 quest : This is where you want to know, is it better than Ocarina of Time. The main quest in TP 
 is absolutely the most immersive one of any zelda ever before. It's got this clash of Links priorities 
 and Midna's priorities, Link wants to save the people from his village, midna wants to collect 
 the fused Shadows. It's much unlike any other zelda game before. The main quests in other zelda's 
 is about 80% Dungeons and 20% things outside of dungeons. In TP, it's about 50/50. You might finish 
 a dungeon, and then spend 2 hours in a different part of a main quest tracking someone down who 
 kidnapped a child, helping a sick zora chila, escorting a caravan. The dungeons themselves are 
 fantastic, the puzzles are really well done, and they are big. And with about the same number of 
 them as you get in OOT, there's nothing to lose. I think the balance in this game of things in 
 dungeons and things out give you a more immersed feeling into the character of Link, rather than 
 the mindless feeling of just going from dungeon to dungeon. I give the main quest a 10/10. Bosses 
 : There are far more bosses in this game then ever before, main reson is that only about 60% of 
 them are in the dungeons, you get to fight alot of bosses outside the dungeons, around in other 
 areas of the main quest, and etc. However, the bosses in the dungeons have the puzzle boss feeling 
 to them, where there's something clever you have to do using an item you just obtained. They are 
 also the largest. Let me tell you, there was only 1 boss in this entire game i didn't have fun 
 fighting. They were almost all fantastic, and the catch to beating them was great. But i have one 
 BIG complaint about them. The dungeon bosses are ALL really easy. I wouldn't say that OOT's were 
 preticularly hard, but these are just plain easy. you might lose 1 or 2 hearts, but then once you 
 figure out how, it's a cinch to beat them. They basically sit there while you pummel them. My only 
 suggestion for them to make the bosses better, is to make them attack more, and give them more 
 attacks, make their attacks take more hearts (seriously, you'll lose half a heart getting fire 
 breathed on you) , and after you get them the second time using the same method, they should do 
 something smarter, like cover their weakzone, and then you have to find a way to uncover it. I 
 give the bosses a 9/10 Gameplay (overall) : Don't expect any new bars to be set, this is true to 
 already established zelda gameplay, think that the next wii zelda will set a bunch of new bars, 
 but not this. It's a gamecube game with a few new mechanics. The one huge new bar set, I think, 
 is world map, and horseback fighting. Although most would say that it's alot like OOT, honestly 
 I personally believe the zelda it's most like is LTTP. I give gameplay a 10/10. Graphics (overall) 
 : The backgrounds are amazing, even the character models are well done. But you must remember, 
 gamecube game. The wii is certainly capable of more. For instance, the hair on characters could 
 be much better. The environments are flawless, until you get up close. Widescreen is sweet. I give 
 graphics an 8/10. Score/sounds (overall) : I understand that alot of you want orchestral music, 
 and so do i, but i liked the music alot in this game, but there are a few songs i wish were composed. 
 The sounds are fantastically done, but i feel they are slightly marred by the fact that every item 
 you use is sounded by the mic on the remote... I think that the remote mic should be used only 
 occasionly... For instance, it should be used for picking up rupees, not for shooting the bow and 
 arrow... I give score/sound a 8/10 Value (overall) : Amazing... This game is a classic, you'll 
 beat it 12 times before you stop playing it, it's fun just to cruise around the huge world map, 
 walk around as a wolf, talk to people, and do tons of stuff. I give value a 10/10. Tilt: Minor 
 pros : I LOVE THE WORLD MAP! The game is incredibly epic, with the best storyline and presentation 
 of any zelda. Items, they have some really cool new items in this game, 3 different kinds of bombs, 
 and mixing bombs and arrows Minor cons : Items, they kindof forsook alot of past things that i 
 really like (grapple hook, light arrows, etc.) . Magic, there is absolutely no magic in this game 
 at all, no fire spells, shield spells, anything.
  
  I give tilt a +10 Conclusion : This is the best Zelda ever created, but it just doesn't have the 
 shock value. You will have a blast playing it, but it will never have that nostalgic feel that 
 OOT had. OOT revolutionized the series, TP just doesn't do that. In my mind this game is a 10/10, 
 but due to gamespots averaging system, it came out to 9.5. The sound errors and graphic errors 
 should've been fixed, but I love the game as is, and i have a feeling that we have a huge surprise 
 coming with the next zelda for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  If Gears is the reason to buy a 360, Twilight Princess is the reason to buy a Wii. I have played 
 this game for over 20 hours and I must say I am thoroughly impressed. Let's section things off..
 
  Gameplay: I am really dissappointed that Gamespot's rating system only comes with 1 topic of gameplay. 
 Yes, I would give Twilight Princess almost a perfect 10 in this category. The tried and true formula 
 of Ocarina of TIme comes into play again to create a great game. With the new Wii controls, it 
 enhances it. Not to the point of being revolutionary, but to the point where it refreshes some 
 gameplay tactics. I for one am glad to swing my own sword for once.
  Graphics + Sound:
  Yes, Twilight Princess does lack a little in graphics. But serisouly, I don't really mind when 
 I'm riding on Epona slashing someone off their warthog. The graphics do the game very well, and 
 I think the style of the Twilight Realm and the Twilight characters were done extremely well. The 
 sound in this game is also fantastic. Slashing that enemy and hearing the sword sounds whizz by 
 you as you strike is awesome. Some people new to the LoZ series might be turned off by the extremely 
 minimal, if not non existant speaking. But I think it adds to the game, because the game is so 
 focused on emotions.
  Value: This game appears to be long. And even when you're done, you can go find all the heart pieces, 
 bugs, and poes. These nice little add ons create a wonderfully prolonged single player games.
 
  All in all, Twilight Princess is the best game for the Wii yet, and may be for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drock2k1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this game, especially after reading the review 
 that Gamespot posted. Boy were they off. Since when does a game have to look as good as the high 
 end games other systems have? If this is the case how does any DS game ever get better reviews 
 than any PSP game? I thought we were judging games on their gameplay not solely on graphics. To 
 say that this installment doesn't offer anything incredibly new to the series is hilarious. So, 
 spending half of the game as a wolf isn't new? If you are considering buying this I would highly 
 recommend it. I will warn you, it is an absolute time sink. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman821
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  So we all know or heard about The Legend of Zelda games. Remember when Ocarina Of Time came out? 
 Everybody went crazy about it, because it was in 3D . Now Nintendo launches Twilight Princess on 
 the Wii with its new controls. I've waited almost 10 years for a game like this to come out. If 
 you don't know what im talking about, start playing for 10 minutes and you'l understand me. Game 
 Spot gave only 8.8!!! I really think its a damn shame that a game so flawless and so close to perfection 
 could get a 8.8. Come on! Since when does music or graphics influence a Zelda game? Its Zelda! 
 Im so frustrated ,look at all the games that have a higher mark then 8.8 and tell me if its a better 
 game then Twilight Princess... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D12World20
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the most highly anticipated games to hit the new 
 Nintendo Wii system this year. And trust me this is only where it begins. This game is truly the 
 best Zelda game to date. You start the game off like you would in any other Zelda game, a young 
 farm boy doing his daily tasks and in his spare time learning how to use a sword. The way you swing 
 you sword is truly innovative. You swing the Wii-Remote as if you were controlling the sword. The 
 Wii-Mote also lets Link skip scenes, save your game, also access you main menu to equip items. 
 Thats only a fraction of what it can do. In the other hand you hold the Nun-Chuck. It acts as 
 your shield, Z-Targeting, and camera controls. As you progress through the game you acquire new 
 skills, new weapons never seen before in the Zelda series (Such as Ball and Chain) and meet new 
 friends along the way. You horse Epona is used allot through this game as well in the final battle. 
 But one of the truly new innovative things in the game is your ability to transform in to a blue-eyed 
 wolf. Being a wolf allows Link to use new skills that he could not do as a human, such as: digging, 
 getting to higher places, beating enemies easier, and talking to other animals! You later realize 
 that you are the hero of time and you must save Zelda as you would in other Zelda games, but this 
 time you learn that their is another world of darkness called the twilight. You meet a character 
 named Midna that transforms you into the Wolf because she needs your help to banish the world of 
 light. Although Link does not like this he has no choice because Midna has captured Links friends 
 and if he disobeys they die. Many things happen as you progress through the game but I do not want 
 to spoil anything for you people. I can say though that Midna has many mysterious traits that wont 
 be solved until the game is beaten. As for Ganandolf, well lets just say that hes back and his 
 got a friend to help him defeat you. So if your planning on buying a Wii or own one already and 
 dont have this game. I defiantly recommend picking this up. This game will keep you entertained 
 for hours on end. This game is guaranteed to be more then 40 hours. Thats not even including the 
 side missions and extra collecting to do. So I give The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, a 10 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexFunk
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  For starters, Link changes into a wolf and takes on brand new beast abilities. Via some uncharacteristically 
 well-choreographed cut-scenes, the aspiring warrior transforms into the four-legged animal and 
 eventually meets Zelda, who has been imprisoned in the Twilight. He's also introduced to Midna, 
 a pivotal character to the storyline and quest to follow. This is a dark world and it's complemented 
 by a decidedly dark premise. There are no beheadings or, for that matter, even genuine gore, but 
 compared to the always colorful, cartoony affair that was Wind Waker, this stuff may as well be 
 Resident Evil. In one particularly compelling cinematic halfway through the game, the storyline 
 even ponders what might happen if Link himself turned to evil. Nintendo has utilized motion-capturing 
 for characters and the added fluidity is immediately noticeable, but that's hardly the primary 
 reason why these sequences are so welcomed. Rather, the tale has matured and advanced well beyond 
 the templated save-the-princess routine and into something that holds interest not simply to support 
 some well-rounded gameplay mechanics, but as an attraction of its own. As you play, you will generally 
 want to know who Midna is and what here motivation to help Link might be, just as you'll be itching 
 to discover what the true power of the Twilight King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mno00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I just finished my Zelda: Twilight Princess, the type of gameplay that involves you to keep going 
 to know that it depends on your moves the things that are happening. I dont want to get into detail 
 of how you defeat the last evil boss, or the last two. the game makes you think of what you have 
 to do, its not just to hit your opponent, it is to know what yo use against them.
  I must say that in some cases its easier than ocarina of time but this one involves you more.
 
  hopefully their will be more zelda like this like ocarina of time and twilight. It has a great 
 story, amazing gameplay, outstanding mixture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-boie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  i have'nt played this game much as of yet, but if it's anything like the other zelda games such 
 as majora's mask ,ocarina of time, so on and so forth. plus now since you get hands on gaming experience 
 the game should be alot more interisting seeing as your actions control the character instead of 
 holding a controller and getting mad to the point of breaking your controller like i said i have'nt 
 played the much of this game yet so i have'nt come across some down falls but if someone has more 
 information about this game then i would be glad to read your review just email me at squad_boi407@yahoo. com 
 take it easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  For those of you on the fence about which console to buy, here's a huge reason why to buy a Wii. 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is a remarkable game which provides hours upon hours of 
 fun. The use of the Wii Remote is used perfectly in this game. TP introduces new items, themes, 
 areas, enemies, and songs while bringing back old favorites. This give the games a new purpose 
 and feel, while remaining nostalgic at the same time. While the graphics are not technically great, 
 as the game is a Gamecube port, the artistic value is amazing. The old enemies have all had a makeover 
 to look more realistic. Those who are fan of the series will enjoy seeing new versions of areas 
 and enemies that were in previous games. The music is synthesized like in previous games but is 
 still amazing and unforgettable. The sound quality of the Wii Remote may crackle from time to time 
 but it has only happened to me about once out of every two-hundred sound effects. Gameplay remains 
 true to the series and fantastic as always. Playing as a wolf is fun and easy to use. The dungeons 
 are harder and longer than previous games but none of the bosses provide much of a challenge once 
 you figure out how to beat them. All in all, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess will keep you 
 busy forquite a while. You will be left knowing that you have experienced one of the greatest games 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm not here to say that Gamespot reviewers need to be fired and/or am I trying to flame anyone 
 here, but I do want to clarify some questions that readers might have.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's a Zelda game, what else can you expect? While I must disagree that most boss battles have 
 been dumbed down terribly (to appeal to a wider audience) , the puzzles will more than once make 
 you feel like you are a failure and sometimes after realizing what needs to be done to overcome 
 a particular puzzle, you might feel even more ashamed. There are plenty of these scattered throughout 
 the game as well as there are plenty of other quests to do in the game. The story is very well 
 developed although some clarification could have been used in certain parts of the game. One of 
 the issues here though is the controllers, since they don't feel revolutionary enough to make justice 
 to the Wii remote, as can be seen with other release titles for the Wii. Nonetheless, the controllers 
 are pretty accurate and feel fresh, although there is a lot of room for improvement. Simple wrist 
 movements seem to be better working than full blown arm movements, and some techniques might take 
 some getting used to or getting around (Shield Bash is easiest done by thrusting the Nunchuck down, 
 not forward) .
  
  Graphics:
  In the eralier parts of the game, a lot of the textures will look very bland and blurry until the 
 player starts entering the outer world. It is here were the graphical aspect of the game starts 
 to shine. One aspect of this game that was extremely well done - and seems to have gone unnoticed 
 to everyone - is the HDR engine, which if you take a look at games such as Just Cause you will 
 see that there is a vast difference from an unnatural bloom, and a truly well designed Bloom. A 
 very clear example will be once you reach a certain Lake, or when you see the sunset cast in front 
 of you or when an object is blocking that sunset: all of these events will show you just how beautifully 
 well done the lighting system is in this game. The game runs at a very smooth framrate, only sometimes 
 there is a lag when defeating many enemies at once, but I believe this is because there is a pause 
 every time you slay an enemy, and not because the console can't handle it. Granted that this game 
 looks somewhat dated, since it was originally meant for the Gamecube and if you've been playing 
 many of the new generation titles, this will feel detracting from the experience to some point. 
 It would have been nice to see Link have graphics similar to those in the demo pics for Super Smash 
 Bros. Dojo/Brawl, but since it was a last minute change to make this title for the Wii, it can 
 be expected that they aren't going to re-do the whole game. All in all, the graphics look ok and 
 aren't bad enough to make you want to not play the game. Also, some of the later bosses appear 
 to be more polished than the first ones, so it's debatable whether or not this was Wii specific 
 or not. Sound:
  The sound in this game is in no way dated. Having played in a surround environment, I can say with 
 great affirmation that there is a very immersive experience thanks to all the sounds that are in 
 the game. Even finding the golden bugs was considerably easier since I could sound out where the 
 aforementioned insects were. The musical score will surely sound like music to your ears (you would 
 hope so too) and if you are a long time fan there will be quite a few instances where chills will 
 trickle down your spine as you hear some of the classics redone. The only reason that the sound 
 aspect does not receive a perfect score is because there are no orchestral compositions, and I 
 feel that that would have made the Sound appeal just perfect, which it's not. Also, I think that 
 the choice to not include voiceovers is great, since more often than not there are issues with 
 voiceovers sucha s a charactes voice being to whiny and what not. I think Nintendo was wise in 
 not choosing to employ voiceovers, since reading is much more immersive than listening, a fact 
 that is almost unkown to todays youth. The sounds coming out of the Wii remote are also a hit or 
 miss. One the one hand, most sounds are very well employed and come out decently, but on the other 
 hand there are certain sounds that have too high a pitch for the WIi Remote speaker, making them 
 sound crackly and almost intolerable. There is always the option to turn the volume down on the 
 speaker though, or completely off if that is too much of a distraction.
  
  Value:
  This is definietly one of the longer lasting Legend Of Zelda Titles. While I do recall Ocarina 
 of Time taking me longer to complete, back in those days we were all not just younger, but also 
 unaccostumed to the new ways of thinking that the gaming revolutions had presented us. While there 
 is nothing really revoutionary in this game that would justify it a perfect score, there is plenty 
 to do. The main adventure is where most of the gameplay is located, but there are also many side 
 events to keep the player entertained in case one needs to take a break from the story line. While 
 the amount of secondary tasks is somewhat slim, there are just enough to make the value of the 
 game worthwile. Plenty of minigames, many puzzles and a lot of fun playing the game overall makes 
 this game have a very lasting appeal. Conclusion:
  While Twilight Princess is definitely a game worth buying for any fans of the series or action 
 adventure fans, this game may feel plain for those who have made the leap into next generation 
 games. It bears with it a copious amount of gametime, some very innovative puzzle ideas and brings 
 back more of that same old formula that has been in every Zelda game. Unfortunately, there is nothing 
 completely revolutionary about this game that would justify it being an instant classic, but it 
 doesn't fail to dissapoint nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lessthankris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I had quite a bit of fun playing this game. Took me about 2 1/2 weeks with non stop playing during 
 the weekends. I loved this game tremendously and I cant believe how long it was. It was fun all 
 the way through it. I've played every Zelda game there is except for the oracle of season ones 
 for the game boy and I wouldn't say its the best of series but ..... no I would say its the best. 
 Definitely the best in the series. More story involvement in this one more than any of the others. 
 Instead of going to dungeon to dungeon to dungeon... Theres actual story involvement going on through 
 the whole thing. Its pretty awesome. Wooooooo!!! love this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Alright, i just finshed beating Twilight Princess, don't get me wrong it was a great game, but 
 it didnt have that, i don't know, zelda feeling to it, Orcania had it.
  
  Let me start with the good stuff
  
  The graphics in Twilight are awesome, the game really looks 
 great, the soundtrack is oldschool which is sweet and most of the gameplay elements are really 
 solid and work well for the Wii controller ( Lure Fushing is so cool) . The thing i liked best about 
 the game were the puzzles, they are really well done, sometimes you get stumped for about 10 minutes 
 on one, never more really, not like Orcania with the god damn water temple. The game dosnt really 
 do anythign new with the series, its really quite similer to Ornia in many ways except it has some 
 cool new toys you play with which are great. Now the bad stuff. Orcania, considered to be one of, 
 if not the greatest game ever made, and damnit i think it deserves that title and i think it should 
 keep it because Twilight just dosn't live up to its predessesor. One of the most dissapointing 
 aspects of the game is that it is tooooo EASY, i swear this game was made for toddlers it was so 
 easy, there was not one challenging boss fight in the entire game which was really dissapointing. 
 i think, i lost 5 hearts in total killing the bosses. At least the final boss was the hardest, 
 but still dissapointing. Even the puzzles could have been made a bit harder, or a difficulty setting 
 could have been put on the game.
  
  The story is a little weak, i mean, Orcania was one hell of an adventure, Twilight is good it just 
 dosnt have that epic feeling that oracania had, i think zelda fans will understand that.
  
  The game will probibly be much better on the gamecube, the swordplay is a little dissapointing, 
 if your expecting to swing your remote like a sword, then your not looking for zelda, basically 
 every battle just requires to shake your remote a bit, maybe jump out of the way sometimes, and 
 hes dead. The game will take you 40 hours to complete, i could see 10 more hours doing everything, 
 which i have no desire to do, this game is not like Orcania, where i beat it start to finish like 
 3 times
  
  In conclusion, even with all the bad stuff ive said about the game, its still great, a really solid 
 game although it could have been so much more. Definitly worth playing. Orcania will still hold 
 the crown for the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess, the game I've been waiting 3 years for, has finally been released. I played 
 it on launch day of the Wii for America, and Twilight Princess really blew me away. It was everything 
 I could have hoped for in a Zelda game.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The gamplay is superb, a lot has changed from previous zelda games believe it or not. The whole 
 aiming with the wiimote is one example, but the new weapons and techniques you learn really add 
 to the experience. Playing as a wolf is pretty enjoyable, but sometimes feels like a hassle (especially 
 when you have to look for the bugs) . I don't want to give away too much, but you'll find you solving 
 puzzles which use new items that you've never seen before in any other zelda game before.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Twilight Princess is a very well done game. It doesn't use the Wii's full potential, 
 but that's to be expected, since it is a Gamecube game with Wii controls added on after all. The 
 artistic style was done really really well and the environments are beautiful. Sound: 10
  Zelda games always have good music, and this game delivers. It may be done in midi supposedly, 
 but it doesn't really matter, because it sounds the same as any other game in my opinion. The music 
 is written really really well, with tunes that fit the environments and moods perfectly.
  
  Value: 10
  I beat the game in 42 hours, which is very long for a LoZ game, but I haven't even 
 done all the sidequests yet, which could easily add another 5 hours to the game. Definitely worth 
 every penny.
  
  Tilt: 10+
  This game is soooo much fun. Honestly, I've never played a singly-player video game that was this 
 much fun, every moment was enjoyable, and the temples were the best, better than any other LoZ 
 game. Final Score: 10
  I don't agree with Gamespot's scoring system. Just because a game doesn't have perfect graphics/sound 
 doesn't mean it isn't a 10/10 game. They should focus more on how fun a game actually is rather 
 than the aspects which don't really make a difference. This game is loads of fun, I really really 
 enjoyed it and I'm sure you would too, please get it; if not for the Wii, then for the Gamecube. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svcroller
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I will not comment on the story at all.
  
  Gameplay:
  These are the most brilliantly designed dungeons in all of Zelda's history. Perfectly balanced 
 puzzle difficulty, always ending in satisfaction. What the boss fights lack in difficulty they 
 make up for in originality and intensity. It seems as if all Nintendo needed to do was increase 
 hit points. I've never had this much fun playing a single player game. i really enjoyed the new 
 items (excluding one which served as more of a plot device than anything) Wolf form is more fun 
 than expected, and adds a few interesting elements to gameplay, most notably the sense (an unlimited 
 lens of truth, with short distance however) . dig will allow to you find buried items, but mostly 
 feels like they just needed a way for you to get into buildings while in wolf form. you attack 
 with motion in wolf form as well, but my favorite part was using A to jump and latch onto enemies 
 and unleash a flurry of biting.
  
  Graphics: This has been said. What it lacks in technical aspects it more than makes up for in artistic 
 presentation. There was some clipping, most notably your sword (when sheathed) through your cap. 
 I will take a point off for this because it's something that Nintendo definitely should have fixed. 
 There's no excuse for clipping anymore, no matter how powerful the hardware.
  
  Sound: Typical amazing Zelda soundtrack. I have no problems with the MIDI format, this music is 
 brilliant.
  
  The sounds coming through the remote can be distracting but you get used to it. Only sound I never 
 had a problem with was the bow. Loud, forceful sounds are an issue with the remote. Light sounds, 
 however, are fine. (apparently they can be turned off, but i never bothered to)
  
  Value: Perfect Length for an action/adventure game. Took me 45 hours. You will start getting anxious 
 to reach the climax towards the very end of the game. Makes sense. Tons of sidequests to keep you 
 exploring long after you've completed the main quest. Controls: Yes it's true that swinging the 
 remote is basically like hitting a button, but its A LOT more satisfying than simply hitting a 
 button, and the lag between your movement and onscreen correlation is borderline negligible (not 
 completely though, if you pay attention) . It immerses you into the action, and at times you will 
 find yourself making dramatic movements in the heat of battle instinctively. Try doing that with 
 a button. Overall it is a MORE FUN mean to the same end. The potential of this control scheme has 
 me drooling over a full fledged Wii Zelda. I had no issues with its responsiveness either.
  
  The aiming is insanely easy. Wii Remote vs. Analog for aiming is analogous to Analog vs. D-Pad 
 for 3D movement. Much more intuitive.
  
  And for anyone who has problems with doing the shield attack, I don't understand. The shield attack 
 was just as responsive as swinging your sword once you find the right movement (a quick wrist flick 
 of the nunchak) . Plus, this move feels much more aligned with your movement than any other move 
 in the game.
  
  The spin attack will now become one of your most used attacks. It is a tad harder to pull it off 
 than the basic sword swing, (a slightly powerful shake of the nunchak) but nothing worth complaining 
 about, as it should be a little harder anyway considering how powerful and fast it comes out. Minor 
 Complaints:
  I found the fairy cursor to be utterly useless. I never once figured out what to do with it. There 
 should definitely have been a menu/aiming only option for the cursor. Most of the time this cursor 
 will be off your screen, but I would much more prefer it to never be on my screen.
  
  A couple items had much more potential than was actually used. One time I was SURE that the my 
 current fiasco could be solved with a certain item, because it seemed so right, but it turned out 
 to be another light the torches puzzle. I was very dissappointed that this opportunity wasn't used 
 to give my favorite new item a chance. Bringing up the map requires an awkward finger movement (the 
 1 button from A is a long way)
  
  Takes a little while you find the perfect grip for using the D-pad and the - and + buttons. At 
 first it feels awkward but you get used to it, unlike reaching for the 1 and 2 buttons. Luckily 
 they were smart and made your combat items usable through B after selecting them with the D-pad.
 
  
  conclusion
  I find it very hard to believe that the gamecube version will be more enjoyable than this. I can't 
 even think about pressing B to attack anymore, sounds so boring. if you can afford the wii, this 
 game is worth it. the controls far surpass that of wind waker's, which is what the gc version will 
 be identical to. fishing in gc version? no thanks. this is the new way to play zelda, and I absolutely 
 cannot wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drechao
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Link, a young man raised as a wrangler in a small, rural village, is ordered by the mayor to attend 
 the Hyrule Summit. He sets off, oblivious to the dark fate that has descended upon the kingdom. 
 When he enters the Twilight Realm that has covered Hyrule, he transforms into a wolf and is captured. 
 A mysterious figure named Midna helps him break free, and with the aid of her magic, they set off 
 to free the land from the shadows. Link must explore the vast land of Hyrule and uncover the mystery 
 behind its plunge into darkness. As he does, he'll have to enlist the aid of friendly folk, solve 
 puzzles and battle his way through dangerous dungeons. In the Twilight Realm, hell have to use 
 his wolf abilities and Midnas magic to bring light to the land. Besides his trusty sword and shield, 
 Link will use his bow and arrows, fight while on horseback and use a wealth of other items, both 
 new and old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustanglover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I am by no means a hard core gamer, but I've always loved the Zelda games. I just beat the main 
 quest at 32 hours. Less than I expected, but still plenty long. So, the good:
  - Respectable graphics
  - Very well adapted controls, pinpoint aiming, and smooth sword action
 
  - The most emotionally charged story line in a Zelda game ever
  - The gameplay is classic Zelda
  
  The bad:
  - Could have been longer
  - Many, many jaggies 
 (I don't have the component cables)
  - Not enough upgrades
  - The new controller makes the enemies too easy
  
  All around an excellent game with the usual 
 complaints. My one hope for the game is downloadable content, like alternate story lines and more 
 dungeons, weapons and items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tifa923
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I only just got the master sword and found this game to be amazing.
  I love it better that OoT!
  And I was addicted to OoT!
  I haven't noticed the darker side, 
 some people say it is darker that OoT. Probably because I was only seven when I played OoT and 
 now I've seen alot of scary things since then *coughyourmomcough*.
  
  Anyways, if the graphics on this were NOT updated to meet the Wii's double Gamecube hardware then 
 I know that this game could look a hell of alot better, that said, I think the graphics are still 
 amazing. The gameplay is somewhat different. It doesn't feel all that great to have the motion 
 sensing controls except for when you're flying or fighting on horseback or aiming a bow or something.
 
  The story is great. It could have definitely used some voice overs. If you ask me what game to 
 get to keep you busy, it's this one.
  
  I did have trouble with the water temple. (NEVER beaten a water temple without a guide before, 
 they are all hard) The action parts are all easy the only added difficulty would be puzzles. The 
 Wiimote has poor sound quality but I doubt it's the game. Some third-party will probably come out 
 with a better quality speaker in that baby so I'm leaving the wiimote sound out of this review. 
 As for bringin back OoT music, this gives sound a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepat117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  In Nintendo's next installment of this beloved seires Link comes back in an all new way using the 
 Wiimote. You can guide Link through the dungeons using the Nunchuck controller, and kill the badies 
 while your at it with your sword by a simple flick of the Wiimote. The all new gameplay in this 
 Zelda makes it's fans everywhere drool all over there controllers. (dont do this you might have 
 to buy a bew one) Another new part of this game is the sections of the game where you must venture 
 Hyrule as none other than a big ol' dog. Which gives the fans an all new Zelda experience. Sword 
 slashing and shield bashing are not the only thing used with the new innovative controllers there 
 is also slingshot and arrow shooting and boomerang throwing all by simply pointing at your target 
 and pulling the trigger B button.
  there is even sumo wreslting. All in all its hard to find much bad about this game besides how 
 much time you'll spend playing it. I have a Wii and Zelda and can't put it down. If you have a 
 Wii I sugest you get of your butt and go get one. I give it a 9 out of 10
  
  Littlepat
  
  Nintendo Enthusisit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmRodyle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess was intended to be the true sequel to Nintendo's N64 classic, Ocarina of Time. 
 After finishing the main quest of the game, I must somewhat reluctantly admit that a game that 
 has for years remained my favorite has some serious competition. For me to point out any negatives 
 at all from this double-platform game would require tediously combing through the game's nooks 
 and crannies and picking out what so little gave hints on this not being an instant classic. I 
 really wouldn't feel comfortable giving this game any less than a 10, as I honestly believe that 
 as a passionate Zelda player the game deserves no less.
  
  If I need to justify myself further, I'll break my score down.
  
  -Gameplay - Brilliant. The 
 fun that is to be had with the game will more than satisfy veteran Zelda players and anyone who 
 is new to the franchise. The new combat system can be more complex with added moves and techniques, 
 but the problem with some games that do this is that older players would feel that too much is 
 added on. The beauty of Twilight Princess is it doesn't have to be. If players feel more comfortable 
 with the classic Zelda combat system, they can avoid learning the new moves taught in the game 
 with little to no consequence. The puzzles in the game's dungeons and overworld alike are expertly 
 designed and require as much thought possible without having to resort to a trip to Gamefaqs. When 
 a dungeon is completed and the player actually has a distinct sense of satisfaction and accomplishment, 
 you know the gameplay has been done beautifully. 10
  
  -Graphics-
  The purpose of good graphics is to draw the player in and immerse them in the fictional (or non-fictional) 
 world of the game. I believe there is a false analogy that good graphics are the ones that have 
 high polygon counts and are as close as possible to realism. This is not what is necessary to harness 
 the immersion that graphics can provide. Wherever the game took me, I was wowed by the beautiful 
 artistic design and believable architecture. Even if the technical quality of the graphics is inferior 
 to some other games, the fact of the matter is that if they do that much to immerse you into the 
 game, the graphics have done their part. Twilight Princess does this flawlessly.
  10
  
  -Sound-
  Well-recorded and vastly used. The sound effects of the game are varied and used in 
 many different situations, none of which grow to the point of annoyance as I'm sure many of us 
 have seen in other games. Yes, the game uses a nearly exclusively MIDI soundtrack. Some might say 
 that this and this alone removes all possibility of the game getting a perfect in sound, but I 
 would gladly argue with them. The game's composition is very impressive, with all the charm that 
 the Zelda classics treated us with. Even if the instruments are synthesized, they are of convincing 
 quality. I do not believe that a video game requires a full orchestra to be considered excellent, 
 because that would truly be missing the point.
  10
  
  -Value-
  $50US for all this game has to offer? I think the government should require us to pay more, but 
 for now its mockingly cheap price is sure to please all patrons. 10
  
  All of this, and a story that effortlessly captivates just to seal the package. The only thing 
 I'd say negatively is that while many have said the game's main quest should take 70 hours or more, 
 it only took me a little less than half of that sum. Sure, it's a very long game, but it isn't 
 an RPG.
  No hesitation should come to one's mind when considering purchasing the game. As for what system 
 to buy it on, it all really comes down to your personal preference. Although I much prefer the 
 Wii's precision aiming system, one might disagree and buy the Gamecube version instead and have 
 no complaints from me.
  
  To sum up my review, I just need to say two words: It's Zelda. Anyone who's played their share 
 of the games will know exactly what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I and many people have been waiting for for a long time. And it was well worth the 
 wait. It is classic orcarina of time gameplay with a great story, lush environments, and beutiful 
 graphics. Like many, i was dissapointed with majora's mask and wind waker; but take it from me, 
 this game in no way disapoints. the game takes full use of the wii's innovative features. to swing 
 your sword, simply make a slight flick of the wrist. (as easy as this sounds, you will need to 
 take breaks, your wrist gets very tired!) to shoot an arrow, pull the wiimote back and let it fly. 
 But the game doesn't use the wiimote for every little function in the game. which is good. I feel 
 that the balance was very good between interactivity and just pushing buttons.
  
  Now;
  A brief rundown of the story:
  
  From what I gather, the game is a direct sequel to orcarina 
 of time. Link has been living in a small village for some time. But some neighborhood children 
 are kidnapped into the twilight realm. Link travels into the realm and is transformed into a wolf 
 and with the help of an obscure creature, it is his mission to defeat the twilight king and bring 
 peace back to Hyrule (along with saving a girl he has the hots for and princess Zelda while he's 
 at it. who will he pick!? decisions, decisions)
  
  If you have a wii, by all means, buy this game. its a great game, its just right in length and 
 you will have a lot of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taytizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is truly one of the greatest games ever made. Twilight Princess 
 is the result of almost 4 years of work with some of the greatest minds in video gaming. I mean, 
 you have Shigeru Miyamoto, creator of 4 of the top 10 best-selling video game franchises, as the 
 producer, Eiji Aonuma, the hand-picked (by Miyamoto) assistant director to Ocarina of Time and 
 director to Majora's Mask and The Wind Waker, and Koji Kondo, composer to the score of many games 
 such as Super Mario Bros. (the original) and The Legend of Zelda (also, the original) , whose next 
 work is Super Smash Bros. Brawl with Nobuo Uematsu. So yeah, they're basically an all-star team 
 on steroids with cyborg robot parts. Anyway, this game just blows your mind, like, completely out 
 the window, especially when you beat the 3rd dungeon and all Hell breaks lose. It's just amazing.
 
  
  So on to the game itself, the dungeons are set up in usual Zelda fashion. You go in, explore, get 
 an item, and use it against the boss. It's simple, but the complexity of the dungeons makes it 
 a bit harder. The difference between the dungeons in this game and the dungeons in the others is 
 that these are much more creative (I personally favor dungeons 2 and 5.) . I mean in the first dungeon 
 you're helping out a bunch of monkeys in this hidden cave-like forest, and then, in the second 
 dungeon, you're, like, in this freakin' volcano that's like on the other side of the world from 
 where the forest dungeon was, and that's only 20% of the map. It's huge. This game is incredible, 
 but it's hard to say it's unique. It's more nostalgic than original, but one of the additions to 
 this game that makes it unique is Link's ability to transform into a wolf when he enters the twilight. 
 When you enter this area, the camera gets all distorted and hazy, and it's just flat-out breath-taking. 
 As you can tell, I'm having a hard time describing this game. That's mainly because it's hard to 
 tell what's unique about this game. I mean, my favorite music/moments in the game are when you 
 go someplace you've been before in a previous game like, I'm in this weird forest area, and I walk 
 through a door that appears to go nowhere. Once I enter, I'm in the same area only in black and 
 white and not a ruin, and I think this place looks familiar. Then, I hear it. A soft yet powerful 
 chanting, and I'm like Oh, s***! I know what this place is/was. It's the moments like that that 
 keep you coming back for more. Oh, and not to spoil anything, but the story, it kicks a**. If you're 
 into anime, you'll die. I mean, I almost, almost cried at the end.
  
  Bottom Line: This game is amazing, but if you're looking for a new experience, I'm afraid you might 
 be disappointed. I like it, and thinks it's the best game ever made. My review sounds a little 
 bad, but if there is one word that doesn't escribe this game, it's bad. Just look at my score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSMARTINDBZ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The best Zelda Game. The world of Hyrule is massive. It would take you a very long to travel the 
 land of Hyrule if it wasn't for your ever faithful Horse Epona, and the great Warp features built 
 in. The puzzles are familiar but are satisfying when they are figured out. The interface with the 
 Wiimote and Nunchuck is spot on, there is so much control that you would never have with a regular 
 controller. The boss battles are awesome but once you've figured out the trick to them they can 
 be a little easy. The only real thing keeping this game from perfection is the lack of Voice acting 
 because the game play is suberb and the more mature story is incredible along with the cinematics, 
 but can't keep from feeling if they would have had some high quality voice acting that this would 
 be so much closer to perfection.
  
  Old Zelda fans will love it and new comers to Zelda games will be hooked. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whoatemytuna
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Just wonderful, this game just keeps giving. Just when you think it can't get any better it throws 
 something awesome your way. The Game play is smooth and seamless, Load times and transitions are 
 great, the visual styling is awesome the story is spell binding. There really isn't enough i can 
 say about this game I gave Graphics a 9 only because of a few issues - but keep in mind this is 
 in essence a GC port
  
  and sound got a 9 because the controller SFX are buggy which gets kind of annoying I get the feeling 
 that as soon as i beat this game that i am going to play it again, This game is hands down the 
 most well orchestrated game in the Zelda series and possibly the best game i have every played 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has become a legend in its very own industry. Its always been regarded as one 
 of the premier franchises in gaming, so when the developers of Twilight Princess claimed this would 
 be the best Zelda yet you know they have set near impossible expectations. After playing through 
 the game I can safely tell you they were right, maybe more than right. I will attempt to describe 
 this game in words but there is no possible way it could do justice to how I feel about the game, 
 but I shall try my best. Twilight Princess follows the same style of gameplay of its predecessors, 
 if you have played any Zelda game before you know the drill. Some claim that this game is too familiar, 
 that its not as good a game cause of it, sorry but I cannot agree with that. There is more than 
 enough new content to make this game feel like its own unique installment in the Zelda series. 
 In fact right of the bat you will notice a difference in how the game is presented. You will quickly 
 notice that this game is more story driven than previous Zelda games. Within the first 10 hours 
 you will probably see more cutscenes than you did in all of OoT. Characters are better defined, 
 the action seems to have more purpose, and within no time you are thrust into the adventure with 
 a sense of urgency not shown before in a Zelda game. Yes the story does increase your enjoyment 
 level of the game but thats not the significant impact of it, no its the way the game is paced. 
 Since the game is more story driven the action is more focused than ever before, what results is 
 constant new gameplay situations, many times this is done outside the dungeons where the majority 
 of the gameplay is predominantly held. The pacing is beyond fantastic, in fact I agree with certain 
 journalists that claim its the best paced game they have ever played. There is never a dull moment, 
 never a time you are left wondering where to go and what to do. Each new area will usually present 
 a new kink in the gameplay at just the right moment. The game does this all the while still having 
 that element of exploration that Zelda is known for. This brilliant balancing act between straightforward 
 gameplay and open ended gameplay has never been executed better than in this game.
  
  All the pacing in the world wouldn't matter if the core gameplay is not great; luckily TP excels 
 in this area as well. Since I am reviewing the Wii version clearly the biggest change from this 
 Zelda and the others is the way Link is controlled. To me it worked even better than I thought 
 it would, in fact I the thought of playing this game with a gamepad just turns me off. I don't 
 want to make it sound like the controls are revolutionary, its not, but your experience with the 
 game is enhanced at least a bit from the new ways you interact. I have heard the sword slashing 
 mechanic being described as gimmicky; yes it the same as pushing a button but its just not as 
 fun. Call me crazy but I loved doing the slashing motion pressing a button just seems boring now. 
 Aiming is vastly improved; I doubt you will hear any argument from there. Plus the freeing up of 
 the analog stick now allows you to move and aim at the same time which is a godsend in certain 
 situations. Other improvements include the often times hard to perform spin move which is now performed 
 with a simple shake of the nunchuck, an extra quick item slot, and other moves learned later that 
 use the remote in certain ways. There are mini-games that use the wiimote in unique ways; it makes 
 me wonder how these games will play with a boring analog stick. But above all you will be most 
 pleased with how your hands are now free to stretch out, over a 65 hour long quest this is a godsend, 
 funny thing is you would never know you wanted it until you tried it.
  
  The combat is maybe the weakest aspect; sadly this is almost expected from the series now. Many 
 enemies can be killed by just slashing them, these guys almost feel like they are there just to 
 be there. The lock on mechanic made famous by OoT returns and its the primary way to fight, like 
 in other Zelda games there are plenty of items to use as well as your sword. As the game goes on 
 you will fight a variety of enemies (maybe the most varied in Zelda history) that will require 
 much more than just slashing. Certain enemies are hurt with a certain item, some you have to perform 
 one of the new moves Link learns, whatever the situation is at least it makes you think about what 
 you are doing. Like in WW this Link moves very fast, fights feel very fast paced and have certain 
 energy to them, especially when confronted with two or more of the harder enemies. Its this fast 
 paced combat with the multiple options that keeps fighting interesting from beginning to end even 
 if its not particularly difficult. Its a shame that its still way too hard to die in this game, 
 its not as easy as WW but sometimes you feel like a superhero among a bunch of street thugs. There 
 are some enemies in this game that do provide a decent challenge but they are so few and far between 
 that you get frustrated, there is the potential to have a some deep hard combat but its wasted 
 with all the wimpy enemies that are scattered everywhere. The bottom-line though is that you do 
 have lots of fun fighting and there is enough new ways to fight to keep it fresh and exciting.
 
  
  New to the game is Link having the ability to transform into a wolf. Have no worries it controls 
 beautifully and adds a great change of pace to the gameplay early on and later allows for some 
 interesting puzzles. The wolf has basically the same controls but can't use items, which are made 
 up with new powers sense and dig. It is a welcome new addition to the game that just adds to the 
 incredible diversity of gameplay.
  
  Dungeons are the meat of any Zelda game and thankfully this game has the best throughout dungeons 
 the series has ever seen. You will be blown away by the various dungeons in this game; it makes 
 all other Zelda dungeons seem boring in comparison. Each one has a completely different theme, 
 and I don't just mean the background, there is always something unique going on in each dungeon. 
 The puzzles are exactly what you wished they would be, hard enough to make you think but never 
 not logical. If you ever do get stuck in this game its only because of you, every puzzle is based 
 in logic according to the game world, when you solve one that you had difficulty solving you will 
 be left wondering how stupid you were for not seeing it the first time. Yes many of the puzzles 
 are in the same style as previous games but when they are this good, this well thought out, there 
 is no way you could not love them. Plus there are the new items you find in some of these dungeons, 
 I won't spoil it for you but there are some very unique ones in there and some that are use old 
 ideas in new ways. The dungeons provide constant enjoyment; they are the best aspect of the game 
 and make other games level designs look pale. Oh and the boss fights, once again some of the best 
 in the series, each are monstrous in size and many multilayered.
  
  No Zelda game is complete without a huge overworld with tons of side quests and hidden goodies 
 to find. Once again this Zelda game has the best in the series (starting to see a reoccurring theme 
 huh) , the world is just massive. It would be easy for them to just make a big world and leave it 
 empty but thats not the case, every area is so well throughout I honestly couldn't believe how 
 much content there was to discover. Every area is used, almost no space is wasted, you can lose 
 hours upon hours just exploring. The best part of it is how much of these side quests are as well 
 thought out as the main parts of the game, in fact no aspect of this game is not given the same 
 attention, even mini games play better than some games that focus on that style of gameplay. Graphically 
 the game has been criticized for looking like a GC game, well it is a GC game so I don't see the 
 big deal. Its not the best looking game but I dare you to complain about the art design which 
 is superb. The game is downright beautiful, just watching a Hyrulian sunset can move you. The world 
 is so detailed, not one area is unpolished. The character models express emotion like never before, 
 they feel almost like true characters you would find in an animated movie. The sound is classic 
 Zelda, maybe to a fault. It still uses midi tracks for the music and many of the tracks are just 
 remixes of old tunes. Yet the music is still moving from beginning to end, especially the outstanding 
 overworld theme. Some of the sound effects now come from the Wiimote speaker, while the speaker 
 quality is bad it gets does add a bit. Certain sounds work better than others but when you hear 
 that whoosh when you turn on sense mode or that sound of the arrow leaving the bow you have to 
 admit it is pretty cool.
  
  Zelda: Twilight Princess is everything you want in an action adventure game and then some. These 
 are bold words but I will say it, I have never played a game so perfectly designed, if there was 
 a text book in game design this game should be the case study. Its as close to perfect I have 
 seen, it is the best designed game I have ever played in my life. Its as if they took the best 
 aspects of the last three Zelda games and merged them into the perfect package. The only area I 
 can see holding this game back for some is that its not completely original. It will be impossible 
 for this game to give you that same impact you had when playing OoT for the first time. Some will 
 fault the game for that reason but I think only the most jaded of gamers will not enjoy it cause 
 of that reason. Following a formula or not this game is the perfect example of a game done right. 
 I have written so much and I really havent gotten into any details. There are so many moments 
 in the game I would love to talk about, so many places that left my jaw on the floor, but to keep 
 this spoiler free I will refrain from mentioning them. I'll let you experience them on your own. 
 I think this game is a timeless masterpiece; we will be talking about it for the rest of gaming 
 history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoobaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  The game, after waiting for 4 years.... you know this was going to a master piece. The dungeons 
 are well put together, and you also have the side quest to solve the easy to moderate difficulty. 
 With the remote sound it gives the game that extra touch. To be honest I was not enjoying this 
 game until I finally was able to transform at will from wolf to human, there are many things that 
 they could have added as a item but I belive in OOT and MM you had the rabbits feet. I was extremely 
 dissapointed not to find that item in this game, and I really have not for a use for the hawk eyes.
 
  
  This game as you start out, you will have the monsters attacking your friends, thus finding yourself 
 in the cell... hey big mistake is midna sitting there laughing and refusing to let you out. This 
 was in the beging of the game they could have given you a break on that. From there every thing 
 else the puzzles were fun and some time somewhat hard to figure out, and I am 21 lol. Most of all 
 from the Zelda OOT I do miss the caves, blow up a boulder and go down to find a chest and goups 
 to scoup up. I also can give them a break from following up from the N64 games those were the best 
 games of the zelda series except for the first zelda.
  
  I do give them credit for doing such a great follow up with this game from Wind Waker. Notes:
 
  It does take a while to get your infared controlling right and find the best place to put it, 
 the wii controller in the beginng is a little hard for me myself to get use to, but now I do enjoy 
 playing with it.
  
  I think that they should have changed some buttons because when I want to talk to midna I find 
 myself pushing the c - button/
  
  As you get to the dessert I found for a game that everyone loves a little to big, I understand 
 4 years but I find myself even from the warp point taking forever to get to the dungeon,
  
  Final Note WHY 5 heart pieces, it's not hard to get them all but why did you have to change the 
 zelda heart pieces? I just do not see why 5, I look at it when I played OOT when I was in 8th grade 
 that was perfect 4 heart pieces...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to say I'm not a biased diehard Nintendo fanboy. I never owned an N64 or 
 a Gamecube (I had a PS1 and PS2) . With that said Twilight Princess has now made it onto my top 
 10 games of all time. You heard that right, this is one of the best games I have ever played. And 
 I have been gaming since the 80s!
  
  GAMEPLAY - The fighting/action in the game is fun and has a great fluid feel to it. The enemies 
 and the Bosses are fairly easy and will not diffiicult to get pass. However fighting never becomes 
 a chore, it's always fun. I would've preferred it if the Bosses were alittle more challenging, 
 but they are so spectacular (best bosses of any game ever) that I didn't really care. The storyline 
 is solid. The wolf dynamic is great and works well. The secret items to collect (poes, gold bugs, 
 heart pieces, etc.) are fun to look around for and encourage exploration. The world itself is a 
 very rich and vibrant place. You really get the feeling like it is a real world and it adds to 
 the epic feeling of the game. Unlike games like Oblivion or GTA: San Andreas you never feel like 
 characters or the environments in TP are copy&pasted like you do in those game. I do wish there 
 were a couple more towns/villages. GRAPHICS - Art Design is excellent. Special effects (i. e. particle 
 effects, lighting, etc.) are solid. Character models are near perfect. The game loses a point in 
 this department because some of the environment textures (i. e. side of a rock wall or the floor 
 of a mud path) are not as clean or detailed as they should be. 
  
  SOUND - Though the music is not as advanced as some would have liked I thought it was great. Some 
 people complain about the wii-mote speaker sounds, I have no problem with them and I actually like 
 them, they do indeed make me feel more immersed in the game.
  
  VALUE - This game is very lengthy and there a lot of stuff to do keep you busy. Not to mention, 
 that this game is so good, that I'm sure most people who buy it want to play though it again several 
 times. The game is an instant classic that you probably will never sell and if you do you'll probably 
 regret it.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT - I already said it's one my favorite games of all time, so there really isn't 
 any else to say about it.
  
  CONCLUSION - I don't care if you hate Nintendo, or if you're a PC gamer, or whatever. You need 
 to play this game. If you don't you have just deprived yoruself of one of the most engrossing experiences 
 in the history of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoppyJerk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is a game that has spent about years in development, and has been an extremely 
 anticipated game for that entire 4 years. People where hoping for another Ocarina of Time, a game 
 that many gamers consider the best game of all time. Does it live up to that standard? Well, yes 
 and no.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay, simply put, is amazing. The Wii controls give this legendary franchise a pretty new 
 feel, and with this new style of play, it brings some very welcome, and very effective advancements 
 on how you do certain things. The biggest advancement with this style of control is the shooting 
 of your bow. Before, players had to kind of fumble around with a joystick, and it would take some 
 time for people to get their cursors lined up just right with their target. Not anymore! With the 
 Wii, you simply point and shoot. It takes a little time to get used to this kind of aiming, but 
 it won't take ANYONE more then 15 minutes to become completely comfortable with it, and soon, it's 
 just point and shoot. That's not an exaggeration, it really is that easy.
  
  Another new advancement is how you wield your sword. Up until now, you pressed a button, but with 
 the Wii-mote's motion sensing capabilities, you swing your controller to make Link swing his sword. 
 This form of control acts extremely well, and FEELS so much better then pressing a button. You 
 get so immersed in the game this way, especially in boss battles, and you'll be going all out, 
 and you really do feel like you ARE Link. Now, do you have to go all out and do extremely elaborate 
 movements in order to swing your sword? No. A flick of the wrist is all that's needed.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  From an artistic standpoint, the visuals in this game are gorgeous. The lighting is 
 truly amazing, like when you're exploring a dark cave and you have your trusty lantern to light 
 your way, it looks very real, and very cool. And when in the Twilight Realm, the sky looks strange, 
 but in a good way, and the kind of bizarre mixings of colors in this realm make the name Twilight 
 Realm seem very fitting. The character models look really well done, the look real enough, but 
 still have a slightly cartoon-ish look to them, and ultimately makes the game look like any hardcore 
 Zelda fan would want it to look.
  
  SOUND:
  For the vast majority of the game, the music sounds really well done, and completely fits with 
 what's going on. I've not sure, but I think the game is fully done in MIDI and synth based keyboard 
 things. and most of the time you can really tell this is the case. But during some parts of the 
 game (Real important, epic parts) I could almost swear it was a live orchestra. There's a large 
 set of tracks in Twilight Princess, ranging from old tracks that where seen in previous games in 
 the series, and some completely new tracks, and there's enough of each to make the game feel nostalgic, 
 but still feel like a rand new chapter as well. The only problems I had with the entire game is 
 with the sound. For one thing, sometimes the sounds that come out of the Wii-mote speaker kind 
 of ruin an epic experience, and you just wish that at that particular point of the game, the Wii-mote 
 would have just shut up. And another thing was the lack of Voice Overs. Now, I'm a HUGE Zelda fan, 
 and I came into the game thinking that no VO wouldn't do anything harmful to the game, but there 
 are some parts where It seemed like it just NEEDED VO, it would have made it so much better if 
 it had been done right.
  
  VALUE:
  This game can be seriously long, without you even trying to make the game longer by doing side 
 quests or any of that. I clocked in at about 45 and a half hours, and it's been quite some time 
 since a game has taken me THAT long to beat. And that was with doing very minimal side-questing. 
 I'm sure you can make the game much, much longer if you decide to go hunting for all the heart 
 pieces and things like that.
  
  And one thing that really needs to be addressed: The story. Twilight Princess has given the series 
 a much needed leap in terms of story, there are lots of twists and surprises, and the characters 
 emotionally catch you, and you find yourself caring for characters that don't even really seem 
 THAT important. This brings me back to the VO thing. The story was a lot better then most Zelda 
 story lines, and it made me almost scream for voice overs. IT would have made the game so much 
 more cinematic and epic. TILT:
  The game isn't the revolution that Ocarina of Time was, but with the very basic use of the Wii-mote, 
 it really makes the game feel better then most Zelda games, and makes things a lot easier. This 
 game is a big step forward for the series, in more ways then one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vraymar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I let to be influenced to much by my fan boy-ism with this review but I'll try to make the 
 things in perspective. First and foremost Is really an enjoyable game and a must have for everyone 
 on Wii or GameCube (I recommend the Wii one tough) .
  
  Story
  Twilight Princess may be the most serious of the series with many supporting characters that I 
 can remember. Each one very unique and charismatic. And every one has a strong role for the game 
 and to Link. Although Links is still the only one hero changing the world's fate, this time I found 
 others kinda heroes who made of Hyrule a land for more than one hero who just happen to wear the 
 same clothes over and over again. Even the enemies have more deep lines, there is this huge Moblin 
 who happen to fight every other time in particular... well, deeper drawing lines yes but still 
 an Action/Adventure genre and not a hard core RPG. Wichs is good.
  
  Gameplay
  Well, this will be a review for the TP and its design for the wii controller and it could be used 
 for future Wii games. As I have understood the wiimote swinging for Link's sword was added just 
 before it's final release. And many wine abot the simplicity about it. It is just a trigger and 
 not a mimic of your own movements. I think it is the best solution as it is. Why? simply. Imagine 
 it could be a mimic of your gestures, It should represent maybe like a sword or arm with its own 
 life instead of a well animated Link making certain attacks. Or could be a preprogramated combo 
 system which can be fun at first but for the 6th hour and the next 45 of gameplay is really annoying. 
 Some even say that the feel of two separate things as a controller is odd but surpissing enough 
 for me it did quite the opposite. After many hours of play I was laying on my sofa with my right 
 hand under my neck and my left with the wiimote on my belly. Just a standard position for watching 
 TV and still playing a videogame with total control. In fact I realized this control is definitively 
 more natural than be forced to have both hands together and by the same principle this makes the 
 complex movement combo system useless. It was like right click for the mac user who belives it 
 is not necesary such extravaganza but after using it on regular basis wonder how did he be so blind. 
 Well, and the map button is some what hard to press, I admit, but nothing to worry about. By the 
 way, swinging the nunchacu for a spin attack really makes the special move a life saver. If you 
 play the game on Wii and GameCube sure you will miss the nunchacu quick trigger and will not use 
 the spin attack at all. But that's for the controler.
  
  Also for the gameplay is the standard stuff for Zelda, gadgets. This time we have some of the same 
 and few news. But all have been expanded someway and they make using every item a whole new experience. 
 The boots for instance, using them on magnetic field are quite awesome. Some say there is no innovation, 
 and maybe is true but let's face it, for some game like Zelda is quite more easy to screw the things 
 badly if they are too innovative. For the well known system are nice things to add though, like 
 a realistic motion capture, an impressive wide options for travel on Hyrule (riding, running at 
 two legs, at four, flaying, swimming, on boat, sliding and of course teleporting) . The minigames 
 are quite funny or at least very entertaining like the fishing lake. Perhaps one of the Zelda's 
 with more replay than others.
  
  The dungeons finally are many and difficult but no so to be bored or tired enough to leave the 
 game. Perhaps just enough to turn off the game to get some sleep and play again at full the next 
 day and resolve the puzzle.
  
  Graphics
  Ok, you all say it, very well done but some textures ar blurry or so. We all knew the the Wii isn't 
 a PS3 or a Xbox 360. For the quality it can achieve, and the GameCube too, think the graphics are 
 stunning. Wait to see Zelda well dressed and other main characters and villains. If you still say 
 is not perfect sure thing you rate the best achievement in games for DS, PS2 and PSP with nothing 
 more than 8 I suppose.
  
  Music
  Mmmmm this one has mixed feelings. I do agree with other that midi music shows its age badly. Even 
 more with an astonishing orchestrated opening in the game. Nothing is more pleasant for a musical 
 point of view, than this opening. But inside TP there are some musical details that makes the overall 
 of the midi a great experience. If you happen to stay con castle town pay special ears with the 
 music at background. Every time you pass another section of the town the instruments will change 
 but the tune will be continually the same. Go closer to the musicians at the plaza. Those kind 
 of things are used on all the game and maybe couldn't be possible with orchestral recorded music. 
 But if it is possible PLEASE make the change. I don't want to spoil but the biggest achievement 
 with this technique is nearly at the end with every step toward the last room on the final dungeon. 
 Pay attention.
  
  I don't know if I put it at to of all the series. Frankly just for the credits and music in the 
 end A link of the Past is without a doubt my favorite until Twilight Princess which makes me thinks 
 twice about. And really I didn't like ocarina so much. Well, this was review for Twilight Princess. 
 Hope you like this game as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played it has everything a great storyline excellent replay value 
 and controls that work perfectly. I must admit it is a little bit on the easy side since all the 
 bosses have an obvious weak point but they're still fun to play and watch the entrances and ends. 
 The game length is pretty good although I beat the main story in under 40 hours and fully believe 
 I could beat it 100% in about 50 hours. The storyline is superb but I feel they could have added 
 voices not to Link but to other characters. If you have a Wii get this game if you haven't already 
 and if you don't have a Wii, get one because this is a game that could last you months playing 
 it over and over and over... and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Finally we have in our hands the best game of teh year this zelda is just perfect i mean as all 
 games it does have som bad points like the point they dind't make a whole new music for this game 
 but the great history , gameplay and enviroments just make you forget about that littel details 
 really you must own this game i really dont know why jeff give and 8.8 to this game (in my point 
 of view he is just a crazy man that dosen't apreciate masterpices of games like this one) So stop 
 reading reviews and go to play this game by yourself and if can buy right now what are you wating!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomic_gamedev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  though parts of its presentation feel stuck in the past. They must mean the graphics, but the gameplay, 
 the amazing game concept, the long good story, the action, and it being zelda alone makes up for 
 the OK graphics. C'mon it's the first time you have truly been able to transform into Links. As 
 soon as I help the Wii control up in the air and aimed for the enemies and actually hit them I 
 knew the xbox 360, nor the ps3 and it's big ass graphics could make me feel like i've ever really 
 been in a game like Zelda.
  
  In the words of Adam Sessler I give Zelda 5 bowing arrows out of 5!
  
  Although I did give 
 the learning a curve a bit much since it took me just a good bit of time to learn to use the controlller 
 the best to my benefit for the game, but once you're done with the learning curve of the controller 
 the entire game itself it a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  When you look at The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess you're probably going to think of its 3D 
 counterparts (especially Ocarina of Time) . It definitely lives up to the hype, I know I was anything 
 but disappointed. The controls are great it was a good idea after all that they decided to mirror 
 the game. You might have some trouble controlling the pointer at first, youll adjust fairly quickly. 
 It expands a lot on the combat system and you don't get tired swinging your arm, which you might 
 have heard. At first seemed to be very similar to Wind Waker's, however you will find that there 
 are only a few moves that stayed the same like the Jump Attack and Spin Attack. There are 7 hidden 
 moves that you learn (I'm not going to spoil them for you) . The combat is one of the most enjoyable 
 parts of the game but a little too easy (maybe I've just gotten better at Zelda) . The puzzles in 
 dungeons were still complex, but you'll see that boses aren't all that tough. Although I've came 
 close to dying a few times on a boss, I've never had to use a fairy or red potions.
  
  In the beginning of the game you might have some trouble with the fishing. I spent an hour plus 
 on the fishing, but after you get to the first dungeon you're hooked. Being a wolf isn't all that 
 bad. I actually found the combat to be ok, and it plays out well in the plot. This Zelda is quite 
 plot driven; I didn't care all that much that there were still no voices, and we're in the New 
 Generation of gaming. I thought the sound effects were cool but at some rare moments you might 
 not hear any sound effects (it might just be my TV) . If you are waiting for the Gamecube version, 
 there are definitely going to be some parts that aren't as enjoyable like fighting on Epona and 
 the whole fishing experience. Graphically the Wii version is going to look slightly better because 
 it can run 480p widescreen (which is only if you have component cables) . If you don't want to be 
 that interactive and you don't want to deal with motion sensing nonsense then the Gamecube version 
 is for you. I know I can't imagine going back to the Gamecube version. Twilight Princess is not 
 the perfect Zelda that everyone thought it would be but it came pretty damn close. This is definitely 
 the best looking Wii game at launch. It really stays true to it's roots, there are no other games 
 like Zelda and Twilight Princess is one of a kind. This game alone makes it worth it to purchase 
 a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  For many years the Zelda fans waited for Twilight Princess for the GameCube, years later, it was 
 released for the Wii as a launch title. Not only is this THE BEST launch title, but words do not 
 describe its innovativity. So lets get started!
  
  Controls: 9/10
  Why a 9? Not because it is hard to control, but because of the confusion old Zelda players for 
 the N64 might face. Countless times me and my friends tried to attack only to accidently roll when 
 we press A, or take out our sling-shot when we wanted to use our shield (trigger use to be shield 
 in N64) . Not only that, but you can easily tell it is a GC port with the controls. It dosen't matter 
 how you slice with the wiimote, you always get a horizontal slash if you don't hold Z, or maybe 
 a vertical slice or a stab if you press the right buttons. Other than that, the controls are perfect.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Want to see better graphics for the Wii? Get component cables and play Zelda on that. If you don't 
 have the money for those expensive TVs go to the comparison article here on GS and oggle over the 
 amazing graphics.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Zelda music never gets old, and the sound effects are all the old and great sfxs. But one thing 
 that you will notice QUICKLY is the crappy sound from the remote speaker. This isn't the It is 
 only OK sounds, but the It is so crappy I will notice every time sound. It won't bug you when you 
 are concentrating on a fight, but you will notice it every other time.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This is the old Zelda, plus some additions used to sweeten up the game. Again, 
 the different games are only referred to in sequels, but thats no different. The Wolf Link isn't 
 a bad change, but being normal Link is definately the best. Fighting does have it's control issues, 
 but they are still fun nevertheless. Include the new moves Link can learn and do and you have the 
 next best Zelda. Hardcore critics will notice that the gameplay isn't much different, but if you 
 don't pick at everything then you won't notice anything wrong with it.
  
  If you have a Wii, but not this game, you are missing out. Not only is this THE BEST launch game 
 (except for Wii Boxing of course :P ) , but it is also THE BEST Zelda game ever. Even if you don't 
 have a Wii this game is a MUST GET. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan_rector
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  So, I clocked in 43 hours, and finally beat the game.
  
  I consider myself a hardcore Zelda fan. I love the series in everyway. I wont say anything about 
 the storyline, or what happens (as I want this to be spoiler free) , but I will only point out my 
 gripes. Everything else I dont mention, is great.
  
  - The ending. I was hoping for something more epic. Considering the amount of time went into making 
 this game. For a game that I hear is supposed to be in between Ocarina of Time and Wind Waker, 
 I dont see it. Ocarina, I do. Waker I dont.
  
  - The controller. For the most part, this was awesome. It worked 95% of the time, and I couldnt 
 be more happy. But sometimes, in the heat of the moment, I would get that juicy error Please Point 
 pointer at the sensor bar. When your knees deep in action, this error sucks. And doing the shield 
 bash. I dont even want to get started.
  
  - The bosses. Come on. The dungeons were most of the time rage filled anger puzzles, and then you 
 finally get to the boss. And he's like on kid mode difficulty. I seriously didn't die once against 
 any of the bosses. Including the last.
  
  All in all, a great game. I would recommend it, but Ocarina of Time is still number one in my book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda. Long known to gamers as one of the greatest franchises of all time, this series 
 has a more than impressive history behind it. As a result, all new entries in the series have a 
 split in their fanbase. There are those who expect another great game, then there are those who 
 do not think it is possible for another game to match its predecessors in quality. Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess is one of the most amazing games I've ever played. With a great storyline, a 
 rousing art style, and cutscenes that could make a grown man weep, this game is everything you 
 expect it to be and more. The gameplay is a revolution in the series, using the Wii's motion-sensing 
 controls for an immersive experience previously beyond the imagination of the gaming community. 
 The cutscenes are just as emotional and effective as always: possibly more so. The story is complex 
 and twisting, further cementing the place of video games as a literary art. The graphics, though 
 not quite Xbox 360 or PS3 quality, deliver well, selling you the land of Hyrule and the surrounding 
 provinces (the only reason I marked them down in my score was because they had the least weight 
 in the overall score, and no game is perfect) . The music is great, and the Wii Remote's speaker 
 has been used wonderfully, just the way it should. I expected greatness from this game, but was 
 hesitant to give up on Ocarina of Time as the greatest Zelda game to date. After playing Twilight 
 Princess, I can tell you one thing: buy this game. It has done the unthinkable: rising above even 
 Ocarina of Time as the best and most brilliant game in a long-running series of epic adventures. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasmflop
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Okay I have heard certain views on the game which knock it for its similarity to Ocariana, its 
 lack of Full Orchestration and Voice work, and other similarly small complaints. All of these do 
 NOTHING to change the fact that this is the most expertly crafted Zelda game ever ... and also one 
 of the greatest games of all time. Most of all its FUN. I enjoyed every minute spent with this 
 game . So its not in high def... so what. There are a number of games I play on PC which i can crank 
 up to 1600x1200 and higher and they pale in comparison to this game. So resolution is not everything. 
 Forget the biases of those people slanted towards the other next-gen consoles. Better graphics 
 doesnt always equal better games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  Like many people the Zelda series has always been one of my favorites. The SNES classic A Link 
 to the Past is one of my top 5 favorite games of all time. However, I have never been a huge fan 
 of the 3-D versions. It wasn't till Wind Waker where I actually felt that Nintendo did something 
 right. What made Wind Waker work was the art style, and how it was so different from the 3-D Zelda's 
 before it. It still had the same basic game design, but it's a great example of how graphics can 
 impact a game for the better. So it with great reservations that I picked up the new Wii adventure 
 The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess . Nintendo had stated that this game was the largest 
 and longest Zelda epic yet. Does it deliver on that epic promise? Not quite, but very close.
  
  Twilight Princess tells the familiar tale of a young elfin boy named Link who takes up the 
 hero quest to save his world. This time a mysterious man from a alternate realm has drenched Hyrule 
 in twilight turning it's residents into spirits and Link into a wolf. Link must defeat this evil, 
 restore the light, and save the princess Zelda and her kingdom of Hyrule. The story and the way 
 it is told is a step up from previous Zelda games, but is lacking in the charm and whimsy that 
 Wind Waker had. Normally that wouldn't matter, but even Wind Waker had a pretty generic story line. 
 What set it apart was the style. Twilight Princess doesn't have the style to back it up. Add the 
 fact that the game still uses text to tell the story and you have a game series that still has 
 a ways to go if it wants to catch up.
  
  Even if the Zelda series have never had the best stories they have never been slackers in the gameplay 
 department. I was happy to find out that Twilight Princess kept up that tradition. From the traditional 
 dungeons and puzzles to the more recent battle system. It's all here and it all works well. Twilight 
 Princess gets back to the large land based travel that Ocarina started back on the N64. You can 
 ride your horse around the land of Hyrule searching for golden buys, fishing, and finding more 
 money. This however, is not Oblivion. The area is not as big as you might expect from a game that 
 is supposed to be epic . This is still a straight up Zelda game to fault. The series hasn't upgraded 
 itself too much since Ocarina. The biggest gameplay change is the wolf aspect. Being able to switch 
 to wolf form brings up interesting puzzle opportunities that for the most part are explored well. 
 That epic quality you may be looking for never really appears. The game will take most people around 
 40 hours to complete and yet it still feels short. This problem could be because the story at times 
 is pretentious and rushes itself to a very anti-climactic finish. It could also be because the 
 game world just doesn't have a lot going on outside the main story locations. If you lower your 
 expectations a little bit to what you have come to expect from a Zelda game you will have a lot 
 more fun.
  
  The unique control of the Wii is of course represented in Zelda to full effect, and for the most 
 part it work well. Swinging the Wii Remote to attack is simple and doesn't require a lot of force, 
 and aiming your bow is more accurate than a joystick. It is obvious when playing that this game 
 was made for the Gamecube. It will interesting to see what happens with a Wii specific Zelda game. 
 The only real problems come with the Zelda series design. The game uses the A button almost exclusively 
 for everyone, and at times you will do something you don't want to do. But overall most people 
 won't have too much of a problem.
  
  As everyone knows Twilight Princess was and still is a Gamecube game. And as one would expect the 
 graphics aren't up to what the Wii can handle. Despite this the game still looks great. Textures 
 are of little detail, but character models look great and the artistic quality of some of the world 
 is second to none. The differences between the realistic Hyrule and the almost cel-shaded Twilight 
 is a nice contrast that helps you from getting bored. The game supports 480p so if you have an 
 HDTV you will get much more out of the experience.
  
  Sound on the other hand struggles a bit. The music score and composition is great. Zelda has always 
 had great themes and Twilight Princess is no different. The arrangements of classic themes are 
 perfect and even some of the new pieces bring a tear to the eye. The problem here is the quality 
 of the song files. Most if not all of the music has a nintendo midi quality sound. It would have 
 been nice to see some orchestral pieces for at least some of the more important themes. I already 
 mentioned that voice acting is sadly missing and one of these days Nintendo is really going to 
 have to bite the bullet. Another problem with sound is the Wii Remote speaker. It's a really cool 
 feature to have sounds coming from the remote, but Zelda in particular has some bad quality samples. 
 Sound will occasionally cut out and overall it just sounds bad.
  
  The Twilight Princess is a great game. Even though it's a Gamecube port the controls and graphics 
 work well enough that this version is probably a preferable choice. The game is exactly what you 
 have come to expect from the Zelda series. So much that you just might wish some changes would 
 come around in the future. But until then have fun finding that next awesome new item in those 
 big music cue filled chests.
  
  PROS
  + Same great gameplay
  + Nice artistic contrast
  + It's just fun!
  + Wii controller makes aiming easy
  + Music composition 
 and score is still great
  
  CONS
  - Not the epic story or world you may be expecting
  - Where's that voice acting?
  - Sound quality has a lot to be desired
  - Anticlimactic story 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zac41
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Wind Waker was a great game, but the graphics were a let down to some, and 
 were a disapointing move. Ocarina was still the Zelda we all held at the top of our fanboy lists. 
 Quite easily the best game ever made. Until now.
  
  Twilight Princess is everything that Ocarina was, just improved, and much deeper. The scale of 
 the game is epic, the battles are epic. Everything that makes Zelda games great is there, including 
 the formula. Dungeon, map, compass, new item, boss. Although this hasnt changed, it was made much 
 better. Plus honestly, who doesnt like this formula. The graphics for this game are top notch (remember 
 it's not built on the Wii hardware) that said, this game is easily stretching the limits of the 
 cube. Ignore Gamespot Jeffs review. He claims that this game is too Zelda for it's own good. Honestly 
 that could be one of the dumbest things I have ever heard. I have no complaints with this game, 
 it is the best Zelda game to date, Therefore since it beats Ocarina (which was my number 1 game 
 of all time) Twilight Princess is the greatest game you will ever play to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKA_Ben
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  A new LoZ game is always a treat. Whether its a top-down adventure, a cell shaded tale, or a handheld 
 dream  Zelda games never disappoint, and Twilight Princess is no exception to this rule. The dialogue 
 is of standard Nintendo quality, and its as engaging as ever as the pacing of the tale has been 
 changed up a bit. But while Nintendo always delivers spot-on game play and epic stories, someone 
 on every Nintendo dev. Team must insist on keeping some weird quirk from the past in each new game. 
 The unpolished artifacts from Ocarina and awkward Wii extras dont ruin the experience, but just 
 imagining what it couldve been like if thought out a little better makes one a little disappointed.
 
  
  STORY &amp; PRESENTATION: For the sake of those wanting to remain pure, Ill just reveal what the 
 manual does (and if that ruins it for you still then skip this section) . As usual, you start the 
 game off as an ordinary townsperson who happens to go by the name of Link (or your name, depending 
 how you save your file) . Youll press through a regular day of yours which, in this iteration of 
 the franchise, consists of some ranching, fishing, and impressing the local children when suddenly 
  something (predictably) goes awry and you must venture into the forest to perform a rescue operation. 
 Afterwards, as you are finally ready to make your way out to Hyrule Castle to present a gift, the 
 mayors daughter finds an injury on your horse and takes her away. As you stand there trying to 
 explain yourself, monsters on hog-back attack and kidnap your friends. As you try to help, you 
 encounter the forest covered with a mysterious barrier: twilight. A monster pulls you in and a 
 transformation is triggered, you become a wolf and are imprisoned. This is when youll learn about 
 Hyrules plight as it has been consumed with a dark, foreboding twilight. To get to this point, 
 where the game actually begins, takes a good 1-2 hours and that creates an ultimately sluggish 
 feel to the beginning to the game. The way the story is presented doesnt help either. Text driven 
 dialogue may be a staple of Zelda games but it just doesnt work well in TP. Nintendo has actually 
 animated the mouths of the characters this time and added expressions and camera changes that are 
 synchronized with the dialogue. if it were audible. With this awkward combination one wants to 
 watch whats happening onscreen but at the same time, read whats being said. It shouldnt be that 
 hard to have voice acting, especially now that Nintendo publishes games on full DVD sized discs. 
 A Jak and Daxter cut scene style wouldve done a lot for this game, but sadly you left reading 
 page after page of conversation. Its not that the text is boring - its highly interesting, its 
 just that the game wouldve felt more involving and epic if it were done with human voices.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The 64 Zelda game play has stood the test of time over two platforms so far. Its 
 intuitive, easy to use, and best of all fun. The same system is largely preserved on the Wii  
 except youll be making some awkward reaches all over the Wmote to do, what should be effortless 
 tasks (like checking your map, you now need to stretch over and hit the 1 button to access it) . 
 It feels ... funny at best, to be holding two separate instruments for this sort of game, especially 
 when you are required to make some weird (and pointless) motions to initiate tasks that need to 
 be performed regularly  like swinging your trusty sword. The special Wii extras arent very special 
 at all; theyre actually kind of frustrating. To swing your sword, youll need to swing the wmotethis 
 mightve been fun to perform if your sword swing was actually influenced by your swing, instead 
 its like smacking a huge B-button in the air  swinging just triggers Links standard sword swing. 
 If that isnt tedious enough, executing a spin attack requires that you shake the nunchuk rapidly. 
 In essence, you have to put in a whole lot of effort to do a whole lot of nothing. GRAPHICS &amp; 
 DESIGN: Twilight Princess wouldve looked amazingif it had come out on the Cube a few years ago 
 Thatss not to say that the game doesnt look good  it looks very good, its just that a few jaggy 
 edges and some muddy textures feel like they belong on a last generation system. The high points 
 of Twilight, however, are its breathtaking environments and the twilight realm. This adventure 
 is filled with some beautiful light bloom and flourishing environments with realistic water effects. 
 Rocks and grass do look noticeably fake but thats to be expected from the hardware. The twilight 
 realm has some interesting artwork and it is certainly the stand out characteristic of this particular 
 installment. The games monsters and effects are especially original and detailed; making use of 
 lots and lots of dark colours (TP is actually the only game Ive ever played that asks you to verify 
 that your TV is bright enough) . It may be slightly rough around the edges, but Twilight draws you 
 in as most LoZ games do.
  
  SOUND: The Legend of Zelda has always had a first rate musical direction and Twilight is no different. 
 From the haunting opening choral piece to the unearthly cries of the shadow creatures, TP never 
 fails to impress its actually the Wii itself that brings the sound down a little. While I never 
 experienced the connection problem that the Gamespot reviewer did, I can attest to the bad sound 
 quality of the wmotes built-in microphone. It is fine for a swish of the racket or a quit beep, 
 but sword slashes, wolf howls, and TPs other effects bring out the tinny quality of the speaker. 
 Turing off the wmotess volume through the home menu solves the problem though so no biggie hear. 
 This area is marked down though for a lack of voice acting, characters merely grunt or cry before 
 they speak to you (except Midna, but her speech is just gibberish anyway. which is an odd choice 
 since that means that Nintendo hired someone to speak gibberish into a microphone. o_O) OVERALL: 
 Weve got another great Zelda game here, however, because of the weird control scheme I have a 
 feeling that I wont be completing the Wii version of Twilight, instead Ill be purchasing the 
 GameCube version as well. If you cant wait to get your Zelda action on, I wont say that the Wii 
 version isnt worth your time or money, youll probably just be longing for the classic layout 
 within a few hours of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda Series Has come along way, for its Origin on the NES, To A Link to the Past on the Snes, 
 To Ocarina of Time witch has been Said to be one of the best games of all time. Then Came Wind 
 Waker, and some were Put off by the Cel-Shaded Style of it. Now we have Come to the present, and 
 a New Zelda has Come!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  It Classic Zelda Gameplay, new Items and Feature's like the Wii-Mote Pointer Cross-hair Add Even 
 more to the feel of the game as both human and Wolf.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  They maybe Late-Life Gamecube Graphics, But They look so good in 480i.
  Some Muddy textures here 
 and there are seen, but its not a big deal.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Nintendo Could have used Live Music All the time instead of Padding the game with MIDI Music. But 
 still, the sound is great.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Its a Must Buy for any Wii (or Gamecube) Owner.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Rent or Buy?
  BUY BUY 
 BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyager007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting forever for this game to come out and I can safely say that the wait was worth 
 it! I bought Zelda Twilight Princess at midnight at a local wal-mart with my console. I began playing 
 that night thinking about what the beginning of this game might contain. It contained almost everything 
 I wanted in a Zelda game. Note I said almost! I have played the game for 44 hours and 32 minutes 
 and felt that the game had great gameplay, graphics, and story. However the entire time I was playing 
 I felt there was just something missing. I wasn't sure until tonight when I just beat it. The game 
 was actually quite blah up until the beginning of the second to last dugeon. Finally humor, which 
 is included in all Zelda's, appeared at that point in time. And an excitement of accomplishment 
 enthrawled me when I was going through those dungeons. But for some reason I felt the other good 
 and exciting dungeons and storylines for the first 30-35 hours of the game were few and far between. 
 I also feel that the dungeons were VERY VERY VERY poorly designed, other than the forest temple 
 and last two if you consider those dungeons. I found myself confused as to where to go sometimes. 
 I even broke down and bought the walkthrough so that after two hours of swearing and throwing a 
 fit because I could not find one dang piece of the puzzle I could look it up and slap myself in 
 the head for missing something so stupid. I have beat every other Zelda without the walkthrough 
 but this somehow slayed me. I feel that the major missing piece of this game is Miyamoto. Without 
 him directing a Zelda unfortunately it just isn't the same. Now this doesn't mean I do not like 
 it. I love the game. Just wish the whole game was as epic as the last two major dungeons in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessior
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Its the best Zelda since Orcina of Time! Its confusing like the old ones, but the puzzles are stunning 
 and harder than Wind Waker and all the other cartoon animated ones. It was worth every penny I 
 bought it for. In this Zelda you are a farmhand (as many of you already know) called Link. You 
 herd Goats with your horse Epona (or what you name it) . But something happens (im not gunna say cause 
 it might be a spoiler to people!) and it twists into saving the princess and the land style. You 
 end up fighting multiple bosses that take knowledge to overcome. If you've played the rest of the 
 Zeldas and/or completed them you know who the last boss is. Its the best launch game I think i've 
 ever had and if you have a GameCube or Wii its a must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonik_one
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  this zelda in my opinion is the best one out there even better that the ocarina of time. using 
 the famous words of the hit anime naruto.... Believe it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sws153
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, although I am a seasoned gamer, still have my Atari 2600, NES, Commodore 64, and every other 
 system imaginable, this is my first review. But Twighlight Princess was so good, I finally felt 
 compelled to share.
  
  This might be the single greatest accomplishment by a video game company in the history of time. 
 What do I mean? It's simple; Nintendo was smart enough not to rush the release of the newest game 
 in one of the most successful franchises in video game history. The result, pure PLATINUM. From 
 the time you pick up the WiiMote and find Epona, to the final fight, well, we won't ruin it for 
 everyone, Nintendo manages to combine multiple gaming genres into a launch title that will certainly 
 be remembered as the greatest ever. This game has something for everyone, as long as you're not 
 brain dead and have an interest in playing games for their intellectual content. It combines the 
 game play styles of action, RPG, puzzle, strategy, first person shooter, and yes, even sports games 
 to create an amazing and tantalizing world that's sure to engulf anyone who dares enter.
  
  The control is smooth, so smooth that while in the middle of a dungeon, I paused the game, walked 
 out of the room, and my wife, who has never played a Zelda game in her life, killed the miniboss 
 and gathered the main item. Bravo Nintendo! I've read several reviews claiming theres not enough 
 control of the swordplay, but these were obviously written by individuals who didn't take the time 
 to find all the skills in the game, as once you have them in hand, the options are endless on how 
 to fight. In addition, TWP shows us without complication, how great first person shooters will 
 be on the Wii from the moment you pick up the slingshot, to the first time you take out a keese 
 from across the dungeon room with the bow.
  
  The graphics are truly better than expected and are the best created by Nintendo to date. I don't 
 know about the rest of you, but to me, link is not a human in the sense that we are, and I never 
 want to see him become that. The graphics capture emotion and the extremely detailed artwork is 
 good enough to be shown in a lot of exhibits that I've visited.
  
  The sound is classic Zelda. New, catchy tunes mixed in with the good 'ol stuff. It also continues 
 the franchise norm of changing music tones based on proximity to battle and mood of situation and 
 the transitions are seamless. Forget the lack of an orchestral score, the synthesized score is 
 better than great and will keep you humming for days.
  
  The story takes the adventure past platinum to whatever the next most precious metal is. There 
 are twists along the way, a constant availability of side quests, and as I said before, a scheme 
 that allows the game to switch from a RPG to a sports fishing game with a simple flick of the wrist. 
 I don't want to get into detail here, because I really don't want to spoil any part of the whole. 
 I'll just say, if you like a good book, or a good movie, or even a good folk tale, TWP could leave 
 you in awe as the game's story line itself could easily be a best selling fantasy novel.
  
  Bottom line, thank you Nintendo. You have finally bridged the gap and have left other video game 
 manufactures in the dust. If you took all of the naysayers out of the room, ant forced them to 
 push through until the end of the game; at least 9 out of 10 would come back out asking for more. 
 Keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bottomdollar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Zelda never ceases to give me my moneys worth. Contrary to thought, the Wii-mote 
 wasn't just a tacted on add-on but works very well. The story is AMAZING to me, get plot with GREAT 
 revelations. Yeah I would say the only thing I would want is talking instead of text, but text 
 is original Zelda, to me it leave a lot to the imagination, you can think how people talk in you 
 own head and since Link (or whatever you named him starting you adventure, doesn't say much, to 
 me, it makes the adventure more personal, so I'm in the middle, cause you know the voice acting 
 would have to be superb, we'd be throwing names of people we would want to act as the voice of 
 Link for days, like it was the next 007 movie. Anyway, the game is great, one of the BEST launch 
 titles of all times on any game system. Some people are too harsh and don't want to think and gave 
 this game a horrible review, trust me, the game just wasn't for him, if you don't want a game that 
 makes you think and make and effort to complete, don't pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zytokiskid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I had this game paid off in a pre-order 2 years ago, and have been anticipating it even longer. 
 So I am a Zelda fan and my opinion may be a bit skewed. I also am aware that this is my first full-lenght 
 review, so I understand if you question the validity of this review.
  Anyways, I was looking for a reason not to give it a 10 but I couldn't. I understand that most 
 reviews have lowered the score of this game due to the fact that there is no voice acting, but 
 that is how Zelda games always are. I do not see this as a downfall for the game. I do enjoy the 
 option to skip through cut-scenes. So for people who do not like ( or are to lazy) to read, skip 
 over it. Let me put a spin on it so this feature sounds extremely positive. The fact that you have 
 to read will raise the value in some people's eyes. Parents don't like mind-numbing games, this 
 has educational value... sorta. Now onto the game it's self. I've waited until I beat the game to 
 give it a full review. I don't understand how people will review it after the first hour or two 
 of playing it. You can not base everything off of that. Speaking of hours, this game will take 
 you quite a few. And to really enjoy this game you should not rush through it just for a quick 
 time. One problem that is common among longer games is that you get bored quickly of it and the 
 game starts to drag. With Twilight Princess the continuing action mixed with a very in-depth storyline 
 keeps you alert and wanting more. I will not discuss the storyline to much, for I don't want to 
 ruin it for anyone. But I will say the emotion this game has is outstanding, with some phenomenal 
 cut-scenes. Graphics are clean and crisp. Now remember this game was originally created for the 
 GameCube and was ported to the Wii. It is still the best looking Wii game out currently. And while 
 the Wii does have more power, and could probably make this game look even better, the 16:9 ratio 
 does that well enough.
  Now onto the controls. The new wii-remote does a great job as a controller. It is responsive, and 
 feels extremely natural, for the most part. My sensitivity is still set at the default setting 
 and I did not find myself having to throw my arms around, nor did they tire from the small movements 
 I made. You also do not move your arms (wrists) as much as you would think either. This was very 
 nice as the length from the Wii-remote to the Nunchuk allows you to lay your hands down in almost 
 any comfortable position you like. The only downside I occasionally noticed is that at times you 
 may feel like the game would have controlled better with a standard controller.
  This game is fantastic and a must buy for anyone with a Wii. With action (shooting, sword fighting) , 
 puzzles, RPG elements, and even sports (fishing, sumo wresting) almost anyone can find a reason 
 to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tatsumaki_Kyaku
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  Four long years have passed since we were given the last console Zelda title, 2003's The Wind Waker. 
 It has been a long, arduous wait, a rollercoaster ride of emotions. During that time, Twilight 
 Princess has had hype unlike any game prior, a game that had to succeed on numerous levels in order 
 to live up to the steep expectations laid out before it. Not only was it being billed as the greatest 
 Zelda ever -- serious shoes to fill, no doubt -- but also had to show that the Wii's new controller 
 was suited toward the hardcore games; against all odds, between all the criticisms and controversy 
 between their being two versions, Twilight Princess amazingly follows through on all of its promises. 
 Nintendo has done what one might consider the unthinkable -- achieved perfection.
  
  The most surprising part of Twilight Princess is how well this brand-new control scheme works. 
 The biggest changes from a regular control system including using the Wii Remote as Link's sword; 
 when you swing the controller, Link swings his sword. While it isn't 1:1 control (meaning that 
 Link doesn't mimic your swing) , it adds a layer of immersion that you wouldn't otherwise have. 
 I really found myself engaged with the game at multiple points. If I'm in the middle of a big battle, 
 I'll be swinging like crazy, despite how it's not at all necessary. Simple flicks of the wrist 
 are enough for the game to detect the motion -- and you won't get tired at any point in time.
 
  
  The other half of the new controls comes in the point-and-aim scheme that you use with weapons 
 like the Slingshot or Bow. You simply pull these items out and then use the Wii Remote to point 
 exactly where you want to shoot on the screen. There is a certain level of precision and quickness 
 to this that a normal analog controller just cannot match. It takes a little while to get used 
 to, but the game's clever tutorial in the beginning eases you into everything nicely. If there 
 were ever a point in which this Wii version proved it superiority, it's definitely here.
  
  The other less worrisome addition to the game was Link's transformation in a wolf. He's always 
 interested in getting into with his more... animalistic side. Once a bunny, now a wolf -- here, 
 however, Link is not completely useless. Similar to A Link to the Past, whenever Link enters into 
 the Twilight Realm, he'll transform into this beast. It is here that he'll first meet his companion 
 on the quest, Midna. She'll assist him in many ways, not the least of which is making otherwise 
 impossible jumps and allowing him to lock-on to multiple characters dealing one-hit kills, harder 
 said than done for sure.
  
  If there was one disadvantage to his transformation into a wolf, it is the inability to use any 
 of his equipment, everything from his sword to his bow. However, he gains numerous other abilities 
 that set him apart and make the wolf very refreshing and enjoyable to play as. The first of which 
 is the ability to Sense; sensing allows Link to go into a darkened state where the view is very 
 focused in front of him. He'll be able to see invisible objects or enemies or pick out certain 
 soft spots in the soil. Those soft spots lead to the second new ability, that being his ability 
 to dig. The most useful part of this is, for example, finding a locked gate and being able to open 
 it. If there happens to be a little break in the ground to either side of that gate, Link would 
 be able to dig and climb underneath to gain access to the other side. It sets up for a ton of unique 
 uses and really keeps the gameplay fresh on both sides when it comes to switching back and forth 
 between forms.
  
  What really manages to keep everything going and feeling great, though, is what you have to do 
 in between each dungeon in the game. Zelda games have always been about dungeon and puzzle solving. 
 You get your task; you go to the dungeon, then another and another. Here, this is particularly 
 because of the exceptional pacing in the game, you will do hours worth of stuff after completing 
 a dungeon. You'll spend more time outside of these dungeons than you will in them. That's not a 
 bad thing either because Whether that's running around the visually astonishing Twilight Realm 
 or getting to know certain characters or locales through various tasks to complete, you'll be doing 
 something and it'll be fun. This is also due to the fact that the storyline in Twilight Princess 
 is truly engaging and interesting. While the game starts off like any other typical Zelda fare, 
 what it evolves into over the course of the game is anything but. There are tons of twists and 
 turns that'll leave you begging for more. Keeping with that, Nintendo really worked hard on producing 
 some characters that you get attached to and enjoy. Hyrule feels like a living, breathing world 
 with its colorful characters and their drastically different personalities. They feel like characters, 
 not NPCs just standing around all day. Hyrule Castle Town, for instance, is a bustling town full 
 of people shopping, chatting, running around, and everything you might expect from a big city. 
 On the other hand, a place like Ordon Village -- Link's hometown -- is a quiet little town, home 
 to only a few people who you'll get to know well.
  
  These drastically different locales contribute greatly to the enjoyment of the game too. You visit 
 numerous places all over the land, be it the hot and dry Gerudo Desert or the chilly peaks of the 
 Snowpeak Ruins. There is a sort of natural progression from each of these different environments. 
 It's never an abrupt cut off that has you going from the lush green fields of Hyrule to the rain 
 ridden desert. Each of the dungeons also stick with this refined and polished world. None of them 
 feel like dungeons buried deep underground or completely out of the way. They're all naturally 
 apart of the world, filled with tons of puzzles that all have logical solutions to them.
  
  That is perhaps the best part about Twilight Princess's dungeons. They never have any puzzles that 
 have you running all over the dungeon or something that is stupidly frustrating. They're tough, 
 no doubt, but each has its own logical solution to it that'll give a Duh! feeling after you've 
 figured it out. Every dungeon also has its own unique way to solve puzzles, so you'll never feel 
 like you've already solved this same puzzle so many times before. It's a great way to keep the 
 game feeling new the entire way through.
  
  But, if there were ever a chink in the invincible armor of Twilight Princess it would be on the 
 more technical side of things. The game definitely isn't going to blow you away with its technical 
 visuals. Given the scope of the game, it's understandable that there would be some low-res textures 
 used, but even then it's not exactly a game that is always a lesser looking game, though there 
 are clear times when it has its low moments. But this is somewhat countered in the fact that it 
 has incredible art direction. This is one of the best designed games in the industry today, and 
 that really helps it to overcome its technical shortcomings. On the other side of the coin, the 
 music in the game serves a different purpose here than one might normally think. Instead of being 
 significant and in your face, it primarily works as sort of a way to set the mood by softly playing 
 in the background. Sometimes you'll notice it and others you won't, but it's always there to really 
 invoke some kind of emotion within you. That's not to say that there is no part where the music 
 doesn't shine, but it serves to be a little more atmospheric, and it does it really well. One instance 
 is riding along Hyrule Field at night, the music at times feels completely absent, but then you'll 
 hear the hum of this womanly voice and soft tune that really gives off that nightly -vibe. It's 
 enjoyable, but not precisely memorable.
  
  What could be the most astounding part of the entire game might just be the sheer enormity of Hyrule. 
 Never before has the land of Hyrule ever been so fully realized like it is in Twilight Princess. 
 From the first moment you step out onto the field and hear that familiar tune of day breaking, 
 you'll be hooked on exploring every nook and cranny -- and there are plenty of them. The promises 
 of a truly large Hyrule were delivered, but the best part about its size, exploration aside, is 
 that it never feels empty or mundane. Unlike its older brother, The Wind Waker, there is enjoyment 
 in simply running around and checking out the scenery. The addition of things to do and enemies 
 to fight is a huge bonus too.
  
  And that's just about the name of the game -- large. This is a product of four long years of development 
 from Nintendo's best minds. What you're going to get in Twilight Princess is not just another Zelda 
 game, but a truly unique experience that will leave you scratching for more, even after 50 long 
 hours of venturing. This is not simply the best Zelda game ever, but the best game ever. Everything 
 from the clever puzzles and unique dungeon designs to the engaging and well developed characters, 
 this is the best of the best, the magnum opus of Shigeru Miyamoto. If there were ever a reason 
 to hand over $300 to a cashier at your favorite retailer, this is that reason. Twilight Princess 
 is truly the definitive game of this industry; it's a work of art that Nintendo will be hard pressed 
 to top. This is the game to dethrone Ocarina. This is The Legend of Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  having now fully played this game i can easily say the gamestop review is crap. the controller 
 scheme while a little stale in wolf form is awesome as the human link. youre never doing one thing 
 too terribly long in this game. its always changing from moment to moment and then just as something 
 starts getting old its changed up again and sent back your way. backtracking is almost non-existent 
 as portals ferry you around whenever in wolf form and youll almost never be asked to go back to 
 an old area. when you are forced to however theres something interesting and new waiting there. 
 all in all this game is nearly flawless. the only reason i didnt give it a ten was because of one 
 glitch late in the game..... never save your game in a room with a massive cannon or youll be forced 
 to go to your last save due to a nasty glitch. if you have a hi def tv youll need to get componet 
 cables to enjoy it most. i have a standard tv though and it simply looks beautifull. if youre all 
 about being a graphics whore you may have a problem with it and if thats the case i simply have 
 to say...... GET OVER IT! dont let the fact it isnt broadcast in supershiny hd keep you from this 
 game because if you do youre simply STUPID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyatx03
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Man I don't know what Gamespot is talking about . Legend of zelda on the wii should of gotten a 
 better rating. Who cares if Link dosen't have dialogue it should stay that way. Legend of zelda 
 twilight princess is a great title because it makes u feel like you've just gotten orcarina of 
 time all over again. Weapons and monsters are awesome. Even if Link is able to turn into a wolf, 
 it still keeps the game fun and addictive. The mini games are also great and swingin the wii remote 
 like a sword is a cool way to enjoy this zelda title. The legend of zelda is a must have game for 
 a wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blimpwad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo did an amazing job with this title. Thumbs up to them! Everything about it had my attention 
 right away. The way they incorporate the unique Wii remote controls into the game added big time 
 to the gameplay. It was a blast! The items you obtain were incredible too!!! Most important, impressive, 
 and gripping of all was the incorporation of Ocarina of Time content which took my memory back 
 to that near-perfect game. Bringing Link back to the land of Hyrule was jaw-dropping and oh so 
 cool. Also, including some songs from OoT, and above all the Master Sword and Ganon...... genius 
 storyline and amazing!!!! One more thing... Final Boss..... funnest battle of any Zelda to date! 
 Thanks Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyandguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Like all Zelda games, you can expect a lot of action, wonderful storyline, and amazing playability. 
 Twilight Princess is no exception. Boasting the best graphics of any Wii launch title, Twilight 
 Princess continues the legacy of the Zelda in its stunning visuals. The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess also makes the very most out of the Wii remote. By swinging your arm, Link mimics your 
 movements and swings his sword. Using this advanced method of game play, Twilight Princess puts 
 a totally new spin on action/adventure games. The only criticism that I can give Twilight Princess 
 is... well... nothing! This is a spectacular game and well worth the price. If you are a Wii owner 
 or future Wii owner, be sure to make this the first game that you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usshaddon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed playing through the story of Ocarina of Time, then you better get prepared and get 
 ready to play Twilight Princess. Just like in Ocarine of Time, Ganondorf is back and ready to be 
 beaten by a look-a-like Link in seven different dungeons as well.
  -=Gameplay=-
  I give the gameplay a 10 out of 10 because this is a really fun and enjoyable game to play, even 
 with the wii controller that they let you interact with a whole lot through out the game.
  -=Graphics=-
  I give the graphics a 9 out of 10, the reason i did not give it a ten is because 
 it does not reach today's standards of graphics but then again, the Wii is not made for high standard 
 graphics. If you want a game with flashy graphics go get a xbox360, and blow off the crappy playstation 
 3.
  -=Sound=-
  The sound for this game is pretty realistic, and it uses some of the same songs from the original 
 Zeldas as well with a bit of a twist to it, therefore i gave the sound a 9 out of 10.
  
  The Good^^ This game is a perfect game to get for the Wii, its a awesome adventure game in the 
 Zelda series with over 30+ hours of storyline built into as well with lots of new methods of fighting 
 styles that you learn throughout the game. Oh and did i forget to mention that your a werewolf, 
 what more do you want?
  
  The Bad &gt;&lt; The only bad thing about this game is actually nothing besides the fact that gamespot 
 gave it a 8.8....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasemoneyg1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Im excited, this look like, a great game. The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess may be just 
 the Wiis first franchise but it also the biggest impact game for the system I love the look and 
 the innovative control system is be-au-ti-ful. Nintendo strikes again with another head banger. 
 From the looks of this game Nintendo is a head in the poles. The legend of Zelda: The Twilight 
 Princess the handling is great, the sound is great, and the graphics are great, but it could be 
 better. But we can't always get what we want. But it still delivers on everything else. I say that 
 this is a superb game that is a have for all of The legend of Zedla fan and adventure game seeker 
 a like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Solid level design, believable characters, charming music, nice variance with content, 
 some new tools for the series, excellent gameplay mechanics, everything in the world is there for 
 a reason, controls add to the experience immensly.
  
  THE BAD: Graphically looks like a high end gamecube game, music could have been more orcastrated, 
 no voice acting, no writable map function.
  
  FOR PARENTS: This game has various forms of violence, use of different weapons, however there is 
 no blood, vulgar language or something the child might find offensive. I recommend this game for 
 10+ in age.
  
  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS NO PLOT SPOILERS SO FEEL FREE TO READ EVEN IF YOU HAVEN'T PLAYED THE GAME.
 
  
  
  When thinking about how to review The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, I really had to focus 
 on what is most important to relay. Reading reviews should be about why to get, rent or pass up 
 a title based on our opinions. With that in mind I will share with you why this game got the score 
 I gave it and how this game could very well change how we view the genre as a whole.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Most of us that have played the other Legend of Zelda titles know what to expect 
 with a new iteration of this series. You have a small boy from out of no where in a small village 
 who has been chosen by a series of fated events to face off against the greatest of evils that 
 could face the land. That evil is so great that divine intervention has to chose its champion.
 
  
  The first major note I want to hit about the gameplay is how well paced the title is. Very rarely 
 do I see a title that leads you though events at a pace where you have time to actually learn each 
 skill. This is especially important in this game. You will have lots of tools and abilities before 
 the game ends and its your job to learn how to master them because although the game does a great 
 job of teaching you the skills, once it is time to move on the game expects you to have mastered 
 the previous skills. Some enemies also require a different combination of skills to beat as well.
 
  
  The combat system is definately a step up from Windwaker for those who have played it. You can 
 also learn sword techniques to add to your arsenal of abilities and its really up to you with this. 
 The traditional lock on feature is there and is used quite well. Menus are easy to navigate and 
 switch out equipment as needed so it will be no problem getting to what you need on the fly.
  
  The game world is large and meaningful. Every single thing in this game is there for a reason. 
 I have never seen that before in a game. All the locations you go to, even things you think you 
 will never interact with you do. It is amazing at how much the world is immersed with your quest. 
 What this gives you is the ability to explore and go in your own direction anytime you want. The 
 only limitation is rather you have the right tools to complete the task. This gives you a sense 
 of freedom and also lets you chose more so how the events in the game unfold. It also keeps you 
 exploring all parts of thw world to ensure you have seen everything there is to see. I doubt anyone 
 without a strategy guide will see everything in the first play through.
  
  This is the first Zelda game where you get a sense of who Link is. The characters in your village 
 will continue to play a role and really give a sense that Link belongs somewhere and that he isn't 
 alone. The Link character is believable and although he isn'tas expressive as his windwaker counterpart 
 and doesn't actually ever say anything during the course of the game, you never question how he 
 feels. A large portion of this is because this game does a good job of putting you into the role 
 of Link, part of that is the Wii controller but I will get to that later on.
  
  There are flaws in the gameplay but none are more than personal gripes and not worthy of review 
 mentioning. The game is accessable to just about anyone. The length of the game depends on how 
 well you catch on to puzzles and you understanding of the game in general.
  
  Lastly what Zelda game doesn't have puzzles? Each dungeon, the world, and even secret areas will 
 expose you to various puzzles. Although sometimes to similar for their own good, none of them take 
 away from the experience and most of all the coolest part is you always have what you need in a 
 dungeon. If you can't figure out what to do, its because you have to think about how to use your 
 inventory, don't worry it will come to you.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Even though this should be in the gameplay section it really deserves its own category. We all 
 know Zelda TP started out as a Game Cube game and was later ported to the Wii. This left many people 
 on the fence about the controller. I can tell you first hand, I don't think I could play Zelda 
 the old way ever again. The controls are more accessable first of all. It is easy to figure out 
 your button configuration. You can have your hands the way you want them most of the game. I found 
 myself in a thinking position holding the controller running around when I couldn't figure something 
 out. I was amused by this, no other system has allowed me free arm movement. I was way more relaxed.
 
  
  Aside from this the action was also way more intense. Getting physically into the action using 
 the sword swipe is one thing, using the wiimote to aim at the screen and use various tools is another, 
 however when you put them together in big boss fight or other large scale battle, you will find 
 your self swinging intensly and immersed into the action on the screen. You get more of a sense 
 of dread when you fight bosses and miss with that free roam targeter only to get clobbered for 
 it. In short you feel like you are fighting rather than watching it happen. This helps he game 
 alot. You stay more in tune with the event that happen. A side effect of this the Link character 
 attachment. You feel more like Link when you are playing the game. Whatever happens to him happens 
 to you and it has rumble so you will feel it to.
  
  The gamespot reviewer claimed the Wiimote speaker had lots of static and would cut out. I noticed 
 that, but only when my batteries got to the red color on the Wii O/S battery interface. So in short 
 never mind what he said and change your batteries. I also use rechargable duracel batteries so 
 I chage them often.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  When looking at graphics as a reviewer you have to really be able to step back and understand each 
 individual console. If you compare this game to lets say gears of war you are going to give it 
 a bad score. I am not like that though. It is hard to rate the graphics of the Wii as there is 
 nothing out there that has pushed the system to its limits yet. However if you just looked at the 
 screen you would see a high end gamecube game there. I don't mention ths to put it t shame. But 
 it is obvious that Nintendo spent little time outside of progressive scan and wide screen support 
 in the graphics category which is a real shame. The graphical presentation of the game as a whole 
 is impressive. Environments are believable and each house in the game has its own details. Not 
 all the textures came out the way they should have though. Floor textures for the most part are 
 blurred. Even with a 480p Widscreen set and component cales this game has somewhat aged graphics.
 
  
  What really helps this category is the art style used on the characters. Nintendo didn't go for 
 photo realism with this title. Instead it has a half real, half cartoon like look to it. Its more 
 on the real side though. The presentation of the game as a whole and the quality of enemies and 
 items stays very consistant. The game may not be HD but it is nothing to shun at all. I rather 
 enjoyed the look of the game from finish to end. Zelda TP is a beautiful game if you look at the 
 whole of the screen and not focus on one small unimportant part. Take the game in as a whole and 
 you will be impressed consistantly at the graphcal quality of this game.
  
  SOUND:
  
  What definately would have helped this game stand out is voice acting. It would be nice if the 
 characters Link interacts with would be able to speak. It adds a level of belivability to the mix 
 and considering the day and age, even if Zelda TP was a Game Cube only game it should of still 
 had voice acting. There isn't even any for the cutscenes.
  
  Some of the music is a rehash of existing and very much loved Zelda tunes while others are completely 
 new and add a dark tone to the game. Some soundtracks feel more like simple midi tunes while others 
 are fleshed out with a choir. This makes the music hard to rate. Sometimes its is very impressive 
 and other times it is very weak. It would of helped if the quality of the music was the same the 
 whole way through. That aside the music is nice to listen to and adds to the experience.
  
  The sound effects from the Wiimote vary in quality, but it is really cool to hear these things 
 first hand so close to you. There are many uses of the speaker in the game and none feel cheap 
 at all. I am rather impressed with how they used the speaker and the clink you hear from Links 
 sword right next to you when you hit something makes it feel more like you are hitting it when 
 you swing that wiimote. VALUE:
  
  This game is a tremendous value. When you consider all that is in the game. How well it was designed 
 and its length. It becomes very apparent that almost anyone will want this title in their collection. 
 This is also the first game I have seen in a long time that is worth more than the price. Meaning 
 I feel like I got a great deal even paying full price.
  
  This isn't a game to play at someone elses house or rent at the local video store, you will want 
 to have it to play at your leasure once you pick up the controller. Don't worry it is well worth 
 your money.
  
  Aside from the main quest you can there are many other side quests to do. I won't name them beause 
 I want to stay away from spoilers. Let's just say you will be kept busy.
  
  TILT:
  
  There are so many good things I can say about this game. I don't really see why anyone shouldn't 
 play it. It is worth the price of a Wii by itself. It exceeded my expectations and thensome. The 
 boss fights are done with style and although not really hard to beat, they are really fun and fought 
 in creative ways. You will not just be swinging your sword at bosses in the game.
  
  This is as solid as an adventure game gets so far. It is scary to think what the next Zelda game 
 will be like. If this is the new benchmark for the series, I can't even begin to understand how 
 great the next one will be. Where other games do a few of the core mechanics Zelda isn't afraid 
 to do them all and show it off in the process. Even with its short comings, its more of a gripe 
 contest then this game is broken. With the 50 Hous it took me to finish the first play through, 
 and I do mean first play through, as I plan to start all over again really soon. I am not only 
 satisfied with my purchase, but I also had something many of us gamers haven't had in a while. 
 I had fun playing this game.
  
  There isn't a flaw you could say about ths game that would take it off its mark. The amount of 
 thought alone in the game makes others look cookie cutter or lazy in my opinion. That is why with 
 my Master Sword in Hand and the reins of Eponya in the other, I give The Legend of Zelda Twilight 
 Princess for the Wii a courageous 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for the Wii. I thought it was going to take some time getting used 
 to the controller... but I was wrong. The Wii remote felt natural playing this game. I had very 
 little trouble mastering it and now couldnt imagine playing the game any other way. As with everyone 
 else I feel the gamespot score is a little low, but 8.8 is not a bad score, just not deserving 
 of this instant classic. I really dont know what to say good about this game that everyone else 
 hasnt said. I have been a Zelda fan from the start and this game did not let me down. The graphics 
 are definately gamecubesc, but you will soon find that you will not notice that into the game. 
 I play on a hdtv, which makes it worse, but it is still not bad. Please for the love of all that 
 is holy, get this game. If I have ever said this, hit holds true for sure this time: GET THIS GAME 
 YOU WILL NEVER REGRET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkIsDaMan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game! By far the best Zelda EVER!!!!! Gamespot should re-review this game. It can't be 
 called other than flawless. If you thought OOT was flawless.. think again. The hype was definely 
 worth it! This game should be apart of everyone's WII console. It is so much bigger than the rest 
 of the other games. It follows the storyline so much!! There are a few twists in there!! You'll 
 have to see for yourself! What are you waiting for?... Go get it!!!!!!!! Only $50 and your not getting 
 the best game ever?! The temples are fantastic too!! GO GET THIS GAME NOW!!!! Ok now im just wasting 
 words to get the 100 word minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerman92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game takes full advantage of the Wii's unique controller. When using the bow you point and 
 shoot. You hear so many sounds out the Wii-mote. The Graphics are remarkable. The game is so long 
 and addictive. I first was iffy on the controls, but after the fist two hours I could not put it 
 down. The dungeons are so long and fun. There are so tens of hours of game play. It is very hard 
 a guide is needed to play the game. This is the best game ever made, four years in the making it 
 is an so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaceTheShado
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I was Pretty disappointed at the Video Review I think he made few valid points, the loyal 
 fans of Zelda/Nintendo mostly respect the fact that link maintains his silence, thats how he always 
 has been, personally myself I like reading through text, it also lengthens the game ( not to much) 
 because you have to read, listening to people would go probably quite a bit faster. This game deserves 
 more than the review showed, It has great qualities, great game play, the time spent playing this 
 game is amazing, and the wii remote puts a new twist on things, overall this game in my point of 
 view should at least receive a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  All around this game is quite an adventure. From the fun gameplay elements to the immense area 
 to travel. This game is a must for all zelda fans. So lets just get into what you wanna hear, the 
 good stuff of course. Twilight princess starts out at a slow pace. But by the time you finish the 
 first dungeon, you clearly get into it. You just won't stop playing the game. Twilight princess 
 is strangly a different type of zelda, I should say. If you've played most Zelda game's you will 
 oddly see that twilight princess is a tad off from the zelda games. It just doesn't feel like a 
 zelda game, this maybe because of you changing into a wolf. It could also be because of the maturity 
 nintendo has put into this game. Its actully scary at some times. The cut scenes are very fun to 
 watch, you'll want to read every word every character says. The horse riding is simple, clean, 
 and addictive. The fighting is fun as well. But what I really love is the giant land that you can 
 explore.
  
  And now for the bad stuff. Okay I will say it, the graphic's are a tad bad for next gen. but their 
 not terrible. Another thing thats a bit bad are the dungeons, there a little to easy, or maybe 
 its just me. The boss fights are too easy as well. I also think they could have done more things 
 while being the wolf. Nintendo has done a nice job on twilight princess, It was totaly worth the 
 wait. This game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goo45
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  If Ocarina of Time was the coolest darn game ever, then a game that comes along with better graphics, 
 and motion sensitive controls to boot; should definately get a perfect 10.
  
  Graphics: Clean and Smooth
  Sound: Can't really improve on Ocarina of Time in that department, 
 glad they kept the original stuff, maybe they coulda improved it just a lil bit.
  Gameplay: Motion-Sensitive controls, what more can i say.
  Value: Play it over and over again! 
 I've read other Gamespot reviews, I believe they were overly harsh on this game and most games 
 in general. Their complaints seemed minor and at the most should've done +/- .3 points. Lighten 
 up guys! You remind me of movie critics. Focus on the FUN factor next time =D! And thanks Nintendo, 
 you never cease to amaze! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treep78
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, from the look, to the feel, to the control. Nintendo managed to get rid 
 of almost all of the issues in previous games and put in allot of improvements upon previous ideas 
 ex. the bomb arrows. People who played A Link to The Past on the SNES will start to get little 
 deja-vue. This will pass as the story progresses. You really can't blame the games graphics for 
 not being up to date, this was, after all, originally a Game Cube game. That Said the graphics 
 and art style are still beautiful and the game is filled w/ lots of interesting environments to 
 explore. Since this is my first real wii game the controls took a little getting used to but after 
 a while they become second nature giving you decise control and accuracy. The music in the game 
 is great delivering new songs as ell as remixes of old ones. This great for anyone who has a wii 
 and is easily the best launch title for the wii. Game of the year material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I'll get this out of the way right off: This is the best Zelda game ever created. That may be a 
 bold statement, but I'd be surprised if anyone expected different. This game has been in production 
 for what seems like forever, it is bigger, prettier, more deep, and longer than any previous Zelda 
 game. It really is the best. The level of immersion when playing this game is amazing, that alone 
 is a good enough reason to play this game, but it is so much more.
  
  Gameplay:
  When a formula works, I see no reason to change it. I do however think that Formula should constantly 
 be expanded upon though, and improved. That is exactly what this game does. It takes the best of 
 all Zelda games (notibly the most from Ocarina of Time) , and expands upon them, making them more 
 deep, immersive, and satisfying. I could go into what makes the Zelda formula great, but I'm sure 
 most of you already know. Let me say this though, the game is long. It's simply longer than any 
 other Zelda game before it. Hyrule is much bigger, there are more dungeons (my favorite) , more 
 to do, and more to see. Just when you've spent 15-20 hours on a huge quest, you realize that you 
 are only 1/3 of the way done. Amazing. This game will really spark inside people, what playing 
 excellent, truly excellent classic, and modern gameplay (mixed into one) , is all about.
  
  Graphics:
  I really wanted to give the graphics a 10, but I couldn't. I'll get what's bad (and 
 it's a minor complaint) about the graphics out of the way first. Quite simply, the textures are 
 low in spots. This looks like a gamecube port, with a pinch of N64 thrown in. Okay, now onto the 
 good part. The artistic of these graphics are AMAZING. The fantasy world that the graphics create 
 for the player is nothing short of fantastic. The characters, the locations, different types of 
 dungeons, will all make you forget about the world outside. This is Fantasy at its best.
  
  Sound:
  The same complaint about the graphics, can be said about the sound. Artistically, the 
 sound is wonderful, with memorable tunes, full of emotion, that fits the action on screen perfectly. 
 However, they sound like MIDI, and it really shows in some parts. There is no reason this game 
 can't move a step further and get an orchestra, especially when the game is contained on a Wii 
 disc, that can hold Gigs of information. Come on, Nintendo. Voice acting is also needed. Do I think 
 Link needs a voice? Hell no. He doesn't even speak in this game (no text) , and that's how it should 
 be. He is the personification of the word Hero in its purest form, and the fact that he doesn't 
 have a voice, amplifies that for me. He is a hero of no words. It's hard to explain, but I think 
 most people know what I'm talking about, voice could ruin link. Everyone else in this game needs 
 a voice though, text is no longer acceptable, especially in this game (it is the most emotional 
 of all the Zelda games, and text takes away from that) . Sure bad voice acting would take away from 
 it even more, but this is a high budget game, get some high budget talent to do the voices.
  
  Controls:
  They feel good. At first you will probably have problems with the Wii Remote, 
 but once you get into the game, and start using your boomerang and arrows, it will feel second 
 nature and you'll think all the previous ways to play were simplistic. It feels natural, but takes 
 some getting used to.
  
  Overall:
  Quite simply, this game takes what makes all the previous Zelda games great, and amplifies it up 
 a notch. This is a must have game for anyone who likes the best of modern and classic gameplay 
 rolled into one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepyShow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: TP is simply the best Zelda game I have ever played. I myself have never been 
 the extreme Zelda fan, seeing as how the games I usually involve myself in don't revolve around 
 puzzles, but this game really changed my view on the whole Zelda franchise. I picked it up so I 
 wouldnt be bored with Wii Sports forever and boy was I amazed. The controls were crafted very well, 
 although there are some malfunctions that I found with the spin attack control. Other than one 
 minor flaw, the game world is immense. The wii has definitely captured the idea of gameplay before 
 graphics with this game. In my own opinion, the puzzles are very difficult, but hey thats why they 
 made walkthroughs. This is a one-of-a-kind-must-own-game that takes puts the Wii console on the 
 pedestal it deserves. I really hope to see more games in the future that are as innovative as Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincoley
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Sound- the best ive heard in the wii games i have played so far.
  awsome sound. i have no clue wihy gamespot said the sound was a 7. score=10
  
  graphic- OMG 
 awsome graphics you can see the out line on the shields and the vines its pretty cool. score=10
 
  
  gameplay- the best. swing the wii to swing your sword. use the wiimote as a fishing pole or a bow. 
 great puzzles not to hard but not to easy. score= 10
  
  Value- totaly worth the wait and is worth the 49.99 plus tax. score=10
  
  i think this game 
 is underappreciated because gamespot only ranked it a 8.8 when it really should be around a 9.0-10 
 but other than that the game is revolutionary in how you use the wiimote to do so many tasks.
 
  
  happy playing ~CaptainColey~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonyke
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: I know the graphics aren't as good like the ps3 or xbox 360 graphics, but in their own 
 way Ninty has amazing graphics who create a great atmosphere in the game
  
  SOUND: the midi-music is just great, I don't know why gamespot have so much comment about the music.
 
  
  VALUE: this game is timeless, you can play this game all year long and you will not be bored.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: no comment, everybody knows how great zelda is
  
  just buy this game, and if you don't have a wii, buy one, if you want to call yourself a gamer, 
 you have to play this game. and by the way, the one who have reviewed this game on gamespot is 
 a BIG microsoft-sony fanboy, YOU ARE NOT A GAMER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Being4
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  I know that's a big thing to say, best zelda game to date , but serioulsy, it is. I'll admit, when 
 I played OoT, I was blown away, and at the time, that was the best game I had ever played. This 
 new Zelda is just awesome. To me, it feels like ocarina of time to the max, like a whole new story 
 and version of OoT, which isn't at bad thing. Ocarina of time is still probably my favorite zelda 
 game, but there's no doubt that this game is better. I guess I'm contradicting myself there, but 
 there you have it.
  
  Difficulty: Honestly, so far it is kind of easy. I haven't encountered anything difficult yet, 
 and I'm about half way through, from my own guessing and the way the story line has been unfolding. 
 I'm about 26 hours into it. Graphics: Graphics are top notch for the gamecube. I'll be looking 
 forward to when I can see what the Wii can do in future games, since this was originally a gamecube 
 game, but don't doubt the graphics, they look great. Gameplay: Amazing. Wonderful. Fantastic. I 
 don't know what else to say, it's Zelda, no doubt at all. This is what every game should be. Nintendo 
 sets the trend again. Sound: For some reason, I read two website reviews (no names :D ) that have 
 said the sound isn't as good as it should be. I don't really understand that, the music in this 
 game is fantastic. I love listening to it while I'm shooting things down from atop my horse. Although, 
 the sound quality from the Wii remote could be better, not that it's the sound itself, but the 
 speaker on the wii remote isn't the best, so that's not Zelda's fault. I have that a 9/10 for that 
 reason though. This is Nintendo's system and it's Nintendo's game. So there you have it, the game 
 is quite simply, a masterpiece. No company can compete with the action/adventure of Zelda games, 
 I just wish they would try at least. At least then we could have more kick ass games around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The land of Hyrule has once again been enshrouded in darkness. All its inhabitants have been trapped 
 within the shadows of the Twilight realm. The only hope for the land is found within the small 
 town of Ordon, on the outskirts of Hyrule. Only you have enough courage to bring light back to 
 this dark land.
  
  When it was announced that the new Zelda game was going to take on a more realistic look and have 
 a much darker storyline, I got excited. But that was way back in 2004, and overtime you get distracted 
 with other games. When it was announced that the game would be delayed so it could be a Nintendo 
 Wii launch title, I was mad. When I bought the game last Sunday morning, I was excited again.... and 
 tired, but that's to be expected when you wait outside Best Buy all night to get a Wii. Nintendo 
 has finally turned around from the cel-shaded graphics or Wind Waker and produced a Masterpiece. 
 The controls on the Wii-mote fit the game perfectly and make it one of the best experiences that 
 every gamer should experience. The game environment is at a much larger scale, as you will see 
 just by visiting Hyrule field. The horseback fighting that has been put into the game play is innovative 
 and a lot of fun for the gamer. The Twilight realm, much like Dark world in A Link to the Past, 
 let's the player explore the player explore Hyrule like you never could believe. Overall, it's 
 good to see that Nintendo can take the Legend of Zelda in a whole new direction, when twists in 
 the story that the player won't see coming until they happen. Move over Ocarina of Time, we have 
 a new masterpiece, and its name is Twilight Princess.
  
  - 930ff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axemetal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  With every new Zelda game comes the same hero, Same game play, and same enemy. But somehow The 
 team behind each one manages to deliver an amazing story and game that will remind you why you 
 play video games.
  
  Firstly, If you've every played a Zelda game before you probably know the premise behind it. Zelda 
 has power and Gannon Wants it. Your tasked with relieving him of it. That isn't such an easy task 
 when you realize that you have to go through over 7 dungeons all with their own keys to find, items 
 to use, and bosses to kill. This is one of the reasons why Twilight Princess is so long. Each Dungeon 
 should only last you about 45 minutes and are all compelling to finish. They all have unique differences 
 like a water temple that tasks you with changing the flow of water to access different doors.
 
  
  Although the Dungeons are long they are not all thrown at you one after the other. the story is 
 also given to you at a very easy rate, just enough to have you coming back for more. When tasked 
 with something to do, you are often given more then enough story to make you want to go complete 
 your objective. This story are not short either with it lasting up to 50 hours in length.
  
  If at any point you feel like you need a change there are also plenty of mini games and side 
 quests that are all easily accessible and are all fun. You will often find yourself spending hour 
 after hour fishing alone where your only sign that time is passing is the sun setting and rising 
 on the horizon. Each mini game offers some kind of reward that you will be be playing over and 
 over again just to try and get.
  
  Sound is interesting in the idea that most of the sounds you hear like your sword swinging comes 
 from the wii mote. This may seem strange in the beginning but after about 2 hours of play you forget 
 all about it and it seems only natural. Control of your projectile weapons also come from your 
 wii mote by aiming at the screen. This also seems cumbersome at first but after a while you wonder 
 how you ever played a game without it. It's so accurate and responsive that the slightest movement 
 can be sensed.
  
  With systems like the 360 offering gamer score/achievement points to play a game through and try 
 new things, it's good to see games like Twilight Princess that you want to play through completely 
 just for fun. In the end Twilight Princess offers the same game along the lines of ocarina of time 
 and Majora's mask and that certainly isn't a bad thing. If you buy a wii you should certainly pick 
 this game up. This game made my wii worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plguitar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  After fiddling with the Wii controls for awhile, I can't go back. The texture complaints and ocasional 
 wonky sound design choices are small gripes to note in an otherwise perfect experience. This is 
 why I play games, and why Nintendo will always trump anything the competitors throw at it. Yep, 
 I have a 360 (an refuse to buy a PS3) ... but suddenly, my copy of Gears of War has started to collect 
 dust. What am I'm going to do with Rainbow Six: Vegas, Call of Duty 3, GOW, etc.? They will have 
 to wait until I'm done with Zelda: Twilight Princess, simple as that.
  
  This has been talked about for years, but I'll restate that this is truly what Nintendo does better 
 than any other company; make first-party software that cannot be rivaled... and sell systems because 
 of it. It seems like such a simple concept, except nobody really gets it. There are glimmers of 
 hope in titles like Ico, Shadows of the Collosus, Beyond Good and Evil, Okami, etc... but those 
 are Art House titles that never make it to major franchise status. This is Zelda we are talkin' 
 about here... a major franchise.. and it fills my dreams at night, and keeps me longing during the 
 day.
  
  The triforce is complete: Twilight Princess is a noble companion to Ocarina and Wind Waker. Huzzah! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power81005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess brings new and old elements to the Zelda franchise. Diehard and new Zelda fans 
 are sure to enjoy this game. After releasing, it seems only one Zelda game per console, Nintendo 
 has launched a new system and with it came a new Zelda. Zelda Twilight Princess is essentially 
 the sequel to Zelda: Ocarina of Time. Fans of the game will recognize many of the places from OOT 
 in Twilight Princess. You start off the game as a young boy in a ranching community. From this 
 point on, you make your way completing tasks, dungeons and such. A new element introduced to the 
 game is that during the game you actually get to play as links transformed wolf form. Now you dont 
 get to actually choose when he transforms, rather during certain times throughout the game you 
 are able. The game follows a deep storyline which anyone will be pulled into from the beginning. 
 Horseriding also plays a more important and prominent role in this game. Also brought back to the 
 game is fishing but with a new twist. Taking full advantage of the wii motion controls, you have 
 to cast, move the lure, set the hook and use the nunchuk to reel in the fish. A person could easily 
 lose a day sitting back in the boat fishing for that big one. While the graphics may not have been 
 a huge leap for the Wii, they certainly are better and you will notice in certain parts when looking 
 at scenery how much more defined they are. Controls might be a little hard to grasp the instant 
 you pick up the controller but you catch on very quick. A very innovative control system, deep 
 storyline, and great fun factor make this easily, one of the must have video games of all time. 
 People who play Zelda have come to expect all the best things that make games and this one certainly 
 does not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonFuri
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Reviewing Zelda: Twilight Princess is a pretty touchy subject nowadays with the kids and the internets 
 , But i am here to bring truth and honesty in my little review and back up the official review.
 
  
  You are Link, surprise surprise, but this time you are a small town boy in a relitavely normal 
 enviorment. Not some little kid up in fairy land and what not.
  You start out the game rather simple with small quests, like rasslin goats with Epona and helping 
 out the commune with your skills. Like calling hawks, and fishing. You even show the kids in town 
 how to shoot a slingshot and wave around a wooden sword. Eventually you get a job from the mayor 
 to go to the kingdom of Hyrule to deliver something.
  
  My review will not spoil, but after the first heroic mission you take part in saving one of the 
 little kids from a group of funky looking trolls, the game gets better. Just when you thought everything 
 was calm and youre about to trek to the kingdom of Hyrule, something messed up happens, everyone 
 had been kidnapped, and you wake up in a dungeon as a wolf. Whom you also befriend a cat-like persona 
 who usually taunts you playfully and helps you out of the dungeon.
  Once you get to the bosses, later dungeons, get the sword, the boomerang, etc. The game gets really 
 really good. But you cant shake off that the game couldve improved a little more due to the many 
 delays and whatnot. They couldve certianly pushed the Wii's graphics to make Zelda a really good 
 looking game, but this game just looks like it was ported to the Gamecube. That was a little disappointing 
 for me, but i digress, the game is actually really really good.
  
  It is not the best Zelda ever by any means, but boy, does it come close.
  If you have a Wii, 
 there is absolutely no reason why you shouldnt pick up Zelda. Being broke is not even an excuse. 
 Go sell blood or something.
  and if you got a Gamecube, get it as soon as it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Finally... iwata felt like giving the competition some edge so he delayed it, okay fine nintendo 
 developers are kinda slow but it was one year of pain for a masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay- 8
  you know about the controls hopefully so they shouldn't be a problem, and the wiimote sensitive 
 sword swings and pointer projectile aiming is great and immersive. then why an 8 if the the controls 
 are good? well the game flows nicely and there isn't any long droughts of text w/o action but the 
 combat is a bit easy and you can run from most fights, but thankfully the developers made the damage 
 taken from lava and pits higher so it kinda evens out. overall the game has solid gameplay.
  
  Graphics- 9
  seems like Gamespots revview so far right? well greg kasavins graphic criteria 
 for zelda matches mine. the game looks fine yet it seems like a gamecube game, which isn't bad 
 as it was originally for the cube and the wii itself isn't much more powerful than a cube and the 
 textures and characters look good but the game really shines in the artistic aspect. the twilight 
 zones are neat and the oversaturated lighting and floating black squares are sweet but you dont 
 really feel like it is that much different than the real world as there are people's spirits and 
 the environments are technically the same but just w/ different colors, so it seems like a paralleldimension 
 through a telescope rather than a more radical noticeable different look such as in link to the 
 past for the snes.
  
  Sound- 10
  man the music rocks and the musical score hits the perfect note between shaking things up and having 
 a nostalgic feel. example: some buildings when you walk in will have the wind waker tune play and 
 some places like hyrule castle town are remixed and while some places like kakiriko village have 
 a new soundtrack. the sound effects are meaty and the speaker plays a lot and sounds kinda weak 
 but it really adds to the experience when you hear your bow become taut and after you sink a barb 
 into your opponents... well it really gets you into it. also what was everyone expecting from a 
 dingy speaker on a controller anyways? carnigie hall acoustics? sheesh.
  
  the graphics and sound are in a way a homage towards the whole zelda franchise and feel like the 
 developers are making the peak point of the series or in some ways a collectors package of the 
 sights and sounds of the series.
  
  value- 10
  so far i have loged in 14 hours and have just got to the beginning of the 3rd dungeon... with 9 
 dungeons, a lot of sidequests and exploraation it will last at least 35 hours and over 60 if you 
 want 100%. the best sidequest ever, collecting pieces of heart, will take a while as there is around 
 9 hearts out of 20 that require pieces of heart and FIVE are needed to make one, so over 40 heart 
 pieces are scattered around, have fun.
  
  Tilt- 9
  ahhh finally the tilt part my favorite... i gave it a nine, duh.
  Zelda will definetly be in 
 the wii for a while, if u got a wii you probably have this game and if u dont then get it and for 
 future wii owners pick this one up too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howrudoooing
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly the type of game that I have enjoyed all through childhood!!!! Role playing games. 
 I just love how the more you play the better your character becomes. It's not the same repetitive 
 game play over and over again. If you like strategy games then this is the perfect game for you. 
 Assuming you have the Wii. i have already played the game for more than 20hrs, which is a lot for 
 me with work and all. I still am not bored with it. I get bored very easily with games that you 
 can't advance in. This game is fun. The graphics in this game are phenomenal. Not only that it 
 is very easy to get used to the game play. The highly anticipated game of the future is finally 
 here and you're still reading this review!!!!!!! What is wrong with you? get of the office chair 
 and get to your nearest gaming store and purchase the best game out there. I promise you if you 
 like Role playing games you will not be disappointed.
  
  Thanks for reading my review: NICKNAME: PIG
  WII CODE: 6724 6111 1583 4947 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while, a game comes along that just blows everything away. Everyone's talking about it, 
 and eventually you buy it for yourself to find out if everything is true. You do so, and find out 
 the game lived up to every expectation. This is something like Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  Note: May have spoilers, i'll try to keep them out. If there are some, i'll put them like this 
 *spoiler*.
  
  When I first got my Wii, I excitedly put in Twilight Princess. For the next week, I couldn't do 
 anything else. It's so addicting and fun to play. For the whole week, it was simply zelda (and 
 my other Wii game) . Boy, what a week it was. Dungeon crawling through elaborate and brilliantly 
 artistic visuals that make the game breath. Going majestically through the fields on Epona, dodging 
 arrow fire from your determined enemies. This is one hell of a game.
  
  I'll first talk about the graphics. The graphics are fine, nothing that will blow you away, but 
 nothing that will leave you disappointed. Some places are bolded and look fantastic. The shimmering 
 of your sword, and the waves in water. The reflections and lighting reflecting over Link. The graphics 
 look like a high end gamecube title, but not so much a Wii title. The real reason graphics get 
 a ten is because of the artistic look of the game. It's absolutely amazing. The backrounds all 
 move and are fully 3D. The hyrule town looks incredible, with architecture and a breathing, living 
 city. The characters are all filled with life and emotion. Just by looking at their faces you can 
 see fear or joy. Oh, and Link still peers his eyes at wandering things. All the temples are serious 
 in their look. Areas like the lava temple have a dark, deathly tone to them that gives you an incredible 
 sense of adventure. The graphics truly deserve a ten for decent visuals, and astounding life in 
 every place you go.
  
  The sound is also great. I really couldn't tell it was midi. The way the music turns sinister during 
 boss fights and enemies tells you when enemies are near. The hype increases when you strike your 
 foe. When it goes to night, the music slows and plain stops. The game has dolby stereo surround 
 sound. In the back you can hear the waterfall as you pass by on Epona's galloping shoes while the 
 birds chirp while your passing on the grassy fields. Your footsteps all changing sound from the 
 innocent grass to the hard metal. Throughout the whole game as the wolf's chain buckles. When I 
 first got this game, all the white noise seemed so realistic and I got into the game very quickly.
 
  
  An obvious ten would be the gameplay. Who would've thought that the wii remote swinging the sword 
 could make for such natural gameplay. When you first play the game, it's hard to not swing the 
 remote to use jump or spin attacks because it feels so natural. You don't even need to swing that 
 hard to get the effect. After playing on the wii, you can never go back to the original controllers 
 of any system. It's so intuitive it's rediculous. A lot of people think the game plays the same 
 as other Zelda's, but it really doesn't at all. Besides that, who would change the formula of a 
 game that got 10's on many different sites? Seems like a dumb idea to me. However, aiming with 
 the Wii Remote and swinging never takes your energy. You can seriously play this game for a long 
 time and never get tired, even if you over exagerate your Wiimote swings. You never get carpal 
 tunnel, and never get tired. The game itself consists of dungeon crawling in state of the art dungeons. 
 These dungeons are big, merciless, and later in the game just come right at you. Dungeons are huge, 
 some lasting 1-3 hours. Every single room, there's a chance you can get stuck. It all depends on 
 your common sense, an later, on your ability to look around at the environment. All the weapons 
 at your disposal, old and new, still are great and weapons like the bow are very easy to aim. Oh 
 so satisfying it is to take your time, and kill another archer, piercing his arrow, and killing 
 him. Watching him fall from his tower, and ultimately dieing. Grueling as it sounds, it's very 
 satisfying. Put this in with a bunch of subquests, pieces of hearts, and a great story. You have 
 a zelda game.
  
  I really cannot put into words how good of a game this is. I could easily write an essay about 
 this game, but I don't want to spoil anything. You need to play Zelda for youself to understand 
 the quality of the Zelda. It surpasses that of Ocarina of Time, and lasts 30+ hours just doing 
 the story. The first three dungeons themselves could be a game. With quick thinking, hidden skills, 
 great puzzling dungeons, and fun natural swordplay, Zelda is a winner all the way. You just need 
 to play this game. It's, by all means, the greatest launch title in the history of gaming. Those 
 who miss it, I really feel sorry for. You'll never understand what a classic it is, but what else 
 is expected from a Zelda game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a Execellent game i mean DAM!! Since i was like 6 years old i have been following The Sega 
 Of Zelda. I love This Game Becuase it makes you think how to get stuff how to find out wats going 
 on and im really looking foward for more great zelda games! =) But i wish that the graphics will 
 get better of the next games to come... Dont get me wrong this game has good graphics but compare 
 to the PS3 and Xbox360 it comes a little bit short.
  
  This game Is pretty long too thats wat i like only the stroy will take you about 40 hours to complete 
 the game and the secondary missions well ill tell you i still havent finish and FISHING is back 
 w00w so keep looking out for this wonderful sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I actually don't have much time to do this review so it is going to be short and sweet, I'm not 
 going to go much into the story as I think every one knows what Zelda games are all about by know, 
 Your name is link you must either help or save Princess Zelda in some way or another, while Each 
 game is different the 2 main characters stay the same... I actually didn't keep up with the N64 
 titles, or game cube titles so I don't know whether all of that is true or not.... lets get to it.
 
  
  Graphics: The Visuals are not bad at all, think Resident Evil 4 with some shinier textures. They 
 get a little muddy here and there but nothing to bad. The frame rates are perfect. There just an 
 artistic vibe to The graphics of this game, Its like Cell shaded meets, RE4. Very difficult to 
 explain but excellent none the less.
  
  The lighting effects and water effects are to die for in my opinion. There was never a last gen 
 console that had better looking water. (as the Wii is not in direct competion with this gen) The 
 reflections and Shadows are excellent to.
  
  Over all The visual presentation is awesome, nothing bad to say here:)
  
  Gameplay: The Wii 
 controls work perfect and are so easy to pick up once you get used to the controller over all. 
 The story is Grandiose (read GS review as I don't delve into the story much) and excecuted nicely. 
 There are no voice overs but that doesn't bother me. If you have played previous Zelda's or Any 
 FF game then this shouldn't bother you.
  
  The characters are memorable and for me I would play this game 10 times again and again. Lots of 
 side missions and dungeons to crawl through. Just an excellent experience over all.
  
  Sound: Meh The Wii-mote speaker is tinny, and the soundtrack sometimes just doesn't fit the mood, 
 the weopon sounds are ok, but would be better played through the TV speakers then the Wii-mote, 
 Sound is mediocre at best.
  
  Value: Except for the Sound this game is perfect, making it a near perfect game over all. If your 
 a graphics whore, then the Wii isn't for you, even though I would say this game is heavy on visuals 
 and loaded with gameplay. Overall I don't own a PS3, 360, or Any other game that compares as far 
 as game play and story go: D
  
  If you have or are going to have a Wii... GET THIS GAME! For me it even Rivals Oblivion, which is 
 my favorite game of all time:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyo1979
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  On launch day I bought the Wii and Zelda and this was the only thing that could get me to put down 
 Gears of War. I mean it, since last Sunday my 360 has not been turned on once! The original Zelda 
 was the first adventure game I ever played and each time Nintendo raises the bar. This game is 
 sweet. It feels like an updated version of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (N64) . And if you 
 remember correctly Gamespot threw that game a perfect 10! Anyway this game has everything you could 
 expect and then more in a Zelda title. I gotta admit I was not looking forward to playing with 
 this stupid remote and nunchuck, but I am the first to say I was wrong. It controls beautifully. 
 I really wouldn't want to play with a regular controller. It is that good. The graphics are stunning, 
 and the sound is everything we come to expect from the Zelda series. I have not found anything 
 bad about this game other than I would of liked it to of been a little longer. Not that it is a 
 short game but I thing it should of been a little bigger considering how long it took to come out 
 and all the delays. That is the only thing that keeps me from giving this game a 10. Well the annoying 
 monkey sounds in the first dungeon are so aggravating that I give the sound an 8 instead of a 9. 
 Other than that the game play and all the sights and sounds are just incredible. The original Zelda 
 was the first adventure game I ever played and each time Nintendo raises the bar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxxxTxxxxx88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best additions to the Zelda saga, especially since it is on the Wii. 
 It picks up many of the old aspects and item uses from Ocarina of time (the best title in the series 
 i think) which gives you an familiarity with the weapons. I also like the new beast transformation, 
 it takes a new angle at the whole Link is Almighty aspect of the game and shows he is susceptible 
 to evil powers as well. I defanitely enjoy all of the sound effects that come out of the Wii controler 
 because it helps give you a clue what you are doing with your weapon and which weapon you are using. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafan_56
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It took 8 years to do it, but a zelda game has finally come out that is better than the legendary 
 Ocarina of Time. Twilight Princess is the greatest game ever made; it takes about over 70 hours 
 to beat the game and collect all the items. The Wii controls are quite responsive. If this game 
 was awesome, imagine for one second what the made for Gamecube version is going to be. After all 
 the game was originally made for the Gamecube. One word: Masterpeice. In my opinion, no other game 
 would have been able to topple the legendary Ocarina of Time, unless it was another Zelda game. 
 Well, nintendo has done it. The result is a perfect, flawless, masterpeice that expands on OOT, 
 and every Zelda game of that matter, in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslash1718
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  So I got the Wii on launch, and this was one of the games that I got to go with it. I had never, 
 before this game, actually played through, bought, or liked the Zelda series. That changed when 
 I played this game. I started playing immediately and was so addicted I couldn't stop playing. 
 After about 10 hours I had beaten 3-4 bosses, and was still playing like a maniac. The controls 
 are great and work fine. The graphics are awesome, but to get the full bang for your buck get the 
 better cables, it will make a difference. The bosses are tough, but not enough to make you frustrated. 
 There are LOTS OF PUZZLES involved, so beware and think tricky because sometimes it just may work. 
 The difficulty isn't to bad, and it takes maybe 30 minutes to get the buttons down. At tops a Hour 
 to learn everything. The game also surprises you, for instance when you turn into a wolf, and how 
 to do certain areas of a map. In the end The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess stands up to the 
 Zelda series name and should be put up along in the Zelda Hall of Fame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen may I present to you the latest edition to the Zelda family. Like many faithful 
 fans I have been clutching my reserve ticket for almost two years and woke up extra early just 
 so I could hold in my hot little hands. Since that cold morning on the 19th of November I have 
 played, I have passed and now I am going to tell you have it made me feel.
  
  Let me first start by saying the Wii remote is what made this game for me. Some reviewers are skeptical 
 of its functionality, but I am here to say that anything truly innovative takes a while to get 
 used to especially when using a basic controller has been a way of life for so many of us. The 
 remote gives the player a sense of force and drive in the character that propels the player quickly 
 through dungeons and the vast plains of this vast world. After mastering the dozen or so techniques 
 with the remote it becomes easier and almost second nature. There are few times in Twilight Princess 
 where I found myself fumbling around with the remote to do something. My only critique on the Wii 
 remote is that I am a lefty and had difficulties adjusting to the right handed dominant world. 
 It is possibly to pull a lefty, but it feels really awkward.
  
  The land of Hyrule is interesting as it uses old worlds as context of the new ones. Everything 
 looks the same, but feels extraordinarily different. The first three temples feel very Ocarina 
 of Time and that's forgivable as they embrace the forest, mountains and water in a very different 
 light. The 'after sword' temples are fantastic as they are unexpected in their difference. The 
 dungeons and puzzles are not all that complicated, but once every so often something comes at you 
 and you get stuck. The aspect of the twilight and wolf Link give the game the kind of depth that 
 Metroid Prime 2 Echoes had except it's in a way different context and dimension.
  
  The only thing that really upset me in this game was the sound quality. We are at a point in video 
 gaming history where the characters in Zelda should speak. Link doesn't have to because he is the 
 'silent type' and the script can be made to compensate for that. Other then voices the music was 
 disappointing as it didn't embrace a full orchestra score. I felt slightly ripped off. The music 
 was horrendous, but if it had more of a drive and passion that game would have been more charged. 
 Midna is a pretty awesome new character and her back story is probably one of the most intense 
 I have ever seen in a Zelda game. King Zant is also really interesting (I won't go too far into 
 this because I don't want to spoil it) . All the characters in the game have their own unique personalities 
 and motives and feel more real because of that. For anyone who thinks that Zelda deserves higher 
 then an 9.0 I need to remind you that it was made initially for the Nintendo GameCube and it shows. 
 Overall Zelda Twilight Princess is a fantastic chapter in the Zelda series. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zegjita
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Now normally I do my reviews through the good and the bad method, but this game is alot more complex 
 than alot of other games so I'm going to break it down into several categories, including: Gameplay, 
 Graphics, audio, Wii features and story.
  
  I'll be starting with gameplay. I'll have to admit, it took me a few hours to get used to the remote. 
 Every so often I'd start pressing A again instead of waving the remote to attack, and I'd end up 
 just rolling around the enemy going WHY?! But now that I'm used to it, I do it with no problem 
 and don't even notice it anymore. It actually makes it easier now that I can use my wrist to attack, 
 and my pointer finger and thumb can be ready to switch weapons, use said weapons or special abilities. 
 The gameplay is fluent and very diverse, including things from just dungeon crawling, to puzzels, 
 to horse fights to even escort missions and search quests. Almost every moment of this game has 
 been fun for me, except for a few small minutes, including the beginning since it does start off 
 a bit slow. But its not worse than the tutorial for Kingdom Hearts 2. Over all, the game play is 
 amazing, fun, and you just never know what they'll have you doing next.
  
  Next will be graphics. The graphics are amazing. Now, don't get me wrong, I don't mean PS3 or 360 
 amazing, but they are amazing. Definatly above gamecube. But if you bought the Wii, you're not 
 looking for the most amazing graphics anyway. To its capability, the graphics are very pretty, 
 you get a good idea of the surroundings, and the twilight areas that seemed to be scattered about 
 and dark. The creatures look geniuinly creepy at moments, and just about everything has a very 
 nice shine to it. Over all the graphics are very nice, and they don't hurt your eyes so you can 
 play this game hours on end.
  
  Next would be the Audio. This is where there was some small disappointing things and could go either 
 way for some players. The music is very nostalgic. It almost makes you want to go out and play 
 the old zeldas just because of it. Its very much taken from old zeldas like ocarina of time or 
 even wind waker, but not much further than that, except for maybe a few things like Link to the 
 past. Now personally I love this. It gives it that athentic Zelda feel. Though alot of people might 
 not like that and would of prefered and updated feel to the game. Then the one problem I did have 
 also is a mixed reaction. The audio that comes from the wiimote is great and alright at the same 
 time. Sometimes the sound effects (Specificly midna's laugh) are awesome and can even scare you 
 at times if you aren't paying attention. Even the sword sound effects are awesome, especially when 
 he sheaths it. Though sometimes the remote messes up and gives a small crackling sound. Nothing 
 big, but it is a little meh. But the audio in general is very nice, and I personally love it. The 
 mix of new and old music, along with the feature from the remote is great. Though I must admit, 
 the lack of voice acting was a bit annoying, but no worries there.
  
  Next is the wii features. Yet again, I love it. It seems a little tact on at first, but I think 
 its nice. Like getting to fly on a bird with the remote instead of using the joy stick to move 
 it. It gives you a little better control in my opinion. Then also getting to use things like the 
 boomerang and hook shot with the remote also gives you alot better control. The fishing is a little 
 lack luster, but its nothing to really get annoyed over. The wii features are fun and make the 
 game play a little more fluent so I'd say its a good addition that gamecube players won't get.
 
  
  Now the story. Don't worrie, I'm not going to give any spoilers. I'm just going to be giving the 
 general feeling that I get while reading this story. The story does start off a little slow, but 
 thats just the tutorial, nothing to worrie about. But once it gets going, you really get a geniuine 
 feel for the characters and surruondings and whats going on. You can even get geniuinly freaked 
 out if you aren't prepaired arn't prepaired at times. Now I'm not saying its dark like Resident 
 evil dark, but this is Zelda we are talking about. This Zelda game will make you cringe sometimes, 
 if you just aren't ready for darkness in your zelda games. Though I like it, making it feel original 
 to the other Zeldas.
  
  Now the over all. Almost everything is great in this game. Very few problems, great puzzles, and 
 aspects to game play. Fun all the way through. I'm going to give it about a 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookiemanx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess is the best Zelda game ever. The map of Hyrule is huge and you could spend hours 
 just running around and exploring. Although the graphics are beatuiful they could be better considering 
 this is a next gen game. The controls are perhaps my favorite part of the game, and I would not 
 go back to the old way. My biggest problem is that the bosses are way to easy. Not a single boss 
 even challenged me in the game. However I love the last boss and the final fight. While the bosses 
 were easy the puzzles in the game were difficult and I loved them. In conclusion this game is the 
 best Zelda game ever no doubt. If you own a Wii or Gamecube you should be shot if you don't play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManMasterer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelieveable, I expected it to be the best game ever created, surpassing the former 
 champion, The Legened of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (N64) , and so far it has. The fishing I knew would 
 be vastly improved and it is a major improvement, I would have liked for Link to be able to buy 
 his ownboat, but renting one is good enough for now, with the next Zelda buying one is to be expected. 
 The fish records is excellent, not only can you catch fish and put the biggets ones in the water 
 tank thats located in the Iza's fishing shop using her multiple lures, but also you can catch fish 
 anywhere in the game, even in dungeons using your own fishing rod and mutiple kinds of bait. I 
 would have liked to catch enemy fish like the Skull Fish in the Water Temple but they wouldn't 
 let me keep those, oh well, thats expected a bit too much eh.
  
  The graphics are a bit better than I expected them to be and they are quite clear and pristine. 
 The rate of time change from day to night is done magnificently and works great with this game, 
 along with the rate of speed which you, you as a wolf, and you on your horse go at is well managed.
 
  
  The secrets in the game are more thought out that is predecessors, which is good. There are heart 
 containers in trees and bugs in mildly difficult to find places. The whole bug collection thing 
 instead of the gold skulltula collection thing is a definite improvement, I didn't think it could 
 get much better than that but they pulled it off masterfully. The postman is a nice addition too, 
 you don't have to hunt him up, he always hunts you up everytime you enter Hyrule Field. Plus, they 
 even let you keep a record of every letter you have ever received, how cool is that! Also the hidden 
 skills that you find throughout Zelda: TP are recorded and can be viewed anytime, they are a fine 
 addition to this game as well.
  
  Furthermore, seeing as this is one of the many Wii launch titles they did an excellent job with 
 the controls, it is so more fluid and easier than any other videogame controller I have ever picked 
 up and played, and thats saying a lot. They only setback to that is the price of $40 per Wii Remote.
 
  
  The items were fantasticly and ingeniously put together, the whole mask with a scope thing works 
 great and its something I never thought a Zelda game would feature.
  
  It is funner being a Wolf as Link then I thought it would be, but still Link as himself is my preferance 
 if given the chioce. Overall this game deserves nothign short of a Perfect 10! Kudos to you Nintendo!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laff_out_loud
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  At the first cutscene at the beggining the graphics dissapoint. The sound quality is wonderful 
 though. During gameplay, the graphics get better (somehow) and more shiny . The story of this game 
 is the best story i have ever seen in a video game for a while. Including the chain of events.
 
  The controlls of this could not have been easier to get used to. (thats good) During Link: The 
 Nunchucks analog stick is used to move around. C is used to zoom into something to look around. 
 Z is used to lock on. Which you will use ALOT. The REMOTE: the Controll Pad is a selection of which 
 items in your inventory are in your hand so you can pull out. You can hold a total of 4 items by 
 you while the other items stay in your inventory. A is used for action (talking, rolling on the 
 ground.) - is used to open up your inventory. + is used to PAUSE and open up your stats SAVE, OPTIONS, 
 etc. 1 is used to open up a map. and 2 is used to open up a minimap on your screen. (personally, 
 i choose this over the LARGE map) . To use your sword, you slice your remote and to do a BIG SPINNY 
 move to kill lots of people around you, you spin your NUNCHUCK. of course combat with the sword 
 is usually best (AND FUNNER) while locked on. Then the camera focuses on you and the enemy only.
 
  
  WOLF: nunchuck: (same as Link) REMOTE: the up arrow is to call upon Midna (note: after you meet 
 MIdna, you can also call upon her while in Link Form. Left and Right are sense. and Down is dig, 
 or sniff. The combat is the same although there are different moves.
  
  LINK OR WOLF: WINNER IS..... link. After playing for about 3 hours i have been wolf twice and link 
 twice. THe first Link form is where you are in the village which is BORING. then comes the wolf. 
 Which is fun, but after a while, you start wanting to go back to Link Form. After the first Wolf 
 form, when you go back to Link, you get your sword and shield. THIS IS FUN!!!! IF your impressions 
 of a game are based on first sights, then u will hate this game. This game takes about 1 1/2 hours 
 to live up to its name. Then you will love it.
  
  This is the first ZELDA game ive actually liked, i hate all the others but i LOVE THIS ONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitomi69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, recap, first of all, I didn't write the previous review about Legend of Zelda, nor do I think 
 it is the Best game of all Time I mean come on, look at my FFVII review for crying out loud, that 
 was my friend's opinion, don't ask me why he didn't log into his own, but anyway, here is MY review 
 of LoZ! ;)
  
  Overall, the game was very good, but I still don't agree with GS rating of an 8.8, but yet, I do 
 agree with some of their points about there not being any speech, music is STILL done via MIDI, 
 and not orchestra, and to the people who don't think that is a big deal, BTW, that goes under the 
 rating of SOUND, and you think a game that is this epic that just about every nintendo fanboy, 
 or anyone who like Zelda, knows that this game was waited on for a VERY LONG TIME, I mean come 
 on, even Halo was orchestrated, and it was the first of it's series, and so was Gears of War, oh 
 and GoW was NOT 5 hours long.... I can guaruntee you it was well over 7-8 hours, and you CANNOT 
 COMPARE A GAME OF A DIFFERENT GENRE, it's like comparing apples and oranges man, you can't compare 
 a RPG to a FPS, of course they are going to be shorter. Ahem, but anyway. Back to Zelda, yes, the 
 music was disappointing, I can see what GS says about the music sounding the same in a way. They 
 mean that is it still MIDI, and it's not much of an upgrade from Wind Waker or OoT for that matter. 
 And the graphics, I know that they aren't anything, but come on, I've seen better 3rd party games 
 like Resident Evil look better than this, and for a game like Zelda, which is a very very big game, 
 you think they could have worked on it more by tweaking the sound and the graphics, but other than 
 that, that game if very awesome. The dungeon exploration, riding Epona around Hyrule field, horseback 
 fights, epic boss battles, you can't ask for more GAMEPLAY wise, it's godd enough in that department. 
 I hope that the next Zelda is just as good as this one was, but with better sound, and a graphical 
 enchancement, I mean, they already said that the graphics could be POTENTIALLY better than the 
 ORIGINAL XBOX right?, well c'mon nintendo, let's see it done, top off your latest hit with a bigger 
 bang, you know you can do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertPerk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  I saw the video review on Twilight Princess on gamespot, and I was pretty disappointed on how Gamespot 
 seemed to nit pick a lot of nuinces about this game. Well let me tell you personally, this is probably 
 one of the best Zelda games I have ever encountered.
  
  Using the Wii-Mote as a sword is pretty awesome. As you're swinging the wii-mote, you can hear 
 the slash of the sword through the speaker in the wii-mote. Gamespot said that this is kind of 
 cheesy and the speaker gets distorted, but I disagree as it adds a nice touch to the game along 
 with the vibration abilities of the wii-mote. Graphically, the game looks pretty good. Obviously 
 the wii doesn't stand a chance against the 360 and PS3 when it comes to graphics, but for this 
 game I thought it handles itself very well. It will be interesting to see what this game looks 
 like in 480p whenever I get the chance to get some component cables for the Wii.
  
  The storyline so far seems pretty cool too. For the sake of not ruining the game I'm not going 
 to discuss it, but it seems that it pays a nice homage to Ocarina of Time, which is just great. 
 Also, the way Link presents himself in this game... I don't know it's like he's a bad ass, which 
 is sweet. If you kill an enemy and hit the A button immediately after, you will see Link in an 
 animation with his sword before he puts it back into his sleeve. The way it's presented makes Link 
 look like he's someone you don't want to meet in the dark corner of the enchanted forest in this 
 case. Very nice touch Nintendo.
  
  Overall this is a superb game, a MUST HAVE if you own a Nintendo Wii. Don't hesitate, buy this 
 game, you won't be disappointed. And don't believe the nit picking Gamespot did on their review 
 of this game because their allegations aren't justified on how amazingly great this game really 
 is. It's truly one of the best games I've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr_tag_2745
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  this definitely lives up to the hype it rocks its awesome its flawless i dont know what gamespot 
 was thinking man come on what are they doing giving it an 8.8 its definitely better than wind waker 
 could match ocarine of time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i think who ever buys a wii should buy 
 this man it rocks dont miss out . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i mean it . . .. 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaHayabusa
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Some games are so good that you just don't ever want the experience to end, and when you do finish, 
 you wish the there was more. Twilight Princess is that kind of game. Well, truthfully, calling 
 it a mere game is an understatement. I just completed the game, and I sincerely think that the 
 long wait was worth it. Sure, I waited and waited after Ocarina of Time for another Zelda game 
 to give me the whole Zelda-y feel. - Majora's Mask was okay, but having that 3-Day time limit was 
 irritating. - Wind Waker was better, but the graphics made it seem like it was something other 
 than Zelda.
  
  Then this work of art comes along, and finally, after countless years, something that, I dare say, 
 rivals Ocarina of Time has come to grace the Nintendo.
  
  No more stupid time limit. No Crap-tastic Cel-Shading. It's the Zelda game that Ocarina fans have 
 been waiting for since, what feels like forever.
  
  The story seems simplistic at first, but it gets better... much better. I completed the game no 
 more than 10 minutes ago and I must say that the nostalgia feeling has not yet worn off. Playing 
 Twilight Princess was like playing Ocarina of Time for the first time 8 or so years ago.
  
  If I had to choose one word to describe the entire game, it'd be EPIC.
  
  -The graphics are 
 nice, but since this is actually being ported to the Cube in December, I think that the graphics 
 took a hit because of that fact. Link up close looks great, and the bump-mapping is very well done.
 
  
  -Music is nice too, including remixes of tunes from the Ocarina of Time mixed in with some new 
 stuff is really cool. And yes, the guy that did Link's voice in Ocarina does his voice-over here 
 as well, which made me a little giddy. -The controls are neat as well, utilizing the remote as 
 your aiming device of long range weapons. Not only that, but swinging the remote lets you swing 
 the sword, which is a very nice touch. It almost feels as though you are hacking through enemies 
 yourself. As with any new system, the control layout takes a while to get used to, but once you 
 do, Twilight Princess controls well.
  
  -Value? No question. This lovely piece of software was well worth my fifty dollars. I have been 
 waiting for this game forever, and finally, it has come out. After being dissapointed by Majora's 
 Mask and Wind Waker , this is just a breath of fresh air for me.
  I still can't believe I have it in my room, this very instant.
  
  At times, I swear it calls 
 me.
  
  Anyway, in short, this is the masterpiece that Ocarina fans have been waiting forever for. There's 
 no irritating time limit, and Link doesn't look like your kid's favorite Saturday morning cartoon. 
 I'm glad they spent so much time making this... the turnout was way worth it in my opinion.
  
  This is, for lack of a better word, Epic. If you have a Wii and you don't own this, you better 
 get a copy now. You'd better get one.
  For every single Wii-owner that didn't get this game, God killed a kitten.
  
  You don't want 
 him to keep killing cute little kittens, do you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a long time, and I have yet to find a single flaw in the game. 
 I have been anticapating this game for nearly 6 years, hoping that Miyamoto could make this game 
 worth the wait. After finally getting the game, and playing it for 27 hours, I realize that it 
 was worth it.
  
  Gameplay: What can I say? It's Zelda, and it's battle system was already nearly perfected. The 
 use of the Wii controller adds more to the experience, and makes swordplay as easy as a flick of 
 the wrist.
  
  Graphics: Now this is the drawback for most people. The graphics aren't as technically advanced 
 as Resident Evil 4, but the artistry in the game really adds to the experience. The graphics are 
 gorgeous, and in my opinion, they're the best I've seen in a long time.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack uses some of the old songs, and then changes it around to give a somewhat 
 different experience. I love the soundtrack, and it is only beat by Final Fantasy. (But barely) 
 The only setback is the controller, but the controller shouldn't have advanced sound because it 
 can't handle much.
  
  Value: With 70+ hours of gameplay, there is definately replay value in this game, and the story 
 helps add more value.
  
  Overall: I can't say much else, so I'll leave you with this last statement. This game is perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmymonkeyboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game stands tall against most of the games developers are piping out these days. And remember 
 that it is still technically a Gamecube game, so the graphics are still incredible! Music is everything 
 in these games, and Nintendo knows that simplicity is best, and that the soundtrack should be as 
 timeless as the story. The changes in the tunes, even though they were slight, more than deserve 
 a 7 out of 10, and just because they were not digitally recorded by a symphony is no reason to 
 knock them. The Wii control additions were well placed, and added an extra boost to already played 
 out control schemes that almost every system has come to rely on. Having the option to aim as I 
 please is a plus that has always made me partial to the mouse controls of most PC games, and its 
 nice to see that they were well utilized by Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ampofo100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Ocarina, your time is up. It took Nintendo almost a decade to do it, but the publisher has finally 
 created a new Zelda game that is so well-designed and so epic that it deserves to be crowned the 
 best in its class. Twilight Princess spent four years in development by one of the most talented 
 teams in the world. The game, helmed by Eiji Aonuma (Majora's Mask, Wind Waker) is every bit the 
 culmination of the franchise and also a true spiritual sequel to the Big N's 1998 N64 classic. 
 This is much larger, darker and more difficult adventure than GameCube's Wind Waker, which is sure 
 to please purists. It is also a title that is best on Wii thanks to exclusive gesture-based controls 
 and some added display functionality. But is it perfect? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_Tripper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of the premier game franchises in existence. Lets face it, if your 
 serious about gaming  then youve heard of (and played) at least half of the games in the series, 
 that said, its always interesting to watch such a venerable series jump platform. The Legend Of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of those games, it makes the jump to the new Nintendo Wii (with 
 a grand new control scheme setup)  and while it sets out to tackle a whole new console (and control 
 scheme)  it really is just an extension of what youve played on the Nintendo 64 and Gamecube, 
 and that, for me anyway, is a good thing.
  
  Twilight Princess appears to be a direct continuation of the Ocarina of Time storyline  if youve 
 not played this Seminole Nintendo 64 classicI suggest you find a way to do so. OoT was the first 
 of the 3d Zeldas. It introduced improvements for 3d plat formers such as Z-targeting, and the 
 use of a fairly simple to use (but incredibly handy) menu system  and I will say this about that. Twilight 
 Princess, appears to be both the spiritual and mechanical successor to OoT. So while theres plenty 
 to talk about here, in terms of game mechanics  Ill encourage you, again, to just go play the 
 Ocarina of Time!
  
  Story wisewellI wont ruin this for you, I will however tell you that, in pure Zelda fashion, 
 some bad stuffs gone down  the Princess is in troubleand you as Link are called on to save the 
 day. Ill also mention a couple of other things hereNumber one  the Story does start out a little 
 slow. It took me a solid hour of weird, almost mundane tasks to get into the real meat of Twilight 
 Princess  once it started. it was like a snowball rolling down a hillfaster, bigger and betterbut 
 it does take a bit to get into it (so dont go abandoning the game after youve had to heard goats 
 or anything. Secondly, the story itself takes a nod from the more cinematic games of late, not 
 as overly done as something as Metal Gear, but certainly more in-depth than the OoT game. Its 
 a good thing - the story feels more important in this game than in any other, and while some may 
 argue that the lack of voice acting hurts the experienceId argue that its something just purely 
 Zelda. Ill sum up how I feel about Twilight Princesss story with just a couple of words  Step 
 in the right direction.
  
  Mechanically, this game doesnt play wildly different from either Windwaker (the Gamecube Zelda) 
 or OoT (for the N64)  and while the motion sensing Wii remote is used for specific functions (like 
 aiming a bow and arrow or slingshot)  the Wii control itself is almost underused. Take that with 
 a grain of salt  Ill tell you right now that its going to take a little getting used to the 
 new controls at all. Some would say that the Wii controls feel tacked on (as the game was a port 
 from the Gamecube to the Wii late in the game)  but Id say it was probably a conscious choice 
 to help ease us into using the Wii controller (s) . Both Nun chuck and Wiimote (god I love saying 
 that) are used  and well. The motion sensing Wiimote is used to swing your sword, aim your projectiles, 
 and look around in first person mode, while the attachment is used to move Link about  and Z-target 
 enemies. Its really not largely different that what your used to but subtle tweaks to older game 
 play formulas (such as being able to swing your sword from the horseback  or hell, swing your 
 sword while running)  REALLY keep things fresh and exciting!
  The speaker in Wiimote (hehehe) is an interesting addition to rumble support  and sounds will 
 come out of it from time to time (like the swipe of your sword  or the sound of opening a chest) 
  thoughafter a while, you may be prompted to turn off the Wiimote sounds, as they get a tad monotonous.
 
  
  Graphically  okhere its a mixed bag, and Ill tell you that you can look at it can be judged 
 one of two ways. You can look at it as: A tremendously successful Gamecube game
  A tremendously meh Wii game
  
  Im still one the fence on this onebut Ill tell you how 
 it isits just okay. Its, again, really pretty for a Gamecube game  but I did expect more out 
 of the Wii. The fact that its a port from the Gamecube, late in the game, doesnt really excuse 
 it for mebut on the other hand, I can see that if it came out on GamecubeId have applauded it 
 for its art style and interesting use of color and shader effects (particularly in the twilight 
 world  where the style of the game flips from realistic  to almost surreal cell-shaded goodness. 
 I should probably go ahead and sayIt does look good,  but games like Gears of War and Oblivion 
 have really raised the bar. Does Zelda compete with these games, even with its unique art style? 
  Noit does not. Do I still have hope for games developed specifically for the Wii (which is somewhere 
 between 1.5  2x more powerful than the Gamecube)  sure  I can look at something like Super Smash 
 Brothers and have hopetoo bad there wasnt more time to squeeze more juice out of Twilight Princess 
  but heymaybe there will be another Wii incarnation!
  
  World and dungeon design are top notch, not that I would expect anything less of Nintendo in a 
 flagship franchise! The game itself is about 40-50 hours in length, making it one of the longest 
 Zeldas everand with the Zelda OoT/Windwaker game mechanics pulling you through the experience 
 even that seems to short! You can absolutely spend easily twice that  beating little side quests 
 and collecting every single item  and Ill tell you, its something youll want to do!
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is easily the best game launched with the Nintendo Wii  
 and Ill even go as far as saying that its a reason to own one! The game itself will debut on 
 the Gamecube later this month  but the unique controls of the Wii actually add the little bit 
 of uniqueness a well worn game engine needs to keep fresh! This is the best Zelda Ive played since 
 the OoT, and Ill say that it even surpasses its stoic forebear! Go out, be fruitful, buy a Wii 
  and rest assured that Zelda is the reason to own it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ever, the best launch title ever, one of my favorite games of all time. I 
 love this game, even though i haven't beat it yet, i can already tell that it is one of the best 
 games of all time. It uses the wiimote perfectly, controls such as useing the bow, slingshot, ball 
 and chain, rod, and sword seem to put the game way up their. Some say that using the wiimote is 
 slightly difficult. I couldn't disagree more. I find the wiimote simple and inovative. Some people 
 say the game is to easy. Once again i disagree. I have come across numerous places where i have 
 to stop and think what to do because its so hard. The story line is great too. It's much darker 
 than normal Zelda game and almost adds a twist to the game. The graphics and sound are stunning 
 as well. Everything feels and looks highly advanced. Loads of people complain about the wii not 
 having good graphics. I think the games graphics are absoulutley beautiful. And it takes forever 
 to beat. For some that might be anoying, but for me its great, it gives me something to do for 
 hours on end. Over all this is a perfect game, any thing else is wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothsdemis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the many reasons why I don't listen to Gamespots reviews. It's just a revolutionary 
 game that's a must buy for the wii (or the gamecube if you're impatient) . The gameplay is great, 
 although you can't exactly control Link's attacks. The graphics are underrated just because it's 
 not as good as the ps3 or the xbox360. But is it good for it's system? Of course it it, and it's 
 better than most of the other releases on the wii. The sound is amazing with a beautiful soundtrack, 
 although the wii remote sounds could be better though not too bad. It's well worth buying if you 
 ever plan on getting the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esf2005
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me say, this game beats all other zelda games in gameplay, Graphics, Style, and even the storyline 
 is very impressive. You can use the wii remote to fish, use your sword and do many things, it kind 
 of puts you in the game. My wife helped me to pass most of the areas in the game, but I loved using 
 the wii remote to fight all the monsters and the enemies. I have not ended the game yet, but I 
 am just anxious to get home form work just to play it. I think nintendo was very smart in releasing 
 Zelda as the launch title, it really makes the new nintendo Wii look good. I can't wait for the 
 next zelda series to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing the game, it was fun getting used to all of the controls of the Wii. 
 Just like everyone said they are easy to come by and its a great new change in the world of Zelda. 
 I read some place that there was at 60 hour game play to complete the game and i found that quite 
 false. The game took me 35 hours to beat... not 100% complete just to beat the game. I wish i could 
 have been a little longer for the people who are a little more advanced in the world of Zelda. 
 Alot of the bosses and puzzles were very easy, yet there were a few bosses you had to struggle 
 to figure out on what to do. The aspect of becoming the Wolf was a great add on to game, and it 
 make the player think for certain parts in weather to play as a wolf of as link himself. I will 
 be going back again to complete the game 100%.. all hearts bugs Po souls and such. On a last note, 
 the Twilight princess was a great game to play and i spent the past week playing the crap out of 
 it. I would say if you have a Wii make sure you pick it up. and do not forget.... after you beat 
 the final boss... watch all the credits :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBonesRox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Just reading those words before November 19th was enough 
 to send shivers up most Zelda fans' spines and femurs. So I just beat the game today and whatnot, 
 and I'll do my best not to spoil everything. This is just a way for you to see why or why not you 
 should get this game. Alrighty, this game is good. Not excellent, not mind-blowing. It's simply 
 good. It does not match the standards set by Ocarina of Time, nor the pure originality of Wind 
 Waker (my personal Zelda favorite) . The main flaw with Twilight Princess is that it does not feel 
 like a Zelda game. It lacks a certain Zelda buzz and atmosphere. From the first time you're dragged 
 into the Twilight and turned into a wolf, you should know that this is NOT the normal-style Zelda 
 romp. I'm not saying wolf gameplay is bad, but when you're forced to collect little specs of stuff 
 for certain animal spirits, things really DRAG. ON. After the first three dungeons, though, no 
 more menial fetch questing. The music in this game was almost horribly done. The game's Kakariko/Death 
 Mountain area has the most memorable remixes, but otherwise.... Everything is bland. Thw Twilight 
 is almost annoying, as it consists only of chimes and pulses. After beating every dungeon's memorable 
 boss (excluding number seven, which was LAME) , you'll forget the temple's music. Boss battles have 
 the best music though, so don't worry. Blah blah blah, done here. It's good, not great. You get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  To me the game was great because the fact that you use the wiimote and the nunchuck is very unique. 
 Now the graphics were exactly the same as gamecube but that is ok because miyamoto never said that 
 they will do the next-gen for graphics. the sound was great too. the 2 problems in my situation 
 is the game needs voice acting. Also, the music were from the old games. they should of made more 
 different music. to me the gameplay was effective because you play with the wiimote. you can swing 
 u wiimote and link will do the exact same. the bow and arrow was cool because it would feel like 
 your holding a bow. the fishing was fun too. it felt like to me that i was fishing in a lake. overall 
 my rating of the legend of zelda twilight princess is a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire816
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  I just got my Nintendo Wii, with Zelda and Red Steel. If you own the Nintendo Wii go and buy this 
 game now. This isn't only the best game for the Wii but possibly the game of the year, if you don't 
 own a Wii go and buy it with Zelda it's amazing. The Controls work perfectly with the Wii, the 
 sound is classic as aways, value of it is that it'll take you up to 40 hours to beat it. What more 
 can you ask of Zelda games, this is the best Zelda since Ocarina of Time. Please go now and buy 
 this, this is the perfect launch title for the Wii and the game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_irish_mike
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  I've been a Zelda fan since the originals hit way back when. I can tell everyone right off that 
 the Gamespot score of 8.8 is absurd. This game improves the series in every way you could think 
 of. The story is much more engaging than any other game in the series. It leaves you guessing and 
 intrigued for the entire time you play. *One word of advice, don't read the forums because a lot 
 of heartless jackasses decide to post spoilers without any kind of warning!* The graphics are great, 
 much improved after Wind Waker left a lot of fans disappointed. I had a bit of trouble adapting 
 to the Wii controls, I'm so used to pressing A and B to produce combos, but in this game you actually 
 use the controller as a sword and your attacks come from swinging the controller. Once you get 
 used to the new control scheme, you'll find that it's much more interesting. Another thing that 
 I fell in love with was the fact that there is a puzzle in almost every room. As soon as you enter 
 a room of a dungeon you begin analyzing the room and figuring out what to do next. Some puzzles 
 are very simple, while others you'll find yourself stuck on for awhile, only to find out that the 
 answer was right in front of your eyes. The items are very interesting and add a whole new level 
 to the game as well. The sound may be one of the games only flaws, but I didn't mind it at all, 
 although I could see where some games would be dissapointed. This game is a MUST own for any fan 
 of the series, and will not let anyone down, unless you're expectations are that this game will 
 be ten times better than OOT. OOT still remains my favorite game of all time, but the more I play 
 Twilight Princess, the more I start to think that this game has finally outdone the rest of the 
 series. My advice is, go out and find a Wii, buy this game, and enjoy the experience, because games 
 like this don't come around everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcturusRamirez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  It's Zelda and it's beautiful....
  
  Let's just break this down so we don't waste too much time acting like some hot shot reviewer like 
 everyone else on these user review sections or in Gamespot's case, a reviewer... *cough*
  
  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the closet I have ever come to gaming perfection. Now 
 this states like a lot right off the bat, but it's honestly hard to believe that anyone could top 
 the sheer emotion that has come along with playing this sole game. From the get go you notice an 
 art style that just makes you crack a smile while you're looking at the local water bed (s) to just 
 the unique character styles. I myself believed that art in itself in gaming has almost died in 
 favor for photo style graphics. You hear more about higher res and polygon counts then creativity. 
 My friends you need not worry, everything from the sky, the world around you, the fish in the water 
 and oh so many unique characters will prove to you that an artistic style in still alive in the 
 hearts of developers around the world.
  
  The sound is another strong point in this game and it does a lot to do with the speaker in the 
 wiimote as well as the classic style tracks in the game. But you also hear a lot of people complain 
 that there isn't voice acting in Zelda. In my opinion this would ruin a vastly important aspect 
 in this game and games to come. So much of this game circles around you living through Link's life 
 and trials not to mention the fact that through out the game while reading text you create the 
 characters voices and emotions that come from their voices in your own head, to fit your game, 
 your style, your world. Now the classic themes through out the game are greatly welcomed, a feeling 
 of been here before isn't meant with discuss because you feel like you've been there done that 
 but instead of a warm welcoming feeling. Kind of like a welcome home.
  
  The intense action of this game is something to witness yourself. The bosses are huge, the trails 
 are daunting, the weight on Link seems impossible and yet this game screams more, more, more! From 
 large plants with more detail then a Perfect Dark Zero level to massive fire demons this game stands 
 up with the rest of the gaming world as a clear winner when it comes to boss battles that not only 
 amaze but leave you breathless at the sheer detail they put into every aspect of said boss. To 
 finish this off I will review the last yet to me, the most important aspect of this title, the 
 story. Now this is darker then we've used too, more twist and turns then we've used to and honestly 
 more emotional then used to, from some main points being driven in early, shocks along the way 
 and a ending to leave you just amazed this title really has taken every aspect of developing a 
 title and fused all the pieces together to create the perfect adventure game ever, period.
  
  I love this game, it's been a long time coming since a tech demo in 2000 space world, but it's 
 hear, it's worth it and the only question is now when will you buy it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  with the long wait for twilight princess it managed to come out just in time for the wii launch. 
 nintendo made a smart choice of having this as a launch title the exscluvie features that the wii 
 uses are fun but not used that much. sense the gamecube release doesnt come until dec 13 this game 
 is 100% worth buying the wii for. in game you play in between two worlds the usual world, and the 
 tiwilght world. the twilight world is identical to the normal world in looks but has a ghost look 
 to it. in that world you play as the wolf who is links twilight form theres puzzles and place that 
 you can only reach as the wolf. i bought 2 other games for the wii at launch and i rarely play 
 them because of this game. to fish its like you wold fish in real life, you swing the controler 
 to swing the sword this game isnt a game that you have to decide wether you should get it or not 
 theres no other game out for any system that outbeats this wownderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, from the huge massive overworld to the extremely difficult dungeons this 
 game is everything I hoped it would be. There is so much put into this game its hardly believabe. 
 The game has some very beautiful art work. There are the characters that all look great and the 
 very decrative and refined looking enemies. There are so many different enemies I'm starting to 
 wonder where Nintendo is going to get some ideas for some new enemies for the next game.
  
  This game improves n what all of its prediceccers had created. It had the unique dungeons of OoT 
 that were improved, then the mass of side stories of MM, and had a massive overworld like TWW (except 
 it wasnt all ocean thank God) . This has some of the hardest and trickiest dungeons i've ever seen. 
 There are so many mind bending puzzles. The dungeons are so much longer than any of the predicessors 
 could've even began to muster. The visuals in this game were pretty good... for a gamecube title. 
 Now the only reason I down rated a little on this is because even for a GC title it wasnt completly 
 pushed to its limits. It is pobably the best GC title other than RE4. But it still couldve used 
 a bit of poshishing, but they were some really nice graphics and I really liked the style they 
 chose to do. This is definitly the best art style for the LOZ series.
  
  The story in this game is so much more engrossing than its predicessors. Its long, epic and features 
 a really good twist. I'm really impressed at some of the stuff Nintendo came up with this time. 
 Actually, there were even some cutscenes that were so mature and differant from past Nintendo games, 
 I was wondering if it was actually a LOZ game I was playing. The character developing in this game 
 is also very good rivaling MM in that area. It is also a much darker story that is even more dark 
 and mature more than MM.
  
  The sound in this game is great much like its past games also. The music remixes are really what 
 made parts of the game epic, especially in many of the boss fights. The huge library of sound reallly 
 works with this game, and the only reason I downrated this is because, Its time for Nintendo to 
 do at least a little of orchastrated music. The music is awesome, but if it could be moved from 
 synthisizer to an Orchastra it would be absolutly perfect. I also would like for the future Zelda 
 titles to have voices, although if the voices are anything like the 80's cartoon, I think that 
 they should stay silent. I prefer no voices over crappy voices.
  
  Over all this game is what I hoped it be, not perfect, because no game will ever be perfect, but 
 it definitly lived up to my standards. If you own a Wii this is a definite must have and its worth 
 every penny. this game is absolutly massive. It will take around 50 hours if youre good and if 
 you take it slow or arent to good at LOZ games then I'd say probably 60-70 hours. This game is 
 absolutly Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMicallef
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I think Twilight Princess had extremly high expectations to be better than any Zelda ever made. 
 It had great graphics and delivered a new spin to the Series by making the game much more dark 
 , evil, and scarier, than the others. However I think parts of the storyline could have used some 
 help and I think if the makers of the game spent just a little more time fine tuning and adding 
 just a little more than it would have made the difference. For now I think Ocarina of Time was 
 much better of a game. Hopefully, one day a Zelda game will be better than Oot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I've always like the Zelda series. It's been 20 years since the first one back in 1986 but they 
 are all classics, except for those awfully hilarious CD-I trilogy that wasn't developed by Nintendo.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Twilight Princess is similar to it's predecessors, but vastly improved 
 upon. Everything is better: character interaction, item abilities, attacks, story, pacing, and 
 so on. I've only played about 8 hours worth and I just got past the third dungeon!
  
  Graphics: TP's graphics are better than I expected. Characters are more expressive, the world is 
 huge, and there is a lot of little stuff to look for.
  
  Sound: I like the sound of this game. It's a mix of nostalgic Zelda music and some excellent ochestral 
 music. Overall: Zelda: Twilight Princess makes Ocarina of Time look like a cake walk. Seriously. 
 No Zelda fan should miss this!
  
  (Jeff should've given this game at least a 9, but that's his bias!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezeppelin62
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Every aspect of this game is awesome. The only part that angers me slightly is the music. It could 
 have been better but I think It still adds to the game quite a lot the way it it is. I would highly 
 recommend this game to anyone who has ever liked any Zelda game before. One thing I love about 
 all Zelda games is their length. They are always very long, especially Twilight Princess around 
 100 hours if you take your time. The controls is something many people have been talking about, 
 and i think the controls work better than I thought they would. Overall this game is fantastic, 
 buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, at first I didn't like this game. Of course, it grew on me and I was loving every moment. 
 But the end... was worse than Wind Waker's... and for some odd reason, I like it more than this 
 game.
  
  I had to play the entire game before posting my review, at first when I read GS review, I completely 
 disagreed with it, but after beating the game, I can definitely see every point they made. I think 
 they may just be dry off the ending like me, but from the third dungeon on, the game elevates itself 
 above every Zelda game out there.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  The Wiimote is a scary device. It works extremely well for 90% of the time, the other 10%. When 
 it isn't working, its not because of it, its because of you. But its still frustrating to miss 
 a motion just by a tiny bit and it cost you a heart... or even your life. Anyway, randomly flailing 
 the Wiimote around can work, but when you actually use it how its meant to be, you get a much better 
 experience all around. From what I've done in the game, the game plays beautifully, better than 
 Wind Waker by a teeny bit. Though, the loss of camera control may seem like a huge loss, but in 
 the end, I didn't realize it until I was 20 hours in. The best part of the game is learning special 
 techniques, you'll learn stuff you've seen in Smash Brothers, Wind Waker, etc. Like knocking someones 
 block off? Learn the helm smash from Wind Waker. Want to have an instant kill? Learn the finish 
 move (much like Super Smash Brothers down A while in air) and make it quick.
  
  There is so much more than sword fighting though. Every item in the game is useful, and required. 
 This is a bit of a spoiler, but Dual Hookshots... DUAL HOOKSHOTS. Need I say any more about how 
 awesome the items are?
  
  Then there is talking to people. We all know you can become a wolf by now. So what happens when 
 you run through Hyrule Town as a wolf? Something that I've always wanted to happen thats what.
 
  
  The game just isn't fresh though. Wind Waker had something this didn't despite all I've said. I 
 can't put my finger on it, but I loved Wind Waker but I just like this game. Maybe its that the 
 game play hasn't aged well. All I know is that I hope to see what happens next. The game is sharp, 
 but it definitely has aged. But, to the games credit, there is so much to do, the game still manages 
 a 9 despite all I've said.
  
  There are only 1 or 2 stumper puzzles in the entire game, and they aren't that bad really. Just 
 make sure you remember that the Gale Boomerang can un-light lanterns.
  
  Bosses are far to easy. They look larger than life and horrible, but then when it comes to fighting 
 them, they are just another puzzle. Not in a bad way, but next time I want to die during a boss 
 battle. ( I did die on the final boss, but that doesn't count. You'll know what I mean when you 
 get there) . The game looks difficult, but it just way to easy in the end.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Disappointments all around... well, most of the way. Animation in the game is amazing at times, 
 a huge step over Wind Waker and other Zelda games. The game, for all intents and purposes is a 
 port of GC game with little graphical touch ups. I hope this isn't all the Wii can do, if so, I 
 worry about the Wii's future. Animation is great, lighting is good, textures are okay. Some are 
 downright ugly, I would name some, but there are so many it would be wrong just to same one or 
 two.
  
  One thing TP excels at is the Twilight Realm. It looks like you'd expect. Dark and gloomy, filled 
 with creatures out of this world. But, the game still never elevates itself above Gamecube graphics. 
 Wind Waker looked much better in retrospective for its time, so I can't really be at awe with the 
 few scenes of beauty in this game, when so much is average.
  
  SOUND
  
  Ah, they missed a golden opportunity. They could have had Hyrule Castles original theme thrown 
 in (Okay, maybe they did, but I didn't like it in its crippled state) and fit the castle perfectly. 
 Much of the music is a disappointment, but you have to admit that there are a few tracks that are 
 just damn good. Remember OoT's second boss? Well, the music accompanying it was carried over, and 
 it fit the boss in this game much better than it fit the old boss.
  
  Music tends to change with whats going on. Thats a good thing in most cases, but its a bit disorienting 
 when your just traveling along, and you hear the battle music start when the enemy is still on 
 the other side of the wall.
  
  Overall, the sound effects themselves are great. The Wii speaker may be low quality, and I wouldn't 
 miss the sounds that it played, actually I'd prefer that they'd play out of the TV.
  
  VALUE
  
  31 hours minimum run first time through. That is extremely long for an adventure game. 
 It has 100s of hours of stuff to do in it, so you can squeeze a lot more out of it. Its basically 
 a limitless adventure in comparison to Wind Waker, only being topped in Dungeon numbers by Lttp. 
 Yeah, Nintendo lied, Lttp had more dungeons than TP. But overall length goes to TP. Its the longest 
 game I've played in 5 or so years, not counting RPGs. (despite hating RPGs, I do play them every 
 so often.) If you buy the game, you will get some bang for your buck.
  
  TILT
  
  This is my chance to spoil the story, and I will. I rate tilt based on the story, so if you don't 
 want any spoilers than do not read this section.
  
  The story was lackluster in the beginning. Wind Waker I was easily able to get into, and I was 
 feeling like Link in no time. But in this one, it took me 3 dungeons to get into the game. Not 
 that the first ones lacked story. Its that the story was just not that great. After the third dungeon, 
 its a rollercoaster ride that is just plain fun to watch, and get into. Finding your controller 
 in hand feeling like any cinematic scene may turn into a brawl. And many times, it does!
  
  SPOILER WARNING
  
  Finally, Zelda earns her way into Super Smash Brothers. I found it confusing 
 that a character that has never fought would be in SSB. Sure, she was Sheik for a while, but that 
 doesn't really count. Not only does she fight in this one, but damn it you fight her. Thats worth 
 major points as a huge twist. And the fight was as good as you'd imagine.
  
  OVERALL
  
  TP almost feels like a missed opportunity in the end. ALMOST. The middle part of the game is as 
 great as any other game out there, but the beginning and end drag it down. Not to mention it has 
 the worst ending this side of WW. Hopefully, Nintendo will learn to flesh out its endings so that 
 we aren't left hanging. Sure, I can use my imagination to figure out what will happen. But, its 
 just illogical how they've set it up. OoT was the last good ending to a Zelda, and that is why 
 it had a 10, it was perfect beginning to end. TP on the other hand, is not perfect, but damn is 
 it fun. Welcome back Link, we missed you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polimoto
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A totally awesome game: that is what can define TP
  The graphics arent Cutting-edge (but that we could expect as the Wii is not a next-gen console) but 
 serve well the purpose of this game. The story ,as always, makes u get so involved u dont wanna stop 
 playing.
  The controls are weird the first time u play, but it gets really fun with all the interactivity 
 the Wii offers.
  This game would be perfect if it wasnt for 2 little problems
  The first, which shoudnt have bothered many gamers is the sound issue: its not all that interesting 
 and sometimes the music doesnt match the location Link is.
  But the main problem that affects this game is the same that affects other classic series like 
 FF and Castlevania: The producers reached such a high level in an past title that its hard to play 
 this game without comparing this game with that one.
  This game is simply awesome but it doesnt reach the same revolutionary level as Ocarina of Time 
 did (which i think it is impossible to beat as OoT was simply the best game ever and it still is) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8nNotH8n
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  If I could summarize the game in three words it would be: Hype, Perfection, Amazement. After getting 
 Wind Waker &amp; Majora's Mask as sequels, people have been hoping for a spiritual successor to 
 Ocarina of Time &amp; they have it . Twilight Princess takes everything about a Zelda game and 
 perfects it. 1st thing I'll talk about is the gameplay, If you opted for the Gamecube Zelda over 
 the Wii Zelda, you are an idiot. If you are wondering if your arms will be tired, the answer is 
 no, heck no. You don't have to make huge arching movements to swing the sword, a simple wiggle 
 will do, but if you want, you can make the big movements for fun. The pointer works beautifully 
 for the bow, slingshot, hookshot, boomerang &amp; etc. Also note that this game is HUGE, 70+ hours 
 long. The game is also much harder than Wind Waker. 2nd is the graphics. This game is beautiful; 
 the Twilight Realm is amazing. The only gripe about the whole game is some of the textures look 
 sorta blurry, but the whole game is beautiful. Also the water looks amazing. 3rd we have sound. 
 The tunes are catchy &amp; always fit the occasion. The sound of the Wiimote making a clank or 
 another sound is immersive. The erry sounds of Minda's voice are a nice touch Overall Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess is the best Zelda game, the best launch game, the best adventure game &amp; possibly the 
 best game of all time. If you buy the Wii you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willawallo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  i just LOVE THIS GAME is has everything you would expect from a loz game the games puzzles are 
 challenging and are very fun at the same time. The wolf form works very well and i enjoy it every 
 bit as human form. the game is much darker than previous loz games and is ALOT bigger i would have 
 to say, Another amazing thing about the game is the story line its amazing in almost every way 
 you get more and more into it every single time you play it and can i say it is very ADDICITING. 
 I don't know what gamespot was on when they reviewed the game i am giving it a 10/10 because i 
 enjoy it more than any loz game in the series. The game is flawless from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxglazer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a remarkable masterpiece. It has an excellent story, great 
 game play, and has a great amount of time to play. This Zelda game takes place about one-hundred 
 years after Ocarina of Time from the N64. It has an amazing story with new and old classic characters. 
 It's worth getting the Wii for because of how much different the gameplay will be over the GameCube. 
 The wii will also probably release the next Zelda game for only there system so why wait? But Wii 
 or GameCube this game is superb. It is a masterpiece. Zelda fans will not be disappointed. For 
 anyone who loves Zelda this is a must play. The gameplay is great! But, I was hoping the sword 
 swings would be some more elaborate, and not having to do the special moves with the buttons over 
 the actual swinging. But I can see how hard that would be to do, so I still give it a 10. But regardless, 
 if your using the remote as a sword, bow, or just to aim or look around, its excellent gameplay.
 
  Great graphics, despite what anyone else says. Such as it's stuck in the past. Give it some credit, 
 this game was originally only for the GameCube and the Wii is about its impressive gameplay and 
 not so much for its graphics, even though the graphics are still awesome.
  The sound is good. The control sound is nice but could be improved. The musical score for the game 
 is excellent, but I just wish they would have some more classic music re-orchestrated in there. 
 The replay value is somewhat good, if you enjoy playing the whole story over again. It's always 
 fun to replay your great and challenging games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefNeo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has delivered one of the most immersive experiences I have ever had. Everything from the 
 music to the graphics is absolutely amazing. DO NOT believe the people giving this game *. something 
 scores... they have NOT played the game. And GS review? Yea... look at the other's average... Jeff 
 has no idea of what he is talking about. He is a tech lover and grades games as one.
  
  The game does NOT have GC graphics. There are some spots where it's BEAUTIFUL. The water temple 
 boss is ONE example of amazing art at work. The music, as mentioned before... is breathtaking. Sure, 
 no orchestra... but it acompanies the game to perfection. The twilight princess tune that you hear 
 in Hyrule at night is especially moving.
  
  This game is exactly what I was expecting the next Zelda to be.
  
  The gameplay is also fantastic... but 
 hey, it's zelda... you know that's it's strongest point. The only problem is that it's anoying to 
 have to swing the wii-mote in the beginning but you get used to it.
  
  With Zelda you get new controls, beautiful graphics (artwise, it's amazing... just don't expect 
 gears of war ) and the BEST and most complex puzzles available. I camped out for THIS game... so 
 I HAD great expectations. I was not disappointed... If you consider yourself a gamer... somebody 
 thirsty for adventure in a world where everything is possible... Zelda Twilight princess is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metal_Dragon07
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  From what I've seen and have perceived, I say this is truly the first step toward truly great gaming. 
 The immersive plot and stories of the diffent characters, as well as all the different things one 
 can do aside from the main story line is just the surface. The new, massive, Hyrule Field is a 
 nice addition, adding and element of openess and realism. Also, it truly feels good to free an 
 area from twighlight and see light return. Also, a seemingly new foe for our young Link to face 
 is a welcome addition to the likes of Ganon and Vaati. The controls are surprisingly responsive 
 at times, and I have accomplished sword maneuvers that I never before thought possible. A very 
 welcome surprise was the ability to slash at attackers from Epona's back, which will create a serious 
 lax on my ammo supply.
  
  As I mentioned at the beginning, this is our first step towards great gaming, and if we continue 
 along this path in good time, gaming Nirvana will be reached and there will be much rejoicing.
 
  
  If you think I've left anything important or would like to comment feel free to contact me, this 
 is my frist time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd131
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for anyone who has a wii. So if you have a wii and haven't bought this 
 game, then you need to see a doctor. The sound quality is great except for the sounds that come 
 out of the controller, they sound SNES quality. Twilight Princess has an amazing gameplay just 
 like Ocarina of Time, and has an astounding art style that enchances the quality of the game. I 
 bought the game for $50, and would pay $100 if I had to and it would still get a 10 on value. My 
 final thing to say is to, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (10) - The gameplay in Zelda games is pretty much unbeatable, and it stays true in Twilight 
 Princess. The controls on the Wii improves the game rather then taking away from it. Like many 
 have said before, I will not even think of playing the GC version and wouldn't go back to the regular 
 controller. Using the Wiimote to aim Link's bow and arrow and other items, as well as using it 
 to slash your sword and fish, it's just feels good. The horseback riding in this game is a step 
 up from Ocarina and i love it. Being able to slash at enemies while Link is on Epona is the best 
 addition to horseback riding. Pretty much the gameplay is top notch and it's some of the best gameplay 
 out there on any game.
  
  Graphics (9) - Ok, the graphics are HD and aren't photorealistic, and don't compare to the X360 or 
 PS3, but really who cares? The graphics in Twilight Princess are still beautiful, although a little 
 blurry in some spots. I have always said to myself that as long as the graphics don't take anything 
 away from the gameply, then it doesn't matter and there aren't any problems. Twilight Princess' 
 graphics do not take away from the gameplay and are still nice to look at.
  
  Sound (9) - Zelda music is always great, and it's the same in Twilight Princess. I thought the music 
 in the dungeons fit them very well. If you have played past zelda games then you will definately 
 remember some of the tunes you here in Twilight Princess. Ocarina of Time's music has influenced 
 Twlight Princess and it was nice getting to hear some of those old tunes from Ocarina in Twilight 
 Princess.
  
  Value (10) - The game took me 35 hours to beat without doing any side quests and now im going to 
 do those. 35 hours of solid single player action is well worth a 10 in value, and the story in 
 this game is just awesome. Tilt (10) - This is the best Zelda Game. It will remind you of Ocarina 
 of Time and it's better. The characters in this game have more depth to their personalities then 
 any other zelda game to date. This is the new standard to beat for future Zelda games, and i only 
 hope Nintendo will top it with the next installment on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino_zero
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  For all these years the Legend of Zelda series have always been able to bring new sights to the 
 game as well as bringing the best out of it. The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, during the 
 time was suppose to come over at the year 2004, sometime in mid fall. Now, however the reason for 
 all these delays was to make the game as perfect as possible for all players to enjoy. The details 
 of the game is brilliant and gameplay is just wonderful infact the game makes Legend of Zelda Wind 
 Waker look like its nothing. Showing a darker tone of the game, it brings out the seriousness of 
 the game other than the childish cel-shaded winder waker details. Finding a tinsy little hard to 
 believe that the game was infact the first to ever get a rated T for its genre, but none the less 
 the game is still the best of the best, matching that of Ocarina of Time, no surpassing it as the 
 game of the year. Finally for all players out there, this game is a total recommendation for those 
 who are Zelda fans, or are looking for an exellent quest-adventure game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  It is the game ive been looking for my whole life. it is the Greatest game ive played. no doubt. 
 it is great. Gameplay- Went Wonderfully. It is so near perfect. I couldnt quite give it a 10. but 
 it gets a solid nine. the controls are great. although like said, u just randomly shake your hand, 
 thats all, its cool, dont get me wrong. but you shake your hand, and that it, same with the spin 
 attack, shake the nunchuk. and he spins. but, its a cool way to take advantage of the wii remote. 
 It is also annoying to see the little fairy there on the screen showing you where you are pointing 
 the wii remote. It makes a noise every time it moves, and frankly, i dont like it. They dont explain 
 the fairy at all either. its just plain stupid. it will bring up cross hairs when u aim with a 
 weapon, so its pointless. And im going to clarify the hard difficulty thing. its not really HARD. 
 but its, zelda hard, you need to go though the puzzles, kill the enimies. It's just a great game. 
 Graphics- Beautiful. I love the graphics for this game, they are wonderful. They were unexpectedly 
 amazing. I really love watching link teleport from one place to another place, its, its a feat 
 in nintendo graphics. The twilight world is amazing to me, it looks so, like it should. Im going 
 on and on over the same thing. but that because they deserve such a wonderous review. Sound- Sounds 
 are sweet. As long s they come from the TV. NOT FROM THE WII REMOTE. it is pitiful to hear the 
 good ole' zelda you solved the puzzle tune from the wii remote. Its heart breaking. I would much 
 rather hear all the noises from the TV than from the crummy remote. Well, the wii remote sounds 
 is the reason it got a 9, if the wii remote sounds wernt in the game it would have gotten a ten, 
 but, the stupid wii remote docked it a point (i was tempted to drop it two points) . And as for 
 all the TV sounds, they go over Wounderfully. It is impressive. Value- 50$. I honestly would have 
 payed more. now, 50$ isnt pocket change for me, this whole value thing can change from person to 
 person based on money status, and im constantly broke out of my mind, but i would have pinched 
 every penny i found for a year just to get this single game. I dont like paying 50$ for games, 
 but if i have to, i have to, and after playing this game for 30 min, i thought this game was completly 
 worth it. no doubt in my mind. Absolutly worth it. Reviewer's Tilt- I've always had a soft spot 
 in my heart for zelda games. And when i played this one i was thrilled to no end. It is just so....... zelda. 
 its self explanatory, anyone who has played a zelda game understands the wonderesness that i feel 
 playing a zelda game. so yes, i just have to give it a ten. Its a zelda game. thats all there is 
 to it. Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  A new system and a new Zelda? And before any misconception of launch games sucking, This is one 
 game that does break that mold. The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess may look like previous versions 
 like Ocarina, or even Wind Waker at times, but once you play it, you'll find the unique Wii features, 
 as well as the new features really come thru.
  
  Twilight Princess starts like every other Zelda game. You play Link (or self named hero if you 
 choose) who sets out on his own adventure throughout Hyrule to stop evil. What has always been 
 unique of every Zelda game is how the story is always different for each one, but similar characters, 
 themes, and gameplay keep coming back. Its not a bad formula for success considering how every 
 Zelda game has always made people wonder at first, but amazed second.
  
  The Wii's unique control scheme makes the game a little more interactive. By actually swinging 
 the Wiimote, you swing Link's sword. Aiming the Wiimote at the screen will act as Link's aiming 
 device for his bow, slingshot, etc.. The Wiimote's speaker will sound off on clues. Its a unique 
 feel that will have you paying attention to what's actually in your hand as opposed to what's on 
 the screen.
  
  On screen, Twilight Princess is the pure Zelda that fans have always wished for. Its darker, more 
 detailed than ever. The real twist is when Link visits the actual Twilight world where everything 
 gets trippy. Eerie electro music, and Tron-esque looking monsters. Its a total change of environment, 
 much how Link to the Past was. But better.
  
  The story is always classic Zelda greatness, but with all the advancements in gaming these days, 
 I'm a bit surprised to see there is still no voice acting. The characters all have their own personas 
 that you will get attached to, and deserve to be fleshed out more. The only major character is 
 Midna, Link's cat looking partner in Twilight world. While her text is usually always given in 
 some high pitched gibberish, it can get a bit annoying after awhile. Its no Tingle at least.
  
  The world of Hyrule itself is HUGE. Bigger than any other Zelda game ever. And while the game 
 has its usual temples with bosses, the puzzles and tasks that you can do (or in many cases have 
 to do) , drive the game along well, never making you bored. All the old tunes you remember from 
 visiting Hyrule castle, to spooky caves is remixed as well. Brings a nice nostalgic feel to something 
 so new.
  
  Overall, You'd be a fool to not have this game next to your Wii. It's easy to pick up, deep, and 
 its ZELDA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nano-ha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  we have waited 3 years and we have got a realy good game but its not new anymore the controls of 
 the wii are much more iritating then expected ecpecialy when you try to time somthing but on the 
 gamecube the controls are good but not new and the graphics are nt super but thats not wat i expected 
 from zelda i expected good gamplay and thats wat it is! but i also expected some more and there 
 are so many cool things to do!
  you can get much extras like heaths to find that was a extra in all zeldas and it is realyyy cool 
 to do you can get some extra weapons but not much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lksmfsmsfmsfmns
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Everything could have been better but over all its a good game. Like being a wolf is not fun at 
 all, fighting is boring and can somtimes be difficult due to the fact that he's so short. My openion 
 about the gameplay might change later on tho as i progress since im not very far. It is true tho 
 that once you play the Wii version you'll not want to go back and play it traditionally, i tried 
 it by taking the pointer off my screen and i hated it. the music in this game is not the best in 
 the series, it takes away from the classic sound we've come to love and gives us cruddy new ones, 
 take for instance Kakariko village.... i wanted to nuke Koji Kondo after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glorgan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game is beautiful. It looks amazing, and it is amazing.
  
  I should start by saying that the art style of this game reminds me of one of my favorite games 
 ever: Ocarina of Time. It is a very similar graphics style, except, this one looks a LOT more beautiful. 
 It just looks great.
  
  Now, for the gameplay. This game is amazing. The gameplay is just wonderful. It's everything you've 
 come to love about The Legend of Zelda and more. They even gave the iron boots a new use.... I'll 
 just say you should look out for magnets.
  There will be parts of this game when you're a human, and parts of it when you're a wolf. Both 
 forms have advantages, and when you're the other form, you're gonna miss those advantages. This 
 really adds a little more difficulty to the games, because there will be many a time when you'll 
 be able to reach one place with one form, but not the other.
  
  As for the sound.... It's perfect. The speaker in the Wiimote adds a huge amount to the game as 
 you slash your sword, and hear the clang from your hand. The background music is perfect too, everything 
 sounds just like it should.
  
  Now, some people out there are probably worried about the Wiimote, and it's various controls, so 
 let me tell you a little about these controls. When you swing your Wiimote, you'll swing your sword, 
 or bite in front of you, depending on whether you're Link or Wolf Link. Now, when I say swing, 
 I don't mean a huge dramatic slash, a small flick of the wrist will do. You use the control stick 
 on the nunchuck to move, the D-pad and B buttons will be used for items, the A button is for actions, 
 - is for equipping, while + is the collections screen. Z on the nunchuck is Z-Targeting, C on the 
 nunchuck is to look around in first person. The controls just feel natural, and natural controls 
 make for great games.
  
  
  Now I have to state that at this point I haven't beaten the game yet. I am only about 15 hours 
 into it, and I wish I were at home playing it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loc_dog15
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, im not sure if i wanna buy this game for the wii cuz it would most likely be my only reason 
 to buy the console and after that it would just be used as a fancier gamecube instead of actually 
 using the games that are made for it.
  My question is, what is the difference between the wii version and the gc version? Aside from the 
 wii-mote i dont see anything else, are the any beter graphics, some new quests, or maybe some extra 
 secrets to discover in the wii version that arent included in the gc one?
  
  On a side note it seems to be just awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARASTOPHES
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt in the top 3 Zelda games ever.
  1. Ocarina of Time
  2. Twilight Princess
  3. Wind Waker
  If you are expecting a true sequel to Ocarina of Time, you 
 are in luck. You visit many same places such as Kakariko Village, Death Mountain, Zora's Domain... Etc. 
 If you are expecting a vast world to explore, you've got the biggest and baddest monster you could 
 possibly get. Lemme' put it this way, you got the Royale With Cheese.
  If you are expecting the same, simplistic gameplay and story as Ocarina of Time, You Are In The 
 Wrong Place.
  Zelda executes the Wii remote and Nunchuck so perfectly, one might even rejoice after the first 
 swing of the sword. The story of Ocarina of Time, let's face it, although it was great and kept 
 you on the edge of your seat, it was simple.
  The story of Twilight Princess, however, is dark, complicated, and any true Zelda fan's wet dream. 
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  When I first popped TP into my brand new wii I was transported back in time. Watching the breif 
 opening, and wandering around Ordon it was like being back 8 years ago to OoT. OoT was the first 
 video game I remember playing, and to this date the best. The depth, the immersion, the story, 
 all added up to it being, simply put, amazing. All the ensuing Zelda' s let me down, they just 
 couldn't live up to the perfect 10. However, TP is quite possibly better the OoT. What makes Twilight 
 Princess so spectacular is that it retains all the fantastic attributes of OoT, the story, the 
 immersion, but does it all while completely revolutionizing gaming. The new wii controller is used 
 perfectly. Words cannot describe how truly satisfying it is to swing your arm, and have link swing 
 his sword with you. This is the game to get, on the system to get. I haven't had as much fun playing 
 a video game since I first picked up my controller on OoT and dove into the kingdom of Hyrule. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiddendeathxyz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  GAMPLAY: Alright, so lets start off with some gameplay and over all, its very good. At first I 
 was like, I'm gonna have to use the Wii mote too much and its gonna ruin everything. However, I 
 was sorely wrong. LoZTP combines just the right amount of the sensor to still make it fun. The 
 biggest problem I found was with the camera angles. Sometimes I couldn't figure out where the hell 
 I was looking but this is very minor. GRAPHICS: Not bad, it would have nice if it could have looked 
 a little better, but I can't conplain that much. espically in RPGs, graphics have almost nothing 
 to to with wheather the game is good or not. SOUND: I've heard people conplain about the sound 
 in this game and how the Wii mote sounds don't always work. Why playing, Haven't encountered this 
 problem and the sound always sounds great. The sound sounds really good in game and through the 
 Wii mote and really adds to the ambiance of the game.
  
  VALUE: For an RPG, its not long enough. If i can beat any RPG in less then 50-60 hours, then it's 
 a little disappointing, but I'm sure thats just me. However, they make every minute that I was 
 playing the game count, and is defently worth something.
  
  TILT: play this game, end of statement.
  
  STORY: I know this isn't important so some people, 
 but thats alright. Overall, the story in Zelda is good. The whole time you have a sense of urgency 
 which makes you want to keep playing more and more. The biggest problem I have with is that Zelda 
 is the same story over and over. Zelda gets into trouble and it just so happens Link is the only 
 one that can help. It would be cool if there could be storys that happen before and after some 
 of the other games, but the games act like nothing has ever happened and this is the first time 
 Link and Zelda are meeting. It would be nice for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bofe1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  When i read the review i was stunned. Jeff doesnt know what he's talking about. now im not saying 
 i am more qualified than him, but come on an 8.8 for the greatest game that will ever come to wii. 
 that means no wii game will ever get above an 8.8. so i decided to give a mini review for the game. 
 because i think it deserves a better score. im not going to go into great detail because i am super 
 tired, but i will give my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is awesome. probably the most fun ive had playing zelda. its so satisfying 
 hitting your enemy with a couple slashes then combo him up with a spin slash to send him to his 
 death by explosion. no seriosly they explode when they die. the controls are not just tacked on 
 and they feel very smooth. the analog feels perfect and every button feels like it is in the right 
 spot. i play around with the controls for about 5 minutes and then i instantly had them. it was 
 very natural and they arent just tacked on. some people may think youll get tired from swinging 
 your arms around but you can also do slight movements while sitting down. also i played the game 
 in a recliner pulled all the way back totally relaxed and i had no problems with the motion control
 
  
  the world is massive and it seems like you can get lost in all of its secrets. the twiglight realm 
 is very ominous and it has an amazing art style to compliment its eerie premise. controlling link 
 is as easy as controling the wolf, is as easy as controlling animals, is as easy as stearing vehicles. 
 the game is very intuitive and the controls remained fresh.
  
  Sound: After looking back on the sound i am greatly dissapointed. The sound is no where near in 
 quality to ocarina or WW. There really is no redeaming quality about it besides the opening score 
 which is pretty good. They don't stick true to the Zelda theme and it is never heard. They remix 
 some songs but it ends up feeling rushed and like a mish mashed pile of crap. Zelda is known for 
 wonderfully made scores but this one felt lacking. Usually in Oot i'd be running through hyrule 
 feild and hearing this brilliant score, but instead the game provides a lackluster quiet roaming 
 score which leaves a lot ot be desired. In WW when you were sailing this awesome music would come 
 on and pump u up for where you were going and left me humming it hours after i had played. Everything 
 music wise in tp is rather forgettable. If it werent for the sound effects the game would be virtually 
 silent in my mind. Because nothing is rememberable. There is also no instruments this time around 
 which is kind of a bummer. Sure you can play the wolf tunes but only at the stones and the songs 
 are rather uninspired. koji kondo really didnt do his best here. he did have 5 years after all. 
 it sort of feels like he just slacked off. i was greatly dissapointed. but overall it does get 
 the job done and provides the player with a bit of atmosphere.
  
  Value: 0- 50 hours for and adventure game. i think you are getting your moneys worth. especailly 
 if you play through with no side qusests. its still around 35 hours. but if you replay you can 
 find new things to explore. also there may be downloadable content so this game has great value 
 and everyone should own it. Graphics: it is a port from the gamecube so im not going to score it 
 acordingly. it is an exeption. some textures were blurry and jaged while the overall game looks 
 astonishing from an artistic standpoint. (sort of like SOTC) . The game also runs in 16:9 widescreen 
 and supports the 480i and 480p.
  
  Tilt/Fun: this game is overall superb. everything about this game screams GOTY. it is fun intuitive 
 and dare i say it revolutionary. it redefines the adventure genre and does it well. i have always 
 liked zelda and this title instills my faith in the franchise forever. Bottom line: you need to 
 own this game. second you get a wii, gamecube whatever go buy this game. it is a terific addition 
 to the franchise and IMO is the best in the series. everything about it is great and you wont find 
 yourself bored with it anytime soon. GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a Zelda game, there's no doubt about that, but there's way too much hype and positive 
 press to this title. The storyline is unique to the Zelda universe, but it ties into past Zelda 
 titles and more important parallels Clover Studios' Okami too much for its own good. Okami has 
 an enveloping darkness spreading across the land so does Twilight Princess. Okami has a wolf main 
 character so does, er, ok, Link has his human form for a great majority of the quest, but the similarity 
 to Amaterasu in action and design is obscene. To dig a spot on the ground, there is a green twinkling 
 on the ground... for both games! Clover Studios, rest its soul, should sue Nintendo. Okami was an 
 IP before Wolf-form Link. Ok, my bias aside... here's my quick run down on Twilight Princess
  
  Brilliance:
  
  1. Art direction, more characters look great and are elaborately designed
 
  2. Wiimote makes gameplay fresh... until you're a wolf so attacks the same as a human. 3. It's 
 very Zelda. It's mostly familiar. It's often fun.
  4. Dungeons are lengthy and can be involved.
  5. Boss fights are big and fun.
  
  Faults:
 
  
  1. MIDI soundtrack instead of Orchestral score. So horrible!
  2. Tinny sounds battle sounds coming from the Wiimote
  3. Gamecube Graphics with only slight 
 improvements.
  4. Doesn't suck you into the story like A Link to the Past or Ocarina of Time. 5. Wolf form ideas 
 largely taken from Okami.
  
  All in all, I'm not that impressed with Nintendo's offering to launch their console. I guess I 
 maybe I miss Mario, but Twilight Princess isn't as unique and fresh as a killer launch title should 
 be. Nevertheless, it's Zelda. It's worth a play through and a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalidascorp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game resurrects the old, and my personal favorite, N64 look of link.
  
  Storyline- So far, there is a lot I don't know about yet, but from how far I've played, I can see 
 a long path ahead of me full of exciting events and battles. Midna is a curious girl that comes 
 from the shadow realm, and she obviously has so much to hide from us in the beginning. I still 
 have no idea what her purpose later on will be. Don't be upset about the slow beginning though. 
 I was also wondering when the actual exciting part was going to begin. It will start much sooner 
 than you expect. (Seriously, I thought it would take 3 times as long till the awesome part started.)
 
  
  Gameplay- I can't believe it. The gameplay is amazing. Controls: Awesome, easy to learn. Also, 
 the amazing new variety of weaponry at Links disposal gives the game a whole new level of thinking, 
 with so many ways to solve puzzles. (The Gale Boomerang, which I recently recieved, is SO FUN. 
 So far, I've used it in about 10 diffrent situations, each needing the boomerang in it's own special 
 way.)
  
  Graphics- Who needs HD when you have Zelda: TP. Sure, 720p looks smoother, and the characters come 
 out cleaner. But that does not matter when you spot this game. When I started, I couldn't believe 
 the detail of the background and characters. The ground actually looks like ground, as if the developers 
 actually stuffed Hyurle from Earth into the Wii. The characters are amazing as well. No cell-shading, 
 and the detail makes it look almost real, in an animated sort of way.
  
  Sound- The music and choise of tunes is amazing. It fits the theme of wherever you are, and fits 
 into the game nicely. There are also nice sound effects. When you are near a shadow-being, a jumpy 
 techno effects starts to play, and you quicky learn to hear for it if an enemy is near. Overall, 
 the directors of music should give themselves a pat on the back. job well done.
  
  Value- I'm not letting anyone else but me handle my game. It's too good. It's almost godly. All 
 the features you can get out of this game plus the fact that it's the best Zelda game to date makes 
 this game worth your money.
  
  Tilt- By far my favorite game. I recommend this for anyone buying a Wii. (I bet that all the bad 
 review that you see here, are from people who don't own a Wii. I don't see how they can not like 
 this game without playing it.)
  
  10+! Go Zelda!
  
  Also, this game fits under Best in Series, Revolutionary, and Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachnunes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Wiimote might be tacked on after the fact BUT it was an amazing choice. Maybe swinging 
 the sword does not mimick actually sword play but it frees up buttons and feels damn good. Fishing 
 is perfect as well and there is no way I can go back to the GC! Also this Zelda has the best puzzels 
 of any Zelda to date.
  
  Graphics: I considered that this is a GC port but it still deserves a 9/10 in graphics because 
 of the art direction. Also the bosses look amazing. Sound: The music is AMAZING but would have 
 been better if it was orchastrated instead of Midi. The Wiimote is horrible BUT it takes two seconds 
 to turn it down or off therefore it really is not a factor.
  
  Value: Hours and hours of gameplay!! Best value I have ever seen in a game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelboy949
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is game is just truly amazing. Gamespots review critisizes little things, and looks past aspaects 
 that seperate this game from others. Gamespot's review does not truly display the greatness that 
 is this game. If you liked any previous zelda game, get off this computer, and try as hard as you 
 can to get a copy. It is everything I wanted in a new Zelda game and more. The wii aspects fit 
 in perfectly, not taking away, and not intruding your experiance. This game is a perfect example 
 of Zelda greatness and is something that should be experianced by all. I know, another fanboy perfect 
 ten, but I just want to improve my fellow Gamespot users opinion of this game. I dont want Gamespots 
 faulty review to stop anyone from playing this masterpeice. The minute shortcommings in this game 
 arent even large enough to consider in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOXking525
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  i havent even played 10 hrs of this an i am purely amazed. this is definately one of the greatest 
 games i've ever played. it takes me bak to the old days kinda, halo is a good game and all, but 
 i think this game just cant compare the feeling you get when you play the game. i have NEVER touched 
 a zelda game before, and i am for pissed off tht i never got the chance to play Ocarina of time 
 when everyone else was. but i just purly LOVE this game. I've only had it for 3 days and out of 
 all the great games i play, this is definately in my top 5 greatest games of all time...... heres 
 the list
  
  
  1. Goldeneye
  2. super mario 64
  3-5. super smash bros, super smash bros melee, Legend of Zelda: twilight princess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAWKYMAN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Zelda has been one of my favorite games since i owned an N64. I never got Wind Waker since it looked 
 kinda, not to my liking, but that was mainly because i never got a Game Cube. That said, i like 
 Twilight Princess more than Fable, and thats saying alot since i like Fable ALOT.
  
  Gameplay. The controls with the Wii Mote are great. No, theyre fantastic. I played Wii Sports for 
 a while before and after playing a few hours with Zelda, and the controls were always awkward. 
 Now when i picked up Zelda, the cotnrols took a little geting used to, but after an hour i completely 
 forgot i was even using a controller. This is one thing that makes a great game, how well it pulls 
 you into the world. Fable did it, and Halo did it (for me anyway) , and now Twilight Princess does 
 it. Thats not to say everything is perfect, theres a few problems with the lockon system when you 
 try to move around enemies too fast. But i see that as a built in Watch what the hell your doing 
 reminder, and otherwise it really only happens when your not paying attention to what your doing. 
 On thing im on the fence about though is the gameplay. Its almost exactly like every other Zelda 
 game, which is good but not great. Although i personaly dont see any problem with the control scheme, 
 i would like to see a new type of zelda game.
  
  Graphics. Theyre astounding. Ive seen what PS3 graphics look like, and theyre pretty. I have seen 
 few games with a great art style, and Twilight Princess is one of them. Ive never been impressed 
 with monster graphics machines, since im more of an artist myself. The characters are very well 
 done, and the atmosphere is very involving in that it feels plausable to the game world. The really 
 cool part is when you go into the twilight (thats not a spoiler, if youve never heard about that 
 then you need to since the wolf part is a main selling point) . If youve played Fable, youll know 
 what i mean when i refer to lighting glitches, and Zelda has none. Even when your in the twilight 
 and it uses similar bloom affects to Fable theres none of that anoying 'light clipping'.
  
  Audio. Not much to say here. Nothing wrong with the Zelda part, but the Wii doesnt support newer 
 sound and video hook ups. Replay. Ill prolbly play it a few times so i can unlock everything, but 
 im dissapointed to see theres no multiplayer or anything online. Even if it was something like 
 what Fable has, some sort of interaction is something id personaly enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nint3nd0_Fr3ak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I was usually only into FPs's but when I got my Wii everyone said to get Zelda so I did and It 
 is amazing....
  
  Story-9/10- The story is very well done in this adventure.... and is told very exquisitley through 
 the amazing cut scenes
  
  Gameplay-10/10- The Wii controls add a whole new demension to this game... they don't hinder it, 
 it's just the opposite in fact... they enhance the gameplay....
  
  Music-9/10- The musical score is amazing the only thing that kept it from being perfect was it 
 wasn't fully orchestrated.
  
  Challenge-10/10- Just the right amount of challenge... hard enough so you get a great sense of 
 accomplishment and easy enough so it doesn't frustrate you.
  
  Fun Factor-10/10- Just pure Zelda FUN.... nuff said.... HEY what are you still doing here go BUY 
 THIS GAME NOW... ohh?? you say you have it??? Well then WTF are you doing ... GO PLAY!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Presentation- 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiocranium
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  The legend of zelda series has been the pinnacle of gaming for about 20 years now. I know its hard 
 to believe, but Link has made quite the progressive jump. Although this is one of several Zelda 
 console games, it feels like something completely new. I fell in love with it from the beginning. 
 The graphics are very good and the music brings back so many emotions from playing this before. 
 I read the gamespot review and they said that elelments were stuck in the past?!!? i find it wonderful 
 that so many things from the world of zelda are returning and yet they still have a role in something 
 completely new to the franchise. the developers hit the tee well and gamespot couldnt be more wrong. 
 this game isnt stuck anywhere but in my wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight570
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Let's get the one bad thing out of the way first. Swinging the sword in the first levels takes 
 a bit of getting used to, about 30 minutes in human form. But since you spend a lot of time at 
 the beginning in wolf mode you have to master the sword in the forest temple. After you get used 
 of jumping in shock when something sneaks up behind you then swing the sword becomes a easier and 
 less like a nervous reaction.
  
  Now let's get to what this game does best. The graphics are wonderful; keep in mind I am not talking 
 photo realistic, but in an art sense. For fans of the genre and the game these graphics are just 
 fine, and as a matter of fact they brought a warm stirring to my heart.
  
  The story line is prought through perfectly. From the very beginning you become attached to the 
 characters and the beautiful setting. The use of color schemes and the character modes are quite 
 true to the Zelda universe.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, after the initial learning curve that comes along with the controller, 
 the rest is just like another other Zelda title. The new and refreshing weapons and control scheme 
 bring an added flavor to a classic story. Flavor takes form in mini games scattered along the game. 
 Such classics as fishing and target shooting are a welcome known, but even more welcome is the 
 sumo wrestling and a few other goodies that you guys will have to wait until you play to find out 
 about... Overall I say that the gameplay is beyond solid it brings us back to the days of the N64.
 
  
  The things I look forward to when I pick up the controller is the wolf mode an horseback rides. 
 These two elements of gameplay are to me two of the most exciting. As a wolf you can just mangle 
 your enemies and run wild so to speak. While on the horse you get the feeling of the wind in your 
 hair as Epona gallops with grace across the large lands of Hyurle. Not to mention the fights on 
 horse back are just beyond what I expected.
  
  If you were looking for a flagship game for the wii then you have found one in Zelda: twilight 
 princess. Enjoy ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Wow, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is the most amazing and greatest game I have ever 
 played. I was not a fan of the Windwaker, but Nintendo learned from their mistakes, and this game 
 has the perfect balance of everything.
  
  Gameplay: This game has the perfect balance of gameplay. It is not ridiculously easy like Windwaker, 
 and yet not too difficult. It challenges you
  plenty, and you feel a great satisfaction from doing things on your own. The fighting system is 
 great, and the use of the wii remote makes the game fun, and more controllable, and very useful 
 for puzzles.
  
  Graphics: Simply stunning and amazing. The cutscenes are beautiful, and have an even higher quality 
 than the cutscenes on games like Final Fantasy 10. It is truly impressive and remarkable, especially 
 if you have the component cables to display the 480p resolution. Don't underestimate the power 
 of the Wii.
  
  Sound: Again, it has the beautiful soundtrack you would expect from a Zelda game. The wii remote 
 makes noises for many situations, and I found it very intuitive and helpful, although if you don't 
 like it, you have the option to turn it OFF, so it can only be a good thing.
  
  Value: Between 50 - 80 hours of gameplay, this game is definitely worth it. That comes out to less 
 than a dollar an hour, and trust me when I say this game is well worth a dollar per hour.
  
  Bottom Line: If you like Zelda you NEED this game. If you don't like Zelda, give this one a 
 try, it's a bit different, and don't believe that this game is like windwaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, when i first poped this one in the day of the Wii launch, i was very dissapointed 
 in the graphics. Granted I dont have my component cables yet, so its not running in 480p, but it 
 was a huge step back after playing the likes of gears of war. BUT, after a few hours of play, I 
 stumbled into the world of twilight. A very visual tron like looking place. This changed my opinion 
 on the visuals. They still lack sharpness and definition, but it has a very artistic look. The 
 game play with the wiimote and nunchuck does not seem tacked on to me at all. (like pointed out 
 in the gs review) . i find it a nice break from traditional controlls. not at all clunky like red 
 steel. The story line is amazing, and it gives that huge environment feel as zeldas in the past 
 did. The sound quallity could be better, as it only runs in sterio. NO OPTICAL. come on nintendo. 
 All and all, this is an awsome game, and another great storytelling of the legend of zelda. A must 
 have for all Wii owners. because to be quite honest, the rest of the launch line-up pretty much 
 sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  I've been playing games since the old school Nintendo era. Zelda was my first game and I have to 
 admit playing Wii's Zelda rekindled some of old nostalgia. I love the Zelda series, and without 
 sounding too biased, this one will also be one of my favorites.
  
  With that said, I was slightly disappointed with this game. Not so much as the content and gameplay, 
 but rather the look of it. As I said this game feels nostalgic. If you played one Zelda you'd played 
 them all. Even with the Wii's controller, you can't help but feel that you've been down this path 
 before.
  
  Maybe its a testament to the 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it' belief, but Nintendo played it real 
 safe with this one. The story is grasping, the gameplay is phenominal as would expect from a next-gen 
 console, but the feel of it is just too reminiscent. Zelda will forever be a timless classic but 
 it does appear trapped in its own mold of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATRIXMAN3780
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Zelda series has been going on for many years, This game so far is excellent. The bosses, creatures 
 and dungeons are very fun to find your way through. The graphics are top notch for the Wii. May 
 times does the game stump you in points, and just when you figure it out you get stuck again. The 
 game is very well done, the only thing i dislike is, the wiimote has a horrible slashing sound 
 when you slash that sounds like a mallet hitting a wall. The other thing I dislike is the fact 
 that they did not restore Hyrule to what it looked like in Ocarina of time. I had hoped to see 
 many of the same places from OOT in this game, but found nothing looking similar to it. Overall 
 this is a fine addition to the Zelda franchise, hopefully I fine more I like about it as I get 
 further into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerath77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is everything a fan of the series could hope for. I have to 
 admit, I had my reservations on points... the storyline and control scheme in particular. Well, 
 after spending the last few days with the game, I can say that both are perfect. The controls DO 
 take a lot of getting used to, but feel flawless after a few hours with the game. Miyamoto and 
 company have also done a fantastic job with both the new and the improved items. As far as the 
 graphics are concerned, I have never been one to judge a game by polygon count. I disagree completely 
 with the reviews that state the graphics seem a bit dated. As far as I'm concerned, the game looks 
 beautiful.
  
  The sound is another point that I see Gamespot in particular didn't care for. While it can be argued 
 that Nintendo should have done away with MIDI, it isn't fair to judge the score on this point. 
 The music does a great job setting the mood, and it just wouldn't be a Zelda game without some 
 of those classic themes... which according to Gamespot's Jeff Gertsman seem dated . And while the 
 Wii remote speaker isn't obviously of high quality... it works... and the game itself shouldn't be 
 reduced in score due to this.
  
  Overall, I can't get enough of the game. It was well worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakeish
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Buy Twilight Princess its great you don, t even have to like action adventure games to love this 
 one its epic long and everything you want and expected from nintendo. Right now the PS3 is in dead 
 last all their games suck so far except Risistance fall of...... what ever its not much of a launch 
 title any way compared to the others.
  
  GameSpot is the only video game site that didnt give Twilight Princess an average of 9 or more 
 no an 8.8 out of 27 offical video game sites you had to think of 1 thing to keep it from perfection 
 whats the deal oh the game gets a lower score because its to much like the ocarina of time. Well 
 isnt that what a sequel is suppose to be DDDUUU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyruleSage89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the game I've been looking for! Really good graphics and challenging dungeons! This is 
 is in fact the best Zelda game ever! And to top it all off, Link is an adult in this one! About 
 time the adults took action! But it's the same person who needs rescuing. Princess Zelda. Oh well, 
 if Zelda didn't get kidnapped everytime I guess there wouldn't be an adventure in this game! But 
 enought about that! Using the wiimote as a sword was brilliant! I always like to kill some monsters! 
 Not only that, I guess you can get a little exercise with it. Destroying monsters can be tiring..... NOT! 
 I LOVE DESTROYING EVERYTHING THAT GETS IN MY PATH! EVEN THE BOSS BATTLES ARE EXCITING. I think 
 everyone on gamespot and I can say THIS IS THE BEST ZELDA GAME OF ALL TIME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresdude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Wow, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is the most amazing and greatest game I have ever 
 played. I was not a fan of the Windwaker, but Nintendo learned from their mistakes, and this game 
 has the perfect balance of everything.
  
  Gameplay: This game has the perfect balance of gameplay. It is not ridiculously easy like Windwaker, 
 and yet not too difficult. It challenges you
  plenty, and you feel a great satisfaction from doing things on your own. The fighting system is 
 great, and the use of the wii remote makes the game fun, and more controllable, and very useful 
 for puzzles.
  
  Graphics: Simply stunning and amazing. The cutscenes are beautiful, and have an even higher quality 
 than the cutscenes on games like Final Fantasy 10. It is truly impressive and remarkable, especially 
 if you have the component cables to display the 480p resolution. Don't underestimate the power 
 of the Wii.
  
  Sound: Again, it has the beautiful soundtrack you would expect from a Zelda game. The wii remote 
 makes noises for many situations, and I found it very intuitive and helpful, although if you don't 
 like it, you have the option to turn it OFF, so it can only be a good thing.
  
  Value: Between 50 - 80 hours of gameplay, this game is definitely worth it. That comes out to less 
 than a dollar an hour, and trust me when I say this game is well worth a dollar per hour.
  
  Bottom Line: If you like Zelda you NEED this game. If you don't like Zelda, give this one a 
 try, it's a bit different, and don't believe that this game is like windwaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _T_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  By far the best Zelda ever and I played the CDI games I feel so dirty. The water effects are great 
 and naming your horse is a awsome idea. The sounds of your bow to the walking on foot leaving you 
 breathless. the sheer mass of the land is by far the largest ever By far the best Zelda ever and 
 I played the CDI games I feel so dirty. The water effects are great and naming your horse is a 
 awsome idea. The sounds of your bow to the walking on foot leaving you breathless. the sheer mass 
 of the land is by far the largest ever sorry to repeat myself but it will help you remember 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Well guys I just love this game.
  The way the story is presented is great, all the dark athmosphere makes the game even better.
 
  
  Controls: I really love them, the fishing is great and when i swing my Wii remote i just fell that 
 im Zelda fighting the bad guys .
  
  Graphics: Just as i expected GREAT i love those they are not realistic and that's what i love about 
 them.
  I dont want the Zelda game to look like a movie i want it to look like a game.
  
  Sound: Love it. even if voice-acting could have make this game much much better still the sound 
 is great. the way that the music is changing instatly.
  If it was orcherstral then it would take some seconds till the music would have changed.
  
 
  Overall: This game could have been THE GAME but it is not far from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game is just so great! And as I though, the wii gameplay style just add up. Graphics are really 
 good, and the effects are great. The way thigs glow, disapear, transform... Story so far seems 
 really cool, and playning as a wolf is also something really fun. A lot of great stuff in the game 
 like portals, and moves to learn! Yes, durin the game, you have 7 moves you will learn. This is 
 something thats great about it! World is huge, the twilight sky and effects are just SOOOO immersive 
 and beautiful. Another original and fun thing about the game is the way is that, when the zone 
 is in twilight, you must first clear it from darkness by going through it in the wolf shape and 
 kill shadow bugs, but also once it is done, you must go back with human link to clear the dongeon 
 in it. pretty cool, cuz it is different. The dongeons are really impressive! OH YES THEY ARE! (well 
 i've only seen forest temple so far but...) I mean, the LOOK of it is just freaking awesome! There 
 is no bushes wall like each game, if you watch, youll see that it is really just huge trees blocking 
 the way with mushroom and all. Sometimes, you enter IN a tree and you move inside it. Then you 
 move from one tree to another in the air. the way monkeys aid you during the dongeon is someting 
 new and fun. My experience from now on is even better then expected. Thi that graphics are not 
 really improve that much, in the other hand the look given to it is a way better then only improving 
 texture. This is where you can see the artistic part of the game ( one thing I think is true in 
 GS review) . I really thik this game is worth it. I mean, my girlfriend don't really like games, 
 but i can play with her! I only tell her, swing the controler to swing the sword and... she is 
 like wow! so fun haha! serioulsy this game is just amazing, and i must say, maybe i'm a zelda fan, 
 but seriously, this game is a way better then some zelda game. Better then expected and it kick 
 ass! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbell_44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  so there are really only three aspects to twilight princess that make it a revolution to zelda 
 games. best game on the wii! this game is the coolest, period.
  The graphics are pretty freakin cool. in fact i just love to look at how clear the water is. The 
 gameplay is AWESOME. The only problem i got is that sometimes the wii remote goes all weird and 
 then i cant swing my sword. Riding epona is the coolest thing ever! now here is were the game has 
 its lowest point (my opinion) first of all gamespot that guy is on crack when he reviewed the game. 
 that means he was completely wrong about this game. Now to the sound. Okay i dont know if anyone 
 agrees but the speaker on the remote sucks. It does put some cool effects in there but c'mon nintendo 
 it sounds like one of those 99 cent store lightsabers. all in all gamespot sucked at reviewing 
 this game, but i would tell anyone to buy it for one reason. IT IS THE FREAKIN COOLEST GAME EVER! 
 get it now! that is if u have a wii of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Thge legedn of Zelda Twilight princess, i cant help but suck up to this! Bow! This game makes a 
 grate comback, it will be followed up by The Phantom hour glass on the DS witch is a spin off of 
 the wind waker. This game has awsome controlling, and new moves withc is usfull seeing as its a 
 bit hard to get used to on the Wii, you get all the classic horse riding, execpt they finally put 
 in the ability to use the sword on his horse, and it acually takes up alot of the game. In this 
 game, Gannon is being controlled by some monster, and he is still the final boss, but i find it 
 disapointing that gannon isnt the most powerful of eviel people in the game. I recemend this game 
 to anybody who likes Zelda, this game is Revolutionary, its insane how fun it is! This is one of 
 those games ( Like Halo ) that some people buy the system for just that game, i acually know some 
 people who did that, kind of sad, but i shows how fun it is, this highly antisapated game is one 
 for the records, you absolutly need to get it soon or wait for it to came out on the Game Cube. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricardomayren
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I been waiting for this game since the 2004 E3 and now that i have the final product all i can 
 say this game is perfect, the best zelda game ever made first i feel werid with the gameplay but 
 later i start feeling normal, like if i had played it before, its easy to control and you will 
 have a really good time playing twiligth princess, no awesome graphics or guns, this is not just 
 kill aliens like resistance, halo, or gear of wars, games tha you always do the same thing, zelda 
 is about thiking what you have to do, no just kill and kill aliens with awesome graphics. Nintendo 
 did it again they created another perfect game and have Zelda on its name give it not a 10 and 
 11
  
  i alredeady finish it, im with no words its perfect, best than ocarina with no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponedore
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The waiting has come to an end and what an end we have!, To describe this new game in the Zelda 
 series needs lots of pages but to make it short, I am going to put it in just a few words.
  
  Gameplay: The wii-remote add-on to this Game Cube game was just right, the next step in this 
 series and its simply the best way of feeling this game or this type of game, its just immersive 
 and well done in the aiming parts and with some flaws in the swing sword gestures. For me is just 
 a nice and innovative way to play this and all other action/adventure games.
  
  Graphics: For a Game Cube port-to-wii they are just fine, in fact, they are the best graphics I've 
 ever seen on a Game Cube title and would have been a great closure to the Cube's era. But definitily 
 it is a well looking wii game.
  
  Sound: Besides de pre-rendered MIDI sound and the lack of voice overs and live orchestra music, 
 the sound just does its job, it is appealing and really puts you in the mood of the given situation 
 in the game.
  
  Value: One word.. its just a Must-play, Must-have game, with its 100 hours worth of good not boring 
 gameplay its worth the buy, period.
  
  Tilt: Just the greatest Zelda game ever made, i cannot describe my feelings about it to the fullest. 
 Its just, AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is by far a Nintendo masterpiece. Until now, many argue 
 that Ocarina of Time was the greatest in the series. I say that time is most likely up, because 
 Twilight Princess is just as amazing, if not better, than Ocarina of Time. Twilight Princess delivers 
 a more difficult, darker adventure unlike most of the other Zelda games. Overall, Twilight Princess 
 could be identical to a next-gen Ocarina of Time, with some differences. The new addition to this 
 Zelda (and if I'm correct, it's never happened before) , is that Link can transform into a wolf-beast, 
 taking on a whole bunch of new abilities and moves. You'll meet Midna, a freakish Twilight thing 
 (?) that is important to the quest that follows.
  
  The Wii controls enhance the game tremendously. Instead of mashing an A button to attack, you actually 
 have to swing the Wii remote to execute sword attacks. You may think negative about it, I did too, 
 but when I actually was playing the game the controls were very easy to handle. You won't get tired 
 either. I have 8 hours down on the game and I have never had a cramp or a loss of breath. I believe 
 that the controls are easier to control than with the Gamecube controller, but I guess we'll find 
 out in December.
  
  The environments are immersive, and the character's life/stories are interesting in everyway. Twilight 
 Princess is a game where you will actually want to do side quests! Twilight Princess has the most 
 dungeons in any Zelda (if I am correct) , equalling up to around 10. If you have played Ocarina 
 of Time or even Majora's Mask, you'll feel at home when you're completing the temples. They are 
 similar to those games. It will not be an easy journey, though. I admit, in my 8 hours of play, 
 I have probably seen the Game Over screen 10 times. The game will challenge you, but don't get 
 the wrong idea. It's not impossible.
  
  The graphics are aboslutely beautiful. Not in the kind of way like the Xbox 360 or PS3 has, but 
 in it's own unique way. The real-time-ness of the game will blow you away.
  
  The music will be noticed if you have played previous Zelda games. Most of the tracks are identical, 
 especially from Ocarina of Time.
  
  In my opinion, Twilight Princess is the best Zelda game. Yes, I am sorry Ocarina of Time, but I 
 believe your almost 10-year King title is over. Twilight Princess is just amazing in anyway possible. 
 Twilight Princess is a must see/play game to all you new Wii owners, and soon for the Gamecube, 
 and this game shows you just how amazing of a company Nintendo is. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danissuperman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Besides Oricarina of Time, this is the best Zelda game ever. All of the boss fights are incredibly 
 executed, with complex puzzles that are fairly challenging. Link's new wolf form is also welcome, 
 implementing a new scent ability, where you can pick up someone or something's scent, and follow 
 a newly visible trail. The controls feel more solid, which was something I was worried about; I'm 
 used to the OoT controls. This is also definitely the longest Zelda game ever. You now need five 
 pieces of heart to get a full heart container. The new items also make good, innovative use of 
 the controller. Also Gannondorf isn't as easy as he was in Windwaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryeth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Thge legedn of Zelda Twilight princess, i cant help but suck up to this! Bow! This game makes a 
 grate comback, it will be followed up by The Phantom hour glass on the DS witch is a spin off of 
 the wind waker. This game has awsome controlling, and new moves withc is usfull seeing as its a 
 bit hard to get used to on the Wii, you get all the classic horse riding, execpt they finally put 
 in the ability to use the sword on his horse, and it acually takes up alot of the game. In this 
 game, Gannon is being controlled by some monster, and he is still the final boss, but i find it 
 disapointing that gannon isnt the most powerful of eviel people in the game. I recemend this game 
 to anybody who likes Zelda, this game is Revolutionary, its insane how fun it is! This is one of 
 those games ( Like Halo ) that some people buy the system for just that game, i acually know some 
 people who did that, kind of sad, but i shows how fun it is, this highly antisapated game is one 
 for the records, you absolutly need to get it soon or wait for it to came out on the Game Cube. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo hinted several times that Twilight Princess was going to be even better than Ocarina of 
 Time and the Zelda faithful have been hyped like crazy ever since.
  
  The problem w/ this is that while Twilight Princess is better than Ocarina of Time in that it has 
 better graphics, slightly better controls, a bigger world, and more depth, it doesn't really do 
 anything all that great that a Zelda game has already done before.
  
  This is the main issue w/ TP, it just feels too much like a game we all played several times over 
 a long time ago. Most Zelda fans played OoT to death and while TP is a very good game in it's own 
 right, it falls far short of being as good for it's time as OoT was back in the day.
  
  Ocarina of Time was a revolution in 3D gaming and set a new standard for what games should feel 
 and play like. It was a masterpiece that took adventure gaming to a whole new level we didn't yet 
 think possible.
  
  Twilight Princess is simply a very fun game with a lot to do and a deep world, but it fails to 
 make us rethink the potential of adventure games like we had all hoped.
  
  The Wii controls, while fun, are nothing revolutionary and do little to change the way we look 
 at a Zelda game. Hopefully the next Zelda game, made for the Wii specifically, will do something 
 closer to what we expected out of twilight princess. TP is long, fun, pretty, and intuitive, it 
 just doesn't have that breath taking feel that OoT had and that we've been waiting for ever since 
 OoT started getting old.
  
  TP is an easy to recommend game for any adventure fan, I just wouldn't expect a jaw-dropping experience 
 like when first playing OoT back in the day.
  
  I doubt we'll ever see a game in the near future show as much revolutionary brilliance as Nintendo's 
 greatest acheivement in gaming history, the first Zelda for the Nintendo 64. But one thing we can 
 say about Twilight Princess, it is easily one of the most fun launch games you'll ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storm_lobster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  ah zelda, by far one of my favroite titles. This is a return to links glory days before he became 
 a cellshaded mennace. (please, i am not saying wind waker was bad but come on people!) This is 
 what u expect from the series. Things remain the same with no voice overs and same lock on fighting 
 system we have grown to love. To some new players that may feel a bit dated but vetrans will smile 
 at there classic ways. For gameplay this is overall the same with the Wii twist. At times as with 
 all Wii games i feel i am wresteling the camera but this isn't a very large problem. The enemies 
 are well animated and creative and the game offers puzzles that you'll be banging your head over. 
 All in all this game offers what we expect: stunning graphics, a wonderful story, with challenges 
 along the way.
  For all you new Wii owners this is a must have instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lchengclache
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series, it has the best story in the series, the best graphics for 
 his time (game cube) and has the most important an inovate gameplay whit the use of the wii mote 
 and the nun chuk... it is completly diferent an in gamespot says that is the same formula than 
 others zeldas?????????.... i think that the person that review this game has not play zelda for 
 a while... and a note this game do not have voices because is to inmerse the gamer in the story... 
 but just as they say is a failure that nintendo do not incorporate full orchestated music... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_3D_Warfare
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's head honcho has lost his magic. In this uniformly boring game, all is not well in gameplay. 
 Its a great concept, but the use of the Nintendo Wii controller is terrible; it feels thrown in 
 at the last minute. The graphics are great....... for five years ago maybe. The only good feature 
 is the brilliant sound. THE WHOLE WORLD COMES together will brilliant ambient affects, but even 
 them cant save it. In my opinion, it is a complete ripoff for the steep $50 they are asking for 
 it. The stroy aint nothing to write home about, either.
  
  Altogether it is completely MEH
  
  UPDATE: And the game freaking broke after less than a month 
 of owning it. Nice one, Nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game was aticipated by many people. When gamespot gave it 8.8, everyone who waited for this 
 game was dissapointed. I can honestly say that whoever reviewed the game was out of their minds. 
 This game is so much fun. Alot of their complaints about the games were minor, or untrue. Although 
 i have to agree about the lack of orchestrated music, that doesnt mean the music is bad. Some of 
 the music is orchestrated, but the songs that werent are still really catchy. The internal speaker 
 in the remote sounds pretty clear to me. Its not great quality, obviously, but its never tinny 
 like gamespot said it was. The point im trying to make is that if you want the best zelda game 
 ever made, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffiroth
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say, I was stunned. And before I go any further, I have not beaten the game or haven't 
 gotten that far at all. I won't specify where I am in the game though. Now let me say, this IS 
 THE BEST LAUNCH TITLE FOR ANY GAME SYSTEM EVER!!!!!!!!!! :D If you don't have this game then LOL. 
 If you do then you are lucky! :D This game is amazing at every point and I must say I loved the 
 Wind Waker. But this is over the top! Now I must say you should buy this game right now because 
 the gameplay and graphics are amazing. Just simply amazing! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kburk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I found the game had a fairly long and tedious start; however, once the action starts the game 
 gets much more interesting. The world was very well done and the graphics look amazing. Being the 
 first game I have played on the Wii I found the controls to be fairly easy to pickup and after 
 a few hours of play everything became much more natural.
  
  It's a bit of a downer that all the character dialog is in text as there are some fairly long cut 
 scenes. It doesn't take away from the game too much, but I would prefer to sit back and watch.
 
  
  Overall I would rate this game at a 9 and would recommend it to anyone that enjoys good adventure 
 games.
  
  -kev- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_gogetto_7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Step down Ocarina of time, a new revolution has arrived and its name is Twilight Princess. After 
 3 years this game has been released not only for the Gamecube, but also the new Wii. The game starts 
 off showing Link's home and job. In this game is a goat herder and excellent horse rider, also 
 he is noteworthy of being the role models of all kids, especially a boy named Colin. However Link 
 is asked by the village blacksmith to deliver a sword and shield to Hyrule castle. However trouble 
 brews when boar riding warriors take all the kids and a young lady named Illia who is Link's age 
 and possibly an admirer. Link in an attempt to save them chases after them but is sucked in to 
 the Twilight Realm . While here Link transforms into a wolf and meets a strange creature named 
 Midna. Thanks to Midna Link is able to escape prison and meets Princess Zelda who tells him of 
 a king of Twilight who took over Hyrule Castle. After Link escapes the twilight realm and returning 
 to human form Link and Midna team up to save the kids (or in Midna's case collect Fused shadows) . 
 This game takes advantage of the Wii Remote, by swinging the remote Link will swipe his sword. 
 However swinging the remote is bassicaly like pressing a button, for Link will swipe his sword 
 in different ways depending on the situation for example when Link isn't Z-Targeting all his swipes 
 are horizontal. When using long range weapons you use the Wiimote to aim (use Z-targeting to use 
 ranged items w/o items. Shaking the Nunchuk side to side will result in a spin attack. The A button 
 keeps its traditional role by being an Action button that does different things depending on situation. 
 The C button on the Nunchuk swithces into first person view. Use the Z-button to lock onto enemies. 
 Items are mapped to the D-Pad on the Wiimote when u use an item it will switch to the B button 
 which u then press to use (some items are used w/o being switched to B) . The - button brings up 
 Link's arsenal of items which u can then set to the D-pad and B button. The + Button brings up 
 the collection screen which shows story-based items and more important items. Gameplay wise this 
 game is great, as the Wiimote gives a realistic feel to the game. This game cold be more improved 
 thogh such as acurate sword swinging. In terms of graphics this game is excellent as u can really 
 see the expresion on all the characters' faces and the envoirment is beautiful. The music in this 
 game is amazing as they took alot of previous Zelda music and mixed it up and even orchestrated 
 it. However alot of the sound effects of the game come out of the speaker of the remote, although 
 this is a cool feature, the sound could be improved. You'll be playing this game for a long time 
 whether you're fishing, herding goats, finding heart pieces, riding through the now MASSIVE hyrule 
 field on your horse, or whatever else you're doing you won't get tired of this game for awhile. 
 Overall this Zelda game is amazing and possibly surpasses that of Ocarina of Time. For those who 
 are wondering the amecube version will be released on 12/11/06. Now that you've read this help 
 Nintendo and BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jodan48
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Twilight Princess for the Wii console is something that takes some getting used too, you 
 can tell the game was designed for the gamecube, and at first the controls may seemed tacked on 
 just to make use of the controller. But patience is a virtue, and after making it through the first 
 temple, I was swinging and fighting like a pro, perhaps even better than before. Everything that 
 made Zelda great on previous nintendo consoles is here, the combat, the amazing story, and presentation 
 itself and with the new element of the Wii controller, there's an added little special feeling 
 that isn't significant to making Zelda any better, but it does add a certain quality to it that 
 will enhance certain moments.
  
  Zelda looks artistically good, and is probably the best looking Wii launch game, and it's pretty 
 hard to believe this game was designed for the gamecube.
  
  The sound on Zelda is great, with the small exception of sounds that play through the Wii remote 
 at certain times. On one hand it's kind of cool to hear the sounds coming out of the remote such 
 as sword swings, and the classic melody whenever you're opening a box. But the sound from the Wii 
 remote sounds kind of gritty.
  
  Overall if you are looking for a Wii game which will keep you busy for a long while, this is it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick_2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say, if you don't have this game and own a WII, get it NOW! The game 
 not only succeeds OoT, it actually is better. Not only are the graphics and gameplay improved, 
 but it also gives you the feel that you are Link. Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The WII controller helps you feel like you're in Zelda world, the vast lands and side quests, and 
 the progressing difficulty is only a few reasons why I gave this game 10/10.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  We have to admit, the graphics are another big improvement in the series, 
 though it was originally meant for the Gamecube, some of the sprites look a bit blocky.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The new orchestra tunes are better than the old tunes, and even adds more to 
 the whole value. I don't like voice-overs that much, so I'm happy that the game doesn't have many.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  No comment required. From the beginning, you know that you have a LONG way to go. I'm not finished 
 the game yet, and I can see how much minigames and sidequests there are. Did I mention fishing 
 yet?
  
  So there you go. My thoughts on the best game ever made. I even think that 8.8 is toooooo low for 
 this game. It's worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhomerun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I've played through about 13 hours of the game and have finished the second temple. I have to say 
 this game is just a fantastic reason to purchase the Wii, although there are doubts that this game 
 will retain classic status as previous games in the series.
  
  The control in the game is excellent. If you plan on getting the Gamecube version, don't, because 
 it is incredibly easy and fun to aim the bow and arrow, boomerang, and slingshot with the Wii Remote. 
 This game has you firing at enemies extremely far away which is easy with the Remote, but may be 
 difficult for the Gamecube verision. Controls for sword fighting are good, but as time goes by 
 you find it easier to just shake the Wii Remote to swing your sword instead of actually going through 
 the motions. The game doesn't really pick up on your exact sword movements. The nicest part of 
 the controls in my opinion is shaking the nunchuck to spin attack. I think it's the most intuitive 
 spin attack ever, and it feels satisfying. The actual sword moves are identical to previous Zelda 
 games and only add special moves that you pick up as you go throughout the game (the only one I 
 have so far is the finishing move, which is executed by pressing A near a downed enemy) .
  
  Controls for item selection have changed quite a bit although have the basic idea the same. By 
 pressing the D Pad, you swap items between it and the B button, and you use items with the B Button. 
 It's different and takes some getting used to, but once you do it gets the job done with ease.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same Zelda puzzling you're used to. The difficulty is just right, and I've 
 only been stuck a few times (actually at the beginning) . The game does a great job balancing everything 
 out and mixing things up. So far, it's taking me between twilight realm and the light world, and 
 both worlds give balance to what you can do in your form. In the light world, you can ride Epona 
 and call her with grass that's usually lying around important places. In the twilight realm, you 
 can't go as fast as epona, but you can warp to portals that you've created by defeating some guys 
 that I can't really describe.
  
  The graphics are stunning, especially in the twilight realm. I can't believe Gamecube hardware 
 can achieve all of the effects that are going on at once. Screens really don't give this game justice. 
 You have to see a full res video to understand. Some areas of the light world (think: regular graphics) 
 are less than impressive, but the overall artistic direction is absolutely beautiful and defies 
 generations. The graphics can't score less than a 10 because they will always look good, the environments 
 are made to be timeless, and you'll ignore the fact that it's not super high-res high-polygon graphical 
 perfection. It's perfection in the sense of art.
  
  Sound is great, but could use improvement. The twilight realm has beautiful MIDI tracks that are 
 trippy and moody. The regular world sounds a bit cheesy at times. However, the game seems to be 
 too huge to put in real music, not in terms of disc space, but in terms of writing that much music 
 for an orchestra and the expense of it. Overall you can expect the same great sound. Some sound 
 effects are recycled from Wind Waker and if you don't like that game it'll tick you off a little. 
 However, nothing has been used that doesn't fit with the whole style of the game.
  
  This game takes forever. There's no question that this game has lasting value and we shouldn't 
 even discuss it because there's 80+ hours worth of content in here. Although I am having trouble 
 finding any side-quests or things of the sort at the moment, I have yet to get through a lot of 
 the game. Plus, I could just be missing them. I really can't comment on it. The game feels more 
 linear at this point, but it still packs so much content that it doesn't really matter.
  
  You can skip through the text at a great rate, and you can skip through a lot of cut scenes, which 
 is really nice, although most of them are so great you won't want to.
  
  We could nitpick all day, but this game is a masterpiece, and it has flaws, just like any game, 
 and just like the perfect 10 Ocarina of time. Every gamer should eventually play it, even if they 
 hate the Wii, they should at least get one when the price goes down just to play this game. Or 
 at least play it on the Gamecube. This game will be in the top 100 games of all time, and I think 
 it will be closer to the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacker_12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Lets be real, there are some polishes here and there that could have made this great game an instant 
 classic, but what they do does work. I for one don't like the wii controls, too many movements 
 are similar to others making it seem pretty precise at times, although it is fun shooting arrows 
 and other projectiles with the wii mote. The graphics are a bit below par for these days, but I've 
 played games with awesome graphics that really suck, so you can't hold poor graphics against a 
 game thats otherwise great. Some of the old sounds are due for an upgrade, an orchestral version 
 of the classic themes would only help this games grandiuer. Voiceovers for characters other than 
 Link could be helpful to speed the game along, but the text, although time consuming to read, is 
 nostalgic and its a winning formula from the past. All in all, the game is fun to play, looks decent 
 for the abilities of the console, fits the series well, is a console seller, and is a great addition 
 to any library, but I think Zelda's due for a few improvements myself, and the new console launch 
 could have been the perfect missed opportunity to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapAmerica2099
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I don't know where the hell GameSpot is coming from where they say that the Wii-specific elements 
 feel tacked on cause they don't, Zelda: TP feels like a game that was designed from day one with 
 the Wii in mind. Nintendo did a great job making this game feel like it was a Wii title all a long. 
 Don't waste your time waiting for the GameCube release go out and buy a Wii and this version of 
 Zelda TP.
  
  I can't wait to see where the Zelda series is going to go to next with the Wii.
  Hopefully this 
 is just the tip of the ice burg for what we can expect from Nintendo is high quality Wii games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouninkakashi31
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  zelda twilight princess is a new version of the legend of zelda ocarina of time. it has epona and 
 some faces you remember of ocarina. twilight princess is a game that inovate the gameplay. there 
 will be many games based on twilight princess. all starts at ordon village ( that we knowed like 
 toaru village ) . link is a brave boy, maybe because he is different from the others villagers: he 
 is a hylian, with big ears and all. all years a big event happens in hyrule castle. this year , 
 ordons leader can not go. than he asks link to go in his place. but in the moment that he is living 
 the village, shadow creatures invade in the local, before going they summoned a portal. a portal 
 that came of twilight realm. they destroy the village and kidnap some children too. link can't 
 do nothing because he was fainted. when he get up, he run out the village to try catch the monsters. 
 when he entered at a shadow wave, he goes to twilight realm. what we see next is a wolf: link. 
 he is imprisioned at this strange word. is when midna appears to give strong in the hard moments. 
 with her help, link arrive in the royal room. there is the twilight princess, she says that she 
 is princess zelda, and than the game really start . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StCroixPSOP
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Ok, just to set this up I own the game but do not own a Wii. Sadly my funds were cut short of getting 
 one, but a friend got one so I played pretty much all Sunday.
  
  Ok lets start this off.
  
  Gameplay: Oh my, it is so much fun. I loved all the little details they added. From swinging 
 the Wiimote to make Link swing his sword, the combat, the puzzles, the people, riding Epona, basically 
 everything. The gameplay of it (from what I played) is great. It is fully what I expected it to 
 be and more.
  
  Graphics: Ok, this is for all the people who are saying this, The graphics suck, they look like 
 N64 or Everything is jagged or something like that, yeah the graphics are gonna be a little choppy 
 here and there becasue the Wii doesnt have the power that the PS3 or the 360 have to make everything 
 look super realistic, but it does extremely well for having a low graphics output. I personnaly 
 loved the graphics. I loved how realistic the water looked, the fire and smoke billowing out of 
 the lantern, the smoke coming off an enemy as you defeat them. I loved how great the townspeople 
 looked. From how smooth their textrues were to the range of emotions they showed.
  
  Sound: Ok this is for the people who are saying this as well, The sounds are just the same from 
 OoT or It has crappy audio or The music isnt that good or my personal favorite They need voiceovers 
 . Let me ask you this, do you want Nintendo to run the chance of picking someone to do the voices 
 and it not appeal to what we alll think Link should sound like or anyone else for that matter? 
 Need I remind you of the CDI voices or the cartoon? Do we really need another Well excuuuuuuuse 
 me Princess ? I thought the sounds were excellent, from the twang of the slingshot, to the hoof 
 beats of Epona, to the running water to the slight crackle of fire in a lit torch. The monsters 
 even have excellent sounds they make, walking/running, the faint flap of wings of the Keeses (bats) . 
 I swear I could even hear the Deku-babas slime ridden mouths smack in anticipation of eating Link. 
 I will admit I giggled like a girl when I heared the secret found music come from the Wiimote. 
 Sure the sound is gonna be alittle grainy coming from the small speaker of the Wiimote, but what 
 are you expecting from it, full surround sound? I even loved the hawk and horse whistles songs. 
 And the songs sound better than the originals of Oot (but you really cant beat those)
  
  Value: I say this is a definant must have game. Even if you have never played a LoZ game this is 
 one you should try out. It is a vast, somewhat lengthy action-adventure game that appeals to anyone 
 who is a LoZ fan or has never played one.
  
  Tilt: I will admit I am a true LoZ fan and know pretty much everything about the LoZ universe. 
 People ask what is your first game that you have played, well LoZ is my first and by far my favorite. 
 I have all kinds of LoZ pics, little toys, shirts, wristbands, all the games (except CDI) , I even 
 have a replica Mastersword that I got for my birthday and I plan on getting a triforce tattoo on 
 my hand to look like Links. So ya, I love this game and I dont understand how some people have 
 givine it a 6 or a 5 just because of one little thing like voice overs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyd_78
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  I really think GameSpot dropped the ball by allowing this game to be reviewed by it's most Nintendo-hating 
 editor. Watching any of his previous coverage of Wii, he would downplay any strengths and over 
 blow the weaknesses. I really think he's either just cynical by nature or a Sony fan-boy (his coverage 
 of Sony was just the opposite of Nintendo's) .
  
  That being said:
  
  Point #1: I don't want voice-over. Many other fans don't either. First off, there is the chance 
 of terrible voice acting (though not likely with this being a stellar franchise) . Secondly, it 
 has always had text. Even Windwaker which could have been the time to test it (new graphical style 
 and new sound!!!) didn't have it, so let's stay true to the series. Fans are used to reading, so 
 why not utilize the extra space for a larger dungeon which is what we all want anyway!
  
  Point #2: The music. I LOVE THE MUSIC. It is a nice blend of the orchestral sounds of modern games, 
 but then the lingering MIDI tracks remind me of earlier games. Who didn't play New Super Mario 
 Bros on the DS and not get nostalgic? Nuff said.
  
  Point #3: The graphics. Yes they are not up to par with 360 or PS3, but they are damn beautiful 
 anyway. Another review said they weren't even up to PS2 standards which begs me to say: when was 
 the last time you played a PS2 game? It REALLY looks outdated. Here, however we have the graphical 
 style of Ocarina of Time updated to better than GameCube graphics (it is not an exact port) with 
 a little bit of Tron thrown in for good measure. What could be better than that? It is really long 
 and fun to boot.
  
  I guess that's all I have to say. True Zelda fans will love it, other's will have fun entering 
 a new world with exciting characters and innovative gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtiansk8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  In LoZ game, the game-play is awesome. The graphics are not too good, but it's worth it, now that 
 Nintendo is providing more fun than PS3 graphics. I've played it yesterday at my friends house. 
 When you start the game, it's kind of boring because of all tha big dialogues, &amp; besides, you 
 don't have any cool items (sword, shield, fishing thing, etc...) , but, i mean, you should still 
 read everything, because then you will not know what to do. Once you get through the beginning 
 of the game, everything will be very cool. You will get a sword, you will get a fishing thing, 
 &amp; even you will transform into a wolf, &amp; kill bad guys. I put a 9.2 as a review, because, 
 even though this is a non PS3 graphics game, it has one of the best game-play ever (min. 40 hrs 
 to beat the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnugghuhx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  The addition of the Wii mote is fantastic. The only complaint I have is the stab move is not a 
 shove of the Wiimote forward. you have to slash the Wiimote and hold forward. The graphics are 
 lacking with out the component cables, but with them the graphics are fantastic. I think the gamespot 
 reviewer was looking for a Wii game even though he knew he was playing a well executed port. Why 
 he would lower the score because of this I have no idea. Look at all the other reviews. 9.7 average 
 from 17 websites. This is the best game to ever launch with a system. NOTHING feels dated or anything 
 like that. It feels familiar, it feels like hundreds of hours of fun I've had playing these games, 
 and it feels like Zelda. I mean, its Zelda, 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been gaming since 1986, and been a Zelda fan since 1988. I was as stoked for Wii's launch 
 as I was for the launch of SNES and clearly Zelda was going to be the bonefide 100% going to get 
 title with the Wii. I pre-ordered Zelda, Red Steel, and Rampage (Again OLD GAMER) with my console 
 and then sort of kicked back and waited, needless to say I was pleased with some of the 100% and 
 99% it was getting from the gaming media and when I finally took it home I was clearly stoked. 
 From a Story stance, its one that never gets old. Zelda needs to be saved Link is tasked to do 
 it and along the way you get tangled with with a mess of interesting characters such as Midna who 
 acts as your What am I suppose to do again reminder. The concept of clearing darkness from the 
 land and the way that the various area's nearly melt into eachother like butter are truly excellent, 
 taking me back to one of the first times I played Link to the Past where every area that I could 
 not enter would come back into play later into the game. Without giving too much away thus far 
 it really does bring you back to those awesome OOT and Link to the Past style storylines. Nintendo 
 kept it simple so that if you were a new gamers you would love it and if you were a classic gamer 
 you LOVED it. The aspect thus far which has really caught me off guard are the puzzles, there really 
 are few easy ones in this game, and Zelda has borrowed a page from some of those SIlent Hill Puzzles 
 that leave you wanting to throw your controller through your TV screen. The upside is once you 
 have solved some of the more trick aspects its very rewarding. My biggest complaint is the controls. 
 For the last two months I have sat back and been worried about if I would have an option to turn 
 off the swing function and play like I am use to. Lets face it. I have been playing with a controller 
 since Sega Master System, thats nearly 20 years if you are going to revolutionize the control system 
 ease me into it. Originally when I tried the Wii-Mote I was frustrated. As simple as Nintendo has 
 tried to make it I can see why Wii Sports was bundles as part of the Wii console, even though the 
 controls are not all that similar from say Bowling to Zelda I found that a few hours of Wii Sports 
 with the Family really helped me get use to this new controller right down to the right way to 
 hold the darn thing. When I got back to Zelda my means of control were much for functional but 
 by no means as enjoyable as Zelda's past. I am not saying the Game falls down, but lets face reality 
 here this game had been in the works for two years for gamecube and a gamecube style controlpad, 
 within the last few months they opt to not onlt bring it over to a new console but opt to add a 
 new control network.
  
  The designers should be given goldstars because the game is as functional as it is, but with that 
 said I can't help but wonder if I will enjoy the Gamecube version better soley because its a control 
 set-up that I am use to and will have a lot less of a learning curve then the Wii-Mote. Part of 
 me wishes that Nintendo gave the gamer the option of how to play it, because if I was not comfortable 
 with the way the Wii-Mote played on certain games I could just shut it off and be done with it. 
 Graphically, what I expected and more. Beautiful does not begin to cover this new world that Link 
 finds himself within. Maybe I am just too old school but Cell Shading never looked right and its 
 nice to see Link in a Darker more dirty enviroment doing what he does best. The character design 
 is good, a lot better then in the past where every second NPC looked very similar, there is a beautiful 
 blend of familiarity and change in the way the chracters as well as the enemies look, the perfect 
 Hybrid between OOT and something truly next gen. The Sky effects are one that are one of those 
 gems that you never really look at but are sort of cool in that hey look there is a crack in the 
 floor sort of way
  
  Each level looks simply stunning, there is nothing I can say more then that. They are unique, each 
 feels different, even when they are not. Its very much like all the areas of Link to the Past, 
 Really did enjoy the great detail that went from level to level.
  
  The question I have to ask is how does one score the graphics? They are stunning for a Zelda game, 
 but when compared to some of what PS3 or 360 are curning out its very hard to hold them side by 
 side and say that is as good or better.
  
  I will say this, where as it may not have horsepower, it has the detail and for that it gets all 
 my love. As we venture into the sound aspect, I found it interesting that this was such a matter 
 of choice from review to review that I have read. There was little consistancy on the way this 
 aspect was reviewed. From my personal stance, I LOVED the classics. The old school Zelda theme 
 was cleaned up a little bit and carted out which made me think back to the first time I tossed 
 that gold cart into my NES. But perhaps I am too demanding but with the score that Final Fantasy 
 XII offered me, would it have killed Nintendo to break out the full Orchestra and give me a more 
 modern and 2006 feel on the soundtrack of the game. I know classic is what they were aiming for 
 but there are ways to make whats old feel new again. That NES Zelda theme was the first GREAT soundtrack 
 in the history of gaming it would be nice if TP had gone to the same lengths as say Square/Enix 
 go with their games and the importantce that they place on the sound and soundtrack issues.
  
  As for in game sound, always well done. I really do not have to say more then its a Zelda game, 
 of course the weapons and such sound great. As for the value, From what I have read I have something 
 like 25 hours to go and honestly I could see it being far more then that. The beauty of a game 
 like Zelda is that its not falsely long, you don't spend hours in transit between locations which 
 falsely bring up the game clock its all meat and its all awesome. As for the replay, I don't see 
 me wanting to play it again when I am done, but we are talking a 40-50 hour Action game here? I 
 mean who cares about replay at that point, much like OOT I am sure I will toss it in a few years 
 down the line and love it. Overall, its a great game. If you own a Wii, you HAVE to own this game 
 there is no doubt about it. Nintendo has simply made the jewel that is Zelda shine all that more 
 with this title. Aside from the issues with the controls which I am sure will be more worked out 
 by the time the next Zelda for Wii is on the market.
  
  Simply said its a darkhorse for game of the year, and there is no reason not to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T1010011
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Im writing this review because I think that Game Spots one is full of spoilers so..
  
  The first Thing you should know about Twilight Princess is that there are two versions of it one 
 for Game Cube and another for Wii both equal except for the controller scheme and that they are 
 mirrored (what's in the left in one game is in the right in the other)
  
  Maybe the most interesting thing about the Wii version is it's innovative controller scheme, where 
 you use the Wii's remote to swing with Link's sword an aim for long range weapons and the nunchuk 
 is used for shield bashing, spin attack and to move the character. At this point you should be 
 asking yourself if you would have to shake your arms like a monkey and get tired. But that is just 
 not true the Wii controller (if well configured) is very accurate and you have to do only minimal 
 moves to play. In truth having to move your arms seems more rewarding at the end of a fight than 
 just pressing a button .The only concern is about the lack of a free camera mode that could have 
 helped in some points. Getting for this a 9.
  
  UPDATE: There are a lot of glitches in this game some fun some disappointing (including a game ending 
 one) there are things that a simple revision could have solved, showing to us that even with an 
 extra year of developing Nintendo gave us a rushed game thats somehow disappointing . For this 
 Im lowering the game play score to 8
  
  About the graphics, those are certainly the best of Game Cube history and the best of a Wii game 
 at the moment. The direction of art is flawless and you will get yourself staring at astonishing 
 trees several times... But this graphics can't be compared to the ones we have been seeing in Xbox 
 360
  I personally think that comparison between consoles shouldnt be made. But even Nintendo saying 
 that wouldnt make any graphical improvements in the Wii version this is certainly not the console's 
 best. Worths another 9.
  
  The sound is a instant new classic for first time Zelda players and very familiar for long date 
 players of the series. Is not entirely orchestrated as Nintendo promised having some MIDI tracks 
 but they still very good and doesn't lower the experience. Takes a 9
  
  The game takes more or less 40h to be ended without any side quests done I calc that you should 
 need about 60h to complete it with 100% ( all items and heart pieces) and you need to end it at 
 least two times to enjoy it in it's fullness. Getting a tilt of 10
  
  Twilight Princess has the deepest history of all Zelda games you easily get involved with the characters 
 and their problems making you really want to help them and therefore all the sub quests articulate 
 and contribute to the main history in overall theres nothing put there by accident ad it really 
 deserves a 10 for it's value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbear81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  No game can beat this game. In The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, you have to use your fighting 
 skills, although you do not need to be as drastic as they are in some videos. All you have to do 
 is just wave the Wii controller but you should make it look like you are actually sword fighting. 
 This game as good graphics and great gameplay and music. In game it gives you hits on how to play, 
 which is useful sometimes. There are some peaceful times and then there is just fighting for 10 
 minutes, even more. The sound is right at your face, with the Wii controller. The game story is 
 like a mix of all the Zelda games, making it interesting. The price is good, but it may be hard 
 to find so I suggest you go out now and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_riku
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  It is a game that fully immerses you into the world of Zelda... I've never felt more interacted 
 in a game then when I'm fishing and casting my line or when I'm pulling my bow string and releasing 
 on my own!! I never thought that home consoles would ever be this immersive this early on in the 
 World but I'm lucky I got to live to see all this happen and look I'm only 17 which means I might 
 even make it to those consoles where people really stand up and swing virtual swords and feel themselves 
 get hit!! I mean we are so close to that and I believe it even more after I played this awesome 
 game... the Zelda series never felt more alive than when this game was born into the WORLD of Wii... 
 WoohOO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  The first 30 minutes of play didn't feel like a Zelda game, so I started thinking Jeff could be 
 right, but then I got my tunic, and headed into the forest temple and it was just like old times. 
 Well done Nintendo. A perfect way to start an incredible run for the wii. Everyone should try this 
 game. I think this and Red Steel are the heavy hitters for the wii launch, but Super Mario will 
 be back before we know it! Until then, Hail the Twilight Princess! And Hail Nintendo! The Wii Is 
 fabulous by the way!!! So responsive, so accurate, and being able to dive behind couch's and jump 
 over chairs when playing Red Steel is just so cool!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alday_316
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  To keep this review short and sweet, Zelda Twilight Princess is the Resident Evil 4 of 2006. Its 
 gameplay is revolutionary; If youre looking for the most enjoyable game to play ever (yes even 
 moreso than Halo with the exception of multiplayer, of course) play this game. It retains the same 
 old Zelda feel to it while implying new and innovative content. The graphics are alright; nothing 
 great, but nothing bad either. Basically a REALLY awesome GameCube game (graphically) , but a poor 
 next-gen title, but then again the Wii isnt a true next-gen system (graphically) . The sound is 
 alright, not as bad as most people make it seem by bashing Nintendo. The music is moody and helps 
 you get more into the game. Sounds effects are pretty spiffy, if you ask me. The only thing I find 
 kinda odd is the speaker on the Wii remote. The effects on that DO sound kinda cheap and are just 
 plain irrelevant. Lasting appeal is tremendous if you havent passed it already (which I dont think 
 you have) , but I cant say much cuz I havent passed it either. Im in the begenning stages where 
 Link is in the Forest Temple. In all, from what ive played, The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess 
 is THE Nintendo Wii game to own this holiday season. If you have a Wii, but dont have Zelda... youre 
 an idiot. Also, this game is at about the same level as Ocarina of Time, id say. I cant help but 
 get that old Ocarina of Time feeling as I play Twilight Princess. Majora's Mask gave me that same 
 feeling, but thats where it ended. The Windwaker was a huge letdown to me even though it wasnt 
 a bad game at all... it just didnt give me that old feeling that I had with Ocarina and Majora.... and 
 now Twilight Princess. 9.5 out of 10; must buy. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  It was Spaceworld 2000 and everyone, literally everyone asked the question, What's after Majora's 
 Mask? Well, Nintendo just unveiled its new console, the Gamecube and showed a demonstration of 
 what the machine was capable of. On the screens of kiosks and projectors, showed the famed Zelda 
 demo, which got everyone excited until... plop. Celda came along and shocked the fanbase. While 
 Windwaker was still fun, it's cartoon look and kiddish overtone could not have been anymore blatant. 
 And soon, Nintendo heard the words of the pleading fans: Realism! 
  
  Nintendo then bowed once more at E3 2004 to unveil it's latest project for the Gamecube. A new 
 realistic Zelda, that was to be released more than a year ago because of development fluctuation, 
 has finally been released on Nintendo's next generation console, Wii. So how does it fare with 
 the franchise? In a matter of only a few words, Twilight Princess will go down in history as one 
 of the greatest games ever created.
  
  Gameplay:
  Absolutely intrinsic. Very natural to handle. You can pick up the controller and automatically 
 tell what is what. The game's complexity has drastically decreased because of the Wii remote, which 
 really makes the whole experience so much better than just pushing buttons. The game is definitely 
 challenging which makes any die hard fan, jump in glee. The aiming is extremely well executed and 
 very precise. No jumpy controls and powerful story to make the game's immersion just obliteratingly 
 upclose and personal. You can almost feel a connection between Link and you. This is the definition 
 of great, intuitive gameplay. Not to mention that Twilight Princess is chock full of gameplay, 
 with over 70-75 hours of main gameplay. So in other words, this game is not for the faint of heart.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Easily one of the best looking games on the Wii so far. It has amazing bloom lighting effects and 
 HDR shaders that make the water sparkle and the sun rays brighten. It's just an amazing upgrade 
 to the Windwaker engine. While this is just a gamecube game with Wii controls, this game looks 
 better than many other Wii games that were built from ground up. And it's a solid masterpiece for 
 any Gamecube title. While the textures and polygon count are noticeable factors to see how much 
 of a gamecube game it is, the graphics are still just amazing because no one has ever seen Link 
 in this form on the Gamecube. Ever.
  
  Sound:
  While it only uses Dolby Pro Logic II, the vast array of sounds truly add to the sense of being 
 one with the game. You are connected and are completely immersified in the game just because of 
 this factor. Now, the music could have been more varied using Orchestra, as there were only a few 
 orchestrated pieces in the game, but regardless, the MIDI soundtrack was also amazing as well. 
 Koji Kondo does a fine job making digital music and Zelda is just another game to prove my opinion 
 right. Value:
  This is worth the 50 bucks you spent on it. Hands Down. This is definitely a system seller and 
 it will most likely be worth every penny spent on this game. For the time it takes to finish the 
 game, I'm appalled that Zelda was not more than 50 greens. Every Zelda has had great replay value. 
 This one is absolutely no different. People can automatically get back into the game after beating 
 it for the 15th time and I can assure you that that person will still get stuck on some part. This 
 is definitely a bargain breaker.
  
  Overall:
  Zelda for the Wii has jumped great lengths and while it has taken 220 developers over 3 years to 
 make this game, it is definitely well worth the wait. Truly, no honest answer could ever be more 
 sincere about the sheer power of this game. The achievements that have been made truly reflect 
 the time and love spent on this game to be made. Every footstep is heard, every expression on the 
 face is seen, every story in Zelda is compelling and riveting. And most importantly, the gameplay 
 is by far the best accomplishment on any game so far. Now, I'm not being unfair, because I love 
 all systems. All games and all consoles are extremely appealing. However, Wii is the only console 
 with one of the greatest games of all time. Make way for the new king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmaster64
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  It's not hard to tell that Jeff's little review is complete BS. You can look at every other review 
 on earth and see that. But you won't realize just how wrong he was until you play this game.
  
  The game is beautiful, last-gen or not. The model's are very well done, and Link especially 
 is just an example of pure perfection in character design. The world is vast and lush, and I can't 
 find any complaints to be had in presentation or graphics myself.
  
  Gameplay wise, some people (not sane ones mind you) complain a lot about it being just another 
 Ocarina of Time. And certainly, the gameplay comes directly from it's predecessor. However, don't 
 think that's all there is. No, Nintendo knew that what defined Zelda was innovation in each game. 
 There's always some new element. Well, in TP, there's a LOT of new elements.
  
  Most notable of course is your wolf transformation, which serves as a great change of pace to keep 
 the gameplay from getting repetitive. That, plus ample minigame like puzzles throughout the game 
 that are indeed quite fun. Then, throw in the Wiimote and completely revamp the controls and you've 
 got yourself something above and beyond the greatness that was Ocarina of Time.
  
  If you go back and play Ocarina of Time, and then play Twilight Princess, it's quite obvious TP 
 is a true, amazing sequel to OoT. It's better all around. And considering Ocarina of Time has been 
 generally considered the greatest game of all time since it's release, what does that make TP? 
 Duh, the greatest game of all time! I said it, and I'll stick by it.
  
  Twilight Princess is a winner folks. No, THE winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is quite possibly the best Zelda game ever
  
  There is so much to do in this game. It takes 70+ hours for an EXPERT gamer to complete it, which 
 means this game will last a REALLY long time. The graphics are absolutely stunning.
  
  Turning into a wolf is really fun too and this game is not kiddy at all, which is why its rated 
 T for Teen now. This is definitely the darkest Zelda in the series.
  
  
  This is definitely the best launch game ever. Every other system didn't have a launch game like 
 this one. This game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  As most of my friends may already know, I am a huge fan of Zelda games. in TP, Link sets off, oblivious 
 to the dark fate that has descended upon the kingdom. When he enters the Twilight Realm that has 
 covered Hyrule, he transforms into a wolf and is captured. A mysterious figure named Midna helps 
 him break free, and with the aid of her magic, they set off to free the land from the shadows. 
 The game overall is amazing. Of course you know how wonderful the gameplay of Zelda games have 
 always been, nothing different in TP. Graphics are more then what you would expect from a wii, 
 beautiful designs. Overall, this was the best launch title of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shig
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  basically, this game is essential to anyone who loves zelda. it is the perfect addition to any 
 collection, and no aspect of the game at all will dissapoint. to heck with graphics, and voiceovers. 
 you dont need any of those to make zelda great, and this game just proves that. stood in line for 
 12 hours to get this and the Wii, and it is the best decision that i have ever made. get this game 
 and never let anyone tell you that it draws too much from the others, becuase it draws only enough 
 to bring back that nostalgia that will remind you of the good old days of zelda. well people, those 
 good old days are back. press average of 9.7, thats too low for my standards. gamespots review 
 was horrible, and if you look, it was the only site on the web to give it that low of a score. 
 so get this game, and cherish the experience, becuase when you are all done with it, you are going 
 to miss it immensly. perfect, that sums it all up. perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnknprk8912
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  game spot was too strict on the score it is much better than they say, its a great game w/ good 
 graphics. best game for the wii hands down. sounds great. cheaper than new 360' and ps3 games. 
 the motion controllers takes time getting use to, but really fun. not that repetitive. one of the 
 best zelda games along with link to the past and ocarina of time. MUST BUY!!!! worth buying the 
 wii just for the game and the experience. Graphics are just as good without the HD. overall the 
 graphics, sound, and the gameplay are what you would expect from nintendo and the Zelda franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Aside from Zelda, the Wii is simply the best console I have ever played. This review isn't about 
 the Wii though; it's about Zelda. While graphically lacking.. It more than makes up for it with 
 intuitive, innovative and simplistic controls. The gameplay is rumored around 60-70 hours story 
 mode and something like 100 with side quests added on; that's simply insane. This game will have 
 you at utmost attention for days, if not weeks on end. What to expect: A good guide on how to control 
 the game, so you're not left out, swinging your controller like a retarded fish monkey. You'll 
 pick up the game controls quickly, but don't expect to jump in to one of your friend's savegames 
 and be able to conquer the game easily from then on out. I'm fairly certain that every person who 
 was at the Wii launch last night at walmart walked out with a Wii (well, those who could get one 
 anyways) and Zelda. Play this game. I wrote a HUGE review of this game &amp; the Wii at my site 
 located below:
  http://retral. org/news/comments. php? id=50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off as all of the others did your a boy ( teenager in this one) and you live in 
 a small villiage . While playing the game and going through all of the basics with the controllers 
 ( which was awsome) I noticed that the microphone in the controller really isnt that good . It 
 DOES have a muffled sound while it goes off ... The graphics in this game are just spectacular 
 . looking at the environment made me pause from my journey in the game to just look around in the 
 game and noticing how great the water and other things were made . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eman781
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, this game is great for an N64 game, but I mean come on, gamespot has a point. The presentation 
 of this game is ancient, from the synthesized music to the endless scrolling through text like 
 an early 90s computer game. Haven't any of you played Resident Evil 4? Nintendo has ignored some 
 very important standards that they should have lived up to. Where is the ingenuity they are always 
 bragging about? Of course it is a good game, as any Zelda game is, but as time passes and new consoles 
 arrive we must expect SOMETHING more, if not much. THE CHARACTERS SPEAK IN TEXT!!!!!!!???? Un freakin 
 believable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best Launch game ever. People quickly fell in love with the 3D concept 
 when it appeared on the N64, which was Ocarina of Time.
  
  For years people have been waiting for another Zelda game like Ocarina of time, but that time has 
 come, and it here. Those die hard Nintendo Fans, and Zelda fans should pick this game up if you 
 were able to pick up a Wii (11/19/06) .
  
  Gameplay: Everything that you expected from the past Zelda games such as OoT is here and there 
 is more. I have been playing this game all day, I feel that I done so much, but at the same time 
 I barely hit the main story. The world is huge which you'll like it as you'll try to discover every 
 corner of the game.
  
  Graphics: So I own Gears of War, the graphics are great, but graphics dont make the game Perfect. 
 And it seems that many people now a days think graphics makes the game perfect, they are so wrong. 
 Though not like Gears of War, this games graphic are still great. Colorful and nicely detailed.
 
  
  Sound: Really nice, dont know how to say it............. wait it feels like your right in the game. 
 Though no voice acting as some people would have wanted it to be, its perfect on how it is.
  
  Value: for 54 dollars and many hours of gameplay. Its money well spent.
  
  People have 
 bashed on the Wii's controller, Twilight Princess makes great use of the Wii's controller and is 
 easy to adapt and really easy to get used to, as the old saying goes Dont judge a book by its cover 
 . Buy this game, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShanghaiKid2007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  the legend of zelda is definitely a prestigious series that has lasted for almost 20 years. it 
 is the best critically acclaimed video game series of all time and this is no exception. the story 
 promises so much that it's breathtaking. you start off as one of the most prominent horse-riders 
 in all hyrule living in ordon village. after you become a wolf in the presence of a mysterious 
 evil, called twilight, you gradually learn more about hyrule's current state. the twilight king 
 has forced princess zelda to surrender her kingdom and now he is able to spread the twilight through 
 all of hyrule and farther. you are the chosen one with the triforce of courage who will rise to 
 defeat the twilight king. thats the basic story of the game. now i'll tell you about the game's 
 parts:
  
  gameplay: the wii remote and nunchuk are a bit weird to play with at first but after about 30-60 
 minutes, it gets pretty fun especially when you learn how to use the sword. aiming will definitely 
 be a bit difficult but thats the way it should be. it is easy to see, however that the game controls 
 well 90% percent of the time which is good.
  
  graphics: they are quite beautiful, especially with a wii component cable. the scenery is amazing, 
 the detail put into facial expressions, environments, and everything else is astounding. its beautiful 
 to look at.
  
  sound: there is a lot of old music from the series as well as new. both are extremely well suited 
 to their corresponding parts of the game and are wonderfully orchestrated. the sounds of the characters 
 and the sword attacks are all really great too especially with the speaker in the wii remote.
 
  
  value: the game promises to be epic and i can see that it is a very true promise. i've played a 
 lot and i don't feel like i'm anywhere near the end of the game. this legend of zelda will definitely 
 be up to epic proportions as large as the ocarina of time.
  
  tilt: well, i love zelda, so i'm biased in this respect but i can't help it. zelda is the best 
 video-gaming series ever and deserves my devoted love i guess. playing this game will the be best 
 experience i've had since the wind waker came out. my conclusion for you is to buy this game right 
 now and the wii is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmorman13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best Zelda game to date, and that is saying something since Ocarina of Time was also 
 incredible. I cant wait for NIntendo to come out with the next one. ALso a great integration of 
 the Wii mote, if the rest of the Wii's games are anything like this i can see it out selling ps3 
 and Xbox 360. I also really like the interface, it allows people that are new to the Zelda series 
 to catch on, while at the dame time not being too distracting to old fans. Although the WIi doesnt 
 have the stongest graphics, its revolutionary gamplay and great games (like this one) give it my 
 vote over each of the other next generation game consouls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I am the biggest zelda fanboy there is but I am not about to give this game a 10 because I love 
 Zelda. The graphics are ok. They arent next gen by any means but they look nice. Kind of like how 
 Resident Evil 4 looked on Gamecube. The game uses the motion sensor really nicely with the fishing 
 pole, sling shot, bow, etc. I really love how this game uses the same music from the N64 Zelda 
 games. I also would have liked some character speech instead of having to read everything like 
 we did in Zelda (1998) . Anyways, this is a must for any Zelda fan and you wont be dissappointed. 
 Just dont expect PS3 or 360 type graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  1st of all, ignore what the Gamespot reviewer said (I think hes hardcore xbox fan) . (Look and see 
 that other sites gave it 9.5 or above)
  
  This game is the best Zelda game, and the best Wii game so far. Its graphics are some of the best 
 for a Wii and the gameplay is some of the best youll find these days. The dungeons are increadible 
 and all the new areas give a new and astonishing feel. The control also fits perfectly for the 
 game, and I thought it would suck.
  
  If your a fan of the series you will find this to be the best title so far, and if your not, you 
 will still love it and probably rate it higher than the review GS gave.
  
  This is increadible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonPan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  For those who are worried about the controls, they may not be perfect but they will make you never 
 want to go back and you just cant stop playing.
  
  I have always loved the Zelda series and Orcarina of time was my favourite game of all time but 
 I have got to say, Move Over Orcarina OF time, I have a new favourite!! The gameplay is great, 
 the deep story is BETTER and the graphics is beautiful and very detailed!!
  
  The last thing I would say is that Twilight Princess is the best Zelda game and in my opinion the 
 best gamer EVER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsomeo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  In this legend of zelda it brings many elements from the classic zelda (ocarina of time) as well 
 as many new items and skillz from newer versions of zelda games like windwaker and majoras mask. 
 For players of older zelda games they will like this new one with it inovative puzzles and control 
 system with the wii contreller. The sound of this zelda is much like those of the older verions.... crisp 
 soudning and adds a good tone and feeling to the situation that your in. the graphics are very good. 
 its a very dark setting with a much more mature lokking feel which is a nice transition over other 
 zeldas. This game is definatly worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: TP is one of the best or the best Zelda game out there. Quickly in the game you begin 
 using Epona and later on you use Wolf Link. There is a large variety of items which you can use. 
 A cool feature is that you can ride Epona and attack at the same time, also attack while walking. 
 The game also includes alot of minigames and side quests, such as sumo wrestling with the gorons 
 and fishing. The game alone with the story line is amazing, the world is engulfed in twilight and 
 you must save it. The game is different from other Zelda games, it is more dark, as in evil, in 
 the game you can play alot of melodies, instead of having an ocarina or a wind waker, you have 
 the howl, but you can also whistle with grass, making tunes from past games. I wont say more since 
 I dont want to spoil you.
  
  Visuals: The game has good graphics and on top of that, the world are HUGE, it could take more 
 than 30mins. to cross Hyrule town and alot more time to change from worlds to worlds. The presentation 
 is good, but if you check really close, the rocks look all dull and the tries are like plain sometimes, 
 but that wont be a problem.
  
  Sound: As every other Zelda game, amazing. You have the sound coming from your tv plus the sound 
 coming from the Wiimote, so that's cool. What bugged alot of gamers is, that it is like the other 
 Zelda games, no dialog! Just some random sounds from the people, like Hey and stuff. The music 
 is great and the sound from the animals/monsters is also great.
  
  Overral: The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is a must try for any Wii owner and a must buy for 
 any Zelda fan. The game is very long and the presentation is very good, very actiony, very envolving, 
 very cool. Now stop reading this review and go try it out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  i compleatley disagree with gamespots review. and calling the game aged for bad reasons is stupid, 
 the game acts like its older vershions they kick ed so much ass . well aney ways : the game play 
 is really fun.... but for the most part not compleatly diffrent its simpal and eazy to get used 
 to quickley and the wii elemients such as fishing and sword play are quite fun. as for the graficks 
 they arent supepream but they are very nice and fluid and they have a great artistick sence to 
 them. as for the sound i can agree with game spot the sounds that come out of the wii mote are 
 prety lame for the most part. in all this is a super fun game that every one should play, and its 
 a very good experience on the wii. every one with a wii should get it for sure . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Underdose_
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  The game is just amazing. All the time we had to wait eventually paid off, a game that just combine 
 the best from all the previous Zelda games. We see an adult link witch has a lot of expressiveness 
 like in wind waker, Ive played about 8 hours so far and I am more than pleased. This is truly 
 a master piece yet the only thing that I think it lacks off is the use of synthesize music, with 
 the wii capabilities we deserve better, yet we wave to remember this is a ported GCN game. Aounuma 
 u made it, im a Zelda fan since NES and this is so far the best game in the Series. Good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xsk8erdrummerX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the games I have ever played. The controls are amazing, the story is 
 much darker and deeper, they take the cinematics more seriously, and the world in this one is huge.
 
  
  Now you can sumo wrestle a fat guy, herd sheep things, FISH again!!!! and epona and hyrule are 
 back. Now I haven't beaten this game yet, but so far it is amazing! The only problem I have with 
 this game are the graphics, they're good but I think they could of put a little bit more effort 
 in to them, like the backgrounds, but the graphics in the cinematics are great.
  
  The big gameplay difference in this one now is the remote, hacking while running, sword fighting 
 on horseback and of course the fishing, and all these are alot better and of the bosses are more 
 evil and just as big as they were.
  
  When people talk they still don't actually talk, you have to read the text, although the music 
 is great, some of the new songs are really dark and evil.
  
  Well I recommend buying it NOT renting this game, cause it is absolutly amazing!
  
  *Gamespot 
 you underrated this game* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I've played Zelda ever since the original came out for the NES 20 years ago and I gotta say, Twighlight 
 Princess surpasses Ocarina of Time and A Link to the Past as the best in the series.
  
  The land of Hyrule is friggin' massive in this game. The story is fantastic and the new Wiimote 
 allows for a new, very impressive gaming experience.
  
  The best Jeff Gertsman and GS could give this epic masterpiece is an 8.8/10? I'm appauled.
  
 
  If your planning on getting a Wii, there's no way you should miss out on Twighlight Princess.
 
  
  Anyways, I got some more playing to do. Later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess is the latest and greatest entry in Nintendo's long running 
 Zelda franchise. In truth there aren't many new things that this game brings to the table, but 
 what it does bring is pretty much perfected.
  
  You start off like in many of the past entries. Without spoiling too much, evil is here, Link must 
 banish it. Thats pretty much how it goes for all the games and its no different here. The plot 
 presented here isn't too shabby, but its not that great or memorable either. The real meat of the 
 game comes from the gameplay and boy is it fantastic.
  
  The game plays like other 3D entries of the series (ocarina, majora's mask, windwaker) so those 
 who have already played those should feel right at home. You control Link via analog stick, while 
 the wiimote handles the slashing and aiming for boomerangs etc. In short, the new Wii controls 
 work great. You'll find plenty to do in the game aside from the main quest in the form of various 
 mini games and sub quests. 
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. I don't know what people hating on the games graphics are talking 
 about but its nothing short of a masterpiece. Technically, the graphics maybe are a bit lacking, 
 with blurry textures here and there. But artistically, its just about second to none. Fantastic 
 use of color, and the overall art design and aesthetic of the whole game is just really really 
 nice. The game goes with a more realistic look, but still manages to look great. It makes use of 
 some realistic lighting and water effects that really add to the immersion. The attention to detail 
 is immaculate.
  
  The sound department maybe isn't quite as good. While I'm all for a midi sound track, the tunes 
 in this game just aren't that good. Great music can still come out of midi but in twilight princess' 
 case, none of the tracks are nearly as memorable as those in past entries.
  
  Even so, the whole game is chock full of greatness. There are some great gameplay mechanics and 
 the puzzles are well thought out. So really, this game is Zelda at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sino-soviet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Having been in the whirlwind of controversy surrounding Jeff Gerstmann's review and initially having 
 doubts about its professionalism and his integrity, I believe he was not as far off the mark as 
 some of us would like to admit. For the five to ten hours which I have experienced, the New Zelda 
 is an outstanding game in some respects yethas a few minor flaws which seem dispointing considering 
 the relative ease of fixing that Nintendo could have implemented to create a truly legendary game. 
 Having said what I have so far, I would like to make one point abundantly clear: I am judging this 
 as both a next generation game and a old generation game. I'm not going to give it low graphics 
 solely because it is running on Gamecube hardware, but rather am going to try to take everything 
 into account as best as I can.
  
  Gameplay - The first dungeon was designed exceptionally well and the world is very artfully executed. 
 I am inclined to think that the dungeons in the whole game will be masterfully done as we have 
 come to expect from a Zelda game. The characters are deep and engaging even without the voice acting, 
 and the story has held my interest far more than any other Zelda. However, the Wii remote is a 
 bit gimmicky I am afraid to admit. It doesn't have the finesse and the overall effectiveness of 
 a regular controller, but this is solely my opinion and I am aware that many have disagreed with 
 me. I would give this category a 10 if it was a regular controller, for although it is essentially 
 ocarina with new features and concepts and mechanics, OOT has better gameplay than many newer, 
 more modern games.
  
  Graphics - Lush and vivid. Although not very sharp such as PS3 graphics, this was to be expected, 
 and I gurantee no graphically superior game has a world as masterfully and artfully executed. Sound 
 - Yes, it is in Midi, but I prefer it this way. I don't see what the big deal about Midi is anyway; 
 what is so amazing about a full orchestral soundtrack? I love electronic music and I think the 
 sounds are just fine. The classic Zelda tunes are all back and better than ever. Remember stepping 
 into Gerudo Valley for the first time and hearing that spanish guitar like music? The same quality 
 is back again.
  
  Value - I cannot pass judgement on this, but I will say the world is very large for an adventure 
 game. I'll take the average estimate of 60 hours for main game and many more for sidequests and 
 extras.
  
  Tilt - Nothing to say except its very enjoyable, despite a lack of voice acting and the less than 
 stellar Wii controls. In closing, I would like to say that the new Zelda does not disappoint. Thise 
 expecting something revolutionary will be let down. However, those expecting the same masterfully 
 executed dungeons, epic boss battles, large expansive world, and pure gaming heart and soul will 
 not be. I cannot lie; this game was a Gamecube game and I would give it a 9.5 if it were not for 
 the Wii remote, but many will disagree. However, as it stands, it is an excellent Wii launch title 
 and a faithful follow up to one of the greatest games of the last decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Out of all launch games for the Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, is the most hyped. 
 And the game is worth the wait. The controls will indeed take some getting use to, but when you 
 do know how to move and attack, you start on a grand adventure. With challenging puzzles, that 
 make your brain actually think, you will find yourself stuck until thinking, OH, that's what I'm 
 supposed to do. The character designs are absolutely fantastic, and original, and the amount of 
 detail is staggering. With innovative game-play due to the wii remote, and quality graphics, this 
 is turning out to be the best Zelda since Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
