-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Spyro: The Eternal Night
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thelegendofspyrotheeternalnight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Special attacks and slow motion sometimes come together to make for fun moments.
 Lovely soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Constant knockback attacks make the difficulty frustratingly inconsistent.
 Awkward controls.
 Slow-motion mechanic is unnecessary and improperly balanced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.4, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spyro continues his quest for mediocrity in yet another frustrating, unoriginal adventure. 

 
  Spyro's been a shadow of his former self for years now, so it's perhaps unsurprising that his 
 most recent foray onto the Wii and PlayStation 2 is not an amusing one. The game tries so hard 
 to be likeable, but its humor is forced while its gameplay is both plodding and shallow. The game 
 also throws in new and unnecessary gameplay elements while failing to offer anything truly refined. 
 Spyro and his game have reached an awkward adolescence, and the resulting identity crisis is both 
 frustrating to participate in and awkward to witness.  

           Familiarity breeds contempt. And this looks familiar.      

  The end of Eternal Night's 
 predecessor, A New Beginning, left Spyro mostly bereft of his powers and the Dark Master on the 
 loose. This time around, Gaul and his Ape army are up to no good, holding Cynder captive and seeking 
 to revive Spyro's archenemy. The titular hero is again joined by Sparx the dragonfly, this time 
 annoyingly voiced by a barely funny Billy West -- though in the actor's defense, the bland script 
 gives him little more than overused clichs with which to work. Gary Oldman and Elijah Wood are 
 back as well, though Wood sounds even sleepier now than before, delivering more fake enthusiasm 
 than a used-car salesman. If you played New Beginning and are intent on following this planned 
 trilogy to the end, Eternal Night serves its purpose, though newcomers will probably just be confused 
 without the necessary context. Neophytes and returning fans alike will be annoyed by the constant, 
 often unskippable small cutscenes that take you out of the action, as well as the abrupt and jarring 
 end to almost every cinematic.  

  As if to match Wood's self-conscious delivery, Eternal Night's gameplay never feels all that comfortable. 
 This is a combat-heavy platformer, so you'll often need to handle a good number of cookie-cutter 
 enemies at once. Spyro's tail attack is your basic combat move, though over the course of the game, 
 you'll gain access to new elemental attacks in four different categories and string them together 
 into various combos. The special attacks will likely elicit dj vu for returning fans, with the 
 exception of the newly introduced bullet time -- or if you want to be technical,  dragon  time. Indeed, 
 you can now slow down time for a few moments, though this element is simply another example of 
 how  more  rarely means  better . You'll need to use dragon time often, sometimes for solving a 
 handful of simplistic puzzles, but more often than not, just to stay alive.  

  Sadly, the time-slowing mechanic, already a video game clich, never works all that well here because 
 developer Krome Studios tried to balance out the ease of bullet-time combat by making Spyro ultravulnerable 
 to attack. It only takes five or six standard hits (and just a couple from the more potent enemies) 
 for Spyro to shuffle off this mortal coil, which makes combat outside of dragon time needlessly 
 frustrating. Nothing feels properly balanced: You often need to wait for animations to finish after 
 combos are done so you can deliver another attack while many enemies deliver a multitude of knockback 
 and stun attacks at once that leave you powerless to counter. The game simply demands that you 
 use dragon time and punishes you when you don't use it with cheap deaths. When things kick into 
 high gear, there are some entertaining moments to be had when you manage to string attacks together 
 while kicking into slow motion, but these feel more like accidents -- the product of selecting the 
 right abilities at the right time.  

  The platforming elements also fall short of expectations because Spyro doesn't feel very agile. 
 His double jumping is the worst culprit here. Because the available window of time between the 
 first and second jump is hard to get a handle on, you'll often find yourself vainly attempting 
 the second jump only to fall because you pressed the button a hair too late. There are also places 
 you can get to that very obviously were never meant for you to jump on, so you'll slide off things 
 from time to time as if they are coated with motor oil. And as in New Beginning, Spyro doesn't 
 handle very well when he's airborne. Spyro's awkwardness may approximate the clumsiness of a juvenile 
 dragon, but it isn't that much fun for the player. A platformer lives or dies by the effortlessness 
 of its controls, but the frequent knockbacks, inelegant jumping, and overall frequency with which 
 a button press has no onscreen result, make Spyro feel more like a sack of flour than a nimble 
 dragon.  

           Whoa-oh-oh, Im on fire.      

  The visuals are colorful and full of particle effects, but they too suffer from a lack of character, 
 relying on tired level design, as well as repetitive enemy models (you know, the ones you saw in 
 the last game) . Some environments are lovely to look at, while others suffer from a low polygon 
 count and oversaturated colors. Animations are a little stiff too, which contributes to the overall 
 gawkiness. As previously mentioned, the all-star cast's delivery lacks zeal, though the pretty 
 soundtrack does an admirable job of setting a properly fantastical tone.  

  The Wii version allows you to swing the Wii Remote around for attacks and has some other basic 
 motion controls, though using the Wii Remote's control pad to control the camera is less intuitive 
 than the more standard analog-stick controls on the PS2. Otherwise, both versions are essentially 
 the same, but only die-hard Spyro fans are likely to elicit much enjoyment from either of them. 
 This dragon is not a boy anymore -- yet not a grown-up either. Unless the series can find an identity, 
 it seems destined to continue its total irrelevance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 4- If you liked the first game, you might play this; if only to fill in story holes between 
 games one and three, but even then its hard to even sit through it all. The button-mashing combat 
 is back, this time with some reasons to use more than the fire breaths the whole game, but offsetting 
 this is a lot of cheap deaths resulting from enemies knockback attacks. They can keep pummeling 
 you while Spyro tries to recover, so you wont have any chance. Not to mention Spyro has no HP or 
 the enemies hit real hard.
  
  The game's difficulty is at times maddening: cheap deaths as mentioned above, and another huge 
 problem is that half the time the double jump move will not execute unless the button is pressed 
 within a certain time frame. And why does almost every jumping sequence have to be on tree braches, 
 boards, etc that break off the moment you step on them?
  
  Dragon Time ability is required to progress in several cases, with many of those cases boss fights. 
 Or you will use it just so you wont die from another million attacks coming at you.
  
  I also cant stand ranged attack enemies that have perfect aim from a mile away (if you dont move) , 
 can project the said projectiles through walls or trees, and cant be killed unless you go out of 
 your way to.
  
  Graphics 6- Pretty much everything is recycled from the first game. You would think that going 
 from PS2 to Wii there might be a slight polygon increase.
  
  Sound 7- Best thing about this game is the music. Sound effects are mostly recycled, and I must 
 say I liked Sparx's first voice actor a lot more.
  
  Fun Factor 4- If swearing constantly due to frequent [cheap] deaths, or the jumping sequences- 
 especially when double jump doesnt execute- is fun, then this game is a masterpiece at it.
  
  Replay Value 5- If you somehow manage to keep your sanity after going through the game, you 
 can go through it again with your same stats and a special surprise.
  
  My Final Score- 26/50 - 5.2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kitsune-
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  I started the Legend of Spyro series with Dawn of the Dragon and, having enjoyed that game (despite 
 its flaws) , I decided to pick this one up to get some of the backstory. I found that this previous 
 installment was frustrating to the point of being nearly unplayable.
  
  In a platforming series like Spyro, one would expect to find some decent jumping and gliding sections 
 at least, but there's no chance of that here thanks to broken game mechanics. In order to perform 
 a double jump, for example, you must press the jump button twice within a very small window of 
 time. Failing to time the button presses exactly will reward you with a scene of the purple dragon 
 falling to his death, often followed by a smarmy remark from his companion, Sparx. Another platforming 
 issue is that Spyro seems to be able to grab onto some ledges but not onto others, and the only 
 way to find out is to fly over to one. Even if you manage to make it to a ledge, Spyro may simply 
 slide right off anyway if you don't plant yourself in the exact center of the thing. Dragon-time, 
 (ie bullet time) is also used often in these sequences, and running out of it in the middle of 
 one is jarring and often deadly.
  
  Combat in this game is the reason you should wear the wrist strap on the wii remote, because I 
 guarantee you will want to hurl it into the T. V. Enemies are extraordinarily cheap: they hit you 
 when you're down (often stunning you multiple times) , they hit you when you're in the middle of 
 performing a combo on them, they knock you back all the time (sometimes off ledges) , and they throw 
 things at you while you're trying one of the already aggravating platforming sections. Oh, and 
 let's not forget that Spyro can only take a few hits from any normal enemy, plus the game often 
 throws entire armies of them at you at a time. Don't expect to get very far combat-wise without 
 becoming well-acquainted with the bullet time button and Spyro's magic attacks; his melee is virtually 
 useless without slow-motion and is an excellent way to become stunned and/or dead. 
  
  As for production values... well, meh. The graphics aren't anything special, and although the game 
 has a celebrity voice cast, the dialogue is mostly tired and sometimes irritating. Also, maybe 
 it's just me, but Spyro's facial expressions have always looked very awkward in this series. It's 
 like he doesn't know the difference between a sad/concerned/alarmed face. In any event, neither 
 the graphics nor the voices are anything to rave about.
  
  All in all, it's too difficult for the younger crowd, not engaging enough for newcomers to the 
 series, and barely tolerable for those of us who find the storyline interesting. I'd suggest skipping 
 it and going for Dawn of the Dragon if you really want to see what's become of Spyro. Better yet, 
 play some of the old PS1 classics. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMCDS45
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  What were the developers of this game thinking? This is the worst game I've played on the wii!
 
  Well, for starts, the fighting is very frustrating becouse you're constantly getting knocked back 
 by the enemy's attacks, but the worst is that you can still be attacked while you're down incapacited 
 from defending yourself. So the solution for this is to avoid getting hit by the enemies, but that's 
 very hard becouse the camera doesn't show you very well what's happening around you. Theres even 
 some fights that the only way to win is to use that ability (which I don't remember the name) that 
 destroys everything around, becouse you're easily killed by only six hits. Of course the Dragon-Time 
 always helps things a bit, but it only lastes a few seconds.
  
  Another bad thing is Slow-Motion. It looks cool for the first time you see it, but it becomes annoying 
 when everything slows down everytime you blast a dawn enemy in the air.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, the voice-acting is bad, the music is nothing special.
  
  Something 
 worth metioning is the boss fight with the flying ship, I mean, that fight was just ridiculously 
 hard! I was able to defeat it though, after dying millions of times obviously, and with the help 
 of some divine intervention.
  
  So, don't even think about buying this game even if you are a Spyro fan, becouse the only thing 
 it will give you is frustration.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nlwarrior
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  I won the wii console through a lucky draw, and was not at all excited about it actually. To make 
 matters worse, this game is also included in the lucky draw, and I got so frustrated playing it 
 such that I never touched the console ever since the first day. The difficulty is too hard, controls 
 are awkward most of the times, as it is ridiculously hard to control jumps in the correct direction 
 and distance, camera angles are annoying especially when you are trying to hit an enemy that is 
 behind the camera or when the correct path to go lies in the blind spot of the camera which is 
 behind where the camera is facing, and being unable to skip cutscenes really SLOWS the game down, 
 especially when you are a noob like me who keeps on dying and have to watch the same darn cutscenes 
 like an absolute retard. Thankfully, 2 weeks later I bought Smackdown VS Raw 2009 and that totally 
 changed my impression of the wii.
  This game can be made much better if the difficulty is greatly reduced, controls made easier especially 
 for jumping from place to place, a button dedicated to let you face where the dragon is facing 
 (like in dynasty warriors 4) and skippable cutscenes.
  The game does have its good points, such as good battle moves and fury moves, but these appeals 
 are easily neglected with all the frustrations the game brings.
  So, in conclusion, if you don't wanna hate your wii console for the rest of you life, don't buy 
 this game unless you are a spyro fanatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NelloToTheDello
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  So this is how it is, you pick up the game (wii was my preference) and assuming that you acctually 
 took the time to play the last game, the story picks up exactly where it left off and i mean exactly 
 like a second difference between the end of the last game and the start of it, after sitting though 
 that which feels extremly dark and depressing you get into a bit of platforming before you get 
 into what the game really is, fight after fight after fight, bleugh. Seriously that is all there 
 is to this game spyro fighting the same five enemies over and over again but wait there not the 
 same you say, they have different names and colours, well its like mah grandaddy used to say you 
 can dress up a pile of crap in fancy clothes and call it somethin fancy and french like au de toilete 
 but when you get down to it its still crap.
  Crap is pretty much the best way to sum up this game, constant fighting, no diverse range of attacks 
 and little to no platforming action
  NO THANK YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Nothing!
  
  Bad Stuff:
  . "Dragon time" sounds dumb and time-slowing has so been overused.
  .I thought Spyro was meant 
 to jump good.
  
  .terrible voice acting (I'll explain) .
  .Your ranged shot training is against a near impossible boss.
  .horrible graphics.
  .I could 
 go on and on...
  
  OK. So I bought this game because I got Spyro: a new beginning and that game was actually fun and 
 I knew that this was meant to carry on the good storyline. A new beginning was fun however, This...*Holds 
 breath* IS HORRIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I'll start from here.
  
  I'll start with talking about the terrible voice acting. I know it has celebrity voice acting which 
 is the main reason why A new beginning and this is so popular, but even with celebrity voice acting, 
 it's terrible. Spyro sounds like he's only just woken up from a 30 second sleep and it was his 
 first sleep in 2 years, Spark's voice is done by a comedian but he isn't funny at all. These are 
 just examples.
  
  Now now "Dragon time". You are so dumb that if I could... I would shoot you! "Dragon time" is some 
 dumb power that Spyro gets and it's power is to apparently slow down time. As you may of worked 
 out, the name "Dragon time" is probably the dumbest thing you have heard in a while and it's "Time 
 slowing powers" is ultra glichly and barley even works.
  
  In most 3D platformers or for all platformers for that matter. The character is actually meant 
 to jump well. When Spyro jumps and glides, it sometimes goes some random directions and it barley 
 works. I bet you could imagine the feeling of pretty much not being able to jump in a platformer 
 so, I needen't explain much farther.
  
  The graphics of this game are totally intolerable. A N64 could easily handle the graphics and at 
 one point, I could see some of the blury pixels on Spyro's body. I think this tells you how bad 
 the graphics are.
  
  These are just examples of how bad this game is, but if I explained all the flaws of this game, 
 my review would be near-endless.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Just... Just... TERRRIBLEEE!!!!! 1/10
  
  Story: The storyline is RUINED in this game 
 of how it's set a minisecond after A new beginning's good storyline. 2/10
  
  Sound&Music: The sound quality is ultra bad and music, well is there any?! 1/10
  
  Gameplay: 
 The same as A new beginning's nice gameplay, just ruined by the difficulty of it, jumping and "Dragon 
 time". 1/10
  
  Overall: The worst game I have ever played. I don't reccommend it to anyone! 1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlover12
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  okay so the game starts out at the dragon den, with spyro wanting to go check out something, sorry 
 my volume was very low at the time. any way he fainted, having a dream that gave him the power 
 to freeze time. and so on. This is the first game that i ever lost on the first level, after a 
 while your moves become really worthless at damaging to the point where you have to freeze time 
 just to beat one guy. the very annoying thing and why this game is difficult is because your enemy 
 hits like a truck and you could still get hit even if you had taken damage and are trying to recover 
 from it. there are a lot of places where this is very jerk moves like whenever you are facing for 
 pigs and was hit by one, that means right after you can get hit by another one again before you 
 get up. the story, as far as i got up to is pretty good and makes a lot sense. The music gets annoying 
 after a while especialy if you having trouble with a couple of enimies at the same time. my advice 
 is to rent this before choosing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  If you ever read my Legend of Spyro: A New Beginning reivew, then you should know that I like the 
 voice actors very much, they are the best voice acters I've heard. I'm glad that Nintendo is supporting 
 Spyro, thats like a combination of my 2 favorite thing, and made it support Wii's motion controls. 
 The graphics isn't anything ne like I said on the first review. Now, the story isn't the best story 
 I've seen, it starts out bad, but once you get out of the like first or second levels of the game, 
 it gets quite enjoyable. The elements on this game had its ups and downs. 
  Fire breath got weaker and they replaced my favorite fire power, the fire bomb, and made it into 
 a fire charge. They changed the main ice breath into a ice bomb, which I think is cool, but they 
 changed the other ice power to some ice tail to make your enemies hover in the air and you have 
 to do more work and hit them. Earth has improved, they changed the primary breath which I didn't 
 get last game and made it to a swinging ball that hurts, and they change the secondary power to 
 some sort of giant stomp. And of course the light has been moved to last and that really made me 
 mad cause light got greatly improved, the main light breath at like lots of light misssles aiming 
 at the enemies, while the other power was a spinning light Spyro tornado which I thought light 
 might be the best element on there. But the worst thing about the game is that you have "Dragon 
 Time" and makes everything in slow motion. In my case about "Dragon Time" is I think its very stupid. 
 Also, the guardian dragons arn't really important to the storyline, I hate how they make them get 
 less of the action. But a plus is that Cynder is more important on the good side, and Sparx is 
 still funny, and that makes me happy to see that. Another thing bad about the game is that its 
 so hard, I keep on thinkng I'm done with enemies at one point, but then next thing I know, is that 
 there is enough enemies for an army. But thats a Spyro game, its challenging and makes it more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicAndJustin
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay has more combat ad new moves for spyro sence a new beginning. if you want to attack 
 some one use the wii remote to swing or the B button. Spyro's new move is dragon time. you press 
 the minus button and time is slow but only for a few seconds but it charges quickly. you can even 
 use crystals to power up your breaths. The voice acting is also pretty good. even Elijah Wood & 
 Billy West .
  
  Sound
  
  The music fits well even his broken soul.
  
  Graphics
  
  Well the graphics are ok. parts of the levals are neat. the Characters have a good desgin.
 
  
  Overall
  
  It takes probably takes 10 to 12 hours to finish it but there are unlockables. like pictures and 
 dragon challenges. and if you complete the dragon challenges you will unlock dark spyro. so this 
 game is a buy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I disliked this game for a few reasons. For one it is waaaaay too difficult, and I'm getting sick 
 of these repetitive boring attacks and pointless new abilities. The setting in the game is too 
 dark, would it have killed them to put in at least one bright level? The gameplay is too linear 
 and there is not enough platforming. The boss fights are boring and in general the whole game is 
 frustrating, I mean it's supposed to be a kids game for pete's sake! And I don't think that kids 
 will be too into this one. The graphics are pretty good, the cutscenes are well put together, and 
 the acting is well done, but an ok presentation won't make up for the tedious and annoying gameplay 
 from ruining the game.
  
  The diehard Spyro fans won't like it and neither will you even if you did like "A New Beginning". 
 I just want them to have a Spyro game as good as the original three, is that so much to ask for? 
 Don't buy this game, don't even rent it. Just complain, complain, complain, and maybe then Sierra 
 Entertainment and Krome Studios will get it right. I just hope that "Dawn Of The Dragon" is better 
 than this piece of garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonDeath92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  There was only a slight difference between the breath powers and upgrades (which really didn't 
 do much) THAT WAS IT they even got rid of David Spade for some guy who almost sounds the same but 
 in the end makes sparks sound like he was trying 2 hard to think of anything witty. I used to love 
 Spyro games but ever since their playstation days they have gotten worse every time. VERY disappointing 
 they have fallen very far since Spyro the Dragon. The first three Spyros were great and they left 
 u feeling amased intsead of disappointed like all the new ones have. I'm tryed to follow the new 
 one but the story is shot and it tryed using the gems in a new way and exp system that was dry 
 all around even in The New Beginning u felt like u had explored everything in by the time u got 
 the second element 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreek666
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  i can still remember playing the old spyro games and having fun with them, simple mchanics and 
 genuine humor through the game. so when wandering through the store and seeing a spyro game for 
 the wii, i was thrilled. alive with nastalgia i mpopped in my wii and, and then promptly threw 
 it away, 
  
  the plot attempts to become more mature, and darker, but ends up coming across like the poems of 
 an emo kid. 
  
  the sound was actually pretty good for this piece of trash. dark melodies attempt to set a mood, 
 while the visuals only dissapoint.
  
  the contols where awkward and speacials attacks needed to take down enemies where frustrating at 
 best
  
  the graphics where all right, nothing spectaular, pretty good for a wii game.
  
  the new element of time comtrol is awkward and played out, its done to much to fast recentaly
 
  
  so all in all i say pass this game up, its not even worth the price of a rental. so if you are 
 an old school spyro fan, dont even look at this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkboynathan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  at first its a little boring, but after that its a fun game with good action and some humor. the 
 learning rate is about 30 minutes because the new attacks are a little hard the get used to. i 
 really like the elements you can switch to fire, ice, thunder, and earth. The bad is that spyro looks 
 a little weird sometimes in the cutscenes. he kind of looks like hes drunk "sometimes". sparx is 
 also deferent i like the change because he now has two arms and talks. sparks job is no longer 
 your health though it is to show were to go if you get lost. its kind of hard to kill certain enemies 
 thats why you now have dragon time it allows you to slow down time to help you cross platforms 
 and enimies easier. your health is displayed on meter and you magic meter. your magic meter shows 
 how much fire, ice, thunder, etc you can use. the last thing you need to know is about your special 
 move if you special meter fillls up shake the wii remote and nunchuck upward to do it. it goes 
 to a small cutscene that looks really good its a explosion of the element you have. all and all 
 its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay changed a little bit since the last game, like in this one there is no hovering flying 
 thing, which I kind of wish they put that in. the breath attacks also changed. The only problems 
 I had with the breaths is I kind of liked the earth breath better in the last game. As for motion 
 sensing controls most you will use them for is: Swing the wii-mote and nunchuck up for a fury attack, 
 swing the reomote up for a knock-up attack, and press A, A, then swing the remote down for a smash 
 attack. The camera in the game works pretty well to.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is unique as the beginning theme is a lot better than the last game, but in some areas 
 the music can get kind of dull. But there is no problems in the music area, well no major problems. 
 The voice acting is also pretty godd regardless of sparx's changed voice.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics haven't changed much although in some areas of the game like a little 
 later part of it look kind of awkward. The games graphics hasn't have to many problems, although 
 I kind of wish they used cutscenes like they did in a new beginning instead of a story book type 
 of cutscenes and not all the scenes are story book type. There are reguarly cutscenes.
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall this game is good, my only real big complaint is they did not give 
 cynder a bigger role in the game and the other dragons (gurdians) didn't get to much of a role in 
 the game either. The storyline is pretty good, but there is still one thing Ingitus is still waiting 
 at the temple for spyro to complete his task. Spyro never went back. Hopefully in the next game 
 in anyway they make cynder playable and yes krome studios can make spyro games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbongo22
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Man am i disappointed by this game. My family has played the Spryo Xbox games and loved them. I 
 was excited to see a Spyro title for our Wii and bought it right away. What a mistake. The other 
 titles involved a little something for everyone - My son would do the running around and killing, 
 i would help him with tricky parts, and my wife would make sure we had collected all of the gems/dragon 
 eggs/whatever from each level.
  
  This title has a clumsy story line and even clumsier controls. If you want to use the motion controls 
 for attacking enemies, better hit the gym and build the forearms because you will basically just 
 be shaking the controller non stop the entire time you play.
  
  The game is painfully linier and really all you can do is follow the path it makes you take and 
 kill stuff. Over and Over. I played for 2 hours and have only seen 4 different enemies.
  
  If mindless walking in a straight line and shaking the controller is your idea of a good time, 
 feel free...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Remember the old Spyro games where you collected gems and other things and went into worlds and 
 were looking for orbs or stars. I think those are a lot better than Spyro: The Eternal Night. The 
 graphics are great, but I liked the puzzle feeling of the other Spyros. I don't like that you have 
 to just go around the worlds and fighting enemies. There really is no object to he game except 
 fight everyone and get to the end of that world. It just seems like the other Spyros were more 
 exciting to play! I would try it because if you like to fight within a game, than this game is 
 probably good for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
