-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Simpsons Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/thesimpsons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic writing that successfully lampoons both gaming culture and the Simpsons itself.
 Sharp visuals.
 Lots of stuff to collect and unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Middling gameplay.
 Camera likes to get in your way.
 You can beat the game in about six hours.
 Wii control scheme is awkward and unresponsive at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 412 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Electronic Arts
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Simpsons Game is exceptionally funny, but the hobbled Wii control scheme sucks out what little 
 fun there was to be had with the gameplay. 

  The Simpsons Game is a very strange animal. On the one hand, it's the sort of rote, generally uninteresting 
 action platformer that dozens of high-profile licenses have cribbed for nefarious game-making purposes 
 over the years. Yet, at the same time, this is a game that  knows  what it is and takes every opportunity 
 imaginable to riff on that very fact. The game is as much about mocking the various conventions 
 of the game business as a whole as it is about being Simpsons fan service, which makes for a very 
 weird and often hilarious experience; so much so that you almost forget the gameplay itself is 
 still pretty uninteresting. Unfortunately, the lackluster control scheme used for the Wii version 
 turns right back around and reminds you of that fact at every turn.  

           The Simpsons take on the game industry at large in The Simpsons Game.      

  The premise 
 for The Simpsons Game is appropriately meta, given the circumstances. One day, Bart happens upon 
 a manual for a game called The Simpsons Game, which has floated down from out of the sky. He learns 
 that this game gives him and his family members special powers then promptly sets off to cause 
 as much violence as possible. At the same time, a game called Grand Theft Scratchy has just been 
 released in stores and Bart wants a copy, much to Marge's chagrin. She sets off on a crusade to 
 stop video game violence. Then longtime comic foils Kodos and Kang show up to start blowing up 
 the town, rehashing sequences from a variety of Treehouse of Horror episodes. Also, there's a weird 
 and wacky world the Simpsons keep getting trapped in called "the game engine," sort of an alternate 
 dimension where video games are created that's run by a bunch of haggard-looking spoofs of Mario, 
 Sonic, koopa troopas, Ryu, and Madden football players. There's also a bunch of utterly random 
 cameos from notable personalities, both from the Simpsons universe and the game industry itself. 
 This is one bizarre and genuinely incoherent adventure, which is to say it's a lot like an extended 
 episode of the show.  

  The jabs at video game culture are especially excellent. At times, the Simpsons family will find 
 itself in worlds that are directly cribbed from notable game franchises and genres. The sections 
 that knock off Grand Theft Auto and Japanese gaming in general are especially good. But you'll 
 also come across direct parodies of Medal of Honor, EverQuest, and Shadow of the Colossus, to name 
 a few. There are even some subtler gags in there as well, like the little mini-levels that pop 
 up, directly mimicking such classics as Gauntlet and Joust. There is a really sharp awareness of 
 the gaming audience's mentality in the writing here, and the game's various parodies are just about 
 pitch-perfect.  

  It's not all game humor, of course. There's plenty of  Simpsons -oriented humor as well, with a 
 ton of crazy in-jokes scattered throughout the gameworld. When the game isn't lifting specific 
 scenes or situations from various old episodes of the show and turning them into game levels, it's 
 throwing out truly obscure lines that reference things from Simpsons past that even some of the 
 more dedicated fans of the show might need a minute to recall. Anyone remember Linguo, the grammar 
 robot? Or the Treehouse of Horror episode where dolphins became evil and tried to take over the 
 world? If you said "yes" then congrats because the writers have geared this game decidedly toward 
 you and your ilk.  

  All of this excellent humor does a good job of veiling the fact that the gameplay isn't very good. 
 You'll be too busy giggling in most cases to notice that the camera is frequently getting in your 
 way and that most of these mission objectives are just kind of boring, which in the case of the 
 Wii version also means frustrating. Most of the game revolves around simple action platforming 
 where you hop around a lot of platforms and solve some light puzzles. You also beat up football 
 players, pseudo-Ryus, miniature Krusty the Klowns, lumberjacks, Kodos/Kang lookalikes, killer dolphins, 
 sumo Comic Book Guys, as well as gangsta Itchys and Scratchys, among others. Unfortunately, most 
 of this stuff is just kind of boring. The combat has all the depth of the old Simpsons Arcade Game 
 from the early '90s, and the finicky in-game camera has a tendency to make some of the platforming 
 sections far more irritating than it should be. It doesn't help that the Wii game maps the camera 
 controls to the D pad. Not that there's ever been a great solution for camera control in these 
 sorts of games on the Wii, but the sluggish and generally imprecise movement of the camera via 
 this control methodology only exacerbates the general camera issues. On the combat side, if you're 
 going to pick between the A button and the B button on the Wii Remote to make the button you mash 
 to attack guys, why would you make it the B button? It's just uncomfortable.  

  Oddly enough, the game seems entirely self-aware of its own blatantly average gameplay. Along the 
 way, you'll collect a number of "clichs," which are highlighted by Comic Book Guy himself. These 
 include pits of lava you fall in, invisible barriers, a character's inability to swim, recycled 
 enemies, escort missions, and the like. It's kind of funny to see these pop up because, yes, these 
 are very clearly video game clichs. But the really weird thing is how utterly dedicated the game 
 is to making you live through these clichs again. The game makes fun of escort missions, but then 
 makes you do one anyway. You have to give the game credit for dedicating itself all the way to 
 its gags, though the gameplay suffers a bit because of it.  

           Some of the parodies in this game are hysterical.      

  The one kind of interesting 
 thing The Simpsons Game does from a gameplay standpoint is that it constantly pairs you with another 
 Simpson. You actually have the option to play cooperatively with a friend at any time, but when 
 it's just you all by your lonesome, your cohort is a computer-controlled tagalong. Nearly all the 
 game's puzzles involve the two characters working together, and for the most part, the artificial 
 intelligence holds up its end of the bargain, rarely lagging behind by much. Plus, you can switch 
 to the other character on the fly, which is helpful because you often have to use the special powers 
 of both characters in somewhat rapid succession.  

  The powers themselves aren't terribly interesting, but at least they add a bit of variety to the 
 proceedings. Bart can use a slingshot to hit enemies from a distance, as well as nail various targets. 
 He can also get all Bartman and use a cape to float while jumping. Homer can turn into a morbidly 
 obese ball that can be rolled around to attack foes using dash and slam attacks. Plus he can also 
 turn into gummi Homer and launch gummi balls at enemies. Lisa can use her saxophone to turn enemies 
 against one another, and at specific checkpoints in levels, she can use her Buddhist powers to 
 bring a giant arm down to either attack foes or pick up pieces of the scenery then drop them into 
 other spots to use as platforms or bridges. Marge is equipped with a megaphone and can use her 
 powers of moral persuasion to get any passers-by to form a posse to do her bidding, which usually 
 involves destroying things, building things, or beating up bad guys.  

  As amusing as these sound, they're rarely used to especially interesting effect within the game 
 itself. Most of the level objectives are pretty simple and it's plainly obvious in most cases which 
 powers you need to use when. A few of the puzzle-solving sections are kind of neat, but that's 
 about the extent of it. It also bears mentioning that some of the various special combat moves 
 for each family member are married to specific motion controls on the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, but 
 the precision of these controls leaves something to be desired. It's sometimes just hard to get 
 some of the moves to work, and when they do, the ones that require aiming are often hard to line 
 up due to the camera wonkiness.  

  It won't take you long to best The Simpsons Game. The main story mode will probably run you around 
 six to seven hours, if you don't stop to smell the roses and collect every little random item the 
 game throws at you. In the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game, you could wander around 
 Springfield and collect even more scattered items hidden about the town, but no such luck here. 
 All the various episodes are locked into the Simpson household, and you can't wander anywhere else. 
 Still, even just within the episodes themselves, there is lots to collect, and after you beat each 
 level, you can go back and play it as a time challenge, which unlocks even more crazy stuff. The 
 Wii version of The Simpsons Game also includes a few level-specific "Wii moments," which are just 
 random minigames that loosely fit the theme of whatever stage you're in. They're an OK distraction 
 from the general game, but nothing you'll find yourself wanting to play much after you've tried 
 them once.  

  Given that this is a game based on a cartoon, it would have been exceedingly easy for the developers 
 to quickly slap together some lousy-looking cel-shaded graphics and call it a day, but that isn't 
 the case in The Simpsons Game. This game looks a whole lot like the show on which it's based. The 
 characters and environments are drawn or animated in such a wonderful way that you really get the 
 sense that you're traipsing through an episode of the show. You do lose a small sense of that when 
 the game switches to an animated cutscene outside of the game engine, but at times, the line between 
 the two really is blurred. The colorful and crisp graphics are made better by a steady frame rate 
 that rarely hitches, save for in split-screen mode. Interestingly enough, the Wii version really 
 doesn't lose that much in terms of visual fidelity when compared to its 360 and PS3 counterparts. 
 It doesn't look quite as crisp as those versions, but the art style still shines through wonderfully. 

           The graphics do an excellent job of recreating the look of the show.      

  Audio is equally impressive. The entire voice cast from the show is on hand, and they deliver their 
 lines with the same sort of comedic enthusiasm as they do on the show. Even the guest stars are 
 on point, and there are some hilarious guest stars to be sure. All the other areas of sound design 
 are excellent too. Great sound effects pepper each level, and the music is always appropriate for 
 the scene, from the weirdo jazz music that plays as you fight on an airship in the Japan level 
 to the bombastic score that layers over the raid dungeon action of the EverQuest level. It's great 
 stuff all around.  

  In the end, The Simpsons Game is one of those weird cases where a recommendation of it is based 
 less on its merits as a game and more on its merits as an  experience . The things that make this 
 game are its sense of humor, sharp writing, and excellent presentation. The gameplay isn't atrociously 
 bad or anything, though the significantly more irritating control scheme on the Wii version does 
 a lot to drag it down when compared to its other console counterparts. It's something that's more 
 to be put up with while you appreciate the many other things going on than enjoyed on its own merits. 
 That might not sound like a ringing endorsement, but The Simpsons Game is absolutely worth playing -- just 
 not necessarily on the Wii. It's an OK choice if the Wii is the only system you own, but you're 
 ultimately better off looking at any of the other console versions if you're interested in the 
 humor-filled adventure that is The Simpsons Game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Nice cel-shaded graphics. A diverse assortment of levels. The graphical style of the 
 cut scenes in the console versions make them feel less pretentious than the ones in the DS version. 
 Some amusing dialogue.
  
  The Bad : Awful camera and controls that basically ruin the entire gameplay experience. Some of 
 the cut scenes are lame and come across as trying too hard to be funny. You wouldn't want to bother 
 replaying the game for all the collectibles. A HUGE step down from The Simpsons: Hit & Run. The 
 ability to explore Springfield is absent in the Wii version.
  
  --
  
  First up, if this game were branded any differently, NO-ONE would give this game the time of the 
 day. The control scheme is flawed and the camera is so infuriatingly inconsistent that it CONSTANTLY 
 moves around, obscuring what you want to see, or steering in the opposite direction of where you 
 intended on jumping (which is particularly worrying seeing as this is a PLATFORM game) .
  
  The storyline of the game is simple; Bart discovers a manual for a game aptly titled "The Simpsons 
 Game", and when strange things begin to happen, the Simpsons consult the manual and harness their 
 super powers. Homer can turn into a giant ball/gummi, Marge can boss people around at her will, 
 Bart can transform into "Bartman" and glide around, and Lisa can use her "Hand of Buddha" powers 
 to lift up heavy objects from checkpoints throughout the game. Maggie is also playable in the game, 
 but in a very limited capacity through Marge.
  
  The game is quite linear, and takes place over 16 levels, so, players may feel disappointed given 
 the freedom offered by The Simpsons: Hit & Run, where Springfield can be explored at will, and 
 missions can be played at one's own pace (or even skip them entirely if one fails the mission a 
 number of times) . Each level has a checklist of objectives, but unfortunately, given the bad camera 
 and controls, even the simplest of tasks can prove to be a grueling chore.
  
  What was more aggravating is that I NEVER made the PAR time on any of the levels. One of which 
 is particularly noteworthy was one level tha had a target time of 10 minutes to complete, whereas 
 I completed it in 55. Even my little brother spent well over an hour on one of the games' levels.
 
  
  For video game enthusiasts, there are dozens of references to much loved brands of years past. 
 Super Mario Bros., Grand Theft Auto, Wolfenstein 3D, Gauntlet, Medal of Honor, Everquest, Pokemon 
 and Street Fighter are all lovingly lampooned in The Simpsons Game, with some levels taking place 
 in parodies of their universes.
  
  A vast majority of the levels require two characters to navigate through them; and as such, you'll 
 need to utilise the powers of both characters in order to complete the level. Characters can be 
 switched around at almost any time by pressing "C" on the nunchuck. The game is also fairly generous 
 in the health department, and characters automatically replenish their health once every minute 
 or so. Fainting will result in an automatic switch to the alternate character in the current level 
 (until the fainted character regains consciousness) , however, should both characters be unconcious 
 at any point of the level, it will be reset. This doesn't happen often, but can be a nuisance with 
 some of the tougher levels.
  
  Graphically, The Simpsons Game looks very much like the TV show. Not particularly impressive (as 
 they aren't as clean and crisp as that of the Xbox360/PS3 versions) , but they still look pretty 
 good. Most of the cut scenes are hand-animated, just like the television series, however there 
 is a small number that have been rendered using The Simpsons Game engine, which don't look too 
 bad either.
  
  The music throughout the game is nice and also captures the audio of the show quite well. Both 
 playable characters and NPCs spurt out one-liners throughout the game, and while some of them can 
 be funny the first time, the fact that they repeat them so often diminishes the comedic value.
 
  
  Comic Book Guy also takes note whenever a video game cliche takes place in The Simpsons Game. These 
 may include AI running into walls, chasms, lava, trampolines, enemy spawners among other video 
 game conventions. It's ironic though, as The Simpsons is basically just a mish-mash of all of these 
 cliches, and does little to challenge them. There are collectibles scattered across all 16 levels, 
 however, given the broken camera and controls, I can't imagine why anybody would want to go through 
 the torture of replaying all of the levels just to obtain every last coupon.
  
  Let's face it, if it weren't for the branding, none of us would give The Simpsons Game the time 
 of day. However, looking at it as a long, playable Simpsons episode, only the most die-hard of 
 fans would have the patience to see this game through to the end (and enjoy it on at least some 
 level) . If possible, I would strongly advise you pick up one of the other versions of the game 
 (the DS being the best gameplay wise) . While there's little here to appease game lovers, there's 
 some entertainment value to be found in The Simpsons Game for fans of the television series despite 
 all of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Here is the good and bad of this mediocore game.
  
  The Good: 
  
  1. Funny storyline basically works
  
  2. Pretty good multiplayer 
  
  The Bad:
  
  1. 
 Terrible controls
  
  2. Too hard for an amatuer wii player
  
  3. Levels very, very, very, very, (u get my point) LONG
  
  4. Not addicting at all
  
  5. 
 Too much swearing for a T game (not that I really care, just warning younger players)
  
  6. Gets boring after a while
  
  
  - I hope you get my point from this review that The Simpsons 
 game is not a must-buy. See ya later gaming 
 
  Okay i should seriously stop  
 alright bye my lovely people who are dangerously addicted to games like star wars battle fron --- 
 ( i need a napp) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uriyasama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  the simpsons game can be a pretty fun game for a simple 3-d platformer theres a lot of things that 
 a good game has such as a good camera none repatable challenges huge world without levels and more.
 
  
  gameplay 8
  
  the game has a pretty much good gameplay with lots of riddles in it and varitey of things to find.
 
  the objectives of the game is pretty "classic" just finish all the levels of the game by finishing 
 all the objectives of the levels
  
  camera 3
  
  the camera is pretty complicated to use because it can sometimes move by itself and it has limitations.
 
  
  controls 7
  
  the controls are pretty easy to use but complicated to use at the same time.
  the controls are 
 pretty much like most of the wii games.
  
  sound 10
  
  the game sound is really good since they invited the real voice actors of the simpsons for the 
 game which make it really good
  
  graphics 8
  
  the graphics are pretty childish like zelda wind waker 
  but pretty sharp too if you like the 
 xbox graphics the graphics might look pretty sucky but if you get used to it, it can be pretty 
 good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbetybob
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  I rented this game expecting it to suck badly, since, after all it's a movie game, and the only 
 2 decent movie games are Godfather and King Kong. FACT. So I start up the game and yes for the 
 first hour it was bad. But as soon as it starts heading down the game parody route it becomes a 
 surprisingly funny (AN ACTUAL FUNNY GAME! MADNESS!!) and the gameplay flaws are easily overlooked.
 
  
  THE GOOD = )
  
  -Great story and cutscenes. The story is after all written by the Simpons writers. Basically Bart 
 finds a videogame manual and discovers that the Simpsons are in a game and each of them has super 
 powers. Sounds cliche but once it starts to unfold it's genuinely amusing and good fun. Plus the 
 majority of the cutscenes are hand drawn proper Simpsons animations so they look amazing as well.
 
  
  -Gaming Parodys. Trust me if you are a gamer you will find the parodies of things like Mario, Sonic 
 and Donkey Kong, plus the numerous other references to certain games (Levels like Medal of Homer, 
 Shadow of the Colossal Donut and numerous others) scattered around levels make for a fun experience.
 
  
  -Good fun. It's not going to win awards for it's gameplay, it's your usual movie fare, platforming, 
 beating up bad guys, but it's all good fun, it never feels hard and you progress through the game 
 in such a way that you're always waiting to see what the next parody level will be, or who will 
 get mocked next. 
  
  -Controls. Nothing amazing but they work nicely. Plus unlike many Wii games they don't try to shoehorn 
 in motion controls, a simple shake of the wiimote activates each characters special power and it's 
 very responsive. All other functions are pretty much mapped to A and B it's sort of like Zelda 
 with context sensitive actions appearing in the bottom left corner of the screen.
  
  THE BAD = (
  
  -Repetition of voices. You know if you buy a movie game this'll happen, the 
 characters find it impossible to be quiet for longer than 2 minutes so every so often you'll get 
 little one liners from certain characters, some are funny... the first time. But after the 10th 
 time in one level they start to drag.
  
  -Graphics. They aren't that bad but they're obviously just ported from the PS2 version.
  
  
 -Camera. I've heard a lot of people bash the camera, and sadly it is bad. However it isn't ruining 
 or anything. The life system makes up for it, if you miss a jump because of the dodgy camera it 
 doesn't matter as the game has a system similar to Lego Star Wars where it's pretty much impossible 
 to die, so if you fail then you just try again. It can irritate but it's not that bad.
  
  -Length and replayability (it's probably a word) . Yeah that's why I suggest the rent. The game 
 is actually quite long, around 8-10 hours, I didn't really count but I spent a fair amount of time 
 with it. HOWEVER. Once it's finished you will not be coming back to it unless you're some sort 
 of collectible junkie.
  
  Overall I'm impressed, it's much better than I was expecting thanks mainly to the interesting and 
 funny story and the gaming/pop culture references and parodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NA3D
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay, where do you want to start... This game is the worse buy of the year for me. Too bad it was 
 a present to someone else... man I feel bad for that... If you ever liked the multilayer Simpsons 
 game or the NES Simpsons games, this is not the game for you. Heck, this is a game for no one.
 
  
  Okay graphical style okay, execution of graphical style horrid. The style is actually great, but 
 it was so cheaply done, that I wonder what the budget on this game was. (Maybe interns made this 
 game....)
  
  The graphics mixed with the horrible control scheme anyone playing this game could easily get car 
 sick. At first I thought I was too close to the TV, but then I realized that I was twice as far 
 as I typically am when playing this game.
  
  The camera angles are horrible as well, who in the hell thought a static camera was a great idea? 
 The camera controls reminded me of trying to play Oddworld: Munchies Odyssey on my X360, which 
 was the worst camera controls on a game I was actually willing to play when I was younger. (I love 
 Wii over X360, trust me, I just hate this game.)
  
  Pop-up (cliche) okay, besides the fact of how annoying this is, it is pointless and stupid as well. 
 It stops gameplay to let you know some tidbit of information. Well thanks buddy, but I could care 
 less. I want to play games, not read.
  
  The writing is good, but the sounds made by the character get annoying fast. The first level alone 
 listening to homer say the same things over and over again. Best me up side the head in an itchy 
 and scratchy cartoon, PLEASE!!! They sound was of good quality, but they needed higher quantity 
 during gameplay. The sound FX were definitely up to par
  
  I give them points for the humor in the game, but then again, that was created by the people who 
 write for the cartoon. So all in all, anything EA did for this game was the wrong thing. EA needs 
 to go to hell long story short. Enough about EA though, and their greedy executives that just care 
 about profit.
  
  The true value of this game is around $15 in my opinion. I gave it an honest try, and really wanted 
 it to be of value, but it failed. It made me realize that limiting the games/expansions I buy from 
 EA to one a year, is definitely an idea I am sticking to for now on. So I guess I am not buying 
 Spore this year since I bought this lame game this year as a present for someone else. (Man, what 
 the heck can I get now to make up for a lame present?)
  
  -The Short-
  Gameplay: 2/10 - entertaining for a little while
  Graphics: 1.5/10 - good style, poor quality
 
  Sound: 4/10 - great, but too repetitive during gameplay
  Value: 1/10 - extremely low, but worth at least $5
  Tilt: 1.5/10 - Unoriginal, but loved the 
 parodies
  Overall: 2.0
  
  If you wonder where I got the Review Deck from look under bad, even though I think this game is 
 terrible: http://www. gamespot. com/misc/reviewguidelines-old. html
  
  [PS, when did GameSpot go lame and quit rating gameplay, graphics, sound, value, and tilt? Oh, 
 was it when EA gave them some money to boost ratings for games made by them? That's right. It is 
 like Angie's list, where companies pay more for them to delete bad reviews. {I dare you to prove 
 me wrong and keep this up here, even if you delete this section in [brackets] .} ]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  When the simpsons hit and run first came out, i was so eager to get it. When playing it, it was 
 great. The missions were fun and exciting and fun things to do. When the new simpsons game came 
 out, i was as eager as i was before. But, when i played it, it was a waste of time.
  
  Positive: The storyline for this game is very weird. Saying this, it was a great story. The game 
 is full of enjoyable scenes, with funny cutscenes that bring tears to your eyes. The graphics are 
 not perfect for the wii version, but the other consoles have great graphics. The audio is fine 
 and doesn't lag at all. The missions are great, with things including making Homer fat and making 
 Bart Bartman.
  
  Negative: To start, the graphics are poor on the wii's version and the control system makes you 
 tired, hitting the nunckuck evrytime you want Marge to seak. The game was easily finished in under 
 5 hours and when you finish, there is nothing to do, which is a bummer.
  
  Conclusion: the game is good when your playing the missions. it gives a funny storyline and comedic 
 moments in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons game is the first proper game of the popular TV series. In it you play as the the 
 simpson family, Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie.
  
  The Simpsons game takes place when Bart find a magic comic book called The Simpsons comic and it 
 gove him special poweres and turns him into BARTMAN! Eventully all the Simpson family get super 
 powers and the have to save the world from the evil CREATOR...... Who is obviously Matt Greoning, 
 the creator of the Simpsons.
  
  The controls are fine for the XBOX360, PS2, PS3 and PSP versions but the Wii version has some boring 
 controls, you just press B to attack and you just skake the remote to use your characters special 
 ability.
  
  Theb graphics are ok, but the place where The Simpsons game comes into it's own is the humor, it 
 was written by the people who made the TV series and is the funniest game you will ever play! It 
 is certain to have you chuckling all the way through!
  
  Overall The Simpsons game is a decent game and the funniest you will ever play, it's just too bad 
 that it has annoying controls and it is extremely short with only 16 levels. 5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-batgirl
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 26, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  I love The Simpsons and I was really excited when i got this game because Ive played Hit and Run, 
 and that was OK but this seemed like a REAL game. However I was quickly disappointed.
  The game is supposed to be a puzzle and you will play as Marge, Homer, Maggie, Bart and Lisa to 
 complete little missions.
  
  None of the characters react well to what you are doing on the controller, it feels wrong.
  
 
  Im just gonna give the main points then conclude, it doesnt deserve much more.
  
  The camera is rubbish and no amount of Simpsons could fix that.
  
  The controls are not too 
 good, a bit fiddly and annoying.
  
  The graphics look wierd because the Simpsons dont look right in 3D, its just wrong.
  
  The 
 humour, is alright but, I'd way rather just watch the actual show FOR FREE.
  
  Overall, Id say that to sped all 40 quid on this is just stupid. If you really want to try it Id 
 suggest Ebay or renting. Not even my little brother, who is usually oblivious to games being bad 
 liked this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billhill94
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Before I got this at Christmas, I was kind of excited. The Simpsons hit and run was a great game 
 that I really did enjoy. However, I was extremely disappointed when I played this game.
  First, the camera is very, very frustrating. It makes the game even more annoying than it already 
 was.
  Second, the game ends really fast. There's only about 15 missions, compared hit and run's 50 (including 
 the tutorial) . Hit and run also had 7 levels to explore (there were slight changes when you played 
 the same level with a different character) .
  Then, in hit and run, you could collect cards, which was fun. Also, there was a hidden vehicle 
 in each level of hit and run. The Simpsons game is lacking a lot of things that made hit and run 
 a success.
  Because of all the above, and many other reasons, I can't say that this is a good game. Sure, certain 
 parts are fun, but they get boring fast.
  The Simpsons just isn't really a video game. It's a T. V show. The things they say in cartoon make 
 me laugh, the things they say on this don't even make me smile. I'm a massive Simpsons fan, and 
 I can honestly say this game is a disgrace to the Simpsons.
  So, I would give this game a 5.5, which is really low compared to some of today's games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 1
Date: May 14, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Appauling... I hate even mentioning this game so this will be short.
  
  The bad- Awful controls make the game difficult. - EA made it - EA made it - guess what... EA made 
 it - a license game - Looks good but when you play you feel like a fool - EA made it!!!
  
  The good- There is good......... ermmmmmmmm......... good for selling on ebay, oh oh it cleans 
 the toilet quite well, holds up my cans of Pepsi and it looks cool once you throw it in a fire!
 
  
  If you're wondering why its hard, its because of the awfull controlls, apparently there quite good 
 for any console but Wii, but I am rating the Wii one after all.
  
  ... and thats it! so yeah, don't buy it, Simpsons hit and run is the only good Simpsons game, stick 
 with it!
  
  P. S. The south park game is the only good licensed game, its addictive and made by Akclaim... awesome! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  With the exception of a few titles (The Simpsons Arcade Game 1991) most games developed around 
 the Simpsons franchise ultimately suck. I don't know what got my hopes up so much that the Wii 
 version would be any different. I guess it was all the hype surrounding the game before its launch. 
 To say I was extremely shocked and disappointed is an understatement.
  
  Simply put this game just plain sucks. What killed it. The absolutely horrendous controls and stubborn 
 camera. When you develop a platform game you would think the number one ability your characters 
 would possess is the ever so common ability to momentarily defy gravity in the form of a simple 
 JUMP ability. However this is not the case in The Simpsons game for the Wii. Sure the game offers 
 you the ability to jump and even double jump but it just doesn't work very well. You constantly 
 find yourself repeating the same sections of a stage over and over again as you desperately try 
 to navigate a series of platforms only to find yourself falling, resulting in either death or climbing 
 back up from the floor where you started shortly beforehand. Its so frustrating I had a hard time 
 convincing myself to push on through the first three levels of this game. Just in hopes that perhaps 
 another character would have better abilities or maybe the last level was just poorly designed. 
 I quickly realized this was not the case.
  
  Besides the jumping issue the rest of the game really didn't have much to offer in terms of fun. 
 Fighting enemies simply revolved around approaching them and repeatedly mashing the A button. If 
 you really wanted to mix it up you could press A+B and do a jump kick. There goes that jumping 
 thing again.
  
  The cut scenes in this game are great and essentially play out like bits and pieces of a full episode 
 of the show. The parodies in the game work pretty well and the look of the levels themselves portray 
 the theme of the story they are telling. That much is positive. Unfortunately the unforgiving gameplay 
 mechanics make this title unplayable and therefore I can not recommend anyone try this game. Unless 
 you are a hardcore Simpsons fan with a high tolerance for pain and frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi-Fan-Mike
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Graphics = 7.0
  
  A decent show of graphics. Hit+Run had better graphics... which shows just how much less they tried 
 to improve the graphics.
  
  Sound = 8.5
  
  Nice music for each level, nothing special though.
  
  Gameplay = 4.5
  
  Many bugs and confusing 
 moves to understand. I think the gameplay failed and made the game a lot harder. Camera sucked 
 as well.
  
  Story = 5.5
  
  A very uninteresting storyline for each chapter. Nothing is funny to make you actually "laugh out 
 loud." Not your usual humor, very childish.
  
  Replay Value = 2.0
  
  I think I'll never play this game again... it's so boring i might just trade it in if i can. I mean 
 c'mon... what the f*** happened?
  
  
  
  NEW ADDITION TO MY REVIEWS FROM NOW ON BELOW!!!
  
  
  
  Pros:
  
  - Minigames can be 
 actually pretty fun
  - Wii finally got simpsons
  - Character models were accurate
  - Collecting stuff in the game can be a fun extra challenge
  
  Cons:
  
  - Story was bad
 
  - Controls are stinky
  - Graphics are worse
  - First Wii appearance wasn't great
  - Camera is bad
  - Game is glitchy
  
  
  
  So in all I give The Simpsons Game a 5.5
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is both funny and fun to play. The people that gave it a bad review are probably huge 
 halo fanboys with no imagination or something. I wont give too much of the funny away but you start 
 our in the land of choclate punching choclate bunnies. Once homer wakes up from his dream you can 
 play with a friend through the coop splitscreen where one person is homer and one person is bart. 
 
  
  here are the basics
  
  graphics:7 out of 10. Not very good but what can you expect from a simpsons game? The camera is 
 a major issue in this game.
  
  gameplay:8 out of 10. The game is very fun to play with friends or family but not so much fun to 
 play by yourself. The controls are great and Im glad to see there is a wii game that doesnt have 
 wii motion sensing controls. Im glad to see buttons are in a wii game instead of waving the thing 
 around like a crazy idiot, but dont worry motion sensing freaks! When you get enough power crystals 
 you can shake both the wii remote up and down to do a special atack!
  
  controls:9.5 out of 10. The controls work great with the wii remote!
  
  overall:8.5 out of 
 10
  
  This game is great, but it just doesnt have that awsome feeling you get from getting a new game 
 like super mario galaxy or the legend of zelda twilite princess. I recomend this game to people 
 who are looking for a game to play with their siblings or parents who are available often because 
 like I said before"the game isnt so fun by yourself". Im not sure how much this game cost because 
 I got it for valentines day but it's probably not that much because it came out in october. Enjoy!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game for the wii is fun, funny and weird. It starts out with homer in the land of 
 chocolate eating everything alive in this game to chase a white chocolate bunny. This level is 
 based on a certain parody in one episode. anyways after this ordeal in which is actually homers 
 dreamland, Bart exploring the town finds a the Simpsons game manual and then the whole family and 
 town have their crazy adventure, (aliens attacking, dolphins trying to take over and the boy, donut 
 man (30 ft tall or so) tearing building's down. in some areas of the game like the creator level, 
 (matt groning's house) you'll see spoofs that aren't from the Simpsons, but other shows the matt 
 created like futurama. a whole bunch of zoidburgs and benders try to stop you, (man just stick 
 with the Simpsons, just confusing to add more stuff out of the reality of the series the Simpsons) . 
 the last level of the game you have to have to play dance, dance god style with god to beat the 
 game, (man this is boring, they could of made it like you had to destroy hell or something to make 
 god talk. anyways enough about the game levels, now I'll tell you something that's bad like the 
 camera view, (it's never moves while you moving or if you jump to an area you can't see if you 
 can make it or not) . on a slight good news about this game you play two characters at once which 
 is quite hard, but a second player can help you out with this. there some stuff in this game I 
 don't get like why do you want homers beer caps or Bart's toys in some levels, what is the point 
 of collecting these things.
  
  Overall this game will have you laughing and trying to figure out which level covers a certain 
 great episode of the Simpsons.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  it is abominable & nonetheless the worst wii game i have ever played. it's not the worst game in 
 all of gaming but it's pretty crappy infact. it's fun for a while but it gets older than WWI veterans. 
 it actually has real voice acting & not sound clips from better simpsons games (namely hit & run) 
 which is the only thing new. it also has prettty good graphics & 2D animated cut-scenes.
  
  i thought this was going to be an awesome title, but i was wrong. i have been tricked into purchasing 
 this game by matt groening & his team of marketeers & copywriters & so has everyone else who has 
 been dissapointed by this game. i will not buy another simpsons game until they make a good one. 
 i have been a fan who has wasted valuable cash on this lame, worthless stick-in-the-mud of a game! 
 also, the story lines are good but the gameplay sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's favorite four-fingered family from FOX hasn't exactly had the best track record when 
 it comes to video game adaptations. Sure, there were some gems like The Simpsons: The Arcade Game 
 and The Simpsons: Hit & Run (and I thought The Itchy & Scratchy Game was pretty fun myself) , but 
 they're totally outnumbered by crap like Bart Vs. The World, Bart Vs. The Space Mutants, The Simpsons 
 Wrestling, The Simpsons Skateboarding, and more. Now there's a new Simpsons game called... well, 
 The Simpsons Game. Even though it's from EA, has it earned itself a place among its rare good brethren, 
 or is it yet another flop?
  
  The answer: It's good! ... Mostly.
  
  The Simpsons Game has one of the strangest, most interesting, and most self-referential plots I've 
 ever seen in a videogame: The Simpsons discover they're characters in a video game, and they have 
 special video game powers that they put to use fighting their way through their latest licensed 
 adventure. The cutscenes have some the most hilarious Simpsons material I've seen in some time, 
 written and performed by the staff and cast of the show. Thank you, EA, for actually getting them 
 for this game. Even during gameplay, the cel-shading of the characters and environments keeps it 
 looking just like the show, albeit all polygonal-like.
  
  The Simpsons each have powers that suit them well: Bart transforms into Bartman to use superhero-like 
 moves like gliding and using a grappling hook. Homer can eat food to turn into a big fat ball of 
 destruction or eat gummi snacks to become a gummi blob. Lisa stuns enemies with her saxophone and 
 summons the Hand of Buddha to move parts of the environment and pound enemies. Marge can rally 
 NPCs into a mob and get them to do her bidding in a sort of Pikmin-like manner, as well as send 
 Maggie into crawlspaces to get to out-of-the-way switches.
  
  Also suitable is how Bart and Homer, the two better members of the Simpson clan (in my opinion) 
 got the better powers. Bart can get to all sorts of places with his gliding, grappling, and so 
 forth, not to mention with his slingshot, he's the only character with a projectile until Homer 
 gains one late in the game. Homer's transformations are a force to be reckoned with and fun to 
 use, though reliant on food pickups. Lisa and Marge, on the other hand, have basically the same, 
 not-that-combative powers over the whole game. I mean, Lisa's Hand of Buddha gains some attack 
 powers, but she still needs to find a meditation spot to use them, and some of these spots leave 
 her open to attack while she's using them. Marge can get her mob to attack, but they're not that 
 reliable at it, either spending too much time trying to chase the enemy down or getting their own 
 butts kicked, forcing Marge to beat the enemies up herself.
  
  Each level, barring the Homer-only tutorial, gives you two Simpsons to use, allowing you to switch 
 between them as their powers are needed, or you can play co-op with another player. Both methods 
 have their hits and misses, though. Playing one-player, there are times when you need to have your 
 partner stand in one spot while you do something. The AI is usually good about this, but other 
 times, when you switch to the other after putting the first in position, that character will leave 
 their post and come running. Other times, you want the other player to be following you as you 
 progress through the level, but when you get to a point where you need the other, you find out 
 that they've just been standing there where you left them the whole time, so you have to cover 
 the same ground again as the slacker once you switch to them. Plus, the one that went ahead is 
 likely to come running back towards the slacker once put in AI control.
  
  In co-op, both characters are under player control, with eliminates this problem, but there are 
 often times when just one character's powers are needed, usually to open the way for the other, 
 while the other character is left just standing there or fighting off a horde of enemies by their 
 lonesome if they weren't cleared out in advance. For example, most Bart-and-Homer levels have areas 
 where Bart has to jump and glide around most of the area to find a switch that will open a door 
 or drop a ladder for Homer to use. But that whole time, there's nothing for Homer to do but stand 
 around and scratch his butt. In single-player, you can always be in control of the Simpson that 
 needs to do something, but in co-op, most of the time will have one of the players waiting on the 
 other.
  
  The level layout is platformer-style, but the camera tends to make things difficult. It's usually 
 not in a good position to judge jumping distance and keeps getting stopped by environmental objects 
 when you try to swing it into a good spot. And even after you align it right, it often moves back 
 the second you take a step forward, if not right away. It doesn't help that the Simpsons aren't 
 the best jumpers either, though maybe playing Mario games my whole life has just raised my expectations 
 of platforming ability. Even during combat, enemies keep going off-screen and throwing projectiles 
 at you from there.
  
  As I said before the cutscenes are hilarious, but there's plenty of funny quips during the gameplay 
 too. The characters will poke fun at everything about video games, from the clichs to the culture 
 to the industry itself. Enemies get some funny lines in, like aliens asking each other if they 
 look fat "because I feel bloated", and some levels have announcers for one reason or another, such 
 as the museum observatory narrator who slips remarks about his ex-wife into his narration. Sometimes, 
 though they talk just a little too much. For example, as Marge's levels involve building up a mob 
 that follows her around, that means there's constantly a bunch of NPCs near you that WON'T SHUT 
 UP.
  
  The game's only a couple of hours long, but even after you beat it, you can go back and replay 
 the levels to find collectibles and video game clichs. The Wii version also includes two unlockable 
 "Wii Moment" mini-games: Bite Night (fun) and Bart Wings (lame) . However, from what I've been reading 
 around the Internet, the other new-gen versions of the game have much more content than the Wii, 
 including some sandbox mode where you can freely roam around Springfield. Also, the Wii's motion 
 controls tend to not respond as well as they should, particularly when trying to shake both the 
 remote and nunchuck to active a character's super attack, only to get no results while your character 
 just stands there open to enemy attack.
  
  Despite its obvious issues, though, The Simpsons Game is actually pretty enjoyable. It's great 
 to see that EA chose to go the extra mile to make sure the game captures the spirit of the show 
 instead of just making some lazy cash-in like so many licensed games have been, and Simpsons fans 
 will definitely appreciate it. The Wii version is okay, but if you have a 360 or PS3, you might 
 want to get it for one of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunt8
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion i think they spent to much time to make the graphics quality good but did not add 
 any game length or make this a hard game at all i finished it in 3 hours with everything completed. 
 i admit it is a good quality game but 3 hours to complete that is quite poor do you agree???
  And the film well the game does not follow this at all i've given it a rating of five as of what 
 i've said above and i'd recommend anyone who wants to play/buy this game to rent it first you could 
 probably complete it in this time. my opinion is that they should make it longer and harder and 
 also allow you to either change the camera to how you like it or stop it from moving it self because 
 this is very off putting and worry about the quality of graphics later the game does allow some 
 good things to happen: each of the simpsons family members gain 'superpowers' this is fairly good 
 but is really a long way off the actual simpsons t. v and simpson series/film. there are also some 
 other good points the graphics extremely good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  i am a fan of the simpsons. but then again, who isnt? this is the first diffrent type of review 
 me or anyone has done. so dont bother copying this type of style but... i will be splitting this 
 up to "fienno likes" and "fienno hates". and then more deph into the story, so if you dont like 
 reading, you can just read the likes and dis-likes. well lets begin!
  
  okay....
  
  
  Fienno loves..
  + the cliches
  +the graphical style of the game
  + the fact that bender and 
 Zoidberg are part bosses
  
  Fienno likes..
  +the last half of the story
  + some of the refrences and parodys
  + the voice acting even if it does start to annoy you after 
 about 3 minutes
  
  
  Fienno dosent like...
  - the first half of the game since nothing really happens and there is no story what so ever
 
  - the controlls sometimes feel bad and has no specific wii controlls apart from special attacks
 
  - the fact that in co-op one player usally has loads to do and the other can only beat people 
 up
  
  
  Fienno absolulutly hates..
  - the camera
  - playing {spoiler} in DDR on the last level, you want to to smash the remote on the wall like 
 i did
  - the lard lad boss due to the camera and him running away and then trying to get him back into 
 the main area where you have enough room to kill him
  
  the game begins in a random tutorial called the land of chocolate
  which i supose was to make 
 people laugh, but TBH i wasnt, the camera was messing up on the jumps and it annoyed me, but after 
 reading some reviews the camera wasnt as bad i though (at first) , but i soon later learned how 
 bad it was.
  
  the story is non-existant for about half the game and then you realise its a video game. and well 
 you gotta get some keys to speak to the creator who is {spoiler removed}
  
  but at the begenning they are just levels where you are diffrent simpsons and this where a problem 
 in co-op begins. after taking about 3 hours to synch the remote to get the 2-player in the game 
 you realise they dont have much to do. one charater has loads to do like making platforms or getting 
 up high to jump across, while player 2 is just waiting there for genric enemy #45 comes along and 
 bases the B button till they die. in the later levels both players are used more and co-op is more 
 fun. but only in the last few levels.
  
  this game could of gotten higher if EA had spent more time working on the gameplay and not on the 
 cutscenes and trying to make it funny. they could of done the camera better and made it longer. 
 but no. say they had 6 months to make they would of been like this
  
  EA boss "guys! we got the Simpson license!"
  
  EA develpore #1 "loads will buy this game!"
 
  
  EA dev #2 "yea! lets make it funny and not care about the gameplay"
  
  EA boss "exactly! people will buy the game anyway no matter how crappy the reviews are!.
  
 
  5 months later
  
  EA boss "we havnt done much gameplay, so quickly throw a story togther thats a real cliche and 
 non-original. dont care about the camera since all platformers have crappy cameras. dont test and 
 ship tomorrow"
  
  this game isnt terrible nor is it bad but it could of been much better and by the looks of it, 
 they didnt spend much time trying not to make this an advrage platformer
  
  - Fienno
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I was persuaded to by this game.. by advertisements, now I know I shoulda picked up a different 
 game while I was at it, I got so ARROGANT loads of times in a level because of the stupid camera 
 and controls, that with timed objects.. for example you activate a switch and u just have seconds 
 to get there, but the camera -really loves to get in your way and interrupt you to waste your time..
 
  
  The last half of the game, however, got me happy, it turned out fine... and the storyline is quite 
 awesome, to say the least, although this game would be much better if it was another simpsons movie 
 or just an episode, its not something we should be playing.
  
  If you are a simpsons fan, then look into this, but if you dislike stupid camera controls and annoying 
 gameplay, then don't pick this up, because it will take you time to figure out how this stupid 
 camera turns manually, interrupted by  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure if I am a fan of the Simpsons game. It's one of those "yeah, okay" games.
  
  The graphics are great (for what they tried to do) . The Story line is questionable, but the 
 cut scenes are truly funny. 
  
  The camera is horrible. You get to control it in a way, but then the camera will hit a rock, or 
 wall, or some flying pixel and then just be stuck there. It also decides that it wants to change 
 all on it's own. I can't even count how many times I had died because the camera is causing me 
 to walk one way and then the other...91 times actually.
  
  The stages are created really well. Every stage looks different and brings different stragegies 
 and puzzels, but it is not all that hard to finish. 
  
  If you are a Simpsons fan, I guess you'll like this game. For me however, its just okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrickGinger
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the best simpsons game ever made up to date. Each Cut Scene looks just like a episode, 
 but this game loses its 1 mark because of the bad controls using the wii remote.
  
  One day while bart is walking back from the video game store after getting the brand new game "Grand 
 theft Scartchy" get took of him by marge. then out of no where a manual of the simpsons game falls 
 down from the sky, and bart discovers that himself, homer, lisa and marge each have super powers. 
 Then it really continues from here, in this game anything can happen in the plot so get ready for 
 a change in the plot every now and then.
  
  Over all this is hilarious game and is pretty much a simpsons episode, you will spend arround 20-40 
 hours completing. once you complete it you can collect all the bonus features to unlock different 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons show is still a great show after all these years. The Simpsons game is a pretty good 
 experience of the show. The story of the game is very seperate from the show and the movie. So 
 it feels fresh for big fans.
  
  What I liked about this game is that some of the cinematics were done by the animators of the show. 
 The regular cast members who voice over for the show are also in this game. Most of the video game 
 parodies in this game are hilarious. Graphics suit the way of the show.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that although the graphics have the look and feel of the 
 show, the character modeling dosen't really show anymore feelings. Bad camera control. There is 
 rarely any use for motion sensing.
  
  Overall, I really did like the Simpsons game. The parodies are funny. The missions are great. It's 
 pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Great graphics
  Great voice acting
  
  Bad:
  
  The camera can be annoying a lot of the time
  
  The Simpsons Game for Wii is a fun game with 
 many things to do, many collectibles, lots of movies, voice acting, and it's also a very funny 
 game. The game parodies many other games, like Fight Night (there's a mini game called "Bite Night") 
 and The Legend of Zelda games.
  
  The graphics look very much like the show, but some characters don't look like they do in the show, 
 but it doesn't matter.
  
  The sound is terrific. There's the music from the show. There is tons of voice acting, and the 
 characters are voiced by those who voice them in the show.
  
  In conclusion, if you like The Simpsons and video games, you'll definitely like The Simpsons Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way:
  The Simpsons game is very funny.
  But this can't redeem the game from the rest of it's crap.
  First off, the AI is TERRIBLE. Trust 
 me, I wasn't expecting to be surrounded by chocolate bunnies in advanced tactical movements A la 
 Tom Clancy. But even something as simple as a pressure pad puzzle is made almost impossible.
  Let's just look at one example. homer has to stand on pad A, while Bart platforms on the stairs 
 that come when homer presses that button, and then jumps on pad B, making a bridge. Simple stuff 
 right? WRONG! As soon as Bart moves more than 10 feet away, homer starts following, causing the 
 stairs to fall, and chucking Bart into a bottomless pit. Yes, homer is stupid, but Bart, Lisa, 
 and Marge are guilty of the same bull!
  Then their are the graphics. These are somewhat 50 50. the style matches the cartoon, and is a 
 nice feature. but when you get close to any of the textures they look BAD. and I mean BAD. for 
 some reason, rather than the simple black line that outlines the objects, they decided to shade 
 the line in and out, so when you get close to it, you don't see black lines, you see a giant mess 
 of dark brown pixels. The edges are jagged, and the levels are steeped in one mono chromatic color. 
 One level features Dark Grey /blue everything. blue floors, blue walls, blue ceilings, blue stairs, 
 blue hand rails, even the dirt is blue! WTF! I know the Wii isn't a graphical powerhouse, but that 
 is just dumb art direction.
  Also, the camera man must be drunk, because the camera is always clipping, glitch-ing, blocking 
 your view in general, and more. Sometimes, you can't even finish a level, because you can't see 
 where your supposed to go.
  The sound is pretty good, but each level has only one song, and when it loops for the third time, 
 you will want to turn it off. they recorded a lot of dialog, but you'll spend so much time trying 
 to figure out how to get the retarded AI to cooperate, listening to the same 5 lines over and over.
 
  The game play and controls SUCK. They don't take even remote advantage of the motion sensing, 
 require you to do complicated button combos, but don't even use all of the buttons on the controller! 
 that's like having to press Up + A to jump in Mario, and but not using the B button for anything. 
 Game play consists of puzzles a prekindergarten kid could solve, but impossible because of retarded 
 AI that won't cooperate; and hordes of the same enemy over and over. For an entire level, you fight 
 nothing but the same exact security guard over and over, spewing the same 5 one liners over and 
 over, while you mercilessly mash the B button. If you want to experience the jokes, just go on 
 You tube, and watch the games cut scenes, and spare your self the 50 dollars. 
  PS: this game is very short. I played it from start to finish, but it is only 8 hours MAX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnutux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Although some people have claimed that the game was horrible. I beg to differ. As a gamer and as 
 a Simpsons fan, this is definitely one of best Simpsons game I've ever played.
  
  The Good:
  - great humour
  - good audio
  - great story arc
  - great parodies
  
  The 
 Bad:
  - controls aren't as good as most gamers would come to expect but it is more controllable than 
 what most people would think. IT WILL NOT MAKE YOU PUKE, CONTROLS ARE OK BUT NOT ATROCIOUS.
  - graphics. One would expect it to be better as a Wii game (same with other versions on other systems)
 
  - a little short? More content would be great!
  
  The Ugly:
  - Gitches, I've ran through some. Sometimes the code would make the camera facing through the floor 
 and then you have to reset the game since none of the other controls are working. Another annoying 
 one is when the system would have to constantly read the disc (skips) . You must reset the console 
 to get it working again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When my Parents buy this game for my bithday I think, "Wow that's going to be amazing" Well, i 
 was right.
  
  The Simpsons Game it's a real good game, really too short for the good of it is, but its complete, 
 with the colorfull world of the Wii, this game is perfect. This game have too much expectative, 
 but for me it's relly good, so the controls it's not-too hard, but is too shallow the gaming of 
 there...
  The grafics are really good, with a combination of the designes of Matt Groenning and the 2-D animation 
 of EA and the graphics of the Wii.
  
  The music and FX are really good too, with a real good voice acting that is amazing... In change 
 the real weak or short-part of the game is the controls: you mus be pressing the stupid button 
 combination one more and one more time, that's make me sic (xD) .
  
  THe interactuacion is good, but not too much, the stupid palancas xD are really weak, to the first 
 level to the ending this stupid things are in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkauffman
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the simpsons and military soldier.
  
  But maybe if they focused more on good graphics or even gameplay instead of trashing our Navy or 
 other military branches. Calling George Bush and Dick Cheney evil? Lame
  
  There were more political agendas in this than any War/Military game out yet. Keep the politics 
 and brainwashing of our kids out of the games and make them fun again. This is one pissed off soldiers 
 opinion. Whatever happened to The Simpsons being a piece of America and Pro America? There is no 
 other game made that lampoons other cultures like this one does ourselves and sadly being made 
 by people in our own country.
  
  The 3d graphics are **** gameplay is awkward. Old used up jokes... that were funny 10 yrs ago. I 
 wish they'd make a real simpsons game like they did when they had that arcade game yrs ago 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenpeny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  With a great sense of humor, The Simpsons Game should entertain fans of all ages. A good game with 
 nice drawing-style graphics, using the movement sensor of both controllers (Wii Mote and Nunchuk) 
 to perform specific actions like some special moves of the characters and a good gameplay. With 
 funny parodiess of games such as Medal of Honor (called Medal of Homer in the game) and Grand Theft 
 Auto (called Grand Theft Scratchy, with characters of The Itchy and Scratchy Show) . The parodies 
 also reached movies like Around the World in 80 days (call 'Round the World in 80 bites where Homer 
 tries to win an eating contest) . Those parodies may entertain fan of The Simpsons and fans of those 
 games and movies. With a very funny ending which should cause many laughs, The Simpsons Game should 
 entertain anyone, from young children to adults and elder people, from fans to some people that 
 watched just some episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdsalcedo
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, since I loved "The Simpsons: Hit and Run". Unfortunately 
 this game frustrates the player far too often. It looks great, just like the animated series. It 
 also has a lot of the humor that you expect from The Simpsons (sensitive parents should take note 
 of the T rating) . But it turns out that "The Simpsons Game" is more fun to watch than to play.
 
  
  The camera does not want to cooperate which becomes very annoying very quickly. Especially in tight 
 situations. When you're standing next to a large object, or on a building's ledge for instance, 
 there is no way to position the camera between the character and the object to see where you are 
 going. This can lead you to jump right into trouble.
  
  There are several places where you need to position your character in front of a lever or gizmo 
 to activate the device. Unfortunately it is very demanding that you place the character in exactly 
 the right spot, facing exactly the right way. This became particularly frustrating when battling 
 Lard Lad, since there is only a brief period of time when he is stunned and vulnerable. It was 
 maddening when I got my character into position, but could not perform the attack because my position 
 was the slightest bit off.
  
  Wait until it is available in the $19.99 bin. It won't be long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincedtm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  The controls are not perfect but they're ok. The ability to switch players could have been fun, 
 but they don't feel fun at all. The camera angles.... OMFG they simply sucks!!!! And if you planned 
 to play the game in co-op, just forget it! You can't see a thing because it's splitted vertically 
 and most of the time one player dose all whats needs to be done while the other feels useless.
 
  
  -Graphics-
  The graphics are pretty sweet it's almost like if you were watching a Simpson episode on television. 
 So yeah the graphics are pretty cool.
  
  -Sound-
  The voices of the character are the same as the television series wicth is really nice. And it's 
 always funny to hear you're favorites characters to say some classic lyrics like ''Homer: To Alcohol 
 the cause and answer to all life problems.'' The music don't seems to bring anything to the game.
 
  
  -Value-
  Ther's no replay value to this game and the unlockables are not worth all the efforts you will 
 put to unlock them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NotoriousNick
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons is a great franchise. The show is only a year older then me and their movie is my 
 favorite ever. One thing the Simpson's are not good at is video games. The classic 90's arcade 
 game was liked a lot but besides that stuff like Bart's Nightmare and Space Mutants were highly 
 disliked. This game, in my opinion, beats out the arcade game (not by a lot but it does) . Anyways 
 let me start the review.
  
  Story: 10/10
  The game starts with a hilarious dream level by Homer but that doesn't really play into the story 
 that much. The main plot revolves around Bart coming across a manual for "The Simpsons Game" and 
 realizing that it explains super powers that he, Homer, Lisa, and Marge have. After a few episodes 
 (levels) of breaking each character in then the real plot begins. It starts off with a few Tree 
 House of Horror themed levels (Lard Lad, Dolphins, and Aliens) and then eventually has the family 
 trying to figure out their origin and the meaning of life in video game parodies. Not your typical 
 video game story but it works GREAT with the Simpson's and in that regard I give the story a full 
 score.
  
  Game Play: 10/10
  A lot of people say that the camera and Wii controls bring this game down but I never seemed to 
 suffer any. Maybe once I missed a jump because of the camera but if I did I don't remember. The 
 fact that each episode features 2 family members is a major plus and fits with the show perfectly. 
 In every episode (of the show) there is always at least 2 family members doing something together 
 and that's what the game features in it's episodes. Plus the ability to switch co-op on/off easily 
 is a more then welcome addition.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Are these the best game graphics around? No. Do the graphics deserve a 10 just because the cut 
 scenes look 100% like the show and that the game play looks close enough to know your playing a 
 Simpson's game? Well in my opinion it does. Their were a couple times during cut scenes I would 
 sit back and think I was watching another episode which is exactly what I wanted from this game.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Remember that this is called "The Simpsons Game". Anybody that knows what The Simpsons is should 
 know that this game would have awesome one liners and cheap shots at media. Well the one liners 
 are there and all their cheap shots are video game related which is perfect in my opinion. Hearing 
 Homer say something like "Great, so i'm in a stupid Japanese video game. This doesn't mean i'm 
 gonna start eating sushi, unless it's covered in chocolate, and has no sushi" well make just about 
 every Simpsons fan crack up laughing. Also hearing God's one liners in the DDR dance off and his 
 "F Bomb" in the final cut scene was epic although it was censored.
  
  Replayabilty: 10/10
  This game has a lot of replayabilty. Every episode has some hidden game 
 clinches (things that appear in about 85% of video games like invisible walls) which are pointed 
 out by Comic Book Guy, 2 sets of collectibles (1 for each character that unlocks trophies) , Time 
 Attacks, and "Zero Player Deaths". Also their are a couple of Wii Moments which are mini-games 
 that involves Homer in BiteNight (Fight Night) and Bart in Bartwings (pilotwings) .
  
  Overall: 10/10
  Well there you have it, my final verdict on "The Simpson Game". This game is 
 definitely my favorite Simpson's game ever made. This game is aimed more at Simpson's fans then 
 it is at gamers so if your not a member of the former group I would probably rent it first to try 
 it or play a friends version but if you are part of the former I would recommend buying it for 
 which ever platform you feel like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tudio
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game isn't a strong 3d platformer, it has many flaws but makes up with its humour 
 and video game parody. The game itself is self referential and mocks everything from Mario and 
 Sonic to the Will Wright and putting it all together with a great script. The controls are responsive 
 except for the wii-mote gestures, they arent that fun and not that accurate. 
  
  Graphics range from bad to great, character models are great and so are the animated cut scenes. 
 The environments are large and feature many nice touches here and there of videogame parody and 
 nostalgia. they are vibrant with color and varied but the graphics get ugly in some areas as the 
 water thats all pixaly in the french level. The camera problems also plague this game in many areas 
 in the game. Two player support is included that makes the game even easier than it is and is nice.
 
  
  The music is great and suitable, and so are the sound effects. Voice acting is great of course 
 with the shows staff. Although it has all the previously mentioned problems the game is still great 
 and fun, but too short. One very nice and funny feature is the video game cliche' detailing alot 
 of them known and essential in most games today if not everyone of them.
  
  In the end The Simpsons Game is a fun although flawed and short 3d platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vince_Dash
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  There is only one question you have to ask yourself before you buy this game : Can you let the 
 numerous awsome jokes overcome the bad controls and the horrible camera ? Let it be heard, the 
 jokes are awsome and really funny, BUT the controls and the camera can be at times impossible to 
 play with. Great additions to the game itself as the wii moments or the "clichs" found everywhere. 
 Sometimes, the AI of your teammate will be so stupid, you won't be able to resolve the puzzles 
 that need both of you. I'm also a bit disappointed by the 4 worlds showed on Internet, they actually 
 are 4 LEVELS in the whole game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  The simpsons game is your average platformer based off of a TV show or movie. The thing that makes 
 this game beaerable is the fact that it parodies other games, such as medal of honour, Neverwinter 
 Nights/ Lord of the Rings, Final Fantasy/Pokemon, and more, and in some ways it can be fun going 
 through these levels. With that being said, there are a lot of things taht only Simpsons fans can 
 enjoy, such as the characters remarks and parts of the cutscenes, which still get annoying when 
 repeated so much even if you're a diehard Simpsons fan. The graphics are all right fore being somewhat 
 cell-shaded, but they don't come off completely great, except for some parts, and the music/sound 
 effects is nothing worth noting. Over-all, if your a Simpsons fan, then rent this game, and you'll 
 beat it in a day or two, and if you don't like The Simpsons, just stay away from this game completely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniccomics
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons game is the second best simpsons game I have ever played. Hit and Run is the only 
 other Simpsons game that beats it. While some people might consider the game a beat em up (or whatever 
 it's called) it actually has many different types of games mixed into it. The game-while very short-has 
 a great storyline that never fails to deliver the laughs. The Simpsons find out they are in a video 
 game use their powers to have some fun then have to fight aliens-until they decide to try and find 
 out who is controlling the game. I'm not going to spoil the ending but it is very funny. The game 
 also has suitable powers for every family member (Homer turns into a giant ball, Bart has Bartman 
 powers, Lisa can use the hand of Buddha and Marge nags people to do her bidding) . It also has a 
 wide variety of levels that parody movies and other video games (Medal of Homer, Shadow of the Collassal 
 Donut and Neverquest are great examples) . However some levels are great (Around the World in 80 
 Bites and Shadow of the Colassal Donut) other levels are bad (Grand Theft Scratchy-the song you 
 have to hear playing after Maggie changes it and what Marge turns some of the things into will 
 make you want to not complete the game just to keep the Grand Theft Scratchy world the way it is) . 
 Overall great Simpsons Game for any Simpsons fan but if you can only get one Simpsons game make 
 it Hit and Run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The Simpson's their popular worldwide its one of my favorite shows but the games just have never 
 been that great expect for The Simpsons Arcade Game from Konami back in 1991.
  
  The Simpson's Game hit all major platforms and i bought the Wii version and firstly it does have 
 a few bad controls the jumping parts can be bad. You will die on quite a few stages due to bad 
 camera angles but that is something you will have to deal with. As for the Wii controls they have 
 been put together actually pretty good and for me they worked just fine. 
  
  This game has brilliant comedy in it which adds value to the game most stuff homer comes out with 
 is really just going to make you laugh i couldn't stop. I love the cut scene's in the game because 
 it just looks like your watching the tv show and makes it very entertaining.
  
  The game is based on making jokes of over games such like Neverquest which is Zelda. There's even 
 Medal of Homer which is really Medal of Honour. I have noticed that rip offs of Donkey Kong which 
 steals professor frink and you have to save him. A weird looking Mario and Sonic also itchy and 
 scratchy in a rip off version of Grand Theft Auto in this you play as Marge and Lisa and take out 
 the city making it a nice place along with you is some dogs who team up with you.
  
  Your going to be doing team work in every level while every Simpsons Character have there own ability 
 and some levels can be hard to figure it out or even reach the destination. Homer turns into Gummy 
 , a bowling ball, while Bart turns to Bartman, Lisa has the hand of Buddha, Marge has her speaker 
 phone helping to guide a mob with her, Maggie tags a long with Marge but you do play as Maggie 
 to help flick buttons that Marge can not get to. 
  
  This has exclusive games to the Wii as well called Wii moments in this you get 2 games. The games 
 are bite night you play as homer in a boxing ring and you have to get all food that homer likes 
 to gain points eat healthy foods you lose points. Then there is Bart Wings which the controls just 
 do not respond at all annoying i know. 
  
  The game is expensive at this moment and not really worth it i finished the game in 3 days and 
 have never gone back to it. But it was fun while it was lasted 
  
  The best level in the game is the last been in heaven and challenging god in a copied version of 
 Dance Stage Fever or whatever it is called. You will also see Bender from Futurama who you will 
 have to take out along with Simpsons creator Matt Groening myself i was shocked to see it but it 
 was fun.
  
  You will either love this game or hate it but i like it and it was way better then Simpsons hit 
 and run. The comedy in this game will keep you entertained and for Family Guy fans the Simpsons 
 beats Family Guy anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  The simpson game
  Wii
  
  Well this simpson game is one of the best in my books, The is 16 levels long with some fun pullzes 
 and mini-games. As you play the game you will see jokes for other things like the "Planet of the 
 apes" and other games.
  
  This simpson game is like Star Wars lego with the power to swicth between the simpson charaters, 
 The game has a handful of bosses like the ceator Matt Groening theat are easy but hard at parts. 
 
  
  The games pullzes are easy and fun, The pullzes are base on Lisa and Homer levels where you use 
 Lisa to move things like builing and Homer to nock down thing to make paths.
  
  The Simpson has a fun muitplayer game that you work with a friend to finish the story, This does 
 not make it easyer in playing the game. 
  
  The only bad ponit is the game camrea, It lets you down when you need it on jumping levels. 
 
  
  Overall the simpson game is fun and will bring you hour of laughs, If you love the Simpson you 
 love this game. The grahpic are good to look at and the gamplay to just fun. So I would play this 
 if you love The Simpson or you need a game to play with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate_fisch
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, as I was a big fan of Hit and Run. This game had great 
 potential to be an entertaining and engaging game. However, the game is completely ruined by the 
 game control and camera issues. From the instant the game begins you will be maddened by impossible 
 game control. Your first task is to hop from a river bank to a floating cake (at least the humour 
 is good!) , but it takes about 5 tries to get it right. The key to accomplishing most tasks in the 
 game is to get the camera angle exactly right so that you can actually see what you're doing. Um.. yeah, 
 not fun.
  
  What makes the game all the more disappointing is that, aside from game control and camera issues, 
 the game seems to have gotten everything else right. Slightly better game control and camera and 
 the game would have been a total winner. Personally I find the game unplayable, but I have to give 
 it at least some credit for the classic Simpson humour (hilarious comments) , fun level design and 
 concepts, lots of smashing, and lots of playable characters. How could it all go so wrong?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radicalplace
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Story is lame and feels tacked on to it. This game could have been done with any characters from 
 any TV or Videogame Franchize. The simpsons just seem to be randomly picked.
  
  Gameplay is boring, the gameplay isnt fun, its just running around and hitting stuff and doesnt 
 offer satisfaction either.
  
  Wiimote functionality, practically non existent, only works for a couple of moves, even the menu 
 screens are used by the nunchuck analog stick.
  
  Humour, its has its moments but you'll be waiting until to finish a level for the next joke. 
 
  
  In all this game is boring and should not be brought. If you are really interested 
  I urge you to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wglonergan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  I loved Hit &amp; Run for the Gamecube, and probably bought this game on the release day, based 
 on some of the good will that I had for that game, but the awkward camera angles and repetitive, 
 unoriginal gameplay make this a definite rental rather than a purchase. It's great that the voice 
 cast is all here, the script is pretty funny, and the concept is cool that the family finds themselves 
 in other game formats, but THAT S IT. The graphics are nice, but the graphics for H&amp; R were 
 just as good or better in some places. The game play is so boring and difficult because of the 
 camera angles, that often, you have to die many times just to make a simple jump, because you can't 
 see what you're supposed to be jumping to, before you jump! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallonegro1502
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I have bought and played the game and quite frankly am very dissapointed. Yes, it is really funny 
 at certain spots in the game. However, if this wasn't The Simpsons none of us would have even bought 
 this game. The game itself is shallow, repetitive and very difficult to play with that crappy camera. 
 How did this get past the play testers! I really am frustrated with other review sites that have 
 soft pedaled just how bad this game is. Somehow it is okay to waste forty to fifty bucks on a game 
 just because it is funny. If you want to laugh get the Simpsons on dvd. Kudos to Gamespot for being 
 accurate in their review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KYLEtheGLACIER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game rocks. The gamplay is pretty good, like the fighting and the platforming is great. 
 The Wii controls are really great. The mini games are great. The game is hailarious. The parodies 
 are hilarious. The really only bad part about it is the camera isnt that great. But the rest is 
 awesome. I am a huge Simpsons fan, so I might like it more than others. But its awesome. The Grand 
 Theft Auto level is hilarious. The graphics are pretty good. The celshading is great. The animated 
 cutscenes like the tv show are great. So over all this is a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Today i wanted the rent The Simpsons Game... couldn't find it anywhere.. so i bought it... Hmm maybe 
 i should have waited... I haven't played the game a lot, got it a few hours ago, played it for 
 3 hours.. around that.
  
  At first, i was dissapointed by the graphics, i thought it would be like the Zelda: Windwaker, 
 cartoonist graphics but very fluid.
  
  The Simpsons Game dosen't look good, sorry. it dosen't.
  
  The game is not bad, like i said 
 i played like 3 hours.. There's a lot of bad camera going on, i missed at least 50% of my jump 
 due to camera angles.
  
  But i asked myself, would i have bought it if i would have tried it before...... NO!
  
  There's 
 some good positive points, it's great to have the voice over, the game is funky cool, and funny, 
 there's cool cutscenes, and a lot of Simpsons characters.
  
  I give it a 6.5/10.. and i'm generous. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
