-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Pets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/thesims2pets/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved AI offers a mostly authentic Sims experience on consoles.
 pets add an interesting new dimension to the game.
 plenty of new clothing and items to choose from.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pet management is difficult to schedule into a regular sim's day.
 limited neighborhood size and only one downtown lot.
 Wii control scheme is clunky and takes time to get used to.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Jun 12, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Sims 2: Pets offers good AI and challenging pet gameplay, but the Wii control scheme isn't ideal. 
 

  The Sims series started on the PC as a popular and difficult-to-describe strategy game that let 
 you control the lives of little computer people in the houses you built for them, as they loved, 
 grew old, had families, and occasionally used the potty. Eight years, several different game platforms, 
 and numerous editions later, the series has become known for offering zany humor, colorful graphics, 
 a gibberish language that its "sim" characters speak (known as "simlish") , and cheerful music. 
 However, the console versions of the Sims games never quite stacked up to the PC version, mainly 
 because the console games tended to focus on collection-based minigames and unlocking hidden items. 
 Also, they never seemed to capture the autonomous, unpredictable artificial intelligence that powered 
 those happy little sims in the PC versions. However, The Sims 2: Pets for the Wii ends up being 
 closer to The Sims 2's occasionally unpredictable gameplay than any other console Sims game to 
 date, and it adds in some additional pet-based gameplay, while keeping the console versions' typical 
 collection gameplay in the form of cooking recipes.  

          The Sims 2: Pets lets your little computer people go to the dogsliterally!     

 
  The Wii version of Pets adds three main types of domestic animals: aquarium fish, cats, and dogs. 
 Fish don't do much more than get fed and provide some amusement when stared at (your sims can collect 
 them from the world and bring them home to toss into the tank) , so cats and dogs are really the 
 only interesting pets in the game. You can create canines and felines from a great number of different 
 breeds and can use tons of customization options to choose size, age, different ear types, and 
 fur color patterns. And you can be one of those awful, awful people that dresses up their pets 
 with an entire wardrobe, including hats, sunglasses, neckerchiefs, shirts, and tiny little tennis 
 shoes. That's in addition to your pet's personality, such as whether your pet is friendly or aloof; 
 neat or messy; or quick to learn new tricks or a bit slower on the draw. If those last few sentences 
 got you excited, there's a good chance that The Sims 2: Pets is for you.  

  That's because pets -- dogs and cats, anyway -- essentially function like limited people in the game. 
 You can't take direct control of dogs or cats, but you can teach them new skills (pet tricks) by 
 spending virtual hours (which equates to several minutes of real time) of your day until they learn 
 how to sit, shake hands, and roll over, similar to how you can improve your sims' marketability 
 by spending virtual hours repeatedly training at skills like charisma, repair, and cleaning. You 
 can use interactions with them to fulfill your sims' social needs (so yes, you can play as a "crazy 
 cat lady" who associates only with her housecats) , just like you can with live-in family members. 
 Unfortunately, the Wii version of the game, unlike the PC version, doesn't let you send your pets 
 to work to earn money -- instead, it offers a single downtown area focused entirely on pets and lets 
 you earn "pet points" to spend on chew toys, doggie treats, and other animal accessories. Spending 
 pet points also unlocks the game's many hidden items and social interactions.  

          Teaching your dogs and cats to be well-behaved house pets is harder than it looks.     
 

  Dogs and cats can also interact with each other and, based on the personality you've given them, 
 they may either get into fights with the neighbors' pets or get friendly with them. In the meantime, 
 if you happen to care about your house's property value, your dogs and cats are always works-in-progress, 
 since you must constantly catch even the best-behaved pets in the act of destroying furniture, 
 digging up the yard, or relieving themselves in the house so that you can scold them -- which teaches 
 them not to do such things. (Alternately, if you care to, you can try to breed the biggest jerk 
 of a cat or dog in SimCity by repeatedly praising your pet for destructive behavior, then turn 
 it loose downtown.) Either way, patterning your pets' behavior is surprisingly time-consuming and 
 not always convenient -- if you want to have a well-behaved pet, you have to always keep an eye on 
 it, and constantly drop what you're doing to dash over and scold or praise it -- and once you get 
 there, actually giving your pet that feedback takes a little while too. It also seems to take quite 
 some time before constant scolding or praising sinks in even with the brightest petsand 
 if you decide to have any of your sims take a job, that just means less time for your sims to spend 
 together teaching your pets.  

  This is the main issue with the way cats and dogs work in the game -- trying to create the perfect 
 pet, or even a decent one, is difficult to schedule in the bustling world of The Sims 2, where 
 your sims are also trying to make it in the working world themselves, build up their own skill 
 points, pursue their wants and life goals, and take care of their own personal needs for food, 
 rest, and social interaction. While the console versions don't offer the complexity that the PC 
 game's many expansion packs do, you'll probably still have trouble keeping up with the conflicting 
 needs of both your sims and pets, which are both demanding and require separate blocks of time 
 in any given virtual day. However, if you're a Wii owner and haven't had a chance to try out the 
 PC version of The Sims 2, Pets will give you a pretty good sense of what you've been missing. The 
 game includes improved artificial intelligence over the 2005 console version of The Sims 2, as 
 well as The Sims 2's want- and aspiration-based gameplay, so you could just as easily put your 
 pets in the background and focus primarily on character interactions (though you'll still find 
 occasional glitches with characters getting stuck on geometry or having pathfinding problems around 
 simple obstacles) . The Wii version of Pets only offers a single neighborhood with multiple houses 
 and only a single downtown lot, presumably due to technical constraints, but if that's all you're 
 after, you'll find it here.  

  Unfortunately, the Wii version's control scheme is a bit clunky. It requires you to use the Nunchuk 
 attachment to access as many buttons as possible, and even then it requires multiple button presses 
 for several functions. For instance, to pause the game or speed up time -- both of which are essential 
 for properly queuing up orders for your pets and sims and for skipping through long periods of 
 inactivity, like sleep -- you have to press and hold the circle button on your Nunchuk controller 
 while reaching down for the plus or minus buttons on your Wii Remote. In several cases, many of 
 the controller functions overlap (the Nunchuk stick and D pad on the remote can both be used to 
 navigate through menus, for instance) , but you'll definitely need some time to get used to the 
 control scheme and be able to use it easily. The Wii game keeps the same menu structure as the 
 other console versions of The Sims 2: Pets, which mostly works fine and is actually flexible for 
 things like using the game's "build mode" option to click and drag rows of walls and carpeting. 
 But if you usually play The Sims on your PC, you'll probably still wish you had the more precise 
 control of a mouse and keyboard.  

          The control scheme takes some getting used to, and may make you wish it were simpler.  
    

  Otherwise, the game adds some new music tracks that fit in just fine, and like the other versions 
 of The Sims 2, it borrows music liberally from the 2004 PC game. Pets also offers well-suited animal 
 noises (dogs barking, cats purring, and so on) that are just as expressive as the still-upbeat 
 "simlish" language that sims use to communicate with each other, and now, to coo at and criticize 
 their animal friends. While the expansion doesn't add a new set of out-of-home "lots," the out-of-home 
 areas that sims can visit by calling a cab, it does add new objects for your home and new household 
 items and clothing options. These all look just fine and seem to fit in very well with the colorful, 
 though perhaps not cutting-edge look and feel of the console versions of The Sims 2. The Wii version 
 looks about the same as the GameCube version -- it has a bright, clean look -- and it also has relatively 
 painless load times. Then again, the GameCube version came out last year, and the lack of any kind 
 of graphical upgrade seems a bit disappointing.  

  It's true that the pet-related content in the console versions of The Sims 2: Pets, while interesting, 
 doesn't seem perfectly implemented. But surprisingly, the open-ended, unpredictable Sims 2 experience 
 works much better in Pets than in any other console game. It's unfortunate that it took this long 
 to replicate a good PC Sims experience on consoles, but if that's what you've been waiting for, 
 you'll find it in The Sims 2: Pets. And if you're just in it for the collection and unlocking of 
 minigames as in the previous console Sims games, you'll find those here, too.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: viobane1974
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  While they kept asking me for advice on how to do certain things (they could not ever quite get 
 the using the Wiimote to position things, nor could they get good with the menu options despite 
 their instructions) , they kept slogging through the game, always interested in playing with their 
 pets.
  
  The challenges of the individual needs of the sims were never fully understood, and they kept having 
 to be revived by paramedics. Thank goodness for the cheat codes that gave them hundreds of thousands 
 of dollars, since I am not sure it would have kept their interest as long if they would have had 
 to go through and get jobs and such.
  
  That said, it would be nice to have an "easy" mode where the individual needs and simulation pieces 
 were not a factor so kids could just play with their pets and make their dream homes without worrying 
 about everyday sort of needs.
  
  I personally was addicted to the first Sims when it came out for the computer in 2000, so I knew 
 the ropes for the game and was able to guide them, but even my wife had troubles initially building 
 the house and decorating and such. The only reason I am deducting some points from the score for 
 this game is because the controls are a bit frustrating at times, and the wiimote seemed to detract 
 rather than add to the experience.
  
  Overall, however, the Sims continues to shine as an addictive gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandorock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Wii, buy this game!! I recommend it!!!
  
  I am a Christian, so I highly appreciate the way this game is much more age-appropriate than The 
 Sims 2 for the PS2. Plus, this game doesn't get boring nearly as quickly! I often get hooked on 
 this game for at least 30 to 45 minutes whenever I play it!
  
  Of course, the Wii controls are complicated at first. But once you grasp it, you won't be able 
 to stop playing! You can control your Sims via the classic click-and-drag mode or through direct 
 control.
  
  The pets are an awesome addition to the game! They can become difficult to keep track of at times, 
 but they give you something to play with when there's nothing else for your Sims to do! You can 
 teach them everything from singing to playing dead!
  
  There's also a community lot for your Sims and their pets to visit every now and then. You can 
 also earn pet points throughout the game, which allow you to purchase new items for your pets (or 
 new pets for your Sims!) .
  
  Over all, the gameplay is great, the level of addictiveness is high, and the graphics aren't too 
 shabby for a Wii game. I don't know how the other console versions of this game compare, but I'm 
 sure they're great as well (for those of you who don't own a Wii) .
  
  Be sure to try this game out today! It's a classic, and it's sure to deliver a bundle of addictive 
 fun for you Wii-owners! God bless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I really like Sims games. I'm pretty sure I've played almost everyone out there. This was the first 
 Sims game I got for Wii. WOW what a disappointment. There was no gameplay. It was just a free for 
 all. I didn't like that. Now I do understand to each their own but I like playing to story line 
 game. I missed it. Making my own house and doing my own story is fun too, but really, how much 
 of that can you do? I bought the game and traded it in the next day. That sounds horrible I know 
 but it couldn't be helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better on the computer but is is still fine on the wii. There are only a few 
 minor flaws. For exaple if you love the fact that you can kill people in the sims you will be sad 
 to hear that if you hunger gets too low a parimedic will rush to your rescue and save you. also 
 I still have not found out if you can have children or not but I do know that you can have puppys 
 or kittens. also when you are trying to fast forward often you open the pause menu. After 50 time 
 it gets pretty frusterating. Over all I enjoy it
  
  Hope this helps!!!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The Sims, wether you enjoy it or not, is marked in the history of video gaming as the ebst selling 
 PC game of all time. A few times, EA has tried to give the consoles and portables a Sims experience 
 akin to the PC (the urbz and several other Sims titles, for example) but to me, each port has fallen 
 flat on some level. The Wii version is no different, but the controls come closest to mimicking 
 the keyboard and mouse gameplay. Most of the game is controlled via the IR sensor on the Wiimote, 
 and by using the A button to select. The B button and using the control stick allow you to switch 
 between the control of multiple Sims. The control stick alone handles camera angles, while the 
 Z Button and control stick allow you to rotate the camera. Also, the + Button pauses the game for 
 access to design and store features. With these controls, i found it did a better job of emulating 
 the keyboard and mouse feel then say, the same game on PS2. This is a good sign of things to come 
 for MySims. Graphics where in the same style as the original game, but I did notice when zomming 
 in, there was a bit of a dip in the framerate, otherwise there were no issues I noticed and the 
 graphics as a whole won't impress nor underwhelm. The game stays by it's roots of having simple 
 and clean graphics and not adding too many bells and whistles to scare the Bejeweled playing crowd 
 away.
  
  Sound was different on Wii. I never noticed that the speaker as used in the Wiimote, but I did 
 find it very difficult to hear sounds from aways. But that aways would be sufficient in the PC 
 version. My suspicion is that there was a bit of compressing to get the sound on, and that's something 
 I myself frown upon. There is the typical re-play value you'll get from a Sims title in here, but 
 I personally wound up back on the PC version quickly. It just feels more inticing then this presentation. 
 Over-all I'd say if there is a person wanting this game that doesn't have it on PC, then chances 
 are they'll enjoy it, but if they've heard Sim-lish or traded in Simoleons, chances are they will 
 spin some virtual lives on a PC instead.
  
  Last I saw, the game was $29.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Sims on the consoles has never quite stood up to the PC versions, but Sims 2 Pets for the Wii comes 
 close. It is a great game, and I would recommend it to any Sims fan, but there are some missing 
 features and silly glitches. You can't have multiple story houses and there isn't any aging (which 
 means no kids...) . Plus I've also found some problems with placing tiles.
  
  The graphics are nice, what you would expect for a Wii game, but apparently there isn't any 480p 
 support. The classic Sims 2 music is here, which makes it like the PC version.
  
  The controls are a little sketchy at first and they could have been better, but you quickly get 
 used to them. But all in all, this is a great Wii game with lasting value, and one of the only 
 games for Wii I've actually wanted to buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
