-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Castaway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sim/thesims2castaway/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Open-ended gameplay offers leisurely experience.
 Decent variety of different tasks to accomplish.
 All-new graphics and sound.
 Monkey butlers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You do have to spend a good chunk of time gathering resources.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 397 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Simulation
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Castaway might just be one of the best iterations of The Sims 2 on consoles yet. 

  It might not have been clear back in 2000 that The Sims would become the best-selling, multiplatform 
 phenomenon it is today. But the series' unusual formula -- which let you control the lives of little 
 computer people as they ate, slept, found work, and formed relationships with other little computer 
 people -- launched a lengthy series of games on both the PC and consoles. The console versions of 
 the game never quite captured the zany, unpredictable nature of the original PC versions, which 
 had superior artificial intelligence, but The Sims 2: Castaway comes the closest to presenting 
 a fresh and enjoyable new experience.  

           If you don't mind doing some hunting and gathering, Castaway offers a unique new Sims 
 experience.      

  To be fair, Castaway has a lot of the same features as The Sims series. You create a custom "sim" 
 character with certain vocational skills and personal needs (such as hunger, fatigue, and social 
 interaction) , but this new game takes a creative approach to the use of these features. Rather 
 than build a small group to live the life of a nuclear family in the same house, you create a crew 
 of castaways who end up shipwrecked on a tropical island and must make a new home for themselves 
 a la  Swiss Family Robinson . To that end, you'll guide your characters to collect driftwood and 
 other building materials, along with various wild fruits and vegetables to eat (some poisonous, 
 some not) . You'll also catch fish with a spear, fashion clothing out of tropical leaves, and build 
 primitive shelters and even rafts to explore the surrounding islands. You'll also fulfill your 
 characters' need for social interaction by either finding the lost members of your crew, or making 
 friends with the local monkeys, who can be bribed with bananas and eventually trained to gather 
 materials or food for you.  

  Castaway builds on the "mostly open-ended game with some goals" design that previous games in the 
 series followed by also heavily emphasizing collection gameplay. You spend a great deal of time 
 picking up stuff or harvesting supplies (in some cases, to build tools to let you harvest other 
 types of supplies) . However, you certainly don't have to pick up everything unless you're an obsessive 
 collector type who has to discover every variety of plant, collect every type of seashell, or catch 
 every species of fish. In many cases, you'll instead be exploring new areas in search of new materials 
 and clues to advance, such as discarded books that contain plans for new items to craft, as well 
 as random messages in bottles that wash up on shore.  

           Despite the loading-time issues, Castaway lets you recruit monkey butlers. That has to 
 count for something.      

  If you can tolerate the collection gameplay, which occasionally gets a bit repetitive, the game 
 actually offers a surprisingly varied experience reminiscent of games such as Animal Crossing, 
 Harvest Moon, or the Seasons expansion pack for The Sims 2 PC. All of those games were relaxing, 
 leisurely experiences for players of all ages, and they let you interact with a colorful, nonthreatening 
 world to accomplish your goals when you cared to. In Castaway, you'll basically always have at 
 least a few different easy tasks on your plate to accomplish, as well as some slightly longer-term 
 goals for which you'll need to collect a few more resources or make a few more discoveries to complete. 
 Your sims do suffer from their physical needs, but they're generally easy to maintain. Likewise, 
 some of the more advanced crafting recipes require your characters to develop higher skill levels 
 in vocational areas such as body strength and mechanical skills, but these skills develop naturally 
 as you continue to explore, harvest, build, and interact, so they're usually not a burden to deal 
 with.  

  Castaway also offers a fresh new visual look that features slimmer characters with a more-stylized 
 look. They're not necessarily better than the typically more detailed, more colorful characters 
 from previous games, but they're certainly new, and they still move with the kind of expressive 
 animations you'd expect from a Sims game. The game also offers plenty of brand-new sound samples 
 for the nonsensical "simlish" language the characters speak. Better yet, the game features an all-new 
 musical soundtrack that, unlike previous Sims console games, does not heavily recycle music from 
 the PC versions, but instead uses new tropical-themed songs that are suitably lighthearted and 
 cheerful. That's why it's a shame that the PS2 version of the game suffers from load times that 
 randomly become very long, and that occasionally cause the game to hang indefinitely so that you 
 lose all of your progress.  

  By offering new graphics, new sounds, new music, and a new way to play The Sims, Castaway offers 
 a lively way to enjoy the series and those little gibberish-speaking characters that have made 
 such a name for themselves -- as long as you have enough patience to spend a good chunk of time hunting 
 and gathering.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 series has always had trouble adjusting itself to home consoles. The massive amount 
 of information that has to be stored in each game makes it difficult for the developers to give 
 gamers a chance to experience the content in the pc versions. The Sims 2: Castaways attempts to 
 re-envision the sims genre by placing you on a deserted island where you will have to create everything 
 from scratch. Will The Sims 2: Castaways disappoint, or will it take you on the adventure of a 
 lifetime? You will start off by creating your sim. The creation tools are limited this time, which 
 is disappointing, considering that building a sim was one of the most entertaining aspects of previous 
 games in the series. This will become unimportant as you play the game though, since your clothes 
 will begin to tear as you travel through brush on the island. Luckily, you can make clothes by 
 gathering items on the island and the amount of clothes you can create are more plentiful than 
 the clothes you choose from at the start of the game. When you begin playing for the first time, 
 the tutorial will tell you your basic survival needs. The tutorial is nice, but it doesn't give 
 you enough information. Even the instruction manual fails at delivering enough information. Despite 
 being very confused from the start, you will eventually start to realize that collecting will be 
 the key to your sims survival. For instance, getting some decent clothing will require you to collect 
 a certain amount of leaves or vines from the island and you will have to collect even more items 
 when you start to build more important things like a house, or a raft. Collecting items is not 
 too difficult, but it becomes monotonous and tiresome. To truly enjoy the game, you will have to 
 force your self through the hours of gathering. The Sims 2: Castaways is one of those games that 
 just gets better as you progress, giving the player a sense of accomplishment when they complete 
 tasks. You will start to find your shipwrecked crewmates, and discover more plants constantly as 
 the game begins to hit it's stride. The downside is, that it becomes pretty hectic when you have 
 so much to keep track of, which was one of the main concerns in the sims 2: Pets. On a technical 
 level, the Sims 2: Castaways doesn't look too bad. The glitches are gone, which is a great technical 
 achievement compared to the other the other games on consoles. The long load times return though. 
 It takes about 12 seconds to load as you go to each area instead of 60 seconds. Overall, The Sims 
 2: Castaways is a great survival game, but it just takes a little bit too long to reach it's stride. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  There aren't too many games where you half expect Wilson The Volleyball to show up and give you 
 your next objective but then again, there aren't too many games where you're asked to befriend 
 a chimp. That's the beauty of The Sims 2: Castaway. The Sims might be sagging around the edges 
 and drooping in unsightly places with old age but by adding sand, the Sims team has found a way 
 of reinventing an old favourite.
  
  You start off by finding yourself shipwrecked on a desert island and you're then left to fend for 
 yourself. You start by eating clams and building campfires but soon move up to fishing, joining 
 a tribe and sending out SOS signals to potential rescuers. It has all the desert island clichs 
 you'd expect; you'll build a raft to get to new islands, cobble together new clothing with vines 
 and leaves and shimmy up a coconut tree to get food. 
  
  
  Yet, because shipwreck games are rarely ever done, it feels fresh and interesting, even when under 
 the surface the same old Sims core of having to keep your hunger, health and happiness under control 
 are in place. As always, it's about spinning plates - trying to meet your objectives while keeping 
 your Sim content. It's surprisingly addictive and the new surroundings mean that even those who 
 have been here many times before over the years will want to get stuck in again. This isn't so 
 much about filling your virtual life with distractions but building up your virtual life from scratch.
 
  
  
  Castaway also benefits from the Remote. Rather than getting bogged down in menu after menu, you 
 can use the Nunchuk to move your character around and the Remote to zip through the menus. The 
 result is more time eating coconuts and hugging monkeys, less time wrestling with menus and swearing 
 as you go to the toilet rather than pick up driftwood.
  
  True, it's little more than The Sims on the beach. But The Sims is pretty good and hey, so is the 
 beach. So while we can't ignore the fact that it is yet more Sims and are a little annoyed by the 
 weak graphics on show, the underlying fact is that it's just a damn good game and that's more than 
 enough for us.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutorulz111
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, I am recommoning you to at least rent this game, because it IS fun.
  
  Mainly, like the title says, your lost on a island and sepertaed from the rest of your group ( ( 
 all people you create and custimse in the beginning) . You have to collect resources and find the 
 others and try to find a way to get off the island, while still working on survival. You even get 
 to make friends with monkeys! Unlike other survival games, this was a interesting and fun thing 
 to do, dancing and feeding the monkeys to make them your friends. You can even name them after 
 befriending them.
  
  Some things I didn't really like... well, a whole chuck of the time you spend gathering resources, 
 and it can get a bit reptetive. In the beginning it was very exicting and fun, but after a couple 
 weeks it loses some interest. I'm not saying this is a bad game, but like most games, it DOES have 
 faults, so don't expect it to be perfect.
  
  The grahpics? I'm not a big graphics person, in fact, I don't even care if the graphics are much 
 like the games on Nintendo 64. But if I had to judge, I'd say the grahpics are pretty good. Remember, 
 this is the will were talking about, not Nintento 64 or gameboy advence. 
  
  If you're not sure, go ahead and rent it. Or if you pretty positive by the majory of good reiviews 
 on here, go ahead and buy it.
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing I was really excited. It had good graphics, nicely designed furniture, 
 and cool clothing that matched the role of what you would look like if you were "shipwrecked".
 
  
  But, after I played the game for a couple of days it got really boring really fast. And I'm not 
 a hard person to please. I enjoyed the game and tried to get everything out of it... but it just 
 wasn't working. It got hard to keep the Sims' motives up to par and collect the resources at the 
 same time.
  
  It was hard to use the Wii Remote and Nunchuck to do anything especially building the houses. I 
 did get used to the controls after a while but it still came as a challenge to me at times to use 
 the controls.
  
  The monkeys do not act like butlers. When you finally are able to make one of them go out and get 
 an item for you it's too hard to retrieve that item from them. If you're eating, fishing, or chatting 
 to someone the monkey gets impatient after about two seconds and goes running off with the item. 
 That's happened to me and I wasn't even engaged in an action.
  
  There's weird glitches as well. I can only remember two at this time because I haven't played the 
 game for a long time. The first glitch was when I'd switch to a Sim that was doing an action it 
 would lock the Sim in the spot it was standing in. The only way I could fix that problem was to 
 save & quit.
  
  The second glitch was if I saved before my Sims finished building a house than when I re-loaded 
 the game I wasn't able to build the walls nor build any new ones. I had to tear down the ones that 
 were there, re-load the lot, and then start building again.
  
  These glitches didn't happen often but they happened enough to warrant frustration as well as bring 
 on the bordem.
  
  I would recommend that the game be rented first and then bought if the player liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaman321
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This isn't just appealing on the cover but in the game as well, with the tropical sounds and "neighbors". 
 As you venture to find your way home or stay and accept your new home. the fact that you have to 
 build your home by hand makes it far more realistic and entertaining. but what fascinated me the 
 most was the ancient temple and their technology referring to the cave door plumbing (lagoon) . as 
 you venture the islands you'll find a pirates treasure, a sacred temple, an island made of crystal 
 and deposits, and the bodies of the pirates that ventured through these islands many years ago. 
 
  
  what you would expect from EA, excellent graphics and being able to make the family or friend in 
 this case, still with a wide variety of furniture and fashion and that addictive ring to it you 
 just cant stop it reins superior against any sims game on consoles today.
  
  thank you EA thank you so much (sob) really i cant stop crying so.. so... (sniffle) Beautiful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simlover1996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game! It just had fun written all over it from the start and now that I played it, 
 it is one of the best games I ever got. 
  The islands are very well detailed and there's a wide variety of resources to gather. You can make 
 a lot of objects to satisfy you island taste too. It also has some animal life like chimps on the 
 island, maybe you could make them your butler?... 
  It also has a great deal of beautiful environments from beaches, to caves, to jungles, and more. 
 Some places have some resources that can only be found there too.
  The game gives you the ability to either stay there and make an island paradise or try to return 
 home to your normal life. I personally like to stay on the island and that's whats fun about it, 
 you can play if however you want to. That's what makes this game the best I've played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  You start by building up to six characters of either sex. You can choose their appearance, occupation 
 and astrology sign which affects personality traits like outgoing cleanliness etc. The designs 
 aren't very complicated and the characters look fairly good. Graphics in this game are average. 
 
  
  You begin your adventure alone and are given goals like find the other sims and build certain items 
 to survive. The bulk of the game is gathering items for building or eating. You have to keep your 
 sim happy or they won't survive. For instance they need to sleep or eat go to the bathroom and 
 do other recreational activities like dancing, listening to music and socializing to stay sane. 
 
  
  Your sims attributes change from doing activities. Chopping wood increases strength whereas building 
 tools or structures increases mechanical ability. As you explore you find new items and plans. 
 So more complicated structures are available to build that require you to increase your skills. 
 While on the island you experience tragedies like earthquakes, storms or fires that can destroy 
 what you build so you'll have to repair it. You could literally spend hours gathering and building 
 items as the game has no shortage of items to create. Eventually you'll probably decide its time 
 to figure out how to escape the island. I found this game to be fairly entertaining at first then 
 it started to get old as the later plans require lots of item collecting. 
  
  My biggest frustration was the controls. Instead of using the wi remote to point at items the controls 
 have you walking up to objects and moving the numb chuck up and down to select tasks. This is rather 
 ackward and many times you'll pass up what you were trying to do. When interacting with other sims 
 they often have walked away before you have selected what you wanted. Using the wi remote to point 
 would have made it so much easier. There are some spots with bad camera angles and blind spots. 
 When fishing a lot of the time you can't see the bobber and have to reposition your sim. 
  
  Good
  Open environments allow endless options
  Plenty of things to build and do
  Play 
 as long or quickly as you want 
  Customizable characters and outfits
  
  Bad
  Awkward control setup 
  Other sims can get in way at times
  A few bad camera angles 
  Gathering 
 items gets old later in game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Castaway is a very entertaining game! The idea of someone stranded on a island far away 
 from every civilization is very nice! It's a great concept, and there are many things to do on 
 this island. Make fire, fishing, make food, build a house and so on. The guide to beginners is 
 very simple and easy, so it won't take long before your playing castaway, like a pro! The selection 
 of different characters isn't as big as the computer version, but still there's a good stack. 
 
  
  The graphics aren't beautiful, but it's acceptable. Sometimes the picture can get very square, 
 but it's acceptable.
  
  The controls are a bit hard to get used to, but when you have played for an hour or so, it's quite 
 good. 
  
  The game are worth the money and time, so if you have played The Sims, on your computer, you would 
 like this version of Sims because, the normal sims games, can be a little to easy, when the only 
 thing you have to do is to build your house and thats it, in Castaway, you have to learn to survive 
 and build things on the island, so that you can survive there and make your "Village" grow bigger 
 and better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Most console versions of The Sims so far have been abit of a letdown that didn't capture the essence 
 of the PC versions. But Castaway has broken the mould and made a non-PC actually good port of a 
 Sims game.
  
  The plot here is that you're stranded on a desert island and have to find a way home. Has been 
 done before yes, but where most survival games messed it up was the difficulty. To compare this 
 game to the Lost in Blue would be to compare a bush of thorns to a soft carpet. Castaway is just 
 that much more accessible. A very good tutorial gives you the low down and the gradual introduction 
 of the needs gives you enough time to prepare and ready yourself for other needs.
  
  Now simoleans aren't going to buy any home comforts out here so your Sim (or sims depending on 
 how many you created at the begginning) must work to gather nesscary materials and food. Food is 
 never really much of a problem as most fruits can be carried with you to snack on whenever your 
 Hunger gets abit low.
  
  Resources on the other hand are abit more complex. Some things will only be found in certain areas 
 so you must explore every inch to find all of those useful items. These resources can be used to 
 build huts and tools all of which will be needed to help your Sim survive. You will start out with 
 some basic plans but as you create, build and explore your plans will evolve into more and more 
 complicated things until you finally have the plans for a mansion.
  
  You do have to spend a good chunk of time gathering resources which is quite straining on your 
 needs but only two needs will actually do anything too significant if you let them drop. Hunger 
 will kill you if it hits empty and Energy will make you drop and fall asleep from exhuastion. There 
 is quite a vast array of land to explore as early on you will find the plans for raft so you can 
 go to sea and explore the other islands. Lucky the creators put in a very cool feature to save 
 all this running around. The map in the game will allow you to jump to any area aslong as you've 
 been there before which saves running arond getting confused where to go. So once you've found 
 that room in that maze for a jungle you can instantly warp back to it.
  
  There are loads of neat touches in the graphics. Such as that clothing gets torn as you explore 
 and need to be repaired and beards start to grow. Weather also has an impact on your Sim. If it's 
 rainy it'll negatively impact his or her Energy bar. All in all the game looks very nice. There 
 are multiple endings to find and a plethora of unlockable plans and objects if you can find the 
 time to complete all of the goals.
  
  The Sims 2: Castaway is simply the best desert island survival game to date. It's easy to get into 
 but there's alot of depth which you'll learn without really noticing thus making it really accessible. 
 I fully reccommend this game if you're willing to put away a good few hours on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good game. Since I played MySims, and thought it was pretty cool, I decided 
 to go and try out Sims 2 Castaway! I wasn't disappointed!
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  You start off customizing your crew. It's a really fun thing, I spent a few hours (I guess I'm 
 indecisive or something) customizing my crew! Then you set off! All of a sudden, your boat somehow 
 goes crazy, and the whole crew is seperated! You choose a starting sim, and you'll find your crew 
 later on in the game. Anyway, you turn into a castaway. Similar to MySims, you gather resources 
 to make things, like you use essences to make furniture in MySims and you have to get a certain 
 amount to make an item, like furniture or clothing. You can explore islands, and it's very interesting! 
 And you have to survive, basically, and complete "Goals"! It's a very fun game, it's just needs 
 that kind of annoy me, they could just go down a little slower... and the romance thing really ticks 
 me off, but that's a different story.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The graphics are pretty cool, I have to say!
  
  Sound (9/10)
  The music reminds me of a vacation 
 I had in the... I forgot what it was called! But it's very tropical music, and there's some radio 
 in the game that lets you listen to some cool music! The simlish is the same as ever!
  
  Value (9/10)
  Great game, recommend it! Only if it lasted longer...
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10)
 
  It's a very nice game, I suggest it to anyone who likes exploring and games about surviving. :D
 
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.5/10)
  Awesome game. It's a great game for people who like exploring and survival life simulation games! 
 Very interesting, but I wish it lasted longer. Overall, good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Will Wright and Maxis has actually made an innovative Sim game. This line alone should be a sign 
 of the Apocalypse.... but so far we're doing good. I was impressed at this new title to the....8512 
 Sim games collection out there. We have seen so many titles, seeing some creativity gave me some 
 hope in the franchise. 
  
  The idea is simple. Joe Sim and crew are on a yacht somewhere. But of course, in Sim fashion, they 
 started singing and then nearly killed themselves as the ship sank in a shore. So Joe Sim now must 
 survive on a series of islands while trying to find his crew/shipmates and try to get rescued.
 
  
  Now here's the actual interesting aspect. Using the Wii remote, you begin gathering stuff. This 
 stuff can be anything, bamboo, coconuts, leaves, corn, gold, basically every other thing not man 
 made. Now as much as this might be sometimes boring, I actually enjoyed searching for new foods, 
 harvesting goodies and laughing when my Sim puked after trying something poisonous. 
  
  Gathering all this stuff makes able to build stuff. This stuff includes shelters, tools, clothing, 
 lamps, anything you want honestly. And so you go to the same concept of all Sims games, building 
 a house. Which is also a challenge. Building a strong and sturdy home requires you to work hard 
 to get the different things you'll need. Like fine sand for glass.
  
  The soundtrack was also a nice plus. Hearing something original from the franchise is good praise 
 for what is usually recycled soundtracks. Of course, Simglish or whatever the language is was also 
 entertaining to hear.
  
  The little bits of humor and fun in the game was great as well. I personally enjoyed the Tiberium 
 crystals that you can find around the island. Completely useless (I think) but it was nice to see 
 a homage to one of the great gaming series; Command and Conquer. 
  
  The flaws, however, were annoying but not completely damaging to the game. The worst I found so 
 far is the disappearing cursor, which basically kills any efficient game playing. Long load times 
 were irritating but tolerable, and not as excessive as I've seen in many other games. 
  
  In summary, it was a good game, not the Holy Grail, but still quite impressive, especially from 
 a very unoriginal franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  After you have created a crew of sims, they set out on a splended ocean voyage, only to be caught 
 in a storm and thrown overboard. Your sims end up on a deserted island. In order for your sims 
 to survive you must hunt and gather food and resources. Once resources have been collected you 
 can build your sims a suitable island home. If suitable is not enough you can explore further into 
 the jungle and even to other island where new and different resources, animals, and suprises await. 
 Then, if your sims levels have been kept up and they survive your sims can truly flurish in their 
 new islan paradise. Overall Sims 2: Castaway is a great game. You are quickly thrown into the life 
 of your sims and their environment. You can almost hear the birds kawing around you. The graphics 
 are good for the Wii, sound is great, and the controls are very nice. Using the Wiimote to point 
 and click feels very natural and is very slick. The game is deep with plenty to do, and explore, 
 along with endless possibilities for your sims, willing that you must first gather the resources. 
 The game, as with other Sims games, really sucks you in to your sims' lives. The only reason it 
 is not a 10, is because of a few anoying glitches, and it seems to be a little hard on the Wii 
 to run- pauses and occasional freeze-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flazzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Sims Castaway is a very fun game. It's obviously a PS2 port, and I doubt EA had any intentions 
 of making it for any other system than PS2 until Wii came along.
  
  The graphics are good, but PS2 good. You KNOW the system can do more.
  
  Starting the game, 
 you really get a sense of being on an island. The beginning is the most exciting part, learning 
 what you can do, how to find food, survive, etc.
  You get a good feeling of isolation, and are really happy when you find your shipmates.
  
  
 Nice little surprises too. For example, the ENTIRE island shakes for no known reason yet. What 
 causes it? Almost like a LOST type mystery.
  
  I have not finished the game, but I think I am close. I have received my $49.99 worth, but I think 
 the games worth about ten dollars less.
  
  Now, I do disagree about the GS review of the constant upkeep you have to do to your SIM. There 
 is a way around that. When you have a crew, its all teamwork. The trick is that when one SIM is 
 exhausted or needy, switch to another.
  If you need resources, you assign the other SIMS jobs. The computer does it automatically.
  
 
  Now, I have some gripes the reviewer did not cover.
  1) There is a dang bug in the game where you lose your pointer after going to a different place. 
 I think it occurs if you move the Wii remote away from the sensor while its loading.
  
  2) Load times load times load times! I DREAD going to the other menus. It has to load EVERYTHING. 
 I never heard my Wii work so hard to load stupid clothing designs or the map. This game was NOT 
 optimized for the Wii.
  
  3) Another annoying bug is that monkeys will leave leaf packages for you. But they will leave them 
 on the border of the trigger point where you walk to the next place. So every time you try to get 
 them, you travel instead. And I wonder too, because I found rare artifacts or map pieces in them 
 before. Did I miss some forever?
  
  4) Placing/moving objects of creation. Many times in 'grab' mode (where you can move around stuff 
 you built) , the positioning of the objects with the controller seem to be off many times. Its very 
 touchy and cumbersome. Again, it seems to be added quickly and not fully tested.
  
  Its a very nice package and a well thought out game gameplay wise.
  
  I hope they make a sequel, 
 fixing the load times, adding more mystery, and more puzzles as well.
  
  I really want to finish it so I would stop putting my Wii disk drive through so much wear and tear. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Like this game ill keep my review short and sweet. The Sims 2 castaway offers a whole new experience 
 to the Sims franchise. Like having to build your own clothing and furniture. But most of the time 
 you'll be scavenging for materials to make furniture and clothing. The game itself is fun but I 
 get so frustrated at the camera and its one of the things I hate in this game. I couldn't find 
 the last hieroglyphic to save my life. And resulted in me cheating to beat this game. The main 
 problem I faced in this game was it being too short it was a fun game though. I enjoyed how they 
 made real life trees berries and vegetables. In the beginning you can select a crew up to 1-6 I 
 chose 6 so it would be easier to scavenge. Then you select there occupation doctor, musician etc. These 
 choices affect how well your sim does in a particular skill and will have an advantage in that 
 skill then other Sims who have different occupations. But every sim can be equal in skill occupation 
 just decides how quick your sim excels in that skill than other Sims. Overall im glad I rented 
 it it was fun I wouldn't buy it though because I beat it the replay value is pretty low even for 
 a sim game. So if you want to try this game go ahead rent it but only the daring should buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Sims 2 Castaway Review
  
  Sims 2 Castaway is essentially a spin-off of the Sims 2, with similar gameplay, but it replaces 
 features like growing old and aspirations with hunting and gathering. You control one (or more 
 if you so choose) Sim that is stranded on a deserted island. You must do what you need to survive, 
 including finding materials and food, building tools and shelter, and many other varied activities, 
 with the goal of eventually escaping the island (if you want) .
  
  The graphics are definitely not up to current gen standards, not even for the Wii. With simple 
 textures and environments, it's nothing that could not have been done on the Playstation 2. But 
 as usual, third party developers keep treating the Wii like it's no more powerful than last gen's 
 consoles, so I guess that's to be expected. It makes me feel like some folks are actually trying 
 to sabotage the Wii by developing bad looking games for it intentionally... but I digress. The character 
 animation is pretty utilitarian, it gets the job done but it's nothing special. A lot of animations 
 are funny in the way they always are in Sims games. Sound is nothing special either; most of the 
 time all you hear are the sounds of the environment, and the occasional Simspeak and monkey chatter, 
 but there are ways to make music as well, including an explicably functional radio.
  
  One would expect the play control for a Sims game on the Wii to be as close to the PC experience 
 as can be, but this is only somewhat true. It is true that you can use the Wii Remote as a pointer 
 to interact with objects all over the environment, but in a strange twist, the Nunchuk is the primary 
 gameplay tool. With the analog stick and Z button, you freely move your Sim and issue commands, 
 respectively. You also tilt the Nunchuk up and down to select in menus... this is incredibly awkward 
 as it more often than not led me to selecting the wrong command because the option changes with 
 even the slightest tilt of the Nunchuk. However, you can also bring up menus with the Z button 
 and simply click them with the pointer -- for one who primarily plays his Sims games on PC, this 
 is ideal.
  
  Like any Sims game, you have to keep your Sim's needs in check, Fun, Hygiene, Bladder, Hunger and 
 so on. Only in this game, the needs are unlocked as you progress. In order to actually do that, 
 you have to spend lots of time gathering resources. I mean, lots of time. In fact, it's fair to 
 say that the main aspect of Sims 2 Castaway is running around harvesting plants, picking food, 
 and using the stuff to build things or eat with, with the social aspect a lot more of an afterthought. 
 You need to build a crafting bench so you can make tools like a clam shell axe, some maracas so 
 you can play music and not go insane, etc.
  
  The thing is, even with the shoddy (but efficient) visuals and animation, and the awkward controls, 
 the gameplay is pretty engaging. It's not totally irritating running around gathering things, and 
 the joy of discovery doesn't get old. Unlocking new goals for your Sims to pursue keeps you busy 
 and interested, and with the speed up function, the menial acts of yanking bananas from a tree 
 or making a fire don't come off as too bothersome.
  
  Overall, Sims 2 Castaway for the Wii is not a bad game at all. It's not as deep as the original 
 Sims 2 and it's not nearly as visually appealing as a Wii game could be, but it's a nice use of 
 the franchise that doesn't leave Sims lovers much to complain about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kristatos30
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Alright, so to forewarn you, I'm not one to judge games based on graphics. Graphics are nice, but 
 they're like strawberries on my birthday cake, not necessary but makes everything look pretty. 
 On the other hand, if games have such horrible graphics that they effect game play, that's a different 
 story. 
  On to my review, Sims 2 Castaway may seem like another rehash of the Sims 2 franchise, but despite 
 the fact that it takes cues from Will Wright's brain, it's not what you expect. For the first time, 
 a Sims game has an objective -- get off the island! And as you imagine, this isn't a very simple 
 task.
  You start off with designing your crew. You can have up to six members or as little as one. You 
 can pick their clothes and hairstyle just like any other Sims game, (just don't get used to it 
 as these clothes will probably get ruined pretty quickly) . Next their profession, choose from cook, 
 doctor, musician and 4 other jobs. They don't really effect much except how many skill points you 
 start out with. Then you pick your main sim, who you want to start out on the island as. 
  After the heartbreaking loss of your vessel at sea, you are washed ashore a deserted island. You 
 must locate your crew (if you had any) and find a way to get back home. 
  On the island you'll be tasked with appeasing the normal Sim requirements, food, comfort, bladder 
 etc. This is where it diverts from your normal Sim game. You must find your food first off, design 
 objects that'll keep you occupied before you find your friends, fix up your tattered shipwrecked 
 clothes and befriend monkeys. Any game where I can befriend a monkey is a game for me.
  Now some of you will probably not want to try it out because of the occasional glitches, low graphical 
 quality or repetitive gameplay, but then again if you don't you're probably not a big fan of the 
 Sims anyway. People who love the Sims, get this game. If you're like me and love the show LOST 
 and making people work together, rent or borrow the game. Anyone else? Rent it. Save your money 
 for Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pichuking45
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  its a realy good game its just that the camra is in a unconfy posetion.
  
  it makes me feel like uhhhhh... and when you play the game you try to do something, he/she is like 
 i dont know. and it makes me mad.... ok lets get to the point, your a sim and your on a ship for 
 5 seconds then you fall out, cuz your sim is a ratard and went into a storm, and ends up on a island, 
 but if your sim has a hat then how come its still on? you went through the waves and stuff and 
 did not lose your hat or glasses? must be stuck to your sims head then, well its good but if they 
 let your sims get the right stuff to make other food like pizza or bread, that wuld make it funner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  To be hoenst, the game is nothing to brag about. I do have to admit though, that if you rent/buy 
 the game you will have fun.
  
  The Graphics are alright for the game. They seem to get really choppy at some scences. At some 
 points the graphics look amazing, but in some other places they seem to look broken. The game is 
 pretty big so I can't complain.
  
  The Gameplay is fantastic. When Gamespot says that the game is Bad because you have to spend time 
 collecting materials, thats one of the fun parts. If you like to actually travel around, explore, 
 identiy, and locate, then you'll like this game. Maybe you want to build yourself a roof, then 
 you have to find the materials for a roof, basically like banana leaves, or softwood, or driftwood, 
 etc... Plus, if you can find wood in one place, and not in another place, you could always go back 
 to the place where you know it is, because all of the substances grow back. Bananas will grow back 
 over time. Personally, I like Castaway a lot. Its not like all of the other Sims. Just the fact 
 that you're stranded on an island and you can do basically whatever you want, is such a great idea. 
 Its not much as a game of survival, but a game of creativity. You can buid whatever you want, where 
 you want basically.
  
  The Controls annoy me sometimes. You could have guessed that you point the Wii Remote at the Tv 
 and a little Sims arrow pops up. This you can click like tools, or goals, or menu, etc... You use 
 the nunchuck to walk around, interact, and a lot of other things. There is the fastfoward button 
 so don't worry. Also, I like being able to make my Sim walk around, rather than click and Go Here 
 .
  
  The Sounds are awsome as well. I like how there is their own soundtrack for the game, instead of 
 using the same music from the PC Sims.
  
  The loading screens sometimes gets a little annoying, but its actually pretty fast. I've heard 
 that the PS2 version has longer loading screens, so yet agian I can't complain. I would also like 
 to mention one of my favorite parts of this game. Your characters hair grows over time, and your 
 clothes tear over time. This may seem really annoying to some of you, but I actually like it because 
 it gives a stronger feel of simulation and realistic values. If you were stranded on an island, 
 your air would definetley grow wild, and your clothes would tear. Thats why you must cut your hair 
 if you want, and also craft new clothes out of new resources.
  
  So basically, if you like a game where you get to take care of yoursefl, and have the option do 
 live your life on a stranded island with optional other crew mates, than this game is definetley 
 for you.
  
  Also, if you actually took the time to read over this review, and actually understand it, I congratulate 
 you.! I hope this helps some of you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseball_hottie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  When I played this, I'll admit, my first thoughts were, I wanna like this, but theres just nothing 
 to like. And there isn't, at first. The first hour or so of the game is dullsville. You have no 
 idea what your doing and you still haven't quite grasped the whys and hows. But this is one of 
 those games that the more you play the more you love it. I find myself loving this game more and 
 more every minute.
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Let's get something straight. This is NOT a survival game. This is a Sims game with hints of survival. 
 But its done with flare. Instead of going to work, your sims have jobs around the island that they 
 leave to do and come back from. Instead of earning money to BUY new things, you gather and find 
 supplies to BUILD new things. You have all the motives from the PC game, with clever ways to complete 
 them. To fill hunger, you find or catch food (like fish, chickens, and coconuts) and then eat them 
 on the spot or cook them over a firepit to fill your sim up better. To bathe, take a swim! Going 
 to the bathroom is very funny. Your sim pulls out toilet paper and a curtain out of nowhere goes 
 up around them. There are also many island clothes to craft and choose from, which can be quite 
 fun.
  Sound: 8
  There's a lot of new sim music with a tropical twist to it.
  Graphics: 7
  The graphics are the worst part of this game. Not totally hideous, but not beautiful 
 either. Very blocky. But sims and animals still move fluidly and with the realism of the PC game.
 
  Fun: 9
  An acquired taste. Like I said before, it grows on you. If your looking for a quick diversion from 
 a hardcore game or just really like sims, you'll fall in love with Castaway.
  Replayability:
  I can't see myself playing this more than once, MAYBE twice.
  Overall: 8.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DutchRoy
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  I don't know who in EA is responsible for bug testing on the Wii, but apparently they did miss 
 a few quite annoying ones. (PC SIMS players are familiar with this phenomenon.)
  
  I own the PAL version, so maybe it's related to this one.
  Three bugs I encountered in the 10+ 
 hours I played so far.
  1. Changing sims causes the action of the previous sim to be displayed, and can be confusing when 
 you try to cancel the action (not possible anyway)
  2. Building a hut close to an interactive object on the ground can cause the object to become useless 
 and you'll be unable to remove it unless you destroy the hut first.
  3. The arrow disappears for no reason, which causes you to navigate through the menus like a blind 
 person. The only way of dealing with that is to use the 1 button on your Wiimote, use the nunchuck 
 to navigate to save &amp; quit then reset the game. Now I'm at the stage to give up on the title 
 all together, since the 3rd bug is getting very annoying (crops up every 30 minutes or so) . What 
 is of course the most annoying part of this, is that there will be no update/patch, since it's 
 a console title...
  
  I hope that this is only a very rare occurring bug, just liked to several circumstances, because 
 starting all over from the start doesn't appeal at all to me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
