-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thrillville: Off the Rails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/thrillvilleofftherails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of stuff to do.
 Accessible for children, yet fun for adults.
 Most of the minigames are lots of fun.
 Everything in your park can be played or ridden.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great-looking game, and the frame rate could have been better.
 Could have been a little more challenging.
 Some minigames won't feel fresh to anyone who played the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 188 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Strategy
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thrillville: Off the Rails makes every part of building and running a theme park great fun. 

 
  Many games promise that they're "fun for the entire family," but very few actually deliver an 
 experience that can be enjoyed by both kids and adults alike. Thrillville: Off the Rails is one 
 game that makes good on this promise. Whether building your own amusement park or playing the games 
 and riding the rides, there's never a shortage of ways to have fun. Thanks to the inclusion of 
 50 minigames, Off the Rails is one of the better party games out there as well.  

  Thrillville's single-player campaign places you in the role of a theme park manager. Your goals 
 include making the guests happy, ensuring the critics give your park a fair shake, and preventing 
 a rival theme park from ruining your park's reputation. You start off with one theme park broken 
 into three distinctly themed areas. As you complete missions like playing minigames, building certain 
 rides, and managing staff, you're awarded thrill points, which eventually unlock new parks, each 
 with its own theme.  

           Most of the minigames are really fun.      

  There are simulation aspects to Off the Rails, but nothing as deep as other "Tycoon" games. Sure, 
 you can set prices, run advertising campaigns, and even borrow money, but there's very little benefit 
 to be gained by doing so, and money is never a problem. Most of your time will be spent placing 
 rides, stalls, and games, and, of course, building coasters. Placing new attractions is a piece 
 of cake: Scroll through a menu until you find what you want to place, locate a good spot, and press 
 a button to drop it into place. Unfortunately, you're a bit limited as to where you can place buildings 
 as well as how many you can place. Each building consumes power, and each of your park's three 
 areas has a limited amount of power available. This seems to be the game's way of making sure the 
 frame rate can keep up, but it's frustrating to have the room and the money to build something, 
 only to be told that there's not enough power available. This doesn't ruin the game, but it would 
 have been nice to be able to place more stuff.  

  Building coasters is surprisingly simple. If you're not into designing your own roller coaster, 
 you can purchase prebuilt rides with the press of a button. But that would mean depriving yourself 
 of one of the game's best aspects. It's really easy to build a crazy coaster. All you have to do 
 is pick what type you want (wooden, hanging, flume, and the like) and then start dropping pieces 
 into place. The interface is intuitive, and while the camera can sometimes be frustrating and the 
 auto-track-completion rarely finds a solution to ending your ride, you can complete your first 
 coaster in a matter of minutes. Of course, you're going to want to make your signature ride a memorable 
 experience for your guests. This is where the "whoa" pieces come into play. Flaming hoops, brick 
 walls, loops, corkscrews, and more can all be added by choosing a whoa piece from the menu and 
 dropping it into place. You won't want to go too crazy, though, because you don't want the ride's 
 nausea rating to be too high. Actually, that's not true. While your guests may  think  they don't 
 want a ride that's too insane, what better way to end a ride than by not ending it? By not connecting 
 your track back to the station, you can create a "crash coaster." This is exactly what you think 
 it is -- the car reaches the end of the track and flies right off. It sounds insane, but because 
 you parachute gently to the ground, the kids love it, even as their parents watch in horror from 
 the ground.  

  Building rides is just a small part of the Thrillville experience because everything you build 
 can be ridden or played. There are 50 minigames included here. Many of these are knockoffs of arcade 
 games like Gauntlet, Offroad, and 1942, but there are some original games to be found and most 
 of them are a lot of fun. First-person shooters; puzzle, racing, and flying games; platformers -- you 
 name it, it's here. You can play these minigames anytime you like, and you can even play them from 
 the game's main menu in a party game format. The game does a nice job of integrating them into 
 the campaign. You might need to get a high score in a particular game so that you can win a prize 
 with which to bribe a critic, or you might need to chase off some annoying robots that hack your 
 attractions so that they can ride for free by shooting a bunch of them in a futuristic first-person 
 shooter. These missions come along just often enough that you'll appreciate the break from running 
 your park, but not so often that you'll feel like they get in the way.  

  It's how the game balances all this variety that makes Thrillville so much fun. Everything makes 
 sense -- you're not just doing minigames for the sake of doing them. If you need to train an entertainer, 
 you do so by performing a dancing minigame. Should you need to fix a ride, you do it by connecting 
 wires in a somewhat difficult, but still fun, minigame. Even figuring out what you're doing right 
 or wrong is handled smartly. You can talk to any patron about a number of subjects, but if you 
 don't feel like yapping to everyone in sight the game will let you know the more important stuff 
 by having park-goers shout out their problems as you walk by. When you've heard a dozen customers 
 complain about not being able to find a drink as you've walked from one end of the park to the 
 other, well, you get the idea, it's time to build a drink stand. Off the Rails also achieves a 
 good balance between being fun for adults as well as children. It's not a particularly challenging 
 to build a cool park, but that doesn't really matter because the fun comes from playing minigames 
 and building the most over-the-top rides possible. While the campaign mode is technically single-player 
 only, it's fun to play with another person. It's not hard to envision parents handling the controls 
 while younger children detail just how they want their coaster built.  

  Thrillville isn't a great-looking game. In fact, it barely qualifies as good looking, even on the 
 PC and the Xbox 360, where it looks the best. It has a cartoonlike style to it, and there are lots 
 of bold, bright colors to be seen. The 15 or so areas of the parks each have a unique design that 
 might not be supercreative (there's a beach town, a snowy mountain, a futuristic area, and an underwater 
 section, to name a few) , but they all serve to make each park feel like its own special place. 
 It's fun to customize your rides' themes and colors, even if they don't have much of an effect 
 on your park's success, outside of a few specific missions. Though the game isn't filled with detailed 
 textures, lighting and particle effects, or anything else that should push a console to its limits, 
 Off the Rails doesn't run perfectly on any system. The 360 and PC versions have some frame rate 
 hitches; the Wii version runs fairly well (and uses motion controls to let you build your coasters) 
 but has some nasty aliasing issues; the PS2 version is aliased and runs pretty choppily; and the 
 PSP iteration suffers from some long load times and a sometimes stuttery frame rate, though it 
 does let you play multiplayer via Wi-Fi, which is nice. None of these technical issues ruin the 
 experience, but it's worth noting that the game would have benefited from some sharper visuals. 

           Don't worry -- in this world, crashing coasters are considered cool.      

  At least the game sounds good. The older crowd might not dig the soundtrack, which sounds as if 
 it were ripped straight from Radio Disney, but the music fits the game's lighthearted feel. The 
 voice acting is solid, too. There's a surprising amount of dialogue in the game, and while the 
 conversation options might not rival those in Mass Effect, there's a lot you can find out by simply 
 walking up to someone and talking to them.  

  You can spend hours building your park, or you can just play minigames; you can play alone, have 
 someone play the role of advisor, or get a group of people together and play the minigames like 
 a party game. It's how everything comes together that makes Thrillville: Off the Rails such a good 
 overall experience and one that truly is "fun for the whole family."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Drallius
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game was disappointing, however I should have learned that from the first one.
  The idea itself is kinda new I guess... but they basically just took the idea of a theme park simulator 
 and turned it into a more action-type game, which isn't necessarily good... I actually did like 
 the idea of building your own coaster (even though plenty of games have used that) , but I especially 
 liked the "Whoa!" parts. 
  The biggest difference that I saw between this game and the first one is new "Whoa!" parts. My 
 favorite is probably the one where the coaster goes off a ramp and lands on the track again after 
 flying many feet in the air (it goes "Off the Rails!") . But once again, that was the biggest difference 
 I saw in the two games, so if you own Thrillville (the first) , and you think "Whoa!" parts are 
 worth it, go ahead!
  
  Next, the use of the Wii remote.....
  Honestly, I haven't played many games that rely on special movements in very specific directions, 
 but of the few I have played, this one is by far the worst. You won't be using the Wiimote too 
 often, but when you do, it can be a pain. You will probably use the remote the most when you are 
 designing your own roller coaster/race track. This can get annoying to the point of not even wanting 
 to bother designing your own coaster.
  What you have to do is use the remote to direct which direction the track piece will go (up, down, 
 left, right) by aiming the remote. You can also bank the track by tilting the nunchuk. Sounds easy 
 maybe? Or maybe now that you're hearing this you are having second thoughts... well its annoying, 
 like I said. When you want it to go up, it's straight; when you want it to go straight its up.
 
  The wiimote is also used in many of the mini-games that you will play. These games are mostly 
 fun I must admit. This is probably my favorite part about Thrillville/Thrillville Off the Rails. 
 Unfortunately, as expected, there's a problem. Though many of the games do work fine, there's those 
 few that just don't want to cooperate. One that I will never forget is "Alley Ball".
  In this mini-game, you have to use the remote the throw a ball up a ramp and into specified holes. 
 This may seem a bit reminiscent of Wii Sports bowling. The problem is, while aiming with the remote, 
 you get no indication of where you are aiming. No crosshairs, target, reticule, nothing. So, basically 
 you are blindly throwing these little balls into holes at high speeds. Another bad thing? You cannot 
 see how much power you are using until after the ball is released.
  So, I thought that would be alright anyway, even though I was still a little angry. I tried throwing 
 to the left, the ball goes completely to the right. I tried throwing to the right, and I see the 
 ball go right down the middle. Luckily, when trying to throw down the middle, you usually meet 
 with success, with the exception of a few stray wanderers.
  
  So what's my point? Well, I would recommend that you don't even touch the game, unless it still 
 sounds entertaining, then I would say rent it first. It can be a fun game, mostly the mini-games, 
 or else I would have rated it between 0 - 3, but you probably shouldn't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Now here you are wanting to build a theme park.. well this is the game for you! The roll of the park 
 manager you can be old or young just be a good park manager just like i was. The thing that amazes 
 things is that you can build the park you want it to be like. so it's like having the whole park 
 to yourself you can ride rides, play games & have one of the most fun times of your life!! There 
 are different things you want like go-karts, shooting gallery & more! The thing about this game is 
 you are trying to get the best rank possible (thrillville superstar is the best) . There are 5 different 
 parks some are harder to get than others but it is still challenging to unlock every park in the 
 game. My favorite part of the game is when you finally get the best rank (thrillville superstar) . It 
 fells like you have done something to get you to maybe build a real park in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails is a game that has the player owning an amusement park of his/her own 
 at no matter what age. The story starts as a professor tells you how to play the game and you playing 
 it the next thing you know. The game features some familiar moments like in a Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 game or a Sims game. 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the create-a-coaster/race track option is really good. Nice 
 twists that makes average everyday roller coasters more fun. Improved graphics that beats the last 
 game on the Playstation 2 and XBOX. Good Wii Remote gameplay. And a stock load of mini games.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the soundtrack is weak. A bad minigame. It's hard to 
 find out on what people hate to talk about.
  
  Overall, this is a great game. Make your coasters. Customize your park. The whole lot to a great 
 theme park game is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555fabulous21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game really turned out to be surprisingly good. Ever since the first thrillville, which was 
 sort of good, I have been waiting for that thrillville game that would make me surprised. For the 
 wii, there was a lot of interactive things to play or do. New games like the stall games really 
 make you feel like there are numerous things to accomplish. Cons about Thrillville off the rails 
 is basically, I was hoping for a longer game. It took me a short while to beat the parks and not 
 long to get me all the accessories. Then again all those mini games make it a lasting game to play. 
 Plus with up to four people can play. Some of the mini games could have been done without or been 
 improved. Also, if you were going to add robots, you might as well put everything in it. Anyway 
 if you want to buy it, go ahead. It will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that it was going to be a great theme park simulator like Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon or Sim Theme Park. Instead, I got this. This game does have it's good points, though. In 
 this game, you can customize your rides and organise them the way you like. There are also interesting 
 side mini-games you can play as park employees or at the side-show booths. The major problems with 
 this game include, the Wii remote sensitivity is poor, there are preset "zones" were you can (and 
 only can) build in, which give you limited creativity, and the amount of rides and other attractions 
 are very limited. This game does not offer much for the person whom is into simulation games. If 
 you are the type of person who loves simulators like Roller Coaster Tycoon or Sim Theme Park, I 
 would not recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails is waaaaaaaay better than the first. With new goals, a couple of new 
 features, and some new games, Off the Rails is sure to keep u busy.
  
  First off, the graphics have been improved a bit, but not entirely, which is sad cuz its a Wii. 
 And the frame rate is a little twitchy sometimes. Oh well, it doesnt stop u from playing the game.
 
  
  Also, they got some more rides and new minigames! Pretty sweet actually! I like them. And u got 
 some new goals too! They are a little more harder than the last game. But i like that. And besides 
 i use the cheats anyways! (Don't tell no one.) Hee Hee.
  
  We also got some new cutscenes with Uncle Mortimer... and even some new parks to go to and unlock.
 
  
  Thats pretty much all there is to say. Except the kool new feature is that u can build a rollercoaster 
 and not finish it, and u can make the people fly off! Its kool! And yet again u can still ride 
 all the rides and play all the minigames, so dont worry. I give Thrillville: Off the Rails a 9 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails is a nice game. It has many different opportunities and the makers did 
 a good job, with the making.
  
  It's a bit hard to get going with the game, because there's so many different things you can do, 
 but the introduction are very nice, so it's okay. It's a game for the whole family and both my 
 girlfriend, her little sister and I, can play it and it's a very long lasting game, because of 
 the MANY features, including trying all your attractions yourself!
  
  The Graphics are very nice and clear, actually it's one of the games with the best graphic I have 
 played.
  
  The steering is also nice and smooth and it's extremely easy, so place your attractions perfect 
 and you can also paint them as you want, to attract customers to you park.
  
  It's a good game, and it's worth the money and time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryasd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Thrillville off the rails is a challanging game were you are a park manager
  trying to manage a park entering in the 4 parks thyrillville stunts, explorer, otherworlds, giants, 
 and holiday. The ups on this game are Riding all the rides and you can crash all all your coasters 
 and it's fun flirting with the robots. I also think it was fun to make stalls and playing Bandito 
 Chinchilla Building coasters is also really fun hear the people scream! The downs are that the 
 graphics flat out stink. Playing sparkle island is the stupidest mini-game ever. Desinging golf 
 corces is kinda tricky. And the thriville traitor... well i cant say who he is yet... Try this 
 game if your a tycoon or you like making costers that make people puke and hearing them complain 
 on how much they need to ****! It is a bargin for any system you play it on. So go back talk tio 
 your guests, flirt, aned build coasters!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatman2006
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  when i bought thrillville i thought i would have full choice on what the park would be like, but 
 you dont get that at all, yes you choose what rides and stalls and coasters go in the park but 
 you have a limit of power so you are always limited on what you can do, if they gave you space 
 not power you could have a bigger coaster, more rides and more stalls and all together a better 
 park. the best part of the game is a few of the minigames that you have to play with 2+ players 
 to get the full effect, i have to say i enjoyed the stuntrider minigame. it is better than its 
 younger self because you get more minigames and more coasters the graphics on it are so much better 
 than the PS2 version, honestly its a game that you borrow for a couple of days complete then give 
 back because your bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonball4life
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Our real theme park paradise is back but this goes for the wii. Coaster Crashing to the new Whoa 
 pieces. Its gone literally off the rails in this new installment. its predessecor pales in comparison. 
 Alright, starting off at the new thrillville stunts, short theme park. Same beginning with a tutorial 
 that consists of 5 steps. Mortimer will walk you through the basics BEFORE YOU CAN DO ANYTHING. 
 You're given missions as you complete your theme park, Globo-Joy returns. Critics give thrillville 
 a bad name (because they aren't given bribes yet) . In the top left corner you will see a bar with 
 a name on it that fills blue over time, that is your level. Getting thrill points by building rides, 
 finishing missions, playing games, and riding rides will fill the bar until you eventually level 
 up. regardless of what you are doing there will be a cutscene with mortimer and his assistant robotson. 
 after you level up a couple more times you can unlock a new theme  
 can probably unlock them all in just a few hours, that seems like a let down, in the first installment 
 you had to complete a park before moving on which i liked  
 For this game you will find a wider variety of minigames and interactive ones for the wii. you 
 may find that building roller coasters may be harder because when you move the nunchuk you may 
 have some diffuculty taking the bank out of it. ------------------- from new whoa coaster pieces 
 to coaster  TO PERFORM A COASTER CRASH, while you are building 
 a roller coaster this is a good way to save power and cash, do not finish the roller coaster and 
 stop in the middle of it, that will make the coaster fall off and guests float down with an umbrella. 
 i recommend if you dont want to wait while watching your coaster that you make the crash low to 
 the ground ------------------ when entering parks for the first time you get a little introduction 
 and there will be problems in certain parks that you have to end. --------- there are five mission 
 types, Build, Games, Guests, Upkeep, and Manage. all missions must be completed for your park to 
 reach 
  People that you need to challenge to games or in other missions will not talk to you at all unless 
 you're just following the mission. so feel free to give them any kind of trash talk you want as 
 long as your mission is imcomplete you have limited chat options to give. in games missions beginning 
 with rude remarks you wont get any decent comebacks. while ending a game you may get an angrier 
 comeback and you cannot talk to them after that. Overall Thrillville off the rails is a perfect, 
 decent game, and the sequel to 2006's best family game. I think if you like mini-games, the wii 
 interactivity and theme parks. This is the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
