-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tigerwoodspgatour07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Swinging the Wii remote like a golf club isn't perfect, but works very well.
 good number of courses and golfers.
 &quot;true aiming&quot; adds to the game's realism without making it too hard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals aren't easy on the eyes.
 online play is missed.
 Instruction manual does a poor job explaining controls and game modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 618 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Mar 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods 07's excellent use of the Wii's motion-sensing abilities makes it a worthwhile purchase 
 for anyone looking to hit the links on the Wii. 

  Golf and the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities seem like a match made in heaven. Wii Sports Golf 
 was shallow, but the potential for a fun game was there. Super Swing Golf was plenty deep, but 
 the controls and pacing left something to be desired. Now EA Sports has stepped up to the tee to 
 take a shot at becoming golf's first hole in one on the Wii. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 doesn't score 
 an ace, but its accessible controls, large number of courses, and plethora of game modes put it 
 squarely on the green.  

          The new controls are surprisingly easy to learn.     

  For the most part, the Wii version of Tiger Woods 07 is a lot like the PlayStation 2 version, 
 though it has a whole-new swing mechanic that replicates a real golf swing and lacks some game 
 modes. Swinging your "club" is very simple. You hold the Wii Remote with both hands and press and 
 hold the B button when you're ready to swing. The power of your swing is determined by how far 
 back your backswing goes, as well as how hard you swing. You can boost your shot's power (up to 
 10 percent more) by swinging harder. As it is in real golf, your follow-through is very important. 
 Twisting your wrists to the left or right will add a slice or a fade. You'll find that if you have 
 a propensity toward one or the other in real life, you'll probably have it here as well. If you're 
 struggling to keep your shot on the course, an easier difficulty setting lets you hit the ball 
 straight every time. Adding spin to your shot after you've hit the ball is as easy as pressing 
 a direction on the D pad and wiggling the Wii Remote back and forth.  

  The controls work really well, with a few caveats. Putting is sometimes problematic because you 
 need to perform a practice swing to judge the power level you need and then try and replicate that 
 with your actual swing. It's tough to be consistent, and the motion sensing is rather finicky when 
 putting. There are some issues off the green, too, where sometimes the ball just doesn't go as 
 far as it should, and a shot that reads 100 percent will travel just a fraction of the distance 
 it was supposed to. But these problems are the exception, and for the most part, the game takes 
 the occasionally imprecise controls into account and is very forgiving. Even little things like 
 viewing your landing area and changing clubs can be done with ease while facing the TV or as you 
 prepare to address the ball. If you aren't a fan of the motion-sensing controls, or you just get 
 tired of standing, you can select an alternative control scheme where you swing by pressing down 
 and then up on the Nunchuk's analog stick (which isn't used at all in the default scheme) . This 
 works just fine, except that there doesn't appear to be any way to add power to your shot.  

  The "true aiming" system from the other versions of 07 has been implemented here, and it makes 
 shot selection a less by-the-books affair by replacing the cursor that essentially pinpointed where 
 your shot would land with a large circle that covers a much wider area. If you hit your shot just 
 right, the ball should land somewhere in that circle. Should you miss, however, you're likely to 
 end up in serious trouble. When using golfers with higher levels of skill, the circle doesn't come 
 into play too often, but anyone playing with a new golfer will frequently find themselves questioning 
 if the extra 10 yards of distance on a club is worth the increased size of the landing zone. You 
 can still take huge risks -- you're just more likely to pay for them now.  

  There's certainly no shortage of ways to occupy yourself with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. You can 
 select from a number of different match and scoring modes, including stroke play, match play, skins, 
 and alternate shot. New to the series are bloodsome and greensome matches, both of which are team-based 
 best-ball events. After you and your teammate hit your shots in greensome, you get to pick which 
 ball you're going to play; in bloodsome, your opponent will choose which lie you'll use. One-ball 
 is another new game, where you and your opponent share the same ball and alternate shots. The strategy 
 in one-ball lies in trying to set your opponent up with difficult shots so that you're the one 
 left with a makeable putt. This play mode is great for learning how to recover from bad shots, 
 but it can be frustrating to play against the tenacious CPU and is best played against another 
 person. Most of the new events this year are featured in the Tiger Challenge, where you'll travel 
 the world, taking on fictitious golfers and PGA professionals in a series of matches. But if your 
 interests lie in more traditional golf, the PGA Tour season offers plenty of challenge in its 29 
 multiday events.  

  The thing that makes these game modes so addictive year in and year out is the ability to create 
 a golfer and make him the greatest golfer on the planet. Tiger's unrivaled character creation mode 
 is back and is as deep as ever. If realism's what you want, it's a breeze to create a golfer in 
 your spitting image, and you're limited only by your imagination when it comes to making zany, 
 off-the-wall characters. After completing a round or challenge, you're given points for individual 
 attributes, based on your performance. These points can then be used to upgrade your golfer's power, 
 accuracy, putting, short game, luck, and more. You'll also earn money for your wins, which allows 
 you to purchase new clothes and equipment. You can outfit your gear and clothing with equipment 
 modifiers, giving your stats a slight boost.  

  If you just want to stick to the pros, there are 20 professional golfers (35 total golfers) in 
 Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. The list includes the likes of Tiger Woods, Stuart Appleby, John Daly, 
 Jim Furyk, Retief Goosen, Vijay Singh, and Mike Weir, among others. For the first time, there are 
 two LPGA golfers to pick from -- Natalie Gulbis and Annika Sorenstam. Also, there are 18 different 
 golf courses, both real and fantasy. This number is less than what was found on the PS2 and Xbox, 
 but more than the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of 07. Most of the courses return from previous versions, 
 but there are some noteworthy additions -- Aviara, Riviera, The National, The K Club, and the ocean 
 course at Kiawah Island. Once again, there's no course designer -- still a glaring omission after 
 all these years.  

  The one area where Tiger Woods 07 fails to impress is its graphics. The game doesn't look terrible, 
 but even though it supports widescreen and progressive scan, it's not impressive. The courses are 
 faithfully replicated, but thanks to low-quality textures, pixelated trees, and some terrible-looking 
 water, they aren't much to look at. The backgrounds are desolate, too, often completely void of 
 any scenery whatsoever. The Wii isn't a graphical powerhouse, but it's certainly capable of better 
 than what's here. Fortunately, the created characters and the professional golfers look quite nice. 
 The golfers each have a unique swing, which makes them not only look different but also play different. 

          Like Jim Furyk's swing, Tiger Woods 07's graphics aren't pretty, but they get the job done. 
     

  Most of the audio in Tiger Woods 07 sounds good -- or as good as can be expected from a golf game. 
 The sound effects are fine, and you'll hear a "ping" through the Wii Remote's speaker as your club 
 hits the ball. The crowds are lively and react with enthusiasm to a great shot. David Feherty and 
 Gary McCord are back and seemingly have nothing new to say. The commentary plays it too straight 
 in a game that's otherwise full of personality. Their negative comments appear to have been toned 
 down a bit, but the duo still drinks "Haterade" and just loves to rub it in after a poor shot. 
 Should you choose to forgo the announcers, there are lots of ambient noises to listen to instead. 
 You'll hear birds chirping, planes flying overhead, and on Pebble Beach, the sea crashing into 
 the cliffs.  

  If you own Tiger Woods 07 on another console, there's little reason to pick it up again on the 
 Wii because there isn't any new content. However, it's certainly the best golf game available for 
 the Wii at this time, and there's plenty here to keep you busy. Tiger Woods 07 does a fine job 
 replicating the feel of actually swinging a golf club, and just as impressive is the fact that 
 the control scheme is accessible to both golfers and nongolfers alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Corelis
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I was shopping for a friends b-day present some months back and ended up getting him a then - brand 
 new Tiger Woods '08. at the same time store visit I decided to be the cheap-o I am and grab the 
 TW '07 version.
  
  I gotta say the Controls take some getting used to and the % meter takes some time to master, but 
 this game, using the Wii motion sensor, is a fantastic find for a golfer, wanna-be golfer, or just 
 someone who wants to swing the clubs now and again.
  
  Basically, I play in the "career" mode which has two basic modes, one is the tiger challenge which 
 puts you up on skills test solo or pairs you against an AI opponent that can and will be a challenge 
 as you progress. these are fun and open up some courses and equipment providing you win.
  
  The second mode is a 5 year calendar of courses where as with normal golf, your biggest opponent 
 is yourself. I had some excellent nights, playing 18holes to barely make par and get to the next 
 round.
  
  Of course their are quick starts and multiple player modes (unfortunately not online for the Wii, 
 can't say for the other consoles) 
  
  This GAME will challenge you. It's fun and especially fun for the high handicap avid golfer like 
 myself.
  
  Thanks for reading my review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Tiger Woods for a long time, but I never thought I would get to swing a club 
 just like Tiger. The Wii real give you the feeling of swing a club, though not without glitches. 
 Sometime when you're in your back swing, the computer will go ahead and swing for you, with far 
 less power then you would normally do. It can be very frustrating.
  The graphics for Tiger on the Wii is very poor for a next gen console, this isn't really acceptable 
 and EA should be shamed of themselves, but this could be the limitation of the Wii. The sounds 
 are very well done, and sound great in 5.1 Surround Around. Putting is hard only because it's very 
 hard to judge the distance, and also because it's very easy to swing when you're not ready. With 
 all the problems in the game, the game is a still a blast and there are tons of course, it's a 
 great start for the Wii!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game to play, it really takes the play from Wii Sports golfing to the next level! 
 Who knew swinging the remote like a golf club could be so fun!
  
  I enjoyed playign the game and the gameplay was pretty good, the courses had a great design to 
 them and for a Wii game the graphics were pretty cool! The unfortunate thing is that I have played 
 this game on XBOX360 as well and on that version you can create a player and design them to look 
 like you or your friends! That made that version so much better than the Wii version. In the Wii 
 version you can only play as Tiger Woods with different shirt colors... BORING! It owuld be nice 
 to design your own golfer like on 360 where you can.
  
  Otherwise, tha game is great! It is fun to play and takes Wii Sports golfing up a few notches. 
 Awesome gameplay and a great deal as I believe there are newer versions so this one wouldn't cost 
 you much to snag! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The Tiger Woods series has always been an enjoyable one for those of us who are into golf, but 
 for the most part has failed to interest non-golfers. Tiger Woods '07 for the Wii has done away 
 with that stereotype, and is fun for golfers and non-golfers alike. 
  The graphics in this installment are not comparable to those on the games parallels that exist 
 on other consoles, mainly do to the fact that the Wii does not have the firepower of the 360 and 
 PS3 platforms in the graphics field. None the less the game is not hard to look at; it's just not 
 as sharp as its brothers and sisters. But I've always believed graphics play an exceptionally small 
 part in the quality of a game. Other TW installments have you swinging by simply pulling back on 
 the analog stick, then pushing it forward when you player reaches the peak of his backswing. Honestly, 
 it doesn't get much easier than this. That is the main improvement that TW '07 for the Wii has 
 that the others do not, the control system. In this case you swing the Wii mote just like you would 
 swing a real golf club. But don't worry, there is very little bonus for actually having played 
 golf when you pick up TW. Then again, it is not that simple. If you don't keep the Wii-mote straight 
 on your backswing it can result in some nasty hooks and slices. But once you start to get the hang 
 of things you can actually put realistic draw and fade on you ball by adjusting you backswing and 
 follow through. So even though playing golf is not a huge advantage for those playing TW, it stills 
 manages to really feel like you are playing a game of golf. For the first while that I was playing 
 the game I actually was shooting scores around what I shoot in real life, not the ridiculous 45's 
 you could put out on TW '05 at Coeur d'Alene.
  TW '07 also bring some nice additions to the multiplayer section of the game. Greensome and Bloodsome 
 are two new options you have. Both are team based best-ball games, but in Greensome you choose 
 which of your teams shots to use, and in Bloodsome you choose which of your opponents shots they 
 will have to use. This is a really good way to mix things up and get your friends involved. 
  The only thing in TW '07 that really gets on my nerves is the commentators. When your playing bad 
 they just make you want to reach right through the screen, find 'em and pop 'em m right in the 
 face. But if you've played a lot of sports games, or even just one really, you know that this always 
 seems to be the case. There's actually a good case that can be made for just turning the commentators 
 off all together. The other sounds of the game are nice, and it really helps bring the real feeling 
 of the links all together. Tiger Woods, another must own for anyone looking to feel a bit more 
 involved in their games, or for a realistic golf sim. Hope you enjoyed the review; check out some 
 of my others! Later,
  
  EO
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcrarela
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  At first, it doesn't seem too engaging but it is as you keep playing -- the controls seem realistic 
 enough; the putting game is pretty easy, really. The graphics aren't bad -- best you can expect 
 from Wii.
  
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting.
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting.
  100 words requirement 
 for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting.
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting.
  
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement 
 for posting.
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting.
  100 words requirement for posting. 
  100 words requirement for posting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsnob789
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I wasted fifty bucks on this game! I bought this game at Game Stop and was pretty excited about 
 it. When I got home after eating a bean and cheese burrito at Taco Johns, I started the game. Then 
 I started playing. The graphics are worse than Wii Sports. The controls are worse too. After having 
 it for a week I stopped playing for a few months and then I decided to sell the game. With the 
 $13 i got from selling it, I had a beef and bean sopapilla and it was good. I was pretty gassy 
 for the rest of the day. Don't play this game. This game makes my eyes bleed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelcoo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Good: Controls were excellent, Sound was Alright, Good Amount of courses and Golfers to choose 
 from
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad: Graphics were very bad, Putting seemed impossible at some points
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The First Full Golf Game one the Wii was a great Success, But the Visuals and difficulty at some 
 points made it very hard for me to say that this is a good game. The Controls were great, They 
 were very fun to use, you could even use the nun-chuck's Control Stick to swing the club if you 
 were to tired and you felt like relaxing and playing sitting down! But the Graphics were just to 
 bad! I know Wii cant handle amazing graphics but this games Graphics were way to horrible. Anyway's 
 it was a fair game to play! Good Game to rent, but leave it at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonboyohyeah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Its awesomeness. This game is just awesome. The game is surprisingly realistic, while being 
 fun and arcade-like at the same time. I also love the create-a-character, and the huge amount of 
 pro and cool golfers, along with the great courses. And for all of you complaining about the graphics, 
 they're actually pretty good, and if you want graphics, why would you get a Wii in the first place?
 
  
  Cons- Wii-elbow, and the commentators don't hate you as much.
  
  That pretty much sums it up, but let me just say if you're looking for a great golf game that's 
 both realistic and fun (ny) , get this game, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doublej
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Most of the time I agree with GameSpot reviews but I think they got this one wrong. Perhaps its 
 because I didn't play PGA 07 so I can't gauge improvements from last year's version. Who knows?
 
  
  The one thing I do know is how fun and addicting this game is. Granted, the novelty of using the 
 Wii remote to actually play golf is a big part of the love affair. But even without this element, 
 there's plenty to appreciate and explore within the game itself. The journey has been both fun 
 and rewarding.
  
  I created my own golfer and played Tiger Challenges to improve my skills, unlock new courses and 
 items, and earn enough money to buy a schweet new set of golf clubs. Once I dubbed myself the next 
 PGA phenom, I joined the tour and never looked back. I've been playing the game for weeks now and 
 I don't plan on even looking at another game for another month. I'm that hooked.
  
  Add in awesome multiplayer modes (including battle golf where you lose a club every time you lose 
 a hole) and there are endless hours of fun whether you are home alone or have a house full of friends.
 
  
  Way to go EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizteddragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Although this game needs some work still, it is going in the right direction. The big issue is 
 the swing. Its not easy to gauge your swing power. If you have to kill the ball its no big deal 
 just swing your ass off. But the medium range shots that are killers, when you just have to tap 
 tap tap it in good luck. But I still recomend the buy. 2008 has come out and not much has improved 
 more courses but thats it. The swing is a key issue that needs to be addressed maybe the rush to 
 make an ontime release for the next year I think hurt the prograss from a golf game to have, from 
 this golf game that is the end all be all of game inovation. So EA keep working on it but you just 
 lipped out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoilgat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The games controls actually work very well. Once you turn up the difficulty setting to advanced 
 the challenge and enjoyment of the game increase. I have played a lot of tiger woods games in the 
 past for ps2 and xbox, but the new wii swing controls make it new and exciting. The only problems 
 I have had is with putting. If you are not careful, your player will accidentally swing the putter 
 when you don't want them too... resulting in a two foot putt. However, with some caution you can 
 avoid this. For being the first tiger woods game in the wii serious, this was above my expectations. 
 Anyone who has played or has never played a tiger woods game before needs to try this one. I can't 
 wait until next week when 08 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Tiger woods 08 is a basic game but still fun. with three different swing difficulties you can go 
 from hacker to pro in 1 easy option change. the career length is good facing pros and shmoes all 
 the way up to Tiger himself. after beating Tiger you can still go to the pga calender to play tournements 
 and earn money and expirience to become a better golfer and you can get some new threads and clubs 
 to let you look and play like tiger and with that new nike sponsership you will earn money for 
 every round you play. This is a great for any hacker who wants to be great or any regular player 
 who wants to be a little better and earn his tour card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge sports buff but for years and years I have enjoyed every sort of golf video game. 
 I guess it's just a peaceful way to play a video game, in most cases, and is sometimes a nice break 
 away from the heavy action of many other titles. With Tiger Woods I was really looking forward 
 to a great golf game. After seeing how great WiiSports was in golf I couldn't wait to have a full 
 array of courses to play. Sadly, I was disappointed by the most important thing for a golf game 
 on the Wii: controls. This game forces you, if you want to do anything in the game, to swing a 
 golf club in a very unnatural way if you even want to do a good job at all. Unfortunately, this 
 ruins the entire purpose of the game removing what fun I could have had with it. Some of the time 
 the computer player doesn't follow through like you do. Some of the time the player just hacks 
 the ball missing your moves completely. Some of the time the ball hooks or slices even though you've 
 swung a near perfect real swing. MOST of the time you wind up frustrated that nothing related to 
 what you were trying to do is what happened on the screen. It's so odd as I have played live-action 
 golf games like this before and they have all been much better than this. From a company like EA 
 who is known for their sports titles this was a really sad attempt at what could have been an amazing 
 game. I have been able to only get through playing one full round of this game as every other time 
 I get too frustrated at the control scheme to keep playing. Golf used to be a fun game. Ironically, 
 the real life sport is actually easier than this one. Oh, and we won't even talk about the old-school 
 graphics that lack every type of detail. Every hole you play makes you feel like you're just a 
 player standing in the middle of a field because it is just so empty of good and clean graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is the first golf game I have purchased for a console ... 
 ever. And my gaming days date back to the original NES. Essentially, what sold me on this game 
 was Wii Sports. Yeah, it was a simplistic, bare-bones game. However, it got me thinking how fun 
 the games of the actual sports (golf, baseball, boxing, tennis, and yes, even bowling) would be.
 
  
  I have to say that I was not disappointed! In order to perform a golf swing in the game you, as 
 expected, swing the Wiimote (I find that to be more efficient than saying Wii remote ) just as 
 you would a golf club. I feel that this also adds a whole new side to the gameplay. No longer are 
 you required to just aim your shot and swing with button presses and/or the analog stick. The distance 
 and power of your back swing and follow-through actually control the power of the shot. It becomes 
 necessary on some shot to take advantage of multiple practice swings in order to get your shot 
 power just right. Swinging the Wiimote properly can be touchy, especially if you're not used to 
 the system. But once you get it down pat, it's almost like riding a bike -- you'll never forget. 
 (For example, I was playing a round with a few friends of mine who had never touched a Wii. A few 
 of them were having difficulty and seemed to be punching their shots every time and only hitting 
 it 70-80% power. One I told to try swinging only with one hand and another I told that I noticed 
 that at the top of his back swing, he seemed to be cocking his wrist. Once they both took that 
 advice in to consideration and adjusted accordingly, they were fine.) There is also an option to 
 swing using the Nuncuk's analog stick, for those that are more comfortable with that style of play. 
 The game also, by pressing the 1 button, lets you select shot types. You can choose from shots 
 like a full swing, punch, pitch, chip, etc. and this option will also let you put from the fringe.
 
  
  One of the things in this that I really like is that there are many effects that you can put on 
 the ball with just small adjustments to the Wiimote. For example, you can add a draw or a fade 
 to your shot by tilting the Wiimote accordingly. In addition, by pressing on the directional pad 
 after the swing (while your ball is in the air) , you can adjust the speed and direction of the 
 spin. This can make for some great adjustments to the shot. One of my friends seems to nail an 
 eagle or double eagle from 100 to 250 yards out almost every round he plays!
  
  Of course, there are also some negative effects of the Wiimote if you're not careful. If you fail 
 to keep your wrist/the Wiimote in a straight line while you shoot, you can end up with an shot 
 that will angle off target a bit. There is also the possibility of slicing or hooking the ball 
 way into the rough, sand, or worse, the water. However, the game has a nice difficulty setting 
 that will eliminate all of these errors on the easy difficulty. Then, after you feel more comfortable 
 with the game and the controls, you can raise it back up to bring these effects back in to play.
 
  
  As you progress through the game modes, your character will earn skill points and cash. You can 
 use the cash to buy everything from new items form your wardrobe to watches, new clubs, and even 
 different style golf balls. Through your performance in tournaments, you can also earn sponsorships, 
 which will unlock more items for you, as well as pay you bonus money just for wearing that sponsor's 
 item (i. e. a hat) in a tournament.
  
  There are a variety of mini/multiplayer games as well. There are, of course, the usual stroke and 
 skin play, but there's also Tiger Challenge, which gives you 20 different challenges (i. e. beat 
 so-and-so in match play) in order to become master of the links. I found the most interesting game, 
 which happens one that's new to the series this year, to be One Ball. This game is just as it sounds. 
 It is played with only one ball and players alternate shots. This brings a lot of strategy into 
 the game because you have to hit it within a certain ring (within half the distance to the flag) 
 or risk a penalty. However, you also do not want to shoot it onto the green 5 feet away from the 
 pin, resulting in an easy put for your opponent and letting him take the hole.
  
  Overall, Woods 07 is a very fun game to play and, if you try to purchase everything there is to 
 buy (in addition to raising the cash, you have to unlock the sponsorships) , the game will just 
 about never end for you. During the first round of play against my three friends (the ones I mentioned 
 earlier, who had never touched a Wii) , all three of them said that it was an awesome experience 
 and that they would probably eventually pick up a Wii of their own. And mind you, one of these 
 friends already owned Woods 07 for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Like most sports games that go in series you play one tiger woods you've played them all. in this 
 case it gets a realistic boost because your swing is in fact a swing. The multiple day tournaments 
 get a little long and with the new swing comes new pains like a sore back and arms. Playin a quick 
 multiplayer game though is fun and competitive. Online would make this game a classic. I think 
 08 will be much better if it gets online and they should be able tweek the control a bit (ocassionally 
 it reads your backswing as a swing and your ball goes 10 feet. Overall it is fun and hands down 
 the best golf game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decepticondevil
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  I don't find the graphics in this game to be abysmal, but they definitely aren't pretty. The idea 
 of golf on the Wii has great potential, but it's wasted on this game. The controls are just plain 
 broken. While you are starting your backswing your golfer on screen will just decide to give the 
 ball a weak little tap and send it sailing... about five yards.... and wasting a stroke for you. 
 This is extremely frustrating when trying to play a tournament, and every 18 hole match you are 
 wasting 10 or more strokes due to broken controls.
  
  The music in this game seems to be typical emo crap, and there's no option to use music from your 
 SD card (a la Excite Truck) . The announcers are good... if you like being taunted for missing a 
 shot because the control scheme is a tacked-on broken mess.
  
  Do yourself a favor and pass on this one. You're much better off playing golf on Wii Sports. You 
 may also save yourself the money of the broken controller you'll have after throwing it into a 
 wall out of frustration.
  
  Don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick11478
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods '07 is a very clean game in the sense that it's not frustrating and the controls are 
 great! Gameplay- I don't know how you can play golf on any other system. The Wii-Mote makes the 
 game so much fun that it's hard to stop playing it.
  
  Graphics- There is always room for improvement. I didn't think the graphics were awful but I didn't 
 think that they were exactly setting the world on fire either.
  
  Sound- I love the sound of the driver when you tee off. The clubs sound very good. If you have 
 ever watched the PGA Tour, you always hear a couple guys right after he hits it scream GET IN THE 
 HOLE or YOU DA MAN! . I hope in '07 that they put that on there.
  
  Value- I think it's definitely worth the money. You will get so many hours out of this game. When 
 your friends come over it's also a lot of fun to play.
  
  Tilt- I love playing for the championship. It puts a lot of pressure on you. I can't wait to play 
 Tiger Woods '08! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 2007 is the first installment of my favourite golf game, you can play fun, arcade style 
 'mini' games... or wade straight into a full blown career.
  
  I personally have found the Wii-mote method of playing golf far more enjoyable than previous offerings... it 
 just feels more like you are actually playing than the Press x for power, then x again for accuracy, 
 or the back then forward on the analogue stick. Sure, occasionally your golfer may swing while 
 you enter your back-swing, (this is very, very occasional) , and the swing plane is a little more 
 vertical than real life, but the bottom line is... it is more like real life than the other methods.
 
  
  Graphically the characters are well represented, but I am not overly keen on the EA facial representation 
 on the whole, the courses look nice... and seem to be fair attempts at reality.
  
  The sound is good for a golf game, the commentary is well done, the are repetitions, but I prefer 
 developers to spend more time on gameplay than sound anyway!
  
  Most Wii titles, as with other Nintendo platforms, will keep a high value if they are good, but 
 for fans of golf, this is well worth a purchase.
  
  I do play golf in real life... but it takes far too long to squeeze many games in, Tiger Woods, 
 with the Wii-mote swing method may not be just like real life, but it's close enough to let me 
 get a round in within 30 minutes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshocker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  There are some minor control issues, but nothing stands in the way of this being one of the best 
 titles I've ever played. The precision required is very similar to that of going out and hitting 
 your nearby course, but luckily, you never have to go searching for your ball!
  
  I'd recommend this for any golf enthusiest, or anyone wanting to pick up the game of golf.
  
 
  This was the first game I played on my Wii, and it's still one of my absolute favorites.
  
  So whether you're wanting to hit the links with a friend, or go through an actual tour, Tiger 
 Woods 07 aims to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye7stroke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Overall a great game. It is a very immersive golf simulation. Visually detailed, it copied the 
 unique golfer characteristics very well as well as the courses which I have played in so far. It 
 is challenging to both beginners and golfers alike. I enjoyed the build a golfer mode and enjoy 
 building up the stats to make your golfer PGA Tour worthy. It is great for single and multiplayer 
 modes alike, my friends and I spent half the day just playing the game before we realized how long 
 we were playing. However, controller issues exist that pose problems, especially if you are in 
 the middle of an important game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Considering the amazing functionality of the Wii controller, one can easily make the assumption 
 that before its release, Tiger Woods 07 was one of the most anticipated Wii games of the year. 
 Thankfully for the millions of golf fans, who wish to get their swing on in the Wii version of 
 the game, Tiger Woods 07 is a complete joy to play and despite some graphical hiccups along the 
 way, is easily the best golf game currently available on the Wii.
  
  For one, it feels like the Wii controller and this game were made specifically for one another. 
 Asking the player to swing the Wii-mote the same way theyd swing a golf club on the course, its 
 obvious that any golf fan can easily become totally addicted to Tiger Woods 07. The fact that the 
 game only requires a simple swing and barely anything else also make it very easy for anyone, regardless 
 of their love of golf, to pick up and play also make it great in a multi-player setting.
  
  Also adding to the multi-player setting are the great additional modes of play, such as the Tiger 
 Challenge, One-ball and Skills 18 modes, which all add to the fun in one way or another. Despite 
 the presence of all of these solid gameplay modes, most gamers will gravitate towards the Tiger 
 Challenge, because its the only real way to unlock new content for the game.
  
  In the Tiger Challenge, players must work their way up the PGA ranks, playing both wacky EA created-characters 
 and PGA greats such as Stuart Appleby, John Daly and Vijay Singh, before eventually taking on Tiger 
 Woods himself. Using a created character in this mode is a blast as well, as the character gains 
 experience, boost their attributes and earn the cash needed to buy new clothes, clubs and everything 
 else one needs while on the course. Taking anywhere from five to seven hours to beat, depending 
 on your gaming proficiency, the Tiger Challenge is perhaps one of the best gameplay modes available 
 in the game and gives the game the depth it needs to shine.
  
  Despite the great control and gameplay modes available in the game, there are some problems in 
 Tiger Woods 07. For instance, some gamers will have problems learning the swing and at times, the 
 game isnt as responsive as it should be, resulting in swings that lack the power needed to reach 
 the pin, which can prove to be extremely tedious and annoying. Aside from that, the Wii version 
 of the game isnt nearly as good-looking as the X-Box 360 or PS3 version, as it sports shoddy-looking 
 backgrounds and mediocre texture mapping on things like trees and grass that can prove to be an 
 eyesore at times. Only slightly better looking than the PS2 version of the game, Tiger Woods 07 
 isnt an ugly looking game by a long shot, but it definitely isnt up to the task of comparing 
 to its other current console generation competitors.
  
  Regardless of the small control problems at times and the graphics not being up to par for this 
 console generation, Tiger Woods 07 rocks the hardest where it counts with solid gameplay and enough 
 options and modes to keep any gamer busy for hours, creating an end product that belongs in any 
 Wii owners collection.
  
  By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroomario
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is really a good game but can get really frustrating at times. The game play is good but sometimes 
 the player on screen might swing to early or to late when you do. This is eespecially frustrating 
 when you are in a tournement.
  The graphics in this game are not very good but hey its a wii game.
  Playing with friends is 
 really fun. playing a round of golf in your lining room cant get any better because you dont have 
 to walk and you dont get hot.
  this game might not be worth 50 bucks so i would wait for it to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 26, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Really, this tiger woods game is really just bad. I don't want to say much, so, tiger woods is 
 just a mediocre attempt at making you feel like your golfing with the wii remote. Simply, the game 
 has only little value: only if you love the tiger woods franchise should you buy this. Tiger woods 
 is a bad series of the boringist sport ever any way. Tiger woods PGA tour 2007 gets a 5.5 of of 
 10 for me. Oh, and it wins guitarherolover's hatred award, meaning it sucks. Please the developer 
 of the game, don't make ANY MORE tiger woods games, if you know they WILL suck. Besides, who really 
 thinks golf is even a fair sport? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quilex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  I love this game, today my arms feel like I played a real 18 hole course yesterday. The first thing 
 to know is the control system is great, although it does not copy a real swing 100%, it is far 
 closer than I imagined it could be. The power and precision are required and this makes for a very 
 satisfying feeling when you make a great shot. It occasionally reads the back swing as a forward 
 swing that can be annoying but it only happens approximately 1 out of 100 shots ( for me anyway 
 ) . I can see myself playing this game for a long time to come. It has loads of match styles good 
 multiplayer options &amp; of course a whole 5 years PGA tour. It has a fun ranking and earnings 
 system where you can get sponsorships and earn more money based on your clothing, balls, and clubs 
 used on the tour. Graphics now we know the Wii is not the power house of the PS3 but the grachics 
 are fine for what we need, yes the deer in the background I bet look awesome on the PS3 but to 
 be honest I dont care about that. Summing up, if you like golf &amp; golf games this is going 
 to be a must have game in your collection &amp; even though its multi platform the Wii is the 
 only one to have it on for the pure feel of the swing.
  
  Just a quick update, after playing for 20ish hours now, I can still say I love this game it really 
 is a game where you improve with practice. But there is plenty of challenge it is certainly not 
 a case of winning every thing you start. I highly recommend this game and if EA continue to use 
 the Wiimote this well there games will be amongst the best on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falconsfan60
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 19, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best golf game ive ever played. While holding the wii remote in your hands, 
 it feels like your really golfing in real life. However, when you first start out, you might hook 
 your shots right or left on every shot until you stay calm and hold the wii remote steady. When 
 i first started, i had this problem happen to me for the first few hours or so. It takes time getting 
 used to, but when you get the hang of it, you will shoot lights out like youve never dreamed before. 
 The modes that you can choose are excellent, including a PGA tour player profile, which you can 
 create a player and have him play on the PGA tour for a 5 year span. Also you have arcade modes 
 like shooting through the rings, shooting on islands, etc. Overall the multiplayer works very well, 
 and if any one of your family members plays golf in real life, than they will like this game. The 
 issues that i have about tiger woods is the graphics, and the commentators. Im not saying Tiger 
 Woods doesent look like himself in real life, and the courses, but after you tee off each hole, 
 the next shot looks like fake turf while hitting the ball. Also the animals are like 1980s graphics, 
 which are blurry and such. And the commentators are flat out boring. It really isnt very fun to 
 play a golf game and here the commentators say one word after each shot. So wheres the crowd? I 
 hear the people screaming, but i dont see them anywhere on the course. So heres my final word, 
 get Tiger Woods 07 if you love golf and can stay calm and not get frustrated for a bad shot. If 
 you hate golf or get mad at times when you want to just throw the wii remote, dont even bother 
 to get it. Tiger Woods PGA tour 07 is a great golf game, and if they could fix these issues about 
 the graphics and commentators, than Tiger Woods 08 will be one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: um2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie. This game is hard to pick up in a day. You will go to your friend's house, 
 you will play it for 2 hours, you will leave frustrated. The controls are more difficult, you will 
 shank balls, you will get really mad at this game. Then you will get better, trust me. It took 
 me about 3 days to get comfortable with the controls and after that I have a hard time putting 
 the remote down. I loved Wii Sports Golf but wanted more than the same 9 holes over and over and 
 over again. This was the title that brought me back after Zelda. I probably wouldn't have bought 
 it if I tried it out briefly beforehand because of the unfamiliar controls but now you would be 
 hard-pressed to pry it from my hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godfists
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 15, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Tiger woods PGA tour 07. First off the game is interesting if you are a cow, the only thing good 
 about it is how the grass looks, sadly the grass only looks good around you'r ball. The trees are 
 blocky and have no true life animation. On the possitive side you really do get a good feeling 
 of the golfing experiance, you swing the Wii-mote as if you were swinging a golf club, the bad 
 thing is is that if you are no good at golf you probably wont be any good at the swinging mechanics. 
 The people at EA must have seen this coming though, they on the easy difficulty you won't be slicing 
 and dicing you'r way down the course, you will hit it strait and only strait, now that is good 
 and bad in so many ways. If you are wanting to draw around a tree or something you have to have 
 it on any difficulty other than easy, so if you make a mistake and hit you ball into the trees 
 you will either be swinging like mad and hopeing for a lucky bounce or you'll just quit. Also puting 
 it on easy serverly dumbs the game down way to much. Also the online and multi-player season modes 
 are missing, I can accept the online stuff, but why take the multi-player season away. My last 
 beef about Tiger Woods 07 for the nintendo Wii is , the utter lack of content that was abundant 
 on the xbox and ps2 versions, half of the clubs, shirts, pants, ect. are missing from the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybob2468
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Its awesomeness. This game is just awesome. The game is surprisingly realistic, while being 
 fun and arcade-like at the same time. I also love the create-a-character, and the huge amount of 
 pro and cool golfers, along with the great courses. And for all of you complaining about the graphics, 
 they're actually pretty good, and if you want graphics, why would you get a Wii in the first place?
 
  
  Cons- Wii-elbow, and the commentators don't hate you as much.
  
  That pretty much sums it up, but let me just say if you're looking for a great golf game that's 
 both realistic and fun (ny) , get this game, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardmouland
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Had this for about a month now and i am enjoying it. It is good to really get in to the game with 
 the swinging and all.
  But..... the control system needs tweaking. I don't feel completely in control all the time and 
 there are too many 'accidents' with the control system.
  Graphics are fine for a golf game so no worries there.
  I like the additional fun games and they 
 do help you learn the control system better.
  Had some friends round for a bit of multi-player and it worked fine. I even had one of my friend 
 out on the lawn for a bit of realism. Joys of bluetooth.
  Good game but i hope someone does a decent golf game for the Wii. With better controls this, or 
 any golf game could be brilliant on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatinbrains
Rating: 4
Date: May 7, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics arent up to par with the next gen console standards. The graphics are 
 horrible. the game play is odd and rather random. sometimes while you are still back swinging the 
 computer will go a head and swing for you. it is almost impossible to get the fill for what is 
 expected from the computer in order to achieve a good swing, I hate this game . i hate everything 
 about it. my arms and neck are in pain from trying to play this game. only buy this game if you 
 like to throw your controller across the room, out of anger , and break it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerjeremy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  ok now this game is pretty fun once you get good at it. on the first 15 minutes of playing i wanted 
 to return it but after you get thhe hang of it its fun. they have a nice array of PGA player and 
 fake players [ i watch and play real golf so i know] now th negative. these graphics are not that 
 impressive and there are game that look 1000 times better [need for speed call of duty red steel 
 ] but i guess there ok. hust get hd or compnent cables. aand finally there is a swing problem. 
 this rarly occurs but when it does its annoying. sometimes when you swing the back on either putting 
 or a full swing or watever rarly it will swing with a small percent of power without you swinging 
 forward 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelobedee
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  An extremely fun game that just happens to take about three rounds before you can consitantly hit 
 a decent shot. All the reviewers suggesting the controls are bad just didnt get past the second 
 round, and/or have no coordination. Once you get the hang of it, it becomes the entertaining game 
 to play on the wii! The anouncers and music don't add much value, but then who listens to game 
 music anymore anyway. This game is really all about gameplay. While it isnt a true golfing simulation, 
 its about the closest thing you can get in a home console to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is an interesting golf game that features non other than Tiger Woods. The 
 game allows you to play Tiger himself, of course, but also allows you to create other players and 
 to play and unlock others in the game. You can go to several golf courses in the game and depending 
 on which place you go depends on how the games difficulty becomes. Mini games are offered in the 
 game such has T-I-G-E-R the equivalent of H-O-R-S-E. The career mode of course is what many single 
 players will enjoy. Gathering wins and money is the main objective of this. The game is part of 
 a long chain of successful Tiger Woods games that feature the golfer. This one, as all the rest 
 have done, does itself better in many aspects. Tiger Woods 07 has some areas of discussion such 
 as graphics, character creation, and gameplay. GRAPHICS
  The graphics in Tiger Woods 07 are not stunning (at least not on the Wii) . The graphics seem to 
 be in the (maybe) third stage of design. They just don't seem to be finished or polished. What 
 I would have expected is graphics utilizing the newer hardware available. The scenery isn't outstanding. 
 The rest of the graphics such as the players themselves are good. The characters are what seems 
 to be the focus of the game designers, very detailed. Overall the graphics are good for last generation 
 systems but new generation it just looks out dated.
  
  CHARACTER CREATION
  The most time consuming thing about setting up your profile on the game is making yourself in the 
 game and this can take you as little as five minutes or as long as an hour or more if you are a 
 perfectionist. The controls are extremely detailed and the options and boundless it seems. The 
 hardest thing I found when creating my own character was the eyes. For some reason every character 
 in the game has squinty eyes as if they were Asian. I might have not played with the eye detail 
 panel long enough but it just appears to be a problem when making your player in the game. The 
 only real complaint other than the eyes is the hair. The details are lacking such as the shade 
 of the hair. Only about 6 options when it comes to color. In all the character creation process 
 is very interesting and is very satisfying when you take the time.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay in Tiger Woods 07 is something that needs to be improved. I've played the game several 
 times now and have to deal with the buggy Wii controller. I'm not the only one. The controller 
 seems to be fine for certain people who play but for some its aggravating. Especially when trying 
 to drive a ball onto a par 3 and when you go back for the back swing, before you go for the follow 
 through the controller swings for you giving you only a 49% swing instead of 100 or even 90% swing. 
 If it doesn't happen to you then consider yourself lucky. Other than the sometimes bug the game 
 is very fun when using the controller.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Tiger Woods 07 is a blast to play, especially with a group of friends. The game should be played 
 with mulligans so when the controller does act up it can be a redo. Playing a full round of golf 
 takes four people four hours so make sure you make the time. Believe me when I say that the four 
 hours doesn't feel like it. The game is fun and the time flies by. For those of you who have a 
 significant other may I suggest when creating you characters that you let the other make you. You'll 
 laugh and have a great time trying to get them just right... or not right whatsoever. Good game 
 that hopefully has improvements on the next outing. Go out and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squemo16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Ever since I got my wii I have been waiting for a game to challenge me without making an obvious 
 attempt to make use of the wii-mote. Next-gen Tiger has hit a chord though. This game is so intuitive 
 that when i play it on my 46 TV I feel like I am a part of the game. It offers most of the same 
 features as its predecessors, but the more interactive feel of actually swinging the wii-mote makes 
 the game extremely entertaining. It takes some getting used to, and the graphics aren't any better 
 than the PS2 version but it is indeed a welcomed addition to my game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunkard210
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I have ever played. The controller glitches about 90% of the time, 
 doing swings that you don't even do. The graphics are ugly as hell. The announcer is one of the 
 most annoying people on the planet and makes you feel like you fail at like. The create a face 
 thing is the most aggrivating piece o' crap ever. The way they decided to do menus with you holding 
 B and moving the controller left or right is rediculous. WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?! Keep your $50 
 and buy something worth while. Don't get me wrong, I love my Wii. This game is just a disgrace 
 to videogames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The controls for tiger woods are very obvious; hold the Wii-mote like a golf club, hold down the 
 A button, take the controller back, and swing away. It works. If you hook or fade your swing, it 
 notices. If you hit the ball straight, it generally lands where you aim. Its a tad unrealistic 
 (you get a lot of hole-in-1s and long chip shots in) but its fun, especially to play with a friend. 
 The putting is a problem. It is very had to hit the ball far while still doing a realistic swing, 
 so you pretty much just have to flick your wrist when going for a 60-footer. Some people might 
 object to the graphics. They are last gen. But it doesn't matter to me. Its a golf game. How it 
 looks doesn't matter. My only problem with this besides the putting is that the commentators always 
 reveal where your ball is going to land before it lands. No suspense. That bugs me. But you can 
 always turn the sound off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 was hyped as a golf game that would be very realistic to regular golf. 
 This game turned out to have many problems with it. First, there are some problems with the controls. 
 Don't get me wrong, I like the controls, but there are some glitches that Electronic Arts should 
 have fixed. Sometimes, when you are beginning your backswing, getting ready to hit the ball, the 
 game does it itself, causing a terrible hit and gets very frustrating. The same glitch happens 
 in putting too, and can cost valuable strokes. The graphics also are disastrous, and definitely 
 need a makeover for the next installment. Besides that, in Play Now mode, instead of traveling 
 to different golf courses for every hole, I would have liked to see all 18 holes played on one 
 course. All in all, this game is somewhat decent, and if you like the game of golf, you might want 
 to go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyinfinity
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  While Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 plays pretty good as a golf game, it just seems really plain. There 
 really isn't anything that changes, and each tour is very repetitive. The graphics are below standards, 
 not that this is a surprise, but they could have been better. Really, the only GOOD thing to say 
 about this game is that it makes great use of the motion-sensing controller. It's really not that 
 much better than Wii Golf (Wii Sports) , although it is a much more fleshed out game in terms of 
 content. I would not recommend this game unless you are desperate for a full golf game for the 
 wii. If you're not, just wait until Mario Golf comes out... whenever that may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tleevz1
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm usually a huge fan of Tiger Woods games. The Wii sensor controls are not very accurate. Putting 
 is a constantly infuriating process. But not as infuriating as how long it takes to build a decent 
 character. Maybe I'm dumb, but what the hell? Why can my new created player only drive the ball 
 98 yards? I don't ever hit the fairway on the opening drive, even on a par 3. I routinely shoot 
 triple bogeys and above on each hole. And the only way to get points to improve your player is 
 to play PGA events or Tiger Challenge events and that takes a very long time when you're character 
 isn't any good. When I play with a character from the game, Tiger for instance, I'm shooting birdies 
 and eagles left and right. Create a player is terrible on this game. I'm not sure about the 360 
 or PS3 versions but I'm assuming they're not too different (visually they are better obviously) . 
 EA quality has slipped badly over the past 2 years. Madden is awful now, NBA Live has been terrible 
 for years, and now, sadly, Tiger is crap too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Pros: Deep - Every type of golf game you can imagine, and some you cant; create yourself, choose 
 your clothes, play on the PGA Tour; you can fast-forward opponents shots and your own; great soundtrack 
 and slick menus
  
  Cons: Graphics look spotty at times; no online play
  
  As if being the worlds greatest golfer and having a Swedish supermodel wife werent enough, Tiger 
 Woods tightens his grip on the trophy for best golf video game franchise with Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour 07 for the Wii.
  
  Any questions gamers have about the motion-sensing controls unique to Nintendos console are answered 
 in a tutorial the first time the game starts. You simply swing the wireless Wii remote like a golf 
 club, and after a few slices (or hooks, depending on your swings real tendencies) , wannabe golf 
 pros will hit their drives straight almost every time.
  
  Drives are easiest, putting is slightly more difficult and chip shots are the biggest challenge 
 - shortening your swing can be maddening. Sometimes the swing is glitchy and goes into the backswing 
 when you dont, but releasing the B button resets the swing to fix to that. It helps that gamers 
 can take unlimited practice swings, which show how far the ball hypothetically would go.
  
  Aiming is as simple as pointing at, grabbing and dragging a circle with an animated golf glove-clad 
 hand.
  
  Similarly, the games menus are stylish and easily navigable - buttons automatically scroll in 
 the direction you flick the controller.
  
  The Tiger Woods series remains ahead of the curve with its fantastic GameFace. Gamers can create 
 a virtual version of themselves to an astonishing level of detail.
  
  All the amusing made-up characters from past Tiger Woods games are rendered nicely, as well as 
 pro golfers. All told, 35 golfers and more than 1,000 accessories are unlockable.
  
  The 18 real and imaginary courses generally look good, but have eyesores: critters appear fake 
 and trees sometimes are pixilated. However, the purposely sun-bleached, weathered look given to 
 many of the courses provides the Wii version with a unique style.
  
  Gamers can tee up in many ways: play a PGA Tour season or battle your buddies in 12 multiplayer 
 or eight arcade games, build your abilities with mini-games such as SkillZones bulls-eye target 
 practice and Skills 18, where gamers hit the ball through colored rings.
  
  Tiger Challenge is the games best mode. Gamers face characters in a variety of formats -- match 
 play, one-ball  as well as skill tests to move ahead. A final showdown with Tiger awaits. Its 
 a great way to sample all that the game offers, with the difficultly ramping up gradually as you 
 play.
  
  The games drawbacks are few but nagging: on-screen hiccups, random frame-rate problems and squandered 
 potential from lack of online play.
  
  Still, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is one of the best games for the fledgling Wii. Hopefully, future 
 versions will have the kinks worked out and will take advantage of the Wiis forthcoming online 
 capabilities.
  
  Tiger 07 is a must-have for golf fans, and anyone who has a Wii should consider adding it to 
 their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptkane
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  using the wii remote to swing sounds like a great idea, and it would be if it werent for the phantom 
 swings. phantom swings occur when a player is still in his backswing and the wii for no apparent 
 reason swings early, often delivering an underpowered shot, the shots set you back at least a stroke 
 or more which can have a profound impact on your ranking in a tournament and simply your overall 
 enjoyment of the game. it is possible to use an analog stick for the game, but come on, its the 
 wii, the remote needs to work more consistantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davegrams
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First off... Don't think that by the name of the game, you get to compare the Wii version of Tiger 
 Woods '07 to other versions. There are noticeable differences which you need to rate based on the 
 game itself, how it plays on the Wii, and how it compares to other Wii games - graphically.
  
  I'm a beginning golfer and have never really gotten into any previous Tiger Woods games for 
 more than a day or two. (Or unless visitors want to shoot a round of golf)
  There is only so much fun you can have playing golf while sitting on your duff, hitting every shot 
 like a robot on your analog controller. I am after a game that can be very difficult, and could 
 give me differing results every game... Like a real round of golf.
  
  The Wii takes the game and makes it physical. Just what I am looking for.
  
  The game is great 
 for what it is. A game. Don't expect it to be like real golf. Its a game. There will be limitations 
 and a learning curve that you will have to figure out before you start htting the ball half way 
 decent. Much like Wii Golf had some 'limitations', TW opens up many more possibilites with the 
 swing, but still has limitations.
  
  Be ready to accept that the controls are TOUCHY when you play.
  When you are ready to take your 
 swing, any slight movement other than a backswing or forward swing will cause undesired responses 
 in the animation. But once you get the swing down and figure out how to get the ball in the direction 
 that you want - it is a beautiful thing.
  No more playing TW while sitting on the couch!
  
  Graphics are good for the Wii. When you compare the graphics to that of an XBox or PS2, it 
 is on par.
  The fonts used in the game could be a little bigger - and perhaps a woodland creature like a squirrel 
 or a deer could have a couple more cells of animation than... 2. But the courses look nice, the 
 golfers look decent and everything plays out smooth.
  
  If you are a hard-core fan of Creating Your Own Golfer, you may be disapointed in the lack of options 
 available compared to other versions (which I told you not to do!) But the addition of more courses 
 more than makes up for the lack of sunglasses in my book.
  
  Tours are here, Skills Challenges are here, and some new mini games like One Ball is a fun strategic 
 game to play on the Wii.
  
  I love to be able to increase the difficulty of the game... Not using the Putting Line , Disabling 
 the 'Shot Spot', just shooting 'from the hip'... guessing what club you are going to need, and 
 the results of a bad swing make this a very fun game. If you are a perfectionist and prefer to 
 never miss a fairway, then you may want to go back to TW on other consoles.
  
  Real golfers will want to try this on the Wii.
  It is definitely worth the money.
  --------------------------
 
  Tiger Woods '07 basic swing tutorial: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=boyJ1e0fC0Y
  Tiger Woods '07 basic putt tutorial: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=IRvF8DkZGyM
  Tiger Woods 
 '07 basic Drive (power) tutorial: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=GNoB4Jc16vs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  1. graphics, i played this game for weeks at regular setting and on a 1080p hdtv 16:9 and i thought 
 ok not bad. Until silly me i set the wii to 16:9 ratio put componet wires and put resolution to 
 480p and i must say all games look much better, i did take pics of the different setting graghics 
 and colors look way better. (keep in mind that the wii's highest output is 480p so even though 
 you may have a 1080p hdtv that's all you get) .
  2. Once you get used to the remote and how to hit the ball game is alot of fun. Wind speed may 
 say 12left or right and sometimes (less then more) even if you hit the ball 110% straight it may 
 or may not go to left or right.
  Game play i do spend alot of hours playing and you may notice some game bugs but the fun factor 
 over rules this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasdavid
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  i really like this game but there are a few bugs that need to be worked out with the motions sensing. 
 a lot of the time espeically during putting. on your back swing it will shoot leaving you with 
 a 50 % shoot. and some hole i found that when you play them you will always slice to one side no 
 matter how straight you swing. the course are laid out good and i really like the way the have 
 you level up your player i found that some of the players in the tiger challenge were really hard 
 and it is noticeable when the computer cuts in to stop you from making good shots like there is 
 a strong cross wind and it does not affect your shot one swing then the next swing it causes the 
 ball to go way off course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  The thought of playing Tiger on the Wii when I first played Wii Sports was too much, now that Tiger 
 has finally arrived on the Wii its safe to say that Im satisfied. Maybe I hyped it too much? 
 Ok theres nothing new from the 360 version and I doubt there will be from the PS3 version, but 
 Tiger still holds out as the best sports game on the Wii for me just now. Fans of the series will 
 know what to expect, ample courses, plenty golfers and some quirky little extras; and theyre all 
 there. Graphically Tiger has nothing on its 360 counterpart (oddly enough) but it sure is a lot 
 more fun and precise, thanks to our Wii-mote friend.
  
  The timing in the swing can sometimes be a little out as can slicing and hooking but for me it 
 was pretty much as close as it can get. Frustrating at the best of times (and the worst) its still 
 highly addictive and fun as Tiger on previous consoles always has been! It takes a minute to get 
 used to, but hat game doesnt?
  All in all dont expect anything new from Ps2/360 versions except the introduction of the Wii-mote 
 making it more realistic and more frustrating; but I couldnt play this game with a controller 
 ever again it would be too easy (and boring!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskinner
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The putting is absolutely horrible - makes the whole game unbearable. There are a few hot spots 
 but others that are poorly done - like the simple act of customizing your character - which fricken 
 button/arrow to you hit when the cursor is where -- how the heck can they botch even this. Doesn't 
 anyone play-test stuff anymore. Production values are worthless - if the game play is poor, throwing 
 a 100 courses at is doesn't help. I can't believe Tiger let his name be put to this and the we-say, 
 they-say values are so high. Rent it for a day before buying - you'll be glad you saved yourself 
 the pain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The game is mildly fun, but im not sure if Ill get $50 worth out of it. The controls are unforgiving. 
 Ive played for about 10 hours so far and still the controls and aiming are frustrating. The graphics 
 are worse than tiger woods looked like on the original Xbox. I beginning to think the Wii does 
 not have the graphics potential the original xbox had. No game yet has looked at all better than 
 the last gen, this game falls way short. I have a hard time recommending this game. I have a 360 
 and i wish I would have gotten it for that, because even with old controls, at least it looks incredible 
 and has online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik_3
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Decent at best. The developers have taken into consideration the force of wind, but for some reason 
 it has no effect on the ball. Also, they boast how fun it can be to use the Wii controller when 
 in reality its just frustrating. The graphics look like they are from the 64 series. If you buy 
 this game and dont end up throwing your controller through your T. V consider yourself lucky. I 
 have played this game for the past 4 days and I still cant figure out how to chip or hit out of 
 the sand, it should be the same motion as any other swing, but trust me people its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say this, before I got a Wii, I wasn't a fan of golf -- at all. In fact, I can 
 barely handle mini-golf. Blech. Spending hours and hours under the blazing hot sun for mere seconds 
 of excitement of whacking a ball (and then, in my case, watching it go anywhere but where I want 
 to go) and then more walking. BLECH! Who really likes this stuff? Granted, I know that golf has 
 a huge following, but I felt like I needed to give my opinion so any biases could be right out 
 of the way from the start. I got my Wii, played Wii Sports Golf and suddenly I *love* golf. At 
 least, the virtual kind. When I found out Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 was on its way, I could barely 
 contain myself and, believe it or not, actually PRE-ORDERED a golf game! GOOD GOD!
  
  All that being said, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is pretty awesome... and hard. EA Sports is not messing 
 around when they make the PGA series; it's as close to the real thing as you can get without having 
 a battery-powered golf cart. Although the game supports several different methods of play, I would 
 recommend just using the Wii remote, it's the only real way to get a true feeling of swinging the 
 club.
  
  Speaking of swinging the club, wow, does this game track you. A little off-center one way or the 
 other and the ball will fade or slice. When set to the hardest difficult, Tiger Woods will wail 
 on my ass like there's no tomorrow -- Ooop, I'm headed for the bunker, Uh, oh, here comes a water 
 hazard! 
  
  Fortunately, the game has several different difficulty settings and when set to easy, the ball 
 will go straight every time. However, you're still required to judge trajectory, wind speed, and 
 the strength of your swing so you won't be hitting par without some practice and know-how.
  
  The game is packed full of content. There are over 30 real golfers you can play as and a large 
 number of courses (each with a full 18 holes, of course) . The game can track your progress and 
 offers a ton of different single-player and multi-player game varieties. Nice.
  
  My complaints? They aren't numerous, but I must say that the textures are a little... smudgy. It's 
 hard to describe exactly, but it's obvious that there wasn't a TON of effort put into making this 
 game look sharp on a HD The graphics aren't terrible but there are times when they can be a little 
 rough on the eyes.
  
  The sounds are... interesting. I know that EA is trying to replicate the atmosphere of real golf 
 courses, but there are a seriously large number of airplanes flying overhead and a surprisingly 
 large number of kennels full of barking dogs surrounding EVERY course. In addition, the crowd is 
 downright hilarious: the number of rednecks that whoop and holler every time you sink a putt is 
 downright overwhelming. In fact, at times it seems as though EA's development team confused the 
 spectator soundtrack for NASCAR 07 with Tiger Woods 07. I mean, do this many rednecks REALLY watch 
 golf!? My final complaint regarding the sound is the announcers; although it's sometimes interesting 
 how they observe the game, often they're making really condescending remarks like, I could do better 
 than that, or Wow, I've seen some bad shots in my time... and that's one of them. I know EA thinks 
 their announcers are witty but they often just drive me up the wall.
  
  Finally, what's up with the widescreen mode? Okay, so sometimes after you hit the ball or make 
 a good putt, the game will shift into this widescreen slow-motion mode while it tracks the ball. 
 The first few times this happened, I felt like it was a good thing -- signifying that I was going 
 to sink the putt or that my drive was really, really nice. After playing a lot more, I started 
 noticing that sometimes the game would go into widescreen mode when I drove into a bunker... or 
 even a water hazard!! What's up with that, EA?! Shouldn't the game know whether or not my hit is 
 good? I mean, after all, the game is calculating where the ball will land, right? Even when I made 
 a good swing, having the game turn into Matrix-mode (as I call it, I even perform little martial 
 arts moves while it's in this mode just to annoy my friends) is just silly. For 08, let's just 
 leave that feature out, eh EA? 
  
  Anyway, this is truly the best golf game for the WIi. That's not saying much seeing as how it's 
 the Wii Sports Golf and the Super Swing Silliness (whatever the heck that mess of a game was) . 
 But, at any rate, I do love the Wii golf feeling and this game encapsulates it well. If you enjoyed 
 Wii Golf, then Tiger Woods 07 will be right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 just isn't the game you need for the Wii to make it a worthy purchase. 
 The control scheme for the game you would think could be an easy to understand agenda, but don't 
 conclude too fast..... the Wiimote just does not satisfy the feeling of really playing golf. Wii 
 Sports did a better job on launching of that game than this game ever had done. The delay of the 
 motion bar makes the ball just go all over the place!!
  
  This game needs a lot of work to just make the game eve playable!! If I had to take a wild guess, 
 I'd say that EA will probably be goin out of business pretty soon.... the horrible first action/adventure 
 game Superman Returns.... than the awful next-gen Madden series and the already crappy NBA Live 
 series too........... JUST GIVE UP EA!!!
  
  AWFUL GAME HANDS DOWN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to this game for quite a while and bought it on the day of release and 
 I wish I hadn't. The control system isn't good, they feel as if all your doing with the swing is 
 emulating the control stick found on other systems. The worst thing is that sometimes it will all 
 go wrong and halfway through your backswing the character will randomly hit the ball, imagine how 
 annoying dropping shots in a close game can be. Graphically it's ugly, the Wii may not be as powerful 
 as the PS3 and 360 but it's a lot more powerful than the Dreamcast was so why the Dreamcast graphics? 
 For PAL users it gets worse as they've stripped the 480p mode from the game. http://wiinintendo. net/2007/03/23/pal-gamers-getting-reduced-quality-games/
 
  
  The sounds are fine except for the commentary which sometimes bares no resemblance to whats happening 
 on the screen at all. The music as usual is rubbish but this is nothing new with EA titles and 
 I wasn't expecting any more, just turn it off.
  
  Overall the gameplay is spoilt by the wonky controls, a crippled character creation system and 
 the awful commentary. If you must buy it wait until it drops in price, if your waiting for a decent 
 realistic golf game for the Wii then you'll have to keep waiting because this game isn't it.
  
  Shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  If you have a Wii, you've most likely played the Golf portion of Wii Sports. Some of you may have 
 liked it. Some of you may have hated it. If you're reading this review, you probably did like it, 
 and you were probably looking forward to Pangya Golf as well. .... yeah, my condolences.
  
  The good news is Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is at its core a good game of golf. It does nothing Mario 
 Golf hasn't already done ... but obviously the appeal here is using the Wii remote to play with 
 it.
  
  The not so exciting news is that you're probably expecting the jump-in-and-play ease of use that 
 Wii Sports' golf game had. Tiger Woods simply isn't that. You will have a learning curve of at 
 least a few hours just to get to the point where you're REMOTELY putting the ball where you plan 
 to, and even then ... you can judge, judge, rejudge, adjust for wind, and swing so many times the 
 announcers themselves are contemplating suicide .... hit the PERFECT SHOT ... and as you're adding 
 that top-spin to the ball, suddenly realize the annoying joke the announcer just shot off about 
 sand ... means your shot is going NOWHERE it was supposed to go -- straight into a bunker.
  
  That brings up something else. The announcers are probably the meanest damn people I have EVER 
 heard giving commentary on a golf game. I mean ... Wii controls are new, they're hard to get the 
 hang of, you're GOING to stink at it the first time you play ... so why in Hell the game includes 
 guys who diss the player so often you may be reminded of high school ... I simply don't know. It's 
 about one of the most rude and annoying things I've ever heard in a video game. I half expected 
 it from a WWE game. But a game of the class and stature of golf, having announcers that insult 
 and joke about how bad a golfer is? ... are you sure this is Tiger Woods PGA Tour?
  
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is NOT lacking in the content area at all. In fact that's one of its strong 
 suits. There's a LOT of replay value in this game, especially if you're a golf fan or have multiple 
 golf fans living in your house hold. Or at least ... Wii golf fans. There's SO many things to do 
 you may just get intimidated. Chances are you'll stick with the basics, like Stroke Play, and wait 
 a few weeks before trying out some of the more intimidating game modes.
  
  The game has this AMAZINGLY detailed create-a-character option. What it can produce in the way 
 of a character may astound you. The bigger problem, though, is that CONTROLLING the create-a-character 
 menu is a beast in itself, which isn't made easier by the intuitive wii-control menu, which seems 
 to be a little too intuitive for my taste (just moving the remote upwards, without even clicking 
 anything, can alter what you see in some menus. ) It's amazingly aggravating to try and click something 
 in the corner of the page, only to have your entire menu options changing on you ... and you realize 
 its not even your fault. You didn't press a single thing.
  
  Graphically, Tiger Woods is a massive disappointment. No doubt it's more detailed than Wii Sports' 
 Golf is ... but there's a fundamental difference -- Wii Sport's still used good framerates and 
 nice lightening effects to make what you were looking at a polished and pleasant experience. A 
 normal aspect screen on 480p resolution, however, turns Tiger Woods' entire game into a buffet 
 of aliasing. The sheer about of aliasing is simply MASSIVE, from pixelated, bland textures that 
 repeat far too often ... to basically any model you see looking jagged somewhere ... you might 
 end up wanting to pull your hair out. The character models may be a bit better than what you see 
 on the PS2, but the lack of even an audience huddled around you, unlike the 360 and PS3 version 
 of the game, is enough to raise an eyebrow.
  
  All in all, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is the best golf game for Wii out right now, but it's no where 
 near what it could have been by far, and golf games in the future for Wii will blow this game out 
 of the water. Who knows? Maybe it will be Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  After playing Wii Sports I was very excited about getting this game. Seeing all the fun I had swining 
 my wiimote to get that ball in the hole. Tiger is a great game for all that love to play golf or 
 just have fun playing golf on their wii. The controls are very sensitive and fun to play. Even 
 putting is good once you get used to it. I had trouble at first getting used to the amount of power 
 and stroke control I needed to hit it where I wanted. But now getting some hours into playing this 
 game I have to say great game and well worth the purchase. This game has alot of features and allows 
 you to customize everything on your player even his shoes lol. You can also have great mutliplayer 
 modes like battle golf that everytime you beat your opponent at a hole you get to take one of their 
 clubs lol. There goes you driver buddy good luck on those long shots now lol. Graphics well its 
 a port so I wasn't thinking much about it but for the most part its on par with last gen games 
 if not a little better. But its gold who needs stellah graphics to have fun with it. Not I said 
 the cat lol. Overall great game I rented it from blockbuster becuase I was skeptical about this 
 game. But now I'm going out and buying this fun addition to my wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General-Zod
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the release of this game. I have never bought a golf game before. I played 
 Wii Golf (Wii Sports) , but found it lacking any real ties to actual golf, but also understood it 
 was not intended to be an accurate golf sim.
  
  So when Tiger Woods 07 came out, I hoped it would fit that bill, but it didn't quite make it.
 
  
  First the good. I enjoy the Tour version, allowing one to play through a number of Tour events 
 to earn money and build up their stats (after creating your own golfer) . The golf courses are nice 
 looking and offer different challenges. As you upgrade your golf skills it becomes easier to compete, 
 which I like. The fact that I could not win right out of the gate felt right.
  
  There are other modes, such as Arcade, which has you playing games where you hit for accuracy and 
 things like that, but I have not played them much as this is not what I was looking for when I 
 got this. They may be good, but read other reviews for info there.
  
  The bad: swing mechanics. First, let me qualify that by saying they are OK... I never enjoyed playing 
 golf games at friends houses using an analog stick. It was TOO easy (getting a birdie on the first 
 hole one ever plays does not suggest a challenging game) . On the Standard setting for 07, it feels 
 challenging, and requires a steady swing to hit it straight.
  
  Where it does not work as well is that it does not allow for a natural golf swing. I golf (poorly) , 
 and when I swing a club back, my wrist bends, or breaks on the backswing (as it does for most golfers) . 
 When you do this in the game, it reads that you have started your forward swing, and you end up 
 with a shot at 60% power or less that likely slices. This requires you to modify your backswing 
 to prevent this, making it an unrealistic swing.
  
  My other major complaint, more towards Nintendo than EA, is no online multiplayer. Nintendo needs 
 to catch up ond this one, although it is well known they are saving the premier of it for one of 
 their franchises (Pokemon) .
  
  All in all, I am glad I got this game, and while it has room to improve, I can't imagine playing 
 a golf game with an analog stick again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawbwilsh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow, surprisingly it works! I was very skeptical on this game. But glad I purchased. Lacking a 
 tad in the graphics dept. but overall solid experience. The gameply is great, except you have to 
 watch out sometimes it will start your swing beforehand, but other than that solid game. The sound 
 is decent the commentators are sometimes off, but the birds chirping and scenary stuff for sound 
 is nice. I actually was better at putting than on the 360 version. Oh and sometimes I hit the plus 
 button in my swing but I am a newb so I can only get better. All and all it meets and exceeds my 
 expectations a little deffinatley fun with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex20077
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Yeah... so the graphics were ported from the ps2 and don't even come close to what the Wii can really 
 put out. I got this game and when I first played it I was like, man this doesn't look to great, 
 and I thought the controls were terrible. Actually it was my swing that wasn't that great, but 
 after about 1-2 hours of working on my swing everything started getting better from there. You 
 get so into the game that you really don't even notice or care about the graphics, and its just 
 a lot of fun to play. They should have a rating for how fun a game is and not just how good it 
 looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloshed1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The first couple times I played Tiger 07 I thought there was no way I was ever going to hit a shot 
 without seeing my favorite little hook symbol. However, through practice I have found there are 
 actually a couple different ways of holding the remote that will let me achieve a straight shot. 
 For anyone that is having any problems and thinks it cant be done.. it can! The easiest is probably 
 holding the remote with the buttons facing forward. Then, take an EASY swing straight back. This 
 should let you hit the ball straight every time, maybe not with 100% power, but straight.
  
  As far as game play goes, it is awesome. After you get the swing down (as well as the game 
 allows) it quickly becomes the greatest and most challenging edition to the Tiger Woods series 
 to date. Yes, I will admit the graphics are lacking a little and there are still some quirks in 
 the swing mechanic but I would like to have someone look me in the eye and tell me that it is more 
 fun to pull a controller back and push it forward than stepping up to an imaginary ball in your 
 living room and ripping a 350 yard drive down the middle of the fairway. Just as others have written 
 though, my biggest concern also happens to be my favorite thing about the game- the swing mechanic. 
 Hopefully all the small problems with it will be worked out in Tiger 08. EA really needs to develop 
 total swing control that will let you adjust your backswing without having to worry about striking 
 the ball at 70% power unintentionally. The putting swing could definitely use some tweaking as 
 well. There should be a way to set the power to a range that will let the ball actually reach the 
 hole on uphill puts. My only other gripe is there is not a lot of consistency on how the ball is 
 struck in relation to how the lie is. EA made it difficult to tell what percentage lie you had, 
 instead they just show the graphic of your ball on top of the grass (or sand) . Sometimes it looks 
 like it is sitting up, but only comes out at 50%.
  
  Despite these shortcomings, after an hour or two of practice Tiger truly offers you a unique experience 
 that is comparable to being out there doing the real thing. I would recommend it for any golfer, 
 gamer, or family member looking to have a little fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raedyn12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  While this game may fall short in the graphics, it makes up for in the game play. The controls 
 are a bit tricky, but within 30-60 minutes you will be swinging your club like a pro and when you 
 do it may be the most fulfilling virtual golf experience to date. All the character customization 
 you come to expect in the Tiger Woods series is here too, which is great for killing time and makes 
 for a long lasting game.
  
  I highly recommend this title if you are looking for a great multi player experience that is outside 
 the realm of mini games on the Wii or just want to relax with a few friends and hit the links. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is sort of difficult to review because of the controls. If you are a fan of real golf 
 then this is the only golf game you should buy. The game actually makes you feel like you have 
 a club in your hand, so if you have a bad slice/hook in real golf then it is probably going to 
 show itself while playing this game. But unlike real golf you can correct it a lot easier in this 
 game. Now on the other hand if you never play real golf and have always enjoyed video game golf 
 then you probably want to rent this game first. This is not a game that you will play sitting down 
 especially if you want to be good.
  Some of the same nuisances still exist in this year's edition that in my opinion have hurt this 
 series for years. I want to know a real golfer that can spin the ball while it is in flight. This 
 aspect really aggravates me. The controls on the putting and chipping have also not been perfected 
 yet. You pretty much have the same swing on the putting every time, you just need to figure out 
 the break. Also when chipping out of the rough it becomes a guessing game on how hard you need 
 to swing.
  Overall this series is headed in the right direction with its debut on the Wii. There are plenty 
 of courses, modes, statistics to keep this Tiger in your Wii until next years edition. So if you 
 are a golf nut like me then I would doubt that you would not find this game worthy of a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWholeFnGamer
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I really appreciated what EA was trying to do with this game, as every Tiger Woods game did become 
 repetitive and boring after a while. With this, there came a promise of having to practice to get 
 downright good at the game, but alas, sketchy control schemes make all the practice in the world 
 virtually nil. I find that the driving, and chip shots are pretty dead on.... it's the putting 
 where your game will be turned from a birdie to a 5 over par. Unresponsive swings, and unrealistic 
 putt's are where this game completely lack, and I hope to god that EA will make this feature better 
 in the coming years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicardoJr99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This being the only golf game i have ever played (apart from wii sports golf) i dont have much 
 to compare it too but i can still say this is one of the greatest games for the wii.
  
  First off you have to make your own golfer, personally i love doing things like this because you 
 don't always have to make someone who looks like you (even though i do) and with some time spent 
 on it you can make a pretty good resemblance of yourself, then its off to the pro shop to choose 
 everything from your shirt to your choice of ball.
  Once you start the tiger challenge you should be pretty happy with how easy it is to pick up the 
 controls i myself being a self confessed weekend hacker managed to hit 100% on my first drive.
 
  
  To be honest i cant be arsed to write anymore about this game because it slays all don't buy super 
 swing golf buy tiger woods pga tour 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidnick01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy hitting the real links, you'll love this game. It uses innovative wii-mote controls 
 to enable the basic swing of the golf club. Only occasionally did the controller and the sensor 
 bar not sync up to create the actual swing. The graphics aren't as defined as other systems, but 
 you didn't buy a wii for graphics did you? I didn't think so. Innovative controls and awesome game 
 play makes this a must buy for any sports fanatic or avid golfer. Creating a character is kind 
 of difficult because of the button controls, but you can get by it without too much problem. All-in-all, 
 the game is a must buy if you are a golfer, a great buy if you are a sports fanatic, and a rental 
 if you are just curious about the sport or game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeperMessiahXX9
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 07 for the Nintendo Wii. 'Nuff said. Seems that the little white box is sustained by 
 quirky games and the control factor that the Wii-mote and Nunchuk controller offer. Golf games, 
 Ping pong, air hockey and many more, swing to get the job done genres would be well represented 
 on the Wii, with the advent of motion sensing. Wouldn't they?
  
  Sure. Let me reassure you. These genres will work wonderfully on the Wii. There is one small nagging 
 problem though. The control itself. In Wii-Sports, the game that was supposed to unite gamers and 
 non-gamers alike, I've watched countless people vow to never play again, because the controller 
 did not respond to their swings. Or maybe it responded to their backwards swinging motions and 
 registered it as a forward swing. All the while I would say to them in frustration, 'You just must 
 be doing something wrong.' Turns out it wasn't always them.
  
  Tiger Woods is afflicted with the same spotty control. Don't get me wrong, when you Grip it and 
 Rip it, you do it in a fashionable style, that you've come to expect from the Tiger Woods franchise. 
 So really when the control works, it works well. You can correct your slice or your hook with reasonable 
 effort as you can in the real golf counterpart. The real problem is apparent when the game 'misfires'. 
 Sometimes you swing only to watch nothing happen. Sometimes you swing only to watch your golfer 
 stuck in the backswing. Still other times you watch the backswing complete and start a forward 
 swing, only to have nothing happen at all. This is very frustrating. However the most annoying 
 thing about this game is when you don't swing at all and yet your on screen golfer lets loose with 
 usually a very poor swing. It will leave you screaming in frustration at the motion sensing abilities 
 of the box we are slowly growing to love. The game isn't all bad. In fact there are a number of 
 great features that could keep a person coming back for more. A decent handful of game modes let 
 you play as your favourite golfer, create your own, have a quick pick up and play game, PGA tour 
 Season mode and a few others. As well the ability to increase your stats, proving that you, as 
 a golfer and the virtual you that you've created are getting better, has been a welcome addition 
 to the games franchise for a few years now. While the game doesn't break any real new ground aside 
 from the control, it doesn't particularly fall short either. Graphically the game is not as bad 
 as most site reviews would have you believe. The editors and reviewers on these sites tend to have 
 a steeper curve when it comes to graphics. How could they not? They live in a constant world where 
 the best games are offered to them on a platter, usually months before any of us 'commonfolk' get 
 to try them. Just keep in mind that the Wii has roughly twice the graphical power of the Gamecube 
 and you'll appreciate it more. Also don't forget the system is still very much in it's infancy 
 on the market. Developers, even the big 'N' themselves, haven't figured out how to take advantage 
 of the Wii's inner workings to its full potential. Think about systems such as the Gamecube, PS2, 
 Xbox. Some of the best looking titles came out in later years on those systems. Don't discredit 
 the Wii yet on this topic. Wait for it... it'll happen. Please I beg the media to stop reviewing 
 games based on 1080p or any other HD formats. There are still quite a few people who don't have 
 HD. Maybe rate the graphics based on simply graphics, not how HD compatible they are.
  
  Audio is decent on this title. Don't expect any groundbreaking effects or even tracks on the soundtrack 
 that will wow you. There aren't any. But really it's a golf game. The actual game itself of golf, 
 does not usually have a lot of background noise. Do yourself a favour if you want good music while 
 playing, throw on a cd, an Ipod or maybe just sing yourself silly.
  
   THE BOTTOM LINE
  
  Worthwhile: The 
 control. When it works it works well. The varied modes will keep you coming back for more. Doesn't 
 look as bad as other reviews may have you believe. Golfers themselves have a good variety of solid 
 animations.
  
  Happy Medium: The putting is not revolutionary, and can be pretty tough at times, but overall is 
 decent.
  
  Unworthy: The control. When it doesn't work, you'll want to walk away in shame. The audio is not 
 great and sometimes the announcers are just plain annoying. Lack of online playability. When Nintendo 
 When?
  
  Should you buy this game: You should buy this game if you can be patient, have no other console 
 option and are a fan of golf. Final Advice: Rent it.
  
  Rating: 6 out of 10. **LeperMessiahXX9 hails from Eastern Canada and is a Financial Advisor. I 
 his spare time he plays videogames on the one console he currently owns, his beloved Nintendo Wii. 
 He also doesn not believe in giving ratings with a decimal, how can a game be .3 better than another 
 game. He thinks it's silly.** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakshon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Rent this game first the controls just don't feel right. I'm sure the next Tiger will get it right 
 but this one falls short on the controls. Judging the distance isn't nearly so hard as they say 
 its the doing the distance thats tough. The second you tilt the wiimote back even a little bit 
 your golfer starts a full swing ever time. Then the second the controler starts to go in the other 
 dirrection he swings through. The game desperately needs the full motion tracking of the wii sports 
 games. This ultimately destroys the enjoyment of the game. Additionaly if there is any hitch or 
 mistep of any kind in your back swing, your golfer will shank the shot. This can be very frustrating.
 
  
  Play through 18 holes with a friend and then decide whether you want to buy it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I will say that the graphics are disappointing. At first I was very disappointed 
 with the game, that was until I played a round of Golf. When playing I found that I forgot about 
 the graphics and found myself thinking about the next shot and what place I'm in in a tournament. 
 Like most people I was expecting a graphical showcase for the Wii. Maybe in September we'll see 
 a stronger graphical game and possibly some online play in Tiger Woods 08. I give EA Sports the 
 thumbs up for using the Wii-remote so well and for introducing us to a decent sports game for the 
 Wii. A good plus for this title was the addition of the Fed-Ex cup points, for any golf fan this 
 is a great addition. Overall I give the game an 8/10, but it would have been higher due to graphics. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlc3007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Your opinion of this game may have a lot to do with what you start with. Me? I couldnt wait to 
 create my own golfer and start pwning the PGA tour. After my first tour event I was frustrated 
 to say the least. After scoring a record 60 over an Pebble Beach, I was wondering what I was doing 
 so wrong.
  
  After being fed up with my hopelessness on tour, I decided to try a pick-up game. This time I took 
 Tiger against some other pros and I rocked. My conclusion is that it wasnt so much me as it was 
 my new golfer. It occurred to me that I got exactly what I should have expected when taking a new 
 golfer and charging out onto the courses: nothing but pain and frustration. Just like real golf!
 
  
  Everyone has already talked about the swing mechanics (good) and the graphics (not good) , so Ill 
 agree with most of the opinions and leave it at that. I would recommend this game if youre at 
 all interested in a golf sim  just remember to go play as a pro when you start getting frustrated, 
 if only to reassure yourself that you may not be as bad as your score indicates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistyO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  The fact that my average mid 90's score in real golf, is the same in Tiger Woods '07 tells me that 
 this as close to the real deal as you can get. Of course I'm not playing the links at Pebble Beach 
 or The Falls where my score would be much worse I'm sure.
  
  The swing technique is the main attraction to this game, and it works! For those who say it doesn't 
 work right, thy need more practice, just like real golf. Sure it can be frustrating at first (just 
 like real golf, again) . But it also has it's rewards, when you hit that sweet shot, right next 
 to the pin from 200yrds out.
  
  The feature that I find extremely appealing, besides the swing technique, is creating your own 
 golfer and working your way through the ranks. You're going to start off as a rookie, and in doing 
 so, your not going to be a Tiger Woods right off the bat, in fact your gonna suck. Your going to 
 be inconsistent, but you'll still earn valuable points to upgrade your stats, as well as money 
 to upgrade your gear.
  
  Golf is a game of skill, patience, risk &amp; reward and I believe this game encompasses all those 
 areas.
  
  For those who want the more traditional feel, or just want to sit down and play, there is a nunchuck 
 option that works very well too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I was excited for this game. After playing Wii Sports Golf, I assumed the basic golf swing mechanics 
 of Nintendos little golf game would have been the foundation of a much deeper golf experience. 
 Sadly, EA must not have recieved a copy of wii sports packed in their developer kits. Warning, 
 This game may induce swearing. Do not play around small children. I'll start with the good. The 
 controls are playable, and it is a decent golf game once you get used to the swing. Visually, TW2007 
 looks better than the xbox version of TW2006. Not to bad for the wii. There are plenty of courses 
 to choose from and a variety of alternative challenge modes as seen in previous years. Now for 
 the bad. The audio is decent, but as usual, the in game announcers need to be shot. I've had instances 
 where I just lined up my shot, and within five seconds the announcer ask common, whats the hold 
 up? . It will annoy you after the first hole. Fortunately EA provided a voice volume control in 
 the audio menu to silence them. The swing.... I really hope the Tiger Woods team at EA reads the 
 reviews posted by video game web-sites and magazines. As I mentioned, wii sports golf has great 
 swing mechanics but very shallow game play. But the swing worked very well. Tiger Woods PGA 07 
 uses a totally different system that will leave you wondering why they did it. First of all the 
 back swing is poorly tuned. The power of your swing is determined by the speed and height of your 
 back swing. Too bad that doesn't work. To get a reduced power shot, you have to raise your back 
 swing like a 100 granny doped up on sleeping pills. Other wise your back swing will go all the 
 way up. Sometimes when I make a back swing there is a glitch that registers it as a forward swing. 
 The player swings the club while still in mid back swing leaving you with an upset attitude. Unlike 
 wii sports golf, you cant move your club up and down with the wii remote without making a shot. 
 Once you make your back swing, any forward motion on the wii remote will cause the forward swing. 
 Another thing, they should have included a power meter. Yes, like in real golf , TW07 measures 
 the power of your swing from your back swing and the force of your swing. But the swing mechanics 
 in TW07 are so unrefined, its impossible to gage the power of your shot unless its a full swing. 
 I know they want to make it more realistic, but its just a video game. For all the short comings, 
 TW07 is a decent golf game, once you get used to the controls. But after playing wii sports golf, 
 you will wonder why EA didn't do the obvious thing and emulate a control system that has already 
 been proven to work. Here is hoping for a better TW2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  How could can a game be when the final comment is Eh. 
  
  This game is OK, I guess. it's really different from every other golf game I've played on the Wii. 
 I guess it all boils down to this: Super Swing Golf is a golf game for people who are good at video 
 games, not golf. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is a golf game for people that are good at golf, not video 
 games.
  
  I really want to like this game. I don't have all kinds of money to throw at the Wii and I really 
 don't want to waste $50. So I'm really trying to like this game.
  
  Ok, the first thing I did was try to create a golfer that looked like me. Uh, not gonna happen. 
 The professional golfers kinda sorta look like the people they're portraying, but trying to replicate 
 someone with this facial editor is complicated. You have SO much control over facial features... 
 I think you have TOO MUCH control. Everything ends up looking wrong. And I wear glasses... forget 
 about it. You can't even add glasses to your golfer if you wanted to. (In the end, everyone ends 
 up looking kinda ugly.)
  
  After I settled on what I thought looked enough like me to NOT be confused with Tiger Woods, I 
 went through the tutorials on swinging and headed out onto the links.
  
  When I first tried to golf... it kept swinging before I was done. Um, ok. Maybe I just have to 
 alter my swing and get used to this swing mechanic... I hought this was going to be easier than 
 Super Swing Golf... it's not. it's much much MUCH harder. My opinions changed over time and after 
 some tweaking of how I play the game. Initially, I thought: This game sucks. I just wasted $50. 
 After 10 minutes I thought: This game can't suck this bad. I must have something set wrong. The 
 previous (analog stick) nunchuk style of swinging the golf club works fine. Maybe I had that selected? 
 Nope. That's not it. Holding the wiimote horizontal and swinging from a sitting position works 
 fine too. Maybe I have that selected? I guess NOT because I can't even find where TO select it.
 
  
  After 30 minutes I thought: This game is broken. Nice try programmer geeks, but you botched this 
 up royally. After 60 minutes I thought: This is just another game Tiger Woods was contractually 
 obligated to put his name on. This game sucks. I just wasted $50. 
  
  So after an hour of trying to make a decent shot with the TrueSwing mechanics crap, I thought my 
 wiimote might be malfunctioning. I switched wiimotes. No help. I changed the batteries. No help. 
 I switched to nunchuk-style swinging. Works fine. I tried swinging while sitting down and moving 
 the wiimote horizontally. Works fine. (Although you have to be careful at all times when putting, 
 the greens are extremely slow no matter what the course conditions or caddy say.)
  
  After three hours, I took Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 out of the Wii and played a round of Super Swing 
 Golf. (I was proving to myself that I wasn't crazy.) Everything worked as it should.
  
  Going back to Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07, I played another hour, trying to get used to the game and 
 hopefully fine-tune my personal swing mechanic.
  
  I finally realized that being good at a golf video game is really a hinderance in this game. I 
 don't need to be good at video games, I need to be good at golf. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 plays 
 very little like a video game and very much like a PGA golf simulator. That's the conclusion I've 
 come to. This video game is a PGA golf simulator. If you're good at golf, you'll be good at this 
 game, however if you're a video gamer with limited real golf experience, you won't have any fun.
 
  
  I guess this game just has a steep learning curve. This is SO much harder than Super Swing Golf. 
 This is almost unplayably hard. This is for DIE-HARD golfers only. I thought this would be fun. 
 It isn't. It's frustrating. Just like real golf. I didn't buy what I thought, but I didn't waste 
 $50 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejr88
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I have been very excited for this game since its announcement back last year. Wii and golf seem 
 to go together very well to make a great game. When I first played Wii sports golf I was really 
 happy with the swing mechanic but dissapointed with not being able to add hooks or slices to your 
 shot dissapointed me alot. So when the first game play videos game out for TW 2007 I was really 
 excited becuase the player was making a full motion swing which seems to add realism to the game. 
 In all the previews for the game they all said that the only problems were putting on the green.
 
  The visuals for the game also surprised me becuase everything looked better than the original 
 Xbox. I was also happy to hear that the game would use 480p and widescreen to make the game just 
 that much better.
  
  Now about playing the game for myself. When I picked up the game and first popped it in the console 
 I was really excited to expierence a new way of playing golf. But I was immiediatly dissapointed 
 when I was trying to swing in the first tutorial. I would make my full swing but then Tiger Woods 
 would come down on his down speed when I did not want him to which made for a terrible shot. I 
 tried it again and again but was still dissapointed. I started yelling at the game becuase I was 
 not expieienceing what I have been dreaming of for a golf game for the Wii. Then came putting which 
 I found to be very forgiving and pretty easy. After a while I finally was figuring out how to swing 
 and get a straight shot. You really dont even make a golf swing, You bring back the controller 
 a little bit and then your golfer brings it back. I think the game senses your power on the downswing. 
 After a while of playing I was finnally getting some decent scores. As for the visuals, the game 
 looks really good for a Wii game and supports 480p and widescreen which was a big plus. Everything 
 in the game looks fuller and more complete then a PS2 game.
  
  The audio is ok but the announcers really bug me when they make unwanted complaints of how you 
 need to hurry up.
  
  I hope they make improvements for 08 in the swing area and everything else. This game will upset 
 you for a little bit but will be funner after you figure out the annoying swing mechanic. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
