-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tigerwoodspgatour08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All three control options work well.
 Solid amount of golfers and courses.
 No shortage of ways to stay busy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 &quot;New&quot; game modes aren't all that new.
 New courses come at the expense of existing courses.
 Putting is a bit too easy thanks to the new preview mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 347 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Salt Lake
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods 08 is good, but it's only slightly better than the last game. 

  Tiger Woods 07 for the Wii made a good first impression. Now, just six months later, the series 
 is back for another go in the form of Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08. Once again, it's a good game, but 
 like you'd expect from a sequel that follows its predecessor by just six months, it's only a slight 
 improvement over Tiger 07.  

           It takes a round or two to get used to the controls, but once you do, they work well. 

  Tiger 08 has a few new game modes, though many of them have appeared on other consoles and are 
 only "new" for the Wii. Traditional games include: stroke play, match play, bloodsome, greensome, 
 skins, stableford, alternate, best ball, and four-ball. There are five minigames: miniputt, target, 
 T-I-G-E-R, capture, and target2target. Miniputt is nothing more than minigolf, but it's kind of 
 fun, even if the putting grid is completely worthless on the over-the-top greens. Rounding out 
 the game modes are five arcade games: elimination mode, battle golf, one-ball, team one-ball, and 
 skills 18. Elimination is the only one of these that will be new to veteran Tiger Woods players. 
 Here, you create a team of as many as eight players, which are eliminated one at a time with every 
 hole lost. It's good that so many of Tiger 08's game modes are geared toward multiplayer because 
 unlike EA's other recent sports game, Madden 08, Tiger Woods 08 doesn't have online play.  

  There are a healthy number of golfers and courses in the game, but it's disappointing that much 
 of the new content came at the expense of old content. Camilo Villegas, Morgan Pressel, Ian Poulter, 
 Paula Creamer, and a few others bring the roster of pros up to 23. It would be 26, but Appleby, 
 Beem, Leonard, and Campbell are MIA this year. It's a similar story with the courses. There are 
 still 18 of them, but many of the fantasy courses have been replaced with real locations, such 
 as Cog Hill, TPC Boston, Westchester, Firestone, Doral, TPC Scottsdale, and East Lake. It's great 
 to have so many real-world courses, but it's a shame they couldn't have been added to what was 
 already there.  

  Not a whole lot has changed with the career mode. You can play tour events, the Fed Ex Cup, and 
 Tiger challenge. Like in the 360 and PlayStation 3 versions, the Tiger challenge is arranged in 
 a honeycomb pattern, which gives you a bit of freedom to choose the next challenge. Unlike those 
 versions, the challenges haven't been shortened significantly and get old far too quickly if you're 
 a series veteran. You'll still improve your golfer by earning and dispersing attributes, as well 
 as purchasing new equipment or clothing in the pro shop. As usual, the create-a-character feature 
 is limited only by your imagination. The photo face mode that lets you import a picture of yourself 
 on the PS3 and 360 is nowhere to be found.  

  Very few changes have been made to how the game plays; however, nearly every change makes the game 
 play better. You can play the game in several ways; standing up, you press B and then swing the 
 remote like a golf club, twisting it to draw or fade your shot; sitting down, you press B as you 
 flick the remote in any direction; and in a more traditional fashion, you use the analog stick 
 on the Nunchuk to swing. The game's easiest with the analog stick, but it's most enjoyable using 
 the motion controls, which are quite forgiving, though it's still too difficult to hit a specific 
 power level less than 100 percent. Putting uses the same basic mechanic as a normal swing, but 
 in Tiger 08, there's a new way of lining up your putt. When you hit the minus button, you can putt 
 the ball to see where it's going to go, but the stroke doesn't count. You're given a limited amount 
 of time for the entire round in which you can preview your shots, but unless you use it on every 
 single putt, you'll have enough for most of the difficult ones. This is an interesting way of making 
 putting less frustrating; however, it makes it a bit too easy, especially if you've lined the putt 
 up reasonably well before previewing it. The pace of play is nice and fast thanks to EA finally 
 letting you skip the CPU's turn by pressing the A button. There's also a new confidence meter that 
 supposedly makes you play better if you're already playing well, but it doesn't have any noticeable 
 effect on the gameplay.  

           This isn't a screen from Tiger Woods 07. You'll just have to trust us on that one.    
   

  It shouldn't come as any surprise that Tiger 08 looks the same as Tiger 07. There's not a whole 
 lot of detail in the textures, and there's a hefty amount of aliasing. But the graphics certainly 
 aren't terrible, and they don't get in the way of the gameplay. The professional golfers look reasonably 
 like their real-life counterparts, but the fictitious golfers look the best thanks to their unique 
 animations and design. Like every other Tiger Woods game in the past few years, the audio is passable 
 but could stand for some new commentary.  

  There's no question that Tiger Woods 08 is better than Tiger Woods 07. Although the controls aren't 
 perfect, they are better, and there's more to do. Unfortunately, with only six months separating 
 the two games, that's about the extent of the improvements. If you don't own Tiger 07 and are looking 
 for a golf game, you'll want to pick up Tiger 08. But if you already own 07, you might want to 
 hold off on this one and wait for next year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Peyton17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA TOur 08 us a difficult game that requires patients and determination. The game 
 gives the player a realistic experience. ONe plays the game is you would play real golf. This is 
 the closes you'll get to real golf. The rounds take forever to complete. Driving and iron hitting 
 are not that bad but they could be better. The hardest part about the game is the putting. You 
 can't tell how hard or soft you have to hit the ball. The putting is not the best because for one 
 thing its fustrating and hard. I know the game isn't supposed to be easy but come on. The putting 
 is hard even with the putt preview. The breaks on the green are off and the wind even plays a role 
 in the putting. the game should be alot more easy and not take as much time as it does. to me this 
 game was a disappiontment and a failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  This game has its good points and its bad points. It is a good golf game with a lot of courses 
 and golfers, but it is practically the same as the last one. This sort of ruins it. Putting is 
 now far too easy with the new putt preview. The graphics are good and the controls are reasonable. 
 They sometimes make you do very weak shots when you are still swinging. The commentary is very 
 repetitive and some of the courses are quite bland. 
  The best single player mode is Tiger Challenge, as you get to play against computer controlled 
 opponents in a variety of game types. Annoyingly, a lot of these events are a bit repetitive and 
 easy. I feel there is a bit of a victory for quantity over quality.
  
  This game is quite fun multiplayer though, I can even get my little sister who hates the single 
 player on this game to join us. Hopefully Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09 will be an improvement, it looks 
 better anywayform the trailer anyway. I hope they don't get rid of Pebble Beach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 08 for the wii is the best EA game on the wii to date. 
  
  The controls of the game are a big upgrade over the prequel: Tiger Woods 07. Mainly because the 
 option to use the nunchucks analog stick. The remote swing is better than 07, but being able to 
 hit short shorts is still missing. You will find yourself underclubbing and laying up on short 
 par 4s because its easier to hit a 7 than a wedge. The remote swing however is much better in comparison 
 to the analog stick therefore I would recommend the remote swing. 
  
  The graphics are the same you saw on Tiger Woods 2003 for your PS2 and they are a real let down. 
 Its really sad when you try to compare the graphics of the wii and the other next gen systems. 
 I understand it isnt the focus, but cmon? When are fans going to demand what they want, instead 
 of settling for what the company gives us? 
  
  Overall this game is a great game. It is really addictive and you will find yourself not wanting 
 to put your remote down. A great multiplayer and a must have unless the wii gets a game like hotshots 
 combined with mario graphics. ... that would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc924
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  I am a PC gamer, who bought the family a WII for Christmas because it promises (and delivers) a 
 better group experience. As a PC gamer I have long used golf simulations, going back to the first 
 DOS implementation of Harbor Town by Access (company later acquired by Microsoft) that still, in 
 my mind, takes top honors as the most detailed rendering, complete with great physics, of any course 
 I've ever seen (not including the too easy putting) . I have tried many of the PC golf simulations 
 since then, including Microsoft's, but all of them have suffered from the limitations of emulating 
 the swing mechanics.
  
  The WII, by contrast, has very sub-par graphics (I never feel as though I am actually on a real 
 life course, unfortunately) , but the mechanics feel right. Different people get different results 
 when they swing the WII "club" for unclear reasons. For example, I almost never hit a hook or slice, 
 but my very athletic son sometimes does. This is as it should be.
  
  As for the complaint that the preview for putting makes it too easy - I just don't allow anyone 
 to use it, and then the putting seems to be exactly as difficult as it should be. Only the iron 
 shots that require less than 100% power are unusually difficult to pull off, as others have said.
 
  
  If you are looking for something better than the golf in WII Sports, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonCubed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Wandering back into ownership of a home gaming console post Coleco-vision (I know, I know) , seemed 
 an intimidating process. First-person shooters, MMORPGs... I had no clue where to start. So, after 
 a few random synapse firings in which I remembered experiences where I had the most fun, I settled 
 on a WII since it appeared to have the most potential for the group play that I enjoyed.
  
  I bought the one with WII sports included and the disc collection had baseball, bowling, boxing, 
 tennis and golf. None of which seemed overly exciting but which looked like they had the most group 
 play potential.
  
  After unpacking it and playing them all at a friends house, it was the golf game that we became 
 the most drawn to. Probably because he was an avid live-golfer. I found myself playing even when 
 no one else was around in spite of the fact that live-golf never appealed to me.
  
  And so as I caught the golfing bug I decided to venture further into the home console market and 
 buy my first WII game. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08!
  
  I have to say, it was easy to get the hang of. From putting to switching clubs, it was a cake-walk 
 to master the basics of game play. Definitely a good investment and something that I see myself 
 not just setting aside in the months to come! The best thing is that I don't seem to be the only 
 one at my house interested in playing. A good thing because people thought I should be a little 
 more sociable instead of sitting on my laptop all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty decent if you have other people to play against. By yourself... it's golf, and 
 it's as boring as golf is. But, get a few friends together, make some bets, etc, and you've got 
 yourself a great game.
  
  It plays well. Swinging is obviously done with the remote (there are other control schemes, but 
 this one is the most fun) . The motion controls are very good. There are a ton of modes. And you 
 can create your own character, and earn money to customize his or her appearance and skills. It's 
 a small, but addicting feature.
  
  The graphics are very good for a Wii game. The only problems arise from when you close in on textures 
 and you see they're not great. But for the most part, the game is crisp, clear and actually looks 
 good at times. The sound is the worst part in my opinion. Plain, boring golf sounds mixed with 
 weird thunder and funny sound effects when you smack the ball. It's strange. Also, the announcers 
 are terrible. Absolutely horrible.
  
  Only get this game if you have friends who like this kind of game. It's a good game itself, but 
 utterly dull by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Like it or not Tiger is here every year to offer a new round of golf. In the 08 eddtion EA gave 
 us some game play improvments and some new game modes. Whats really noticble is the confidnce metter. 
 How well you do (or bad) is how well you do the next hole. it dose offer some realism but takes 
 away when you just want to paly a simple game of golf. Whats really noticlbe is the way you swing. 
 instead of how fast you do a swing it's how long you hold it back, it dosen't make sence and no 
 metter makes it hard to tell how much power your putting into it. Putting seems to improved but 
 suffers from the same no metter problem, and putting is important to getting that great score. 
 But at least your get alot of good moses to play with. Theres a full blown career that gives the 
 fell of being a golfer (in case you been wondering how that is) quick play, and some mine games. 
 Theres a good virity of corses and thnigs to unlock so golf fans will have lots to see. despite 
 it's short comings Tiger woods 08 for the wii is a fun golf game for the golf fans. it's not simple 
 as wii sports to jump into and play but it gies you your moneys worth once you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Released six months after the series' fun-but-flawed Wii debut, "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08" should've 
 been named "Tiger 07 1.5."
  EA Sports added a ton of new gameplay modes  so many, in fact, that it seems they're trying to 
 keep us busy enough to forget online play is still missing.
  At least EA fixed the frustrating backswing glitch on chip shots. And a new Putt Preview has been 
 added, making putting almost too easy.
  But the lack of online play is a shame, since "Madden NFL 08" has it on the Wii, and the turn-based 
 nature of golf is more suited to negating the lag problems of "Madden."
  The graphics of "Tiger 08" are slightly better than "Tiger 07," but not by much. Long grass looks 
 more like the natural stuff and putting greens have nice texture. But birds, deer and fish are 
 still laughably pixilated, and trees and buildings remain fuzzy.
  The 18 real-world courses look best when the virtual weather is sunny  flare effects are particularly 
 appealing. However, overcast and foggy weather appears grainy.
  Faces of the 55 pro golfers and imaginary opponents are lifelike, but their body skin color often 
 is a different tone  like a freaky Frankenstein's monster.
  The game's biggest draw is the ability to swing the Wiimote like a golf club in real time. Golf 
 purists might not like the dumbed-down swing mechanics, but the simplified pick-it-up-and-play 
 theme is what the Wii is all about.
  In addition to motion swinging or button mashing with the Wiimote and nunchuk, a third control 
 scheme has been added in which you flick the Wiimote while sitting. All three work well.
  The new honeycomb menus make it easier to navigate as you choose from the plethora of events and 
 minigames.
  Tiger Challenge and PGA Tour Season again deserve top honors as the game's best modes. 
  Newly 
 added games are especially fun to play with friends: Mini Putt is like miniature golf on an insane 
 putting green and T-I-G-E-R is golf's equivalent of the basketball game H-O-R-S-E.
  All of the modes will keep gamers busy for weeks, but with no online multiplayer, "Tiger 08" feels 
 like only a minimal update of "Tiger 07." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2008 is a descent game that begins to stand out once the Wii remote comes 
 into play. Without it, I see no other reason to buy a golf game but the Wii's motion controls really 
 make it an interesting game to play in a group.
  
  I found the single player to be pretty mundane but once you add a couple of people into the mix, 
 all jinxing and hollering at eachother, the game could get pretty fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is pretty much what you'd expect from a golf game. There are a tonne of customization 
 options for your golfer which was nice.
  
  Course selection seemed descent though I have nothing to compare it to. As someone who will only 
 pull it out when company is over I'm quite confident the courses won't get old any time soon.
 
  
  There are several gameplay modes for you to choose from to play whatever sort of game you like.
 
  
  There is a practise mode which is very nice as you can take a few swings to really fine tune how 
 much power you need, this is especially handy for shots when you only need to use partial swing 
 power. You can enter practise mode and take as many swings as you like at any time during a game, 
 though putting practise functions a little differently.
  
  There is something called a "putt preview" which will allow you to try a shot and show the balls 
 exact path. The difference from the normal swing practise mode is that with putt preview you only 
 have a set amount of time alloted for each round so you have to be more quick and choose your practises 
 wisely.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are nothing special with much less detail on the environment than I would have liked.
 
  
  The character models are reasonable but nothing noteworthy, in fact they leave you wanting a bit 
 more. Luckily in a game of this kind the graphics don't matter as much as there aren't any explosions 
 or scary monsters.
  
  SOUND
  Sound is fine, nothing too annoying here. The commentators are pretty entertaining and can say 
 some funny things but do a good job of talking about what is going on in the game.
  
  CONTROLS
  The controls in general were pretty responsive. A slight lag is noticeable if you try 
 to slowly drag your swing forward and back, but when swinging normally, the tracking feels quite 
 good. When putting it's a little more difficult to control your backswing and follow through.
 
  
  There is a mechanic in the game that allows you to attempt to control your ball in mid-air. This 
 consists of holding the d-pad in the direction you want and shaking the Wii Remote. Nothing fun 
 about it and it's another one of those things you feel like they threw in at the last minute.
 
  
  Something that is a little off putting at first is that you won't be doing "true" golf swings". 
 That is, if you swing the remote as hard as you do in a real game it will be much too much. It's 
 odd to get used to taking a golf swing and really toning down how hard you shoot. Ideally it would 
 have been nice to swing just like you do on the links.
  
  VALUE
  For the single player there is not much value to me. I will hardly ever pull it out and play a 
 game alone. Where it's real worth comes in is when you have someone to play with. This game can 
 be really fun with a few beers and some trash talking. 
  
  So all in all the game is worth giving a try. If you are someone who does not usually play golf 
 games, you might find that the Wii remote's functionality is just the difference needed to actually 
 make it fun.
  
  I wouldn't say it's worth the full price but I'd definitely pick up a used copy at a reduced price 
 knowing what I now know about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 08 for the Wii is a step in the right direction as it offers excellent use of the Wii 
 Remote. But it lacks some polish that keeps it from being a must have. Is it light years better 
 than Wii Sports? Yes. Is it worth $50 if you are just looking for golf 2.0? Probably.
  If you are just wanting to swing your arm and pretend to be playing golf it is excellent. If you 
 are a gear junkie and love to buy all the stuff in the Pro Shop, then it is a little more work. 
 There just isn't anything NEW about this game that hasn't been done before (apart from using the 
 Wii Remote) . Pros:
  * Wii Remote tracks swing movements quite well
  * Character is very customizable (on par with recent Tiger games) so you can look like you want 
 to
  * Pro Shop is full of great golf gear to deck out your player
  * First game on the Wii that seems to actually feel like the activity you are pretending to do
 
  
  Cons:
  * Below Average graphics (close to Xbox)
  * The Pro Shop interface is extremely difficult to work with
  * Having to move around menus using 
 the sensor is a pain (why do games make the Wii so difficult to navigate around the menus?!?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I haven't played last year's Tiger on the Wii or any other platform 
 so this review is compared to Tiger 06 and as a newbie to real golf on the Wii - Wii sports being 
 just a child's game.
  
  Firstly I'm a golfer, have been for years and I'm not bad. Not good but not bad. I know a golf 
 swing when I see one, I know how to make the ball do what I want it to do even if I can't actually 
 make it do it very often. Given these facts I have to break Tiger Woods 08 down into the component 
 parts of the golf game as well as the video game parts.
  
  Let me start with the game choices and elements. There is plenty of choice in Tiger. From the tour 
 career mode through the Tiger Challenges, training, classic play, multiplayer, plenty of courses 
 and MyFace it has all the elements we have come to expect and enough variation to keep video golf 
 fans happy for hundreds upon hundreds of hours without ever feeling stale. The challenges are fun 
 and good lengths without being too frustrating and it's very satisfying taking hundreds of dollars 
 off your mates on the last hole of a skins match having stunk up the course for 17 holes. This 
 we have come to expect from Tiger Woods golf games and it does not disappoint. What makes it even 
 better is the feeling of actually swinging to strike a ball and watching it zoom off down the fairway 
 when you really catch one out of the screws. The graphics are ok, nothing spectacular and the commentary 
 is the usual inane prattle but neither of these detract from the game.
  
  This brings us to the swing itself, the bane of my existence for the last two weeks. Standing on 
 the tee of the first, driver in hand, having listened to the tutorial on how to draw and fade I 
 felt elated to use my normal Sunday golf swing and smash the ball 290 yards down the fairway, a 
 little draw holding it into the breeze. Sweet. 110% strike, good shot. So the driving works. Next 
 I pulled out a little seven iron as recommended by my caddie, aimed a little left to allow for 
 the breeze and took a relaxed swing to float it to the flag. I watched, annoyed as the ball flew 
 over the flag and nestled in the rough at the back. 110% hit, rough.
  
  So I took out my trusty pitching wedge, selected a chip shot and played a deft little chip, exactly 
 as I do regularly on a golf course. The ball scudded past the hole and off the green on the other 
 side. 125% hit. Perturbed, I tried another chip from the front. 125%, back in the rough at the 
 back again. For my fifth shot I tried to be more delicate, don't bring the club back so far, don't 
 accelerate through it so much. 125% hit, back at the front again. 6th shot, less swing, same result. 
 7th shot, slightly less again and suddenly......17%, 2 feet in front of me. At least I'm on the 
 green. I read the slope, take my putter in hand and (using my golf course putting stroke) roll 
 the ball towards the hole. It slides by on the left and ends up a foot from the hole. Nuts, but 
 at least the putting works.
  
  So, in a nutshell. Driving, fading, drawing, backspin, topspin and putting all work and feel just 
 right. Approach shots are hit and miss due to the difficulty in hitting the ball anything less 
 that 110% which means the club your caddie suggests is always wrong as is the yardage given for 
 any club.
  
  The chipping and pitching is a disaster. In golf it's your touch around the green that's all important, 
 your sense of where the hole is and how you flick the ball to it's desired location. It just doesn't 
 work here. Unless you draw the club back as slow as an octeganarian running a marathon and strike 
 through with the speed and precision of a brain surgeon the hit is 125% and the ball is gone or 
 it's 20% and still sitting in front of you. If you can manage target golf you can make good scores 
 by hitting every green and never having to chip or pitch but those of us who are only hunman and 
 rely on our skills around the green are dead in the water.
  
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08 is a sometimes enjoyable, if sometimes frustrating, attempt at bringing 
 real golf into the living room but only if your approach play is precise after ignoring the caddie 
 and working out which club to use. Real golfers should stay away as they will be driven mad by 
 the randomness of the control. Tiger claims to have the final say on all titles that use his name 
 but I do not believe that he ever swung a Wii remote for this game, certainly not for a chip or 
 pitch. It is possible to use the old three-click control for this game but then what's the point 
 in buying it for the Wii? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoilgat
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo wanted to create a system where amateur gamers and experienced ones could both play and 
 still receive a challenge regardless of skill. Tiger Woods 08' is stepping in the wrong direction. 
 I'm assuming that EA felt that Tiger 07' was too difficult even for the more advanced gamer because 
 08' is extremely easy. EA Sports made a few tweaks to the swing system which made the game play 
 more smoothly. Things like the new putting system. The new putting controls are a step in the right 
 direction, but I often found myself hitting putts under 2 feet over the hole and then ending up 
 with 5 to 6 feet left. The next thing that EA changed was the ability to control how much power 
 is applied to each shot. For example, if you want to take a little off a shot, you simply do not 
 bring the wii remote back as far in your swing. (As opposed to how quickly you swing the remote) . 
 This does help when you need to take something off of a shot, but when you want a little extra 
 on a drive... all you have to do is bring the remote back further in your swing. Therefore, you 
 can swing effortlessly and hit a 350 yard drive when your players attributes suggest that their 
 average drive should be only 277 yards. This was one of the fun things in Tiger Woods 07' was powering 
 up and taking a big swing to try and crush a drive. In 08' that excitement is gone when you need 
 no effort to crush a drive. NOW, the worst part of the game is the difficulty. I immediately turned 
 the difficulty all the way up and the game was still extremely easy. It was impossible for me to 
 accidentally slice or hook a shot... EVERY SHOT WAS PERFECTLY STRAIGHT!!! This is crazy. I am an 
 average gamer and this game gave me no challenge at all. I took the game to gamestop and traded 
 08' for 07'. EA Sports overcompensated when trying to create better controls and made the game 
 ridiculously easy. EA took any challenge and any fun that 07' had and created a nice control system 
 that works pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawny-boy
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the game was really enjoyable, up until a little while ago. The motion censor is 
 very bad. Sometimes when you swing and bring it back, it just goes forward without bringing it 
 back.
  
  Gameplay: Like I said, the motion censor controls were way off most of the time. Putting can also 
 be very challenging. There is a putt preview which is supposedly what your putt is going to do. 
 But on the longer putts, you can put the exact same power into your real putt as you did in the 
 putt preview, and it will miss.
  
  Graphics: Like everyone knows, the Wii was not built for graphics, so of course they aren't going 
 to be spectacular. At least they weren't blocky, and they didn't effect the gameplay.
  
  Sound: I have never heard an EA Sports game with more annoying announcers then NHL 2003 until I 
 played this game. If you are getting frustrated, then just turn the TV on mute because the announcer 
 always says something stupid that makes you want to throw your Wiimote. Besides that, the sounds 
 are very realistic.
  
  Final thoughts: I would rent this game 1st or play it at a friends and make sure you know you want 
 this game before spending $50. If I were you, I would wait for '09 so they can work out all of 
 the kinks and maybe add wi-fi.
  
  Final rating: 6.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepdoc
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  My key thoughts on TW08
  
  I like the swing mechanics in most cases. This is, of course, why we all bought a Wii. So we could 
 interact with the screen in real time and get a 1 to 1 result from our real world movements. For 
 the most part, this seems to be true in TW08. As the Gamespot reviewer correctly indicated, however, 
 some shots like using wedges to get out of the rough near the green (and on to the green) can be 
 very difficult when you need to find the middle ground of the power. So I find myself typically 
 either overshooting 100% or greatly undershooting. But from real life, I can tell you I struggle 
 with these types of shots too. So maybe it is supposed to be hard?
  
  I have only played about 10 hours, but I have not seen much in the way of weather. Just sunny days 
 and the occasional overcast. i would like to see more weather. but maybe it's in there. I'm not 
 sure. I also haven't seen dawn or dusk yet. I'm waiting.
  
  The lack of online play is a real bummer. But it simply wasn't a deal breaker for me and I'm still 
 happy I bough it. Maybe they will seel the competative online module through the Wii store for 
 10 bucks? If they do, ill buy it. I love playing against other people in 1 on 1, or 4 player games. 
 The only TWs i ever played before was TW '06 on the PC, and that was the feature that truly made 
 it fun. I could care less about their challenge my funky shot thingy they came up with for the 
 PC 08 feature. but i defintely miss good ol fashion online competative play.
  
  If you have a large screen TV (i have a 65 inch HD) , you have to invest in the 480P composite cable. 
 Although the cable will not make your image good enough to hide those one aliasing jaggies (no 
 anti-aliasing in the Wii apparently) , it will certainly make the finer text much easier to read 
 (or maybe I should say readable, period) and will generally enhance the contrast between colors. 
 I'm glad i bought one. The offical Wii composite cable is 35 bucks, but you can find 3rd party 
 brands for cheaper. Let's face it. A cable is a cable when it comes to this simple conversion. 
 So don't bother buying the most expensive one unless you like cool looking cables to be in view 
 or something.
  
  Although Wii TW08 has the crowd noises, they are not actually in the image. I guess its just too 
 much for the puny Wii processor to have a large crowd standing around, taking up valuable pixel 
 and polygon power. So you hear them. but they aren't there. In closing, i want to make a point 
 however. I just downloaded the PS3 version (the demo anyway) for my Ps3 that lets you play 3 holes. 
 It was much flashier, much more beautiful graphics and it points toward a slew of additional features 
 you will never find in Wi 08. But you know what? Who cares. I choose TW 08 Wii any day. After all, 
 golf isn't about sitting on your sofa and flicking little thumb joysticks. Its about standing up 
 and taking the swing. All the graphics on the other systems cant overcome this simple reality. 
 I am having an absolute ball playing TW08 on the Wii (pun intended) .
  
  I cannot speak for veterans of the TWs series, becuase I am certainly not one. But for me, this 
 is worth every penny and it finally gives me the first game (other that some of the Wii sports 
 stuff) that feels like what I thought I was buying the Wii for. It works and it feels like I'm 
 golfing and its great at parties or when a few freinds come over.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patman13b
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I stopped playing TW07 because I could'nt face that broken putting (and occasional swing glitch) . 
 The big test for a golf game is whether you would invite your Dad over for a round. Wii Golf didn't 
 have enough content and the swing was perhaps too simple. Super Swing, though fun, was a little 
 silly. TW07 had its a list of problems that prevented me from inviting ANYONE over to play golf, 
 and I eventually stopped playing it. Using the Dad-Test, TW08 is a HUGE improvement
  
  The putting feels right. Its not a timing game anymore (something I didn't really understand until 
 last week while reading a message board) . I had some initial difficulties with the draw/fade tutorial, 
 but I imagine it's easier in Advanced mode (I never had a problem in TW07) .
  
  Other things I liked: * The colours are brighter and everything seems crisper, with attractive 
 sky/light/and background-blur effects. The models are the same, but they look cleaner. I would 
 say my only criticism of the graphics (if they have to stay this simple) is perhaps the lack of 
 style. As we've seen with other Wii titles, a little artistry can go a long way.
  
  * The music seems to have a little nicer mix.
  
  * There are more little mini-animations of 
 your golfer (which you can skip) than adds some narrative to game, and allows you to admire your 
 custom player little more.
  
  * The swing, even in standard mode, has a nice feel. There is still some fade/draw going on, but 
 its not as sensitive as Advanced mode. I tend to avoid the Advanced swing as I tend to play about 
 as well as real life :-p
  
  * The chippings is a lot better. I don't fear it like I did in TW07.
  
  * The putting is WAY 
 better. I like the new Practice mode quite a bit.
  
  Things I didn't like:
  
  * A lot of the menuing, especially in customizing your appearance, is still clumsy. At least there 
 are vibrations when you roll-over buttons.
  
  * I would have liked online, but right now Wii online still seems a little half-baked, so maybe 
 I can wait. There are lots of multi-player options, although maybe some modes with Mii's for more 
 casual gamers would have been nice.
  
  I have more to say, but I'll close early by saying that if you are a golf fan, this IS a BIG improvement 
 in the places that matter. Am I happy I had to pay full price for essentially an upgrade? No, but 
 Wii owners finally have a golf game they can have fun playing, and they can (without regret) introduce 
 their friends and spouses (and Dads) to play as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshkincheloe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Being a newcomer to the Tiger Woods series I cannot compare it to previous versions however, I 
 can tell you a few things from my experience so far:
  The Good:
   Swing Mechanics  I have been able to slice and hook balls quite easily. The chipping and putting 
 also seems to work quite well and picks up slight movement.
   Game Face  This is one of the more flashy features. While I am truly disappointed at EA for 
 taking out the photo feature on the Wii edition, after about 30 minutes of playing around with 
 the Game Face section, I have a pretty accurate replication of my schnoz (and other facial features) 
 for my players face.  Graphics  Definitely some of the better graphics I have seen on the Wii. 
 I'm thinking that they would look even better on an HDTV, but I cannot confirm this. The text is 
 a little hard to read on my TV.
   Stats  More stats than you can shake a club at.
   Difficulty  Scalable based on your desire.  Golf Modes  Either play full rounds, embark on 
 an tournament, or practice for some extra cash.
  
  The Not-So-Good:
   Gamernet  Why this was not included with the Wii... well, I'm sure someone knows. I don't. I 
 would have liked to have this ability, but the game still rocks.
   EASport's Website  Extremely painful to setup a completely new account. I had to setup two separate 
 accounts to register my game. Ok, so maybe it wasn't painful, but it was definitely a nuisance.
 
   Sensitivity of the Wii Remote  My remote seemed a little sensitive when navigating through 
 the menu system. Maybe it was just me or the batteries... difficult to say.
   Blurry Text  Smaller text appears slightly blurry. I can still make out what it is saying, but 
 it definitely pushes my TV's capability to handle pixels. Maybe it is a ploy to get the rest of 
 us to upgrade to HDTVs? :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
