-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09 All-Play
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tigerwoods2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb control scheme comes very close to replicating a real-life golf swing.
 Wii-exclusive Golf Party minigames are fun with friends.
 Single-player depth is tremendous in PGA Tour career mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Putting is awkward and unrealistic.
 Visuals don't quite sell the lush, green golf courses.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 260 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Realistic golf-swing controls and a host of exclusive party games make Tiger Woods 09 on the Wii 
 a great golfing experience. 

  Ignore the kid-friendly look of the box and the goofy All-Play tagline that mar the Nintendo Wii 
 edition of Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09. Yes, this looks like the preteen version of the EA Sports golf 
 game, but it packs a real punch when it comes to faithfully re-creating an afternoon on the links. 
 Brilliant controls that almost perfectly mimic real golf swings and a suite of great Wii-only party 
 games make this the best version of Tiger Woods released this year. Developer Tiburon has nailed 
 this one straight down the fairway, putting together a game geared to both serious golfers looking 
 to take some realistic cuts and dabbling duffers up for hacking around with the wife and kids. 

           Wii controls are superb in Tiger Woods 09, but you still won't be able to match this guy. 

  What really separates the Wii's take on Tiger Woods 09 from its cousins on the 360 and PlayStation 
 3 are the motion-sensitive controls. You simply point the Wii Remote toward the floor and hold 
 down the B button to take over the golfer's movements, then pull back and push forward as if you 
 were swinging a real golf club. Remarkably golflike action then ensues. You can hold the remote 
 almost exactly like an actual golf club, using a real hand-over-hand golf grip. It doesn't feel 
 totally authentic due to the lack of weight at the end of the remote, though. While you swing and 
 follow through just as if you were out on a real course, you feel a bit off-balance because you're 
 basically swinging an invisible club. So accuracy can be a problem, as well as trying to control 
 the power of your swing for distance. It's easy to put too much oomph into shots and blow well 
 past the pin, and then overcompensate and wind up leaving the shot dozens of yards too short.  
 

  But these issues are really just growing pains. Controls here are so accurate that you'll quickly 
 get accustomed to the weightless club, and you'll soon have no problems judging how much effort 
 is needed to hit specific distances. In a short time, even a seasoned golfer can swing the Wii 
 Remote like a real golf club. If you're having major problems, you can dumb things down by going 
 to the All-Play control option, which provides trails showing the ball's direction and other aids. 

  Just about every shot in the arsenal of a pro golfer is available here, from draws to fades to 
 punches. Some creativity was needed in this department, largely because so many golf shots rely 
 on things like stance and foot positioning. So to mimic these movements, Tiger Woods 09 exaggerates 
 wrist twists. Pull your hands over while swinging, for instance, and you can fire a nifty draw. 
 As you might expect from this carpal tunnel-challenging description, these sorts of shots are not 
 particularly easy. Rounds of golf here are real workouts for the upper body, especially if you 
 want to play like a pro and up the difficulty setting to use the entire lineup of wrist-breaking 
 shots. Success is awfully sweet when it comes, however. It feels as if you have actually accomplished 
 something on the golf course at the end of a round.  

           Golf Party games make this the best golf game to haul out when you have friends over. 
       

  Putting, however, could be better. Things get rather touchy on the green, largely because the remote 
 isn't sensitive enough. Putting should be all about the fine touch. But here you have to swing 
 the remote just like you do drives, slamming forward at full speed to get to the hole even on little 
 nubbers from five or six feet. It's a huge problem initially. You can easily hit the green in two 
 or three and then hit a wall where you need seven or eight putts to finish things off. Once you 
 sort of get used to the amount of power needed for putts, you can start sinking 30- and 40-footers. 
 You can also push the shot target well past the hole to lessen the need to really crank your putts, 
 although it's absurd to have to do this with every single shot. Doing this also forces you to fool 
 around with the target and try to guess how much extra distance added here will make the putt seem 
 the most realistic in terms of how much swing effort is needed. The motion never feels much like 
 real putting, and right now it stands out as the lone sore point in an otherwise stellar simulation 
 of a real golf swing.  

  And what would a Wii game be without a pile of family-friendly extras? Here, both adults and kiddies 
 can enjoy loads of Golf Party minigames for two to four players made exclusively for the Wii version 
 of Tiger Woods 09. None of these games are all that inventive, being mainly focused around standard 
 golf-game novelties like hitting targets, driving for distance, and so on. Still, they fit the 
 bill nicely for those moments when you and some buddies don't have the time or the desire to play 
 a real round of fake golf. Ball battles spice up all of the target shooting and long driving, too. 
 You can now trigger fights for a rival's ball after a shot, and then chuck the thing into the rough 
 if you gain possession. All in all, this is an interesting idea, although it just drags things 
 out unless you're having a rough day and want to wreck somebody else's game. Online multiplayer 
 for single-stroke play rounds is also offered for up to four players. It seems smooth and lag-free 
 for the most part during matches, although its lack of more involved modes of play such as tournaments 
 limits the appeal somewhat.  

  Everything else in Wii Tiger Woods 09 is pretty much exactly like what is featured in the versions 
 for both 360 and PS3. The same lineup of two dozen or so male and female pros is included, headlined 
 by Tiger Woods and stars such as Colin Montgomerie, Mike Weir, Annika Sorenstam, and Se Ri Pak. 
 Tiger Woods' coach Hank Haney is on hand to offer up more advice here, and to walk through the 
 mechanics of the Wii Remote swing. You play the same roster of courses, including legendary links 
 like Pebble Beach, TPC Sawgrass, and St. Andrews. The only drawback to the course selection is 
 familiarity. It seems like every one of these courses has been included in every worthwhile golf 
 game released since Links 386, so the deja vu kicks in early. Primary modes of play are also ported 
 over. So you can take on traditional golf games like stroke play matches, skins, and best ball, 
 along with arcade challenges such as Rings, where you try to hit the ball through rings spread 
 along the course, and Battle Golf, where the winner of each hole gets to take a club from his opponent's 
 bag. The big draw here, however, is the PGA Tour option in career play, an incredibly deep and 
 involved sim of life on the road as a budding golf pro. It hasn't changed much in the Tiger Woods 
 series over the past few years, although it is still very involving and capable of consuming a 
 few hundred hours of your spare time.  

           Having trouble with your swing? Turn on All-Play for a little help.       

  Visual 
 presentation is the only place where Tiger Woods 09 for the Wii falters in comparison with its 
 360 and PS3 cousins. Even then, this is one of the better-looking games available on the system, 
 with sharp graphics and smooth animations that put it about on par with the best PS2 titles. Yet 
 because the Wii can't compete with its big-brother consoles when it comes to eye candy, the game 
 suffers somewhat. It's tough to really bask in the golf atmosphere at a place like Pebble Beach 
 when you could cut yourself on the palm tree jaggies. But the visuals are certainly more than good 
 enough if you're not wildly picky, and they never get in the way of the action, which always flows 
 smoothly and quickly. Audio is a bit behind the times as well. Sound effects in the other console 
 versions of the game seem to have been stripped away, leaving you stuck listening to the same yahoo 
 in the crowd screaming "In the hole!" every other shot and boring, canned play-by-play commentary. 
 Additionally, the announcer has an annoying habit of calling out exactly where your shot is going 
 to end up before it lands. It takes some fun out of watching a shot when the booth jockey always 
 interrupts with unerring comments like, "It looks like that one might catch the sand."  

  Even with the putting and presentation issues, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09 All-Play is both a great 
 golf game and a significant accomplishment. Where so many Wii sports games are simply second-rate 
 ports of games from other consoles with new control systems tacked on, this game really takes advantage 
 of the Wii's unique strengths and proves that it can be a stellar sports gaming platform for both 
 kids and adults.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: timbroz
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  The courses are pretty good and challenging and the graphics are not too bad. You can tune your 
 swing and still hit a slice or hook just like in real golf. I like the career mode and the challenges, 
 which really help you learn the game.
  
  The biggest complaint is the commentators. They say the stupidest things and like "just hit the 
 ball straight and it will go in" and it doesn't go in hitting it straight. I like hearing about 
 the course before you Tee off, but after that, I wish they would just shut up. Next, the crowd 
 is always yelling "In the hole!", which gets extremely old after the second time they yell it.
 
  
  The club selection is really bad as well. Once it switches you to the wedges, you can't select 
 an Irons. This is an issue when you are in the rough with about 100 yards to the green. Also if 
 you are on the very edge of the green you can't change your club selection either. If it gives 
 you the wedges, you can't select the putter, or if it gives you the putter, you can't select the 
 wedges.
  
  The putting is just completely bad. If you are putting up hill, it is extremely inconsistent with 
 the amount of power you need to hit the ball to get the same distance. The amount the ball will 
 move is never the same either, and this can be on the exact same green.
  
  So you have to play with all the commentator volume off and the crowd noise off, so the game doesn't 
 become to annoying. Also you can never go into the rough or sand at the wrong distance to the green, 
 otherwise you are completely screwed to make it to the green cause they only let you have your 
 wedges.
  
  Overall, I wouldn't suggest this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickvanwrinkle
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  I played the series the last few years on PS3, this year we got a Wii and decided to try Tiger 
 Woods PGA Tour 09 on the Wii instead of the PS3. The first thing that is obviouse is that the graphix 
 aren't as impressive as on the PS3, however you quickly overlook this once you begin playing. Having 
 the ability to swing the controller like a club definately wins me over to playing it on the Wii. 
 It is very easy to get sucked in and I actually worked up a bit of a sweat once I got into it. 
 I definately reccomend the Wii version over the PS3 version based on the interaction with the game. 
 It takes a little getting used to but overall it is much more enjoyable. I hope my review helps 
 those of you trying to decide on purchasing this for a Wii Vs any other platform. I know that my 
 family has been impressed with this version and we have had a lot of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milesdavis11
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  I have heard so many great things about Tiger Woods games in the past. The anticipation built as 
 we put the disk into our system. The game opens up with a tutorial on how to use your fairway clubs 
 which is, although tedious, very helpful for beginners. Finished with the tutorial, I created my 
 character, tuned my clubs, and headed out for my first round.
  
  Two shots later I was on the green putting. That is when frustration kicked in. The system for 
 putting is not at all realistic. When you go to swing the putter for a two foot putt, the user 
 has to swing the controller like you are trying to hit a home run. The power level was very hard 
 to control and because of this accuracy is more inconsistent than when I play in real life (I play 
 twice a summer whether I need to or not) .
  
  I will continue to play the game because I spent good money on it and I enjoy challenges. That 
 said, with as frustrating as the putting system is I would not recommend this game to any of my 
 friends or family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Link_Warrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is fantastic, everything feels really good about it. There has been a big 
 debate about the putting but like anything in life practice makes perfect! It will take time to 
 get used to but the more time you spend with it the greater the rewards.
  There is so much to do in this game that I cant ever see me trading it. The target practice is 
 really helpful and the golf party is really addictive to anyone that has a competitive streak.
 
  One thing I do not like is Tigers coach, I find that whenever he butts in things go wrong, for 
 me anyway but he is quite easy to avoid.
  As usual with Tigers games the Items in available in the pro shop are great, you can select anything 
 from the stylish to the insane, I can even pick an outfit that is really close to my actual, loud 
 golf day clothes.
  Without banging on Tiger Woods 09 is brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC___2007
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Whilst the package itself (in terms of number of courses, options, and online play) is excellent, 
 this game was always going to live or die by the motion controls. 
  
  EA's claim of 1:1 swing mapping is an outrageous lie (obviously from the school of thought "if 
 you are going to tell a lie, tell a big one") and its not something that won't become obvious after 
 5 minutes, so why bother? Much better for them to have said "well its nearly there and we look 
 forward to using the new motion control technology to bring you 1:1 NEXT year.
  
  Driving kinda works - but the devil is in the detail. If you want to deliver a 92% power shot onto 
 the green on other versions, you can (with a bit of skill and practice) . On the wii however its 
 not as easy, and you are left with 3 basic options: wack it at full power, move a bit slower from 
 about 70 degrees, or give it a little nudge from about 30 degrees. None of these, apart from possibly 
 the first, is anything remotely like you would swing a club.
  
  Putting is.... interesting. You hit the ball at 100% power regardless of how far you wish the ball 
 to travel. And just in case you think I am praising this innovative idea - I'm not. It sucks. And 
 if you thought driving was hard to hit precisely, wait until you get to the green. Holding the 
 remote at 90 degrees for a 100% hit, you slowly lower the angle as you want to hit at about 85% 
 power. The power meter doesn't respond, staying firmly at 100%. You lower the club a bit more - 
 still nothing. 45 degrees - nada. 30% - power bar shoots down, so you raise it up a bit, and bang! 
 back up to 100%. Completely and utterly broken.
  
  Apart from that it looks quite nice, with (I think) a total of 13 courses including 5 new ones. 
 Thats a lot of holes of golf to play, so its a real shame that the controls make it a farce rather 
 than a pleasure.
  
  Golf on the wii shouldn't be difficult to implement, but so far nothing has touched the golf on 
 wii sports. Now if that was released as a stand alone title with 13 courses and improved drive 
 controls (no waggle bar for over hitting a shot for starters) ............
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolving_Jesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  If its raining out side, then Tiger Woods '09 for the Wii is your next option
  if you want a good game of golf. The controls are great. Its not hard to learn 
  the motion for 
 the swing and master it since it feels so natural. I found the controls 
  spot on with the only minor problem with the putting.
  
  Putting is really not as bad as people 
 say it is... My only beef is that i find when you get to the green the game gives you a putter 
 thats underpowered and its not enough to reach the hole... You only notice this once you use the 
 One putter Preview that the game gives you to check your shot... So you have to change to a stronger 
 putter then you have to kinda guess how much power to use since you cannt use the putter preview 
 anymore.
  
  After fighting with this style of putting im getting use to it and now can normally put pretty 
 good. So it is a skill you can master and it pays off online...
  
  The content in '09 is so amazing i dont think ill finish everything by the time 2010 comes out... 
 from the PGA Tourn, Fedx cup and Tiger Chal... to the mini games and Online mode...
  
  Online mode is the best multiplayer golf game ive ever played since everyone hits at the same time 
 and you can watch their balls fly as you hit yours off... its really Really great. NO WAITING!
 
  
  If this game was just the Online portion, it would still be worth full price...
  This game is so huge i dont have enough time to talk about it all...
  
  I found the first couple 
 of courses to be very blah... but once you start unlocking the better ones the game gets even better. 
 so don't get turned off by the first 2 hours of game play... the unlockable courses are awesome!
 
  
  Even if its not raining, go play this game... its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heygomertoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Fun! I play golf pretty often and a few rounds of this, playing the driving range, and some of 
 the mini-games, and you will feel like you just played the real thing! A day or 2 later I'm still 
 sore. I wish there was a classic controller way to play for when I'm sore. :) Good graphics for 
 the Wii and better than the ps2. Not sure what ps2 game they are playing. Putting takes a little 
 getting used to, but I have sunk a 60 footer and several 30+ footers. You must learn to keep the 
 wiimote down like a real putter, swing and hold the putter in the back swing to let the power come 
 up to where you want to release, and then swing it forward staying close to your body. Learn how 
 to read the greens and how the balls will travel in corners over sloped hills and in fringe. The 
 chip and punch shots feel a bit iffy. The pitch and flop are spot on. The one-to-one swing is not 
 exactly one-to-one and it works best if you stand further than 5 feet from the sensor bar. I have 
 gotten ahead of the swing and gotten way off before. MP 30 sec. shot clock makes decision making 
 for shots tough and is a bit too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pman321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Golf games on the 360 and ps3 are great, but all considered the wii version is a better game. Some 
 might call it bad, but chances are you dont play golf games that often, but if you played a few 
 across the board, you'd find 09 for wii is the best. Solid graphics that hold up the bar, but not 
 pushing limits, all the content of its latest generation cousins, Plus motion control thats finally 
 spot on, but the game is really hard, like im hoping the games method is "you gotta lose some before 
 you win some" or im just gonna keep losing. And extra fun content like mini games, and a create 
 a character thats one of the most in depth ive ever seen, nice to see that on the wii. One thing 
 though, online is simultaneous, but sometimes it feels a little more qualititative and enjoyable 
 to see the other player. I would of liked the choice, Simultaneous Play, or Standard Player Rotation 
 w. e lol or just to see him on the course at all, For online "Play" with another person i certainly 
 feel very alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adr1978
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game with high hopes. Actually high hopes for having a game that would show why I 
 have a Wii under my TV. After playing the game for a few days I find it to be, well pretty terrible. 
 Anyone that thinks that the wiimote swing resembles real golf probably has never played a real 
 game of golf in thier life. Now I play golf so what I want in a motion controlled golf game is 
 a real life swing translated into the game.
  
  The Wii was supposed to bring us true to life interaction. To this point it has brought motion 
 controls that are far from real motion. I still have not found a game outside of Wiisports that 
 wouldn't have worked better with a gamepad.
  
  I expected this game to give a close aproximation of a real golf swing. What the game gives you 
 is something that is no better than a gamepad. In fact playing the game with a gamepad would have 
 been preferable to a flick of the wrist. After playing Tiger Woods '07 on the PS3 I find this game 
 to be far below that standard.
  
  Even though the game tutorial tells you to hold the remote like a golf club and use a natural swing, 
 good luck using a real golf swing and getting your on screen avatar to match. You'll end up with 
 a club half way through the backswing and around 85% power. The controls have the full backswing 
 mapped to 90 degrees. Other than the fact that you swing your arm, the Wii controls are far from 
 anything resembling golf. In fact it feels more like tennis. 
  
  The controls simply do not work. A trackball packed with the game like Golden Tee would have made 
 this game a better recreation of true golf. At least you could control your swing power. To get 
 something lower than 75% I had to move the Wiimote so slow that a real golf ball would have barely 
 moved an inch. Putting in the game is broken. Why is there a power meter for a motion control. 
 Turning a button press into a wrist flick does not add anything to a game.
  
  The graphics are pitiful on an HDTV. The Wii can do much better. If you have a PS3 or 360 get the 
 version for that system. You'll get far better graphics and controls that work. You may not swing 
 your arms but at least it isn't a gimmick that is trying to pawn itself off as a true to life experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzimm
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 09 on the Wii is probably one of the best virtual golfing experiences that can be had, 
 at least from the tee to the green. Driving feels natural, intuitive, and predictable. Short chip-shots 
 are a cinch to pull off and feel "right". The swing controls are sharp and precise and allow you 
 to control the power of the shot simply by the way you swing the remote, and it all happens in 
 real-time. This is what golf on the Wii should feel like. And then the ball lands on the green.
 
  
  Putting in TW09 Wii is an initially unintuitive, always fiddly, and frequently frustrating affair. 
 You don't take a natural putter stroke as you would expect. Rather, you aim the shot, taking into 
 account the lay of the green, "cock" the remote back (90 degrees from vertical is required for 
 full power) , wait for the power meter to reach the power you want, then quickly swing the remote 
 forward to "lock-in" your shot with that power. Even more confusing, you have different putters 
 in your bag, each with a different maximum distance (automatically selected depending on where 
 you place the targeting circle) , so a 100% shot might move the ball only a foot or two with one 
 putter while another putter will send it clear across the green. Adding to the frustration, it 
 can be difficult to dial in exactly the amount of power you want making over- and under-hitting 
 the ball a common and aggravating experience, and you'll often find yourself having to 2- and 3-putt 
 what should have been 1-putt holes. It just never felt "right" to me, even after half-a-dozen full 
 rounds.
  
  Curiously, I found myself hoping for a miracle chip-in on every hole, not because chip-ins are 
 good for my score but because it meant I wouldn't have to wrestle with the unsatisfying putting 
 mechanics. This makes a series of great fairway drives rather unrewarding because I approach the 
 green not with exhilaration but with trepidation, and this really sucks a lot of the fun out of 
 this game. Even Wii Sports does it better!
  
  It's particularly disappointing because the rest of the game is put together so well, and there's 
 a lot of content to keep you occupied with the career mode, dozens of mini-games, party play, online 
 play, and so on. The presentation is also sharp, and the courses look and play great. It's just 
 a pity that we're let down by the poorly designed putting game. Maybe next year, when EA incorporates 
 the WiiMotion Plus into the design, we'll finally have our perfect virtual golfing game. But this 
 year, I say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a dicey review, seeming I need to write it for two very different audiences. 
 You must also realize, unlike many review sites, this review does not exist in a 'bubble'. I make 
 no assumptions of who the game is meant for and then target the score to that demographic. If you 
 came here wondering how I gave the game the score I did, please read all of the review before saying 
 you disagree as I hope I can clear up and defend my position by the end and be helpful to those 
 wanting more information about the game.
  
  The Wii edition of this game has a lot going for it. The Wii controls work very well overall but 
 the few occasions they don't work will always be at the wrong time.
  
  The controls consist of 'standing righty', 'standing lefty', and nunchuck. Each of these modes 
 have some differences based on the difficulty settings of 'All Play', 'Standard', and 'Advanced'. 
 For basics, the standing modes allow you to swing the remote like Wii Sport Golf and work great 
 for the most part. To swing you aim the remote down, hold B, begin the back swing and then swing 
 forward like a real club. The nunchuck mode takes the swinging mechanic and maps it to the nunchuck 
 analog.
  
  Putting is a whole different experience though. The swing starts the same, but you have a 90 degree 
 back swing which equals 100% power. To make it easier to fine tweak the power you want, the distance 
 you put is dynamic at 5 ft, 10 ft, 20 ft, 40 ft, and 60 ft (there might be a further one, but I 
 never had to experience it as I landed on the greens always better than 60 ft away) . So when you 
 are at 3 ft away from the cup, you will need to swing at 60% power at least. That means you have 
 to pull your club back to a 60 degree angle to do a 3 ft put. Now, at a 12 ft away put guess what? 
 you do the exact same swing.
  
  This is EA making the best of a bad situation. Really in Wii Sports Golf when you had a small put 
 you had to try hard to get it to recognize just a tap. EA makes this easier to do and with precision, 
 but at the expense of all realism. It's too bad the motion controls can't detect more precise movements.
 
  
  To make sure you get some remote shaking in the game, to put spin on the ball, while it is in the 
 air you can hold a d-pad direction and then shake the remote. The more you shake it, the more spin 
 in that particular direction. To aim your shots the 'A' button will zoom to the target location 
 (double tapping A gets rid of the slow zoom camera effect which is a good touch) . Button 1 will 
 switch the type of the shot you are taking (punch, loft, chip, etc) .
  
  So I could get a good sense of how the game works in the long run, I played a round or two with 
 different golfers, and created my own in career mode (more on that in a minute) . Tiger basically 
 has all his stats set to 100%, so if you wanted precision golfing with the controls this is what 
 they are going to feel like. Using my own golfer, which stats hover around 50% at the start, made 
 things a little bit harder.
  
  To practice the swing mechanic and also adjust your clubs to your natural swinging deficiencies 
 there is a 'club tuner' mode which is basically a driving range where you can also tweak each setting 
 of your club. For those that don't like to tweak everything manually, you can swing a few shots 
 and then have 'Hank' fix them for you so you always get a nice straight shot (usually at the expense 
 of power and what not) .
  
  Now for modes. You can play a quick round of golf, front 9, back 9, numerous different courses; 
 You can start a career in career mode; You have some minigames that play out as longest tee shot. 
 Included in these are a mini-putt, target shooting, and such. There is also an all-play mode which 
 is similar to the mini-game mode only now each person can battle out using tokens that are earned 
 during the game and what not.
  
  Career most is the part that interested me the most and it is very fleshed out. You create a character 
 from scratch, apply attributes you win and are given during play can customize pretty much every 
 aspect of your character model and what they wear. It also lets you pick Tournament lengths (so 
 if you want a smaller season you can have it) . After each Tournament 'Hank' will pick a shot for 
 you to practice to earn more bonus points for stats and confidence. It's actually pretty awesome 
 the amount of stuff you can do with career mode.
  
  I didn't spend a lot of time with the online modes, I will admit. So if you are really interested 
 in the online modes you will have to look at a few more reviews that focus more on that. I won't 
 try to lie my way through it. So I won't factor it in positively or negatively to the score.
  
  There are some other parts of the game that were interesting and worth noting. I really liked 
 how when I had a really big clutch shot a heart beating sound would start pumping out of the game. 
 It put pressure on you to perform the shot well, above and beyond just knowing how important the 
 shot was. It was a nice touch. 
  
  So, now we come to a head, and these are where the opinions really start and where I will justify 
 why I gave the score and why people can and probably should have the right to disagree.
  
  1. Controls. While motion controls were awesome when I first played the Wii, unfortunately they 
 still suffer from, 'THAT'S NOT WHAT I DID!!!' syndrome. And with a golf game where you are trying 
 to be perfect all of the time, this can be very frustrating. The first time you are -7 going into 
 the last two holes or so and you swing like you have the last 16 tee shots and instead it only 
 registers 50% and goes right into the water you WILL curse the controls. So, in short, it's just 
 like real golf... that's a positive or negative depending on how you look at it. For me, precision 
 is everything so this is a big negative. When I push a button I expect it to work. The Wii controls 
 WILL fail you at least once per round if not more. Hope you don't mind.
  
  Still on the controls. Where is the visual feedback of how you swing? There are no indicators of 
 how you pulled back the remote and forward. All you get is an after the event picture of what the 
 game thought you did. Really, is there no way they could map your back swing to your front swing 
 and show it to you? instead you get a arrow and % of hit for each swing. No feedback on how to 
 improve at all. I think this is by design because of the first complaint I mentioned with the controls. 
 If a shot blows up on you and you had a visual guide that shows the game read the motion controls 
 wrong it would really show that the game didn't do what you asked for. Solution? no visual feedback. 
 This is really where the game FAILs when it comes to controls.
  
  Again though, when you are out golfing in real life do you have anyone recording your shot so you 
 can improve? Probably not, so it is realistic, but to me that just isn't allowed in a video game.
 
  
  Also, where are the 3-click controls for precision shots if I really wanted to use it? This feature 
 would have saved the game for me. I could use motion controls for the games I wasn't worried too 
 much about and switched to an extremely precise control scheme when I wanted to play extremely 
 focused on perfection. But sorry, no 3-click controls are anywhere in this game.
  
  Lastly, back to putting. I mentioned how they are trying to make a bad situation out of the Wiimote 
 sensitivity above, but for a keen gamer it won't take long to notice that putting is even more 
 broken. Putting is basically reading what angle you start your remote downswing at and then locking 
 in that power. So really you can put by clicking the 'B' button while pointing the remote straight 
 down, then angle the remote to exactly where you want it % wise, then do a quick jerk back down 
 and it will always give you exactly the power you wanted. Sorry, but that is broken and not nearly 
 as realistic as you had hoped from 'motion controls'.
  
  2. Sound. TW 09 golf has a sound track that plays in the menus, but that is it. This really hurts 
 the game. The only thing you are going to hear the whole game is the few people that cheer on your 
 shots (but are not rendered anywhere on the course) and the two very boring announcers. This game 
 might as well be a silent game. Prepare to turn off the announces and provide your own music to 
 the game. This should not be allowed in a game of today's day and age.
  
  3. Compared to the X360 game, this edition is the lightweight game. I won't bother reviewing the 
 X360 edition alongside this one other than to say, the analog stick of the X360 edition simulates 
 a golf swing much better, with visual feedback and tuning, than this game as a whole. The other 
 versions also have precision 3-click shooting when you want it with a quick RS click, better graphics 
 (duh) to the point that you can peg people alongside the fairway (always makes a bad shot entertaining!) , 
 and how the stat system works just feels better.
  
  Am I comparing this to the X360 and PS3 offering? Yes. I'll be blunt. I won't hide it. The Wii 
 edition did get a lower score based on the fact the same titled game is available on a different 
 system.
  
  BUT, TW '09 is a pretty impressive game Wii speaking. If you don't mind a few precision problems 
 here or there, or the fact you get no visible feedback when something bad (or good) happens, you 
 can add +2 to my score. Also if you don't own any other console system you can bump this up another 
 score point or more. That means I'm really giving this game a 9.0 if the above criteria fits what 
 you want out of it. But for me, as the reviewer, I feel I can't give it more than a 6.0. Hopefully 
 I explained sufficiently why.
  
  Now remember that question below the review says 'Was this helpful? Yes / No' not do you agree 
 or disagree. I hope I helped those that were fence sitting to either to go buy it, get a different 
 version, or pass on the game. Feedback always welcomed.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhomaster13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive and fun to play. I'll have to admit, it may take a while to get familiar 
 with the swing, but once you do, you'll enjoy playing the game a lot more. The career mode is great 
 and the coach is a nice feature, which is new to the game this year. The coach will identify your 
 weak points and provide you with training drills. He'll also tune your clubs for you, so they're 
 just right for your type of swing. There's also a lot of game modes, including party mode, which 
 I have not gotten the chance to play, yet. The only reason I won't give this game a higher rating 
 is because of the sound and graphics quality. The sounds from the crowd often don't correlate to 
 how good/bad your shot is; some guy will shout "In the hole!" when your shot clearly isn't going 
 anywhere near the hole. The graphics are actually quite good for a Wii game (especially if you 
 use component cables) , but in relation to the XBOX 360 and PS3 graphics, it doesn't compare. Overall, 
 I'd say this game is enjoyable, challenging, and definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbkelley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  I bought this the minute the store opened (I was in line at the door... I know, pathetic) . I've 
 played tiger and other golf games for years, I play real golf too, and I'm quite an avid gamer 
 of all styles (NFS anyone? I DARE you to beat me... heh heh) .
  
  Tiger 09 is brilliant. almost perfect use of the wiimote. It moves how I move. I don't understand 
 how they did that, it's much more accurate than anything nintendo has written using wiimote 3d 
 following, so I'm really impressed with EA's R&D into the wii for this. EA has become one of the 
 #1 WII game makers, when a couple of years ago they were kind of iffy in their wii implementations 
 (NBA 08.... ewe) . Good work EA!
  
  mini games are a lot of fun, totally different from what I expected, and you still get to practice 
 and learn your golf mechanics. For my wife who doesn't golf, mini games were a fun way for her 
 to learn how to swing the club without sitting through in her words "the boring tutorials". Now 
 about those tutorials, I found them great, for someone who wants to golf they're not boring at 
 all, although slightly confusing when it comes to the slicing etc of your shots (I had to rewatch 
 that tutorial a few times to get it right) . otherwise I'd probably give this game a 10/10. But 
 the book is helpful too, and I might just have missed the mark the first couple of times. anyway, 
 I finally got it and it makes perfect sense now.
  
  Putting is pretty similar to how I've always putted in real life. I calculate the distance, , is 
 the ground level, is there a curve, and so on. You have to use the measuring system to choose your 
 putting weight, but that's how it "SHOULD" be IMHO. When putting, as in driving etc, you always 
 should put through the ball, not put on the brakes to reduce power when you contact the ball. So 
 the distance setting tool for putting makes sense, although it's certainly easier than real putting. 
 I don't know how they could have done it without that, there isn't enough control with the wiimote's 
 speed sensing to do good putting without this technique they chose. And compared to the 360 version 
 I played, the wii is 110% more realistic when putting.
  
  I think if you don't give this game a good review then you haven't gone out and played it on other 
 platforms first or really experimented with distance control using the power in your wiimote swing 
 - tiger 09 all play for the wii captures that really well.
  
  great game, best family golf game I've ever played, and better than I imagined possible using just 
 a wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slinky1330
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  The swing mechanics feel great, each stroke is satisfying and you feel in control of every hit. 
 Weighting your shot is difficult to begin with but fairly simple with experience.
  
  I've seen complaints with the putting and I don't really understand them. I think it was a good 
 decision by EA to make the putting work the way it does in order to keep the user in control. The 
 backswing scale removes any remote speed worries (or errors) when taking your putt and the user 
 selectable scale from 5ft to 100ft means you don't lose sensitivity on short putts.
  You have to increase the scale a bit on short or uphill putts to make sure you don't fall short 
 but you should learn that very quickly.
  
  Difficulty is very scalable, you have options coming out of the wazoo where this is concerned. 
 Personally I go for realism, using the Advanced swing and turning off the cheesy aftertouch spin 
 option as well as removing some on-screen hints.
  
  The club tuner is a nice feature that I've taken use off, you can of course make your clubs hit 
 much further, but if you do you wont be hitting many straight shots and the opposite applies.
 
  
  There are so many options and game modes I think I may never bore of playing this with my friends, 
 we're hooked, and the career mode or online play will keep me well occupied when I'm playing alone.
 
  
  The graphics are nice for a Wii game, EA had to sacrifice crowds to make the courses look as good 
 as they do but I think it was worth it! Just don't expect anything on-par with PS3/360 and you'll 
 be very satisfied.
  
  Overall I'm very pleased with this game, it's as hard or easy as you want to make it and a lot 
 of fun by yourself or with friends over. It takes some hours to get used to the swings and putting 
 but this is definately the definitive Tiger Woods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbelli
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Having played Tiger Woods 07 for Wii for a while and reading about the new 1:1 focus on control 
 for 09, I was anxious to pick up the game. And my desires, for the most part, have been rewarded.
 
  
  TW 07 (no, I didn't play 08) was a good game, but had quite a few glitches and the IR control didn't 
 always work the way it should have. For driving and pitching, 09 is a VAST improvement. This is 
 by far the best Wii golf game yet in terms of actually feeling like you're playing golf.
  
  The graphics are also a big improvement. And the multitude of mini-games and online modes make 
 it a very well rounded package.
  
  The only downside to the game is the putting. This is an area that a lot of golf games just can't 
 seem to get right, but I still feel like 07 had a better handle on it than 09. The change is to 
 make the put distance more or less the same as where the hole is so most of the time you want to 
 hit the ball at 100%. You still have to aim to get the lay of the land right. However, doing a 
 full 100% swing on a ball that is only 3 feet away just doesn't feel right. It's something that 
 will take some getting used to and I'll get better with time, but it's also the only part of the 
 game - to me - that just doesn't feel "real".
  
  That said, this is still the best golf video game I've ever played. And yes, I've played games 
 from the PS2 to the 360. Flipping a stick will never feel as good as swinging away with a Wii remote. 
 The near 1:1 controls on 09 make it even more realistic.
  
  Can't wait to see what Tiger Woods 2010 brings with Motion Plus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullcrusher94
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Tiger Woods hasn't moved anywhere in the past 3 years on the Wii. It hasn't made 
 any big changes. The graphics remain the same, the game play is still in tact and the sounds, well, 
 they aren't great. Let's start with the graphics. They are still the same as they have ever been. 
 In fact, they suck. For an HDTV with 480i cables hooked to my television, I am not impressed. They 
 are sloppy and are not even close to the comparsion of the horse power of Xbox 360 and the Playstation 
 3. As far as the sound quality goes, it's okay. The announcers are basic and you have the usual 
 crowd cheers. But some of it goes to far. I mean, on every shot I hear, "Whoohoo! In the hole!" 
 And so on. On one shot, I was heading into the O. B. on Pebble Beach and the same guy shouts, "In 
 the hole!" They have plenty of nude errors in this department. As for the gameplay, it's not bad. 
 But what I wanted was something different, something challenging, and unique. The putt preview 
 is nice but the putting itself.... is very very poor. It's so bad that you might stroke it at 100% 
 and miss a three foot putt. However you may get used to it in time and find it somewhat enjoyable. 
 If you already have any of the previous Tiger games I say skip it. It brings nothing new to the 
 game that we haven't already seen. Save your hard earned money for something more enjoyable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
