-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Anniversary
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/tombraider10thanniversaryedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strikes a balance between homage and new, exciting content.
 Satisfying acrobatic action adventure gameplay.
 Lara looks great and moves effortlessly.
 New minigames are a fun little addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera controls can be difficult.
 New combat system feels clunky on the Wii.
 Minor but noticeable visual bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lara Croft's transition to the Wii is not an entirely smooth one. 

  Over the course of the year, Crystal Dynamics' Tomb Raider: Anniversary -- a healthy remake of the 
 original Tomb Raider -- has been popping up on all sorts of different consoles. Now, after a few 
 months of fiddling on the developer's behalf, it has arrived on the Wii. The big difference between 
 this and the previous versions of Anniversary lies in the motion controls. They allow for some 
 pretty neat minigames, but unfortunately, they make fundamentals such as camera control and combat 
 occasionally frustrating. Nevertheless, it can be worth learning to grapple with the controls because 
 there's a lot of really satisfying, acrobatic action in here.  

           Anniversary takes the levels from the original Tomb Raider and makes them bigger and better. 

  Like the 1996 original, Tomb Raider: Anniversary follows the tale of Lara's hunt for the Scion 
 of Atlantis as she does battle with conniving businesswoman Jacqueline Natlas and her various henchmen. 
 You'll explore ancient tombs and forgotten cities in Peru, Greece, and Egypt. You'll also perform 
 plenty of death-defying acrobatics as you work your way through massive, ancient, and often deadly 
 puzzles. The whole experience is highly evocative of the original, and there are certainly plenty 
 of moments that seem specifically designed to create an odd sense of dj vu. Nothing in Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary has been regurgitated verbatim -- everything is bigger and better. The environments are 
 larger and more detailed, and existing puzzles have been elaborated upon, often to an incredible 
 degree. The experience just feels bigger, and there's so much new content that it honestly feels 
 more like its own game than a remake.  

  A big part of that feeling comes from how much more talented Lara has become since the original 
 Tomb Raider. Aside from a few, nominal differences, she's basically got the same abilities here 
 as she had in Tomb Raider: Legend, which made her one of the most nimble action adventure heroes 
 this side of the Prince of Persia. Her proficiency around ledges is incredible: She can shimmy 
 across ledges, leap from one ledge to another, and scramble from one ledge to a higher ledge. She 
 can swing from dangling ropes or horizontal bars, perform tumbling maneuvers to avoid projectiles, 
 and climb up, leap from, or balance precariously atop vertical poles. Most of the actual acrobatic 
 controls work well on the Wii, but some of them can be a little more challenging and occasionally 
 frustrating due to the way the camera controls are handled. You can tap the C button on the Nunchuk 
 to snap the camera directly behind Lara, or you can hold it down and use the Wii Remote to point 
 toward the edges of the screen, which causes the perspective to rotate. Without a mouse or a second 
 analog stick to work with, this seems about as good as can be expected from the Wii, but it's not 
 as fast, natural, or finessed as either of those controller-based input options.  

  Lara will need to exercise each and every one of her abilities to their absolute limits in Tomb 
 Raider: Anniversary, which features no shortage of ridiculous acrobatics. The game is essentially 
 made up of a series of gigantic, unique set-piece puzzles. Sometimes the puzzles are traditional 
 find-the-key, flip-the-switch affairs, but more often than not, the real puzzle is figuring out 
 how to use Lara's ability to get from point A to point B. What's more, the puzzles are often nested 
 several layers deep. Although your overall goal may be to find four keys to open a door, you'll 
 first have to figure out how to get to the bottom of a gigantic, crumbling tower. After getting 
 to the bottom, you'll have to figure out how to access four different doors. Then, after accessing 
 the doors, you'll have to figure out how to actually open those doors. Of course, behind each of 
 those doors lies a series of tricks and traps that you'll have to traverse before you'll get to 
 the keys. Solving one of these overarching puzzles can be an involved process, with some of them 
 taking well beyond an hour to complete.  

           Gunplay on the Wii doesn't feel as smooth as it should.      

  The environments are 
 your biggest adversaries most of the time in Anniversary, though during your exploration you'll 
 regularly run into some antagonistic fauna, such as rats, bats, wolves, bears, tigers, gorillas, 
 raptors, and the occasional Tyrannosaurus Rex. You'll fight off your foes with a variety of firearms, 
 which is another point where the Wii edition sets itself apart from the other versions of Anniversary. 
 You'll lock on to an enemy by holding the Z button, and then use an onscreen reticle controlled 
 by the Wii Remote to actually aim, at which point you squeeze off your shots with the B button. 
 It can feel a little more engaging than a simple lock-on system, but it can also feel clunky. Given 
 that the camera will follow your enemy wherever it goes, you have to constantly adjust where on 
 the screen you're aiming. When dealing with a number of enemies at once, a situation that might 
 benefit from being able to adjust the camera while you shoot, it's simply not an ideal system. 

  New to Anniversary is the adrenaline dodge. Shooting an enemy repeatedly can enrage it, which causes 
 it to charge at you. If you shake the Nunchuk at just the right moment, time will slow down and 
 a target will appear on the enemy. If you can hit the target in time, it usually means instant 
 death for your opponent. Tomb Raider: Anniversary also makes use of the same type of interactive 
 cutscenes seen in Tomb Raider: Legend, where you'll have to quickly react to an onscreen gesture 
 cue to keep Lara alive. It allows for some beautifully choreographed action sequences, but the 
 little onscreen diagrams that tell you how you need to move the controller aren't always clear, 
 and there are times when the game seems to have trouble recognizing your movement.  

  But the motion controls aren't entirely a negative. You'll find that many of the puzzles have been 
 enhanced with minigames throughout, and occasionally you'll have to do more than simply pull a 
 lever to open a door. You'll have to decode lock tumblers with cryptic images on them, arrange 
 cogs on a set of spindles to activate machinery, and use the Wii Remote to draw or trace images. 
 At a certain point, Lara will also get a set of tools that let her dig for clues and buried treasure. 
 It's not the most ingenious use of motion controls we've seen, and they don't take up a huge amount 
 of your time, but they lend the game a certain tactile quality.  

  What keeps Tomb Raider: Anniversary engaging throughout is the strength of the gameplay, as well 
 as the quality of the presentation. Even though you're basically just going from one tomb to another, 
 they feature enough individual detail to make them unique. The environments are also huge, using 
 the occasional curvy hallway to mask load times, and aside from some minor gameplay contrivances, 
 they feel pretty real. Lara looks great and moves with a natural grace that makes her incredible 
 acrobatic feats look feasible instead of ridiculously superhuman. The various wildlife creatures 
 you confront also move convincingly. It's the little touches that bring the whole thing together: 
 the way water glistens on Lara's skin when she gets out of the water, or the tangible difference 
 in atmosphere between different locales.  

           Lara Croft has rarely looked better.      

  Tomb Raider: Anniversary on the Wii looks 
 about as good as it did earlier this year on the PlayStation 2, which is to say that there's a 
 fair amount of aliasing. We also noticed some Wii-specific issues with the presentation, such as 
 small instances of flickering textures and some goofy, out-of-place shadows. The environments might 
 not always be rich with detail, but Lara looks consistently great. It's also a really great-sounding 
 game. You'll hear plenty of small ambient effects, such as animal calls and dripping water. Lara's 
 grunts and yelps as she scales these incredible antiquities will also resonate differently depending 
 on the size of the room. Music is generally used sparingly, but it always swells to a flourish 
 at all the right moments.  

  Tomb Raider: Legend did a lot to make Lara Croft feel relevant again, and Tomb Raider: Anniversary 
 is another step in the right direction. The acrobatic action is consistently exciting and challenging 
 throughout. Despite some issues in its translation to the Wii, Tomb Raider: Anniversary is still 
 a fun and challenging action adventure game that captures the spirit of what made the franchise 
 so great in the first place.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When the original Tomb Raider came out over a decade ago it was too big for the PC i had back then. 
 The game seemed very interesting to me, but back then i was enjoying the donkey kong games on the 
 SNES. 
  10 years later this remake comes along so on the wii and it's great. Probably even better then 
 the original. I had already played Tomb Raider Legend on the gamecube, but the levels in Anniversary 
 are much bigger. It's tomb after tomb. After each puzzle along comes another. There are some ennemies 
 and animals to fight, but mostly it's about figuring where to go or what to do. I loved it. The 
 sense of discovering things was better then in Legend. The levels are much more connected to each 
 other.
  In the wii-version some puzzles are slightly changed, aquiring you to draw something and you get 
 to use the wiimote as a hammer and other tools.
  You move around with the nunchuk which you also have to shake to use a grappling-hook.
  This 
 is a great 3th party title for all those wii-owning Lara-loving adventurers out there. Highly recommended!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  It sounds like the most half-baked attempt at a cash-in ever: remake the original Tomb Raider game 
 using the Tomb Raider Legend engine (essentially just a case of putting the new level design into 
 an already existing game) and then throw in a few Wii-specific additions for good measure. The 
 terms 'money' and 'old rope' should be applicable here. Or, at least, they would be if it wasn't 
 for the fact that the finished product - entitled Tomb Raider Anniversary to celebrate the tenth 
 birthday of Lara Croft's adventures - wasn't so damn brilliant. In fact, we'd go so far as to say 
 that it's the best Tomb Raider since, well, the first one. And yes, we fully realise that that's 
 a paradox.
  
  
  Advertisement: Croft's Original
  While we're sure we don't need to introduce you to Lara Croft, chances are that the number of you 
 reading this who've actually played through the original Tomb Raider (released on the PlayStation 
 and Saturn back in 1996) is quite low. That doesn't really matter though, so long as you understand 
 that the first game is easily the best. After all, it's still one of the only games in the series 
 that *gasp!* actually sees you raiding tombs, rather than fighting smugglers, exploring skyscrapers, 
 riding motorcycles or doing any of the silly non-tomb related things Lara's got up to over the 
 years.
  
  Just as the original had the perfect mix of elements then - tombs, raiding and a barrage of angry 
 wildlife and fiendish puzzles to unravel - so too does Tomb Raider Anniversary, if only because 
 it's basically the same game. Well, almost. The changes that have been made range from the cosmetic 
 (the newly-polished visuals are genuinely lovely and bring alive the original locations in a way 
 we'd never had imagined all those years ago) to the gameplay-integral (darkened areas require use 
 of the new flashlight, while Lara's grappling hook has changed some of the puzzle dynamics a bit) . 
 
  
  Tomb With A View
  However, the original gameplay is so strong and so involving that these act merely as polish rather 
 than anything more substantial. Walking into a chamber and being daunted by where you need to go 
 next - in a positive way, you understand - is still very much the thrill here. Making progress 
 and finally solving the last piece of the puzzle is deeply satisfying.
  
  How do the Wii controls hold up under the need for precision jumping and a quick trigger finger 
 though? Surprisingly well. Between aiming the camera, flashlight and weapons with the Wii Remote 
 and flicking the Nunchuk to throw the grapple, we were impressed with how little trouble we had 
 getting Lara to perform acrobatic feats. And just like the Wii-specific elements (which we've discussed 
 above) , it never feels gimmicky. Shaking the Nunchuk slightly while climbing or shimmying up a 
 rope to speed Lara up works really well, while actually aiming your guns lets you fight multiple 
 enemies with ease. 
  
  
  
  If we're honest, we'll admit to being incredibly impressed with Crystal Dynamics' effort here because 
 not only does it manage to recreate the source material so faithfully but it also goes beyond the 
 call of duty and delivers a truly absorbing adventure, even for those familiar with the original. 
 
  
  As an example of a true gamer's game, it ticks all the boxes but, more importantly, it adds Wii 
 functionality without resorting to gimmicks. A great job all round then; Lara may have won her 
 second wind after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boompixel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I find the game to be very enjoyable. When the first Tomb Raider was released years ago for playstation 
 1, I never got it for some reason despite all the good reviews at the time. Saw it came out for 
 the wii and decided to spend the 20 bucks for it used. Well worth the money, yea the controls are 
 a bit rough to get used to like almost every game for the Wii so, that is no surprise but, it really 
 does not take away from the gameplay. The remake looks really good, the levels are challenging, 
 the story, well it's not very deep and honestly this is not an RPG so I could care less about the 
 story but it's something to follow. I really just enjoy figuring out how to get from point a to 
 point B. Since I never played the original version I am glad I got this and will most likely look 
 into TR2 and 3 after I beat this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistahtom
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin. As a fan of Tomb Raider I had high-hopes for this game. What I got was just a 
 crap load of nothing. The controls for the game are horrible. Usually, when using the Wii nunchuck 
 the + button pauses. Not the case. The + button uses a medi-pak. A LARGE medi-pak. Simply trying 
 to play the game was an hour long cluster fark.
  
  There are certain achievements you can unlock; however, they are only achieved if you did them 
 under a certain time. The problem with the time limits, is that tasks take LONGER than the allotted 
 time. One in particular is the achievement in Croft Manor. The tasks need to be performed in under 
 19 minutes, but it takes 5 minutes to run as fast as you can back and forth between two areas of 
 the level which need to be accessed 3, maybe 4 times. That's almost 20 minutes NOT including the 
 other parts of the level that are required to be accessed in order to unlock the achievement.
 
  
  
  I found myself only having pistols for the entire game. I never could find any other type of gun 
 other than the one you start out with. Around every corner there was ammo, but no GUN. 
  
  Lastly, I'm not a game guru. I sometimes need a strategy guide to tell me what I need to do. However, 
 with this piece of s, you'll find that you need a visual walkthrough because text cannot convey 
 the sheer stupidity of the programming of this game. You can't tell what objects you can and can't 
 interact with. I guess that is the mark of a good game, but it wasn't executed well. 
  
  
  I liked the graphics, it really was a visually appealing. But that is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_ranger95
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Most people look right past this game which is a shame imo. 
  
  I understand it is a port, but it's one of the better versions again, imo. 
  
  Controls are 
 decent for the most part. The camera is tricky to get used to, but works very well when mastered. 
 Shooting is easy as "point n click" so no worries when it comes to analog aiming (all replaced 
 by the pointer) .
  
  I only noticed a frame rate drop here or there, but it's smooth for the most part. Graphics are 
 beautiful for last generation and still hold up better than most Wii games to date imo. The lighting 
 effects, water, textures, sceanary are all good imo. It's not pushing the Wii to the limits, but 
 it's not hurting it by any means either. 
  
  Music is pretty good (never played another TR, so I can't compare it) , so no complaints.
  
 
  Dialogs are smooth as well, I don't remember anything that hurt the game.
  
  Eidos also added Wii-specific aspects of the game such as; puzzles, motion gestures (controls/semi-cutscenes) , 
 and flash light control. 
  
  The puzzles can be a little tedious, but they do add to the game allowing a break from the puzzle/platforming 
 if you needed one. The gestures are a good idea, and work fine... but didn't nessarily have to be 
 added imo. They did get your addrenalin going, but as soon as it did it was over. (cutscenes) The 
 actualy motion (controls) worked for the grappling hook, and climbing. They worked, but seemed 
 to be some what picky. After getting used to them, it's no big deal... so it's just a minor set 
 back. I honestly don't think it was the dev's fault either... The nun-chuk seems rather limited 
 when it comes to controls.
  
  Overall... the game is great if you're into this kind of genre. The only real problem I had with 
 the game is the loading times, it wasn't PS2 loading times... but it did rather slow when compared 
 to 1st party games.
  
  Should def play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  When the first Tomb Raider was released on the PS1 a decade ago, it was one of the most well presented 
 3D games of it's time. Ten years later Eidos brings us the same game but with the engine set by 
 Tomb Raider Legends and on the Wii. The game was great on the PS2 but does it stack up to greatness 
 the PS2 version set? No and it is a big letdown.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: Great exploration and Wii-specific mini-games, Has a very Prince of Persia feel in the game, 
 The game is still playable after a decade.
  
  Cons: Motion controls feel tacked-on, Shooting feels awkward and lame, Bad camera, Platforming 
 is very unforgiving.
  
  Score: 6/10
  
  Anniversary on the PS2 played very similar to Legends but better, so it was understandable that 
 Eidos would want to give it a shot with the Wii, but the game doesnt play nearly as smoothly. Just 
 like most PS2 ports, Anniversary plays like an awkward duck as in it feels odd to play the game. 
 Let me explain: When you play a PS2 game you control everything smoothly in good games but when 
 they make a turn onto the Wii mote and nunchuck things feel a little wonky. Aiming and shooting 
 is very awkward and doesnt live up to the standards that games like Metroid and Medal of Honor 
 have put on the Wii. The quick-time events with the motion controls feel.. odd and just waggling 
 you Wii mote is every direction pretty much does the trick and the camera is god awful. Platforming 
 is very unfair because you never know where you can jump unless you are used to games like Prince 
 of Persia.. but the game still has a problem showing where to go next.. and this means you will 
 fall.. a lot and die.. a lot. On the bright side.. the game IS playable.. and if you manage to 
 get till the end then you really are desperate for hardcore Wii titles. No offence.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Environments look beautiful, Great water effects, Lara looks dayum hot.
 
  
  Cons: A lot of graphical bugs and glitches make it less of an eye candy, The game looks stale, 
 Frame rate is a real bugger, Texture can appear blurry or inconsistent at times.
  
  Score: 6.5/10
  
  On the PS2, Anniversary looked fantastic but had a few frame rate issues. 
 On the Wii, it looks blurry.. and not as good as the PS2 version. Lara still looks hot but the 
 game doesn't stand up to most of the Wii titles out there. Graphically its a mess everywhere because 
 the frame rate, texture and bugs get in the way of enjoying the games looks. If the game had more 
 time for development, it would have looked great.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: Great atmosphere, Has a very Tomb Raider feel.
  
  Cons: Sound glitches are annoying.
 
  
  Svore: 
  
  7/10
  
  Anniversary isn't really a game listen to, it's a game you play just like the original unlike Legends 
 which focused a lot on a story. This time you ARE Lara Croft, going through these tombs and recovering 
 artifacts. The game provides a great atmosphere and has a very Tomb Raider feel but sound glitches 
 get in the way.
  
  Value: In the end, Anniversary is a game that should be rented if you wanna try it out, but it 
 is no way a game that should be purchased at full price. The game feels unfinished and hopefully 
 the next time we see Lara on the Wii, it will be a better time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_Dupa_Fly
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of the old Raider since the first. Though these had rather good storylines, none 
 had very good visuals (which was ok at the time) , then legend came along. Playing legend after 
 all the 'next-gen Lara' hype, I considered it a large waste of money. I managed to complete 100% 
 in 22 hours (total gameplay) . I was extremely fustrated. But when Anniversary popped up on the 
 shelves, I had hardly even heard of it. This meant that it had not been plastered over game mags 
 and websites like Legend, although it couldnt get any worse. So when i found it was also released 
 on the Wii, I thought why not? It became harder to think that it was worth the money when I called 
 my local games store. They told me that all of the Wii Raiders were DISCONTINUED from all of there 
 branches, but they had one left in stock. I put my faith in Lara and purchased it. Took it home. 
 Finished it in 31 hours (100%) . BUGGA. The most annoying part was the frustrating grapple hook. 
 It would throw itself out every two seconds, meaning taking a run-up for large gaps was impossible, 
 and shooting large creatures was made a lot harder. I, even after all this, am going to buy Underworld. 
 But trust me. Any more of this and I WONT event CONSIDER another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohail1234
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  What in hell is this game about? A pile of crapness was used to make this crap and repetitive game. 
 Tomb raider in 1996 was a new type of game which was different from rest until now in the year 
 2007. The game has not changed by gameplay. Really this game is just like legends with new scenery 
 and a new menu what lazy people won't change a game and these people are eidos. The wii version 
 is ok not great but ok with its new style of movement via the wii remote. From the remote you would 
 hear gun shots when you would be shooting that's the only change from ps2 to wii abysmal that's 
 the only word I could say about this mediocre  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_rollerz
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time i played tomb raider back in '97, me and my dad were astonished at how 
 good the game looked, but as time went on the astonishment was replaced by sheer amazement at the 
 number of glitches one game could have. The funny thing is, it's exactly the same for anniversary! 
 As you start the game and try to suss out the controls, the graphics look alright, not as good 
 as TR1 was back in the day, but still better than a few of the lazy PS2 ports the Wii has received 
 recently. Sadly, it doesn't take long to realise that those glitches are back, and more bizarre 
 than ever! there are certain points where the gliches are so bad that you have to reload from the 
 last checkpoint, this is most evident in the Lost Valley, as you climb up above the temple where 
 the dead dino is implanted, there is a step with a small gap between it and the wall, walk into 
 the gap and she floats off, splitting into two as she rises, eventually reaching the ceiling and 
 plummeting. There are numerous points like this, which further proves that game developers are 
 still lazy when it comes to Wii conversions.
  I would like to outline the good points, but these are few and far between. It is a good remake 
 of the original, the added abilities not found in TR1 are a welcome addition and give the game 
 better variety, and some of the puzzles are alright, but that's about it....
  For a start, the irritation of trying to aim for the enemies while the camera is flying all over 
 the place doesn't help, in fact, the camera is just a problem in general. The added wii functions 
 are completely useless overall, with the pointless brushing and printing of wall carvings where 
 a switch would do just fine, and having to shake the numchuck every 2 seconds to make her get a 
 move on. Then there's the random odd bugs in there as well, the date in the save file showed 6/0/08 
 (the 0th month of the year?!) and giving you back all the medipacks you used in a boss. This collection 
 of bugs, coupled with the endless glitches, have messed up what could have been a great game. 
 
  Overall, i'd say it's an OK game which you should try out if you enjoyed the original, but i'd 
 probably wait until it's a bit cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8.5/10
  'its the little big things that count'
  
  Tomb raider, if you have been a fan all your life then you will definatley like it, if not then 
 theres still that chance but its not for everyone.
  Lara has never looked better shes back after ten years and perfectly formed as ever. Some cool 
 graphical aspects are how her skin becomes more shiny after swimming and her clothes go a shade 
 darker, her change of facial expression at certain times and things along those lines, the level 
 design to me is fantastic all the vast ruins and fully interactive scenery you could ever want 
 at its best. But this said, there are really annoying glitches somtimes which can get on your nerves 
 but if i am really enjoying a game this dosent matter to me. Also the animals that attack you are 
 mostly mediocre looking but its still fun as hell shooting them.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  'the whole reason i like it'
  
  More puzzles shooting exploring swimming and new wii abillites 
 that will make you want to play for ages. Lara can still dive in slow mo and escape close situations 
 like in legend, but somtimes when the enimies are attacking you it looks like they arnt even running 
 just glitchy but its still fun to shoot them :) . But the one thing that isnt true is that the wiimote 
 actions arnt good. You can now use it to aim, brush off walls to find inscriptions, solve loads of 
 puzzles, grapple, pull levers, flashlight, the list is endless. The camera angles can often find themself 
 in a strange postion but it really easy to sort out so no big deal.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  'Original'
  
  Well if you've ever played a tomb raider game you cant appreciate it but it has 
 the most fantastic music highlights from the others that you will recognise straight away . which 
 adds to the TR experience really.
  
  Overall-9/10
  'thats only for fans'
  
  Its pretty simple really , youre gonna enjoy this so much more if you like tomb raider and not 
 as much if not but in my eyes eidios has made a really stylish game i cant stay away from and that 
 keeps me interested for a long time. i think it has done tomb raider a decent 10 year anniversary. But 
 hey not everyone likes Tomb raider make your own choice on the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  As the world goes nuts for the Wii's motion-sensitive thrills, more and more developers are being 
 seduced by Nintendo's unique interface and shoehorning gesture-controls into games that really 
 don't need them. And in the case of Lara's Wii debut, forcing motion controls on a game best suited 
 to a traditional pad makes for a clumsy, often frustrating experience.
  
  While the majority of the game sees players prancing through elaborate environments and leaping 
 between perilous ledges, the basic acrobatics are often unnecessarily awkward as the camera is 
 manipulated using motion controls, which never feels as natural or speedy as using a normal pad. 
 Using the Wii Remote to aim at targets also feels clumsier than a familiar lock-on  especially 
 when pestered by multiple, fast-moving targets  and the gestures you have to make to save Lara 
 in interactive movies are often unclear, leading to many untimely, teeth-grinding deaths.
  
  Aside from the motion controls, the game is just as gripping as it was on rival consoles, returning 
 to the imaginative locations and ingenious traps that charmed gamers over a decade ago. But while 
 other versions of Anniversary made it feel good to retread old ground, the Wii interface adds an 
 extra layer of stress that often interferes with the game's guilty pleasures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  A decade should have been enough time to improve "Tomb Raider."
  But aside from the 1996 original, the Lara Croft games aren't known for their innovation. So tacking 
 subpar Wii motion controls onto "Tomb Raider: Anniversary" is a transparent attempt to cash in 
 on the 10-year celebration and the console's popularity.
  The Wii version of "Anniversary" was released more than five months after the PlayStation 2 game's 
 June 5 ship date. Despite the extra time supposedly spent fine-tuning the game, its last-generation 
 graphics are an eyesore, frame-rate problems abound and long loading times can be agonizing.
  Never fear, "Anniversary" for the Wii still has the series' infamous unwieldy camera. And now the 
 clunky controls are clunky, motion-based controls.
  This is a jumbled mess of a game that has the feel of a cheap Wii-make. It's disappointing, because 
 "Anniversary" had a chance to shine on the Wii like "Prince of Persia: Rival Swords"  a similar 
 ported game that overcame poor graphics with spot-on motion controls.
  Even though Lara handles basically the same as the Prince in "Rival Swords," her movements are 
 herky-jerky and hit-or-miss. Pulling back on the nunchuk to backflip and thrusting it forward to 
 roll aren't always recognized. Finicky controls are the last thing you want in a platformer that 
 punishes you for the smallest of mistakes.
  Even worse, using the Wiimote to target with your guns is inaccurate  really, how hard is it to 
 use dual hand cannons to kill one little wolf?
  "Anniversary" is billed as a re-envisioning of the original with updated graphics using the engine 
 from last year's "Tomb Raider: Legend." The "Anniversary" environments are large, but often appear 
 grainy. And Lara's body has jagged edges.
  Two items adapted from "Legend" to "Anniversary" are the grappling hook and flashlight, but neither 
 is noteworthy.
  Meanwhile, the new Wii motion-controlled minigames are overly simplistic. The Wiimote commands 
 a floating Lara Croft hand to manipulate switches or make rubbings of puzzle clues. This doesn't 
 add much to the gameplay  it mostly slows you down.
  Then there's the infuriating camera. It's just as buggy as the PS2 game. On the Wii, you can hold 
 "C" on the nunchuk and move the Wiimote to change the camera angle, but you'll never quite get 
 a clear view of where you need to go next.
  Fans of the "Tomb Raider" series probably will pick up the Wii version of "Anniversary" for old 
 time's sake. But anyone who dislikes platforming torture should skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordanfreeman53
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Here's what I have to stay about Tomb Raider: Anniversary Wii edition, It's freakin awesome!!!!!!!! 
 The game is probably the best version of the six versions avaible [ The second best version is 
 the PC version] . You probably already know about how the plot goes, so I won't bore you with details. 
 The Games controls work really well and the bonus features to the Wii version are satisfying and 
 the games very well worth 40 bucks. I must say this is one of the best games available on the Wii 
 and If you own a Wii you MUST buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
