-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Underworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/tombraider8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great mix of outdoor, underground, and underwater locations.
 Lara's new moves add to the sense of adventure.
 Some excellent level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Plenty of clipping and camera issues.
 Forgettable story and cliched dialogue.
 Lack of refinement to the core gameplay.
 Simplistic Wii Remote puzzles.
 Wii-specific controls detract from the adventuring.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider Underworld can be an enjoyable adventure, but its marred by bugs, camera issues, and 
 ill-conceived Wii extras. 

  The Wii version of Tomb Raider Underworld is a success, at least in how well it apes its Xbox 360 
 and PlayStation 3 counterparts. There are small differences to the control system, tweaks to the 
 level design, and some Wii-specific puzzles, but this is a very similar adventure to those on other 
 consoles. There is a downside, however -- the exclusive puzzles are incredibly simple, and the bugs 
 and camera issues are even worse on Nintendo's console. The combat is also fiddly, and the motion-sensitive 
 controls feel shoehorned in to areas where they don't really fit. There's some enjoyable adventuring 
 to be had in Tomb Raider Underworld, but you have to look past many flaws to find it.  

           Lara's Wii expedition offers all the same locations and challenges as the other versions. 

  As the "Underworld" suffix suggests, this Tomb Raider covers darker territory than its predecessors. 
 It's the same sort of adventure that we've come to expect, but it teeters into new territory with 
 death, resurrection, and even Norse mythology in its story. Things start out badly for Lara; the 
 prologue finds her racing to escape her lofty mansion as it burns to the ground. Cut back two weeks, 
 and we find her trying to take care of some of her father's unfinished business, something that 
 leads her to discover more about her mother, characters from previous games, and the mythical Hammer 
 of Thor. It's badly written, poorly voiced, and instantly forgettable, but the cutscenes are mercifully 
 short, leaving you to get down to the serious business of raiding tombs.  

  The Wii version of the game takes advantage of the console's motion-sensitive controller. You can 
 waggle the Nunchuk to make Lara shimmy faster across beams, and the infrared sensor is used to 
 aim wherever you want to shoot. Neither of these really adds anything to the experience, and trying 
 to aim with the remote while guiding Lara around small ledges can often be frustrating. The puzzles 
 have also been given a Wii Remote makeover, and Lara has tools such as pliers, chisels, and an 
 air canister with which to solve certain puzzles. While this might sound great, the puzzles are 
 insultingly simple, and motion controls such as pulling down on switches feel shoehorned in for 
 the sake of it.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld is constructed almost identically to its predecessors, with exploration 
 in exotic locations punctuated by occasional combat and vehicle sections. The interaction between 
 Lara and the environments has long been the draw of the series, and performing daring jumps to 
 scale seemingly impossible heights is as satisfying as ever. Lara's even learned a few new moves 
 in the year since Anniversary: she can now free-climb, balance along thin beams, and abseil using 
 her rappel line. Crucially, none of these moves complicates Lara's basic movement, and while you 
 have to adjust your eyes to the many new visual cues showing you where to go, they all add new 
 levels to the simple pleasure of adventuring.  

  While these new abilities expand Lara's already impressive acrobatic skills, many gameplay issues 
 continue to annoy. The world is incredibly rigid, with strict rules on which platforms, objects, 
 and edges can be interacted with and which can't. The places where Lara can go are well marked 
 out -- they feature nice, right-angled edges and are usually lighter than the surrounding material 
 to signify your route through. This makes it easier to figure out the correct way to go, but at 
 the same time it means there's little room for improvisation, and the genre has moved beyond such 
 linear progression. Even worse, Lara will frequently clip into a piece of the scenery and then 
 refuse to come out until you stop, turn around, and run out of it again. This is especially bad 
 on the Wii, and Lara will frequently do strange things like pick up a boulder as it appears suspended 
 in midair next to her. Moreover, the camera is particularly unruly, often obscuring the action 
 or getting stuck along a wall, which can make even simple exploration frustrating.  

           The Wii-specific puzzles use the motion-sensitive controllers to guide Lara's hands.  
     

  There's an impressive mix of locales in Underworld, and the environments boast greater scale than 
 ever before. Some sections are less grand on the Wii than on the Xbox 360 and PS3, but the lack 
 of running back and forth is definitely to the game's benefit. The puzzles in the Wii version are 
 broadly the same as in other versions, but the items you need to collect are less widely dispersed 
 here. It helps that this version also has a SitCam, which can help point out key locations and 
 items, as well as a field assistant that offers tips on your general objective.  

  Combat plays a relatively small part in the game, which is fortunate because Tomb Raider is best 
 when you're exploring and solving puzzles. You'll fight against both real and mythological beasts, 
 but the combat is clunky and simple thanks to the lack of a cover system. Enemies stand there while 
 you fire at them, with little interest in fleeing for safety. The aiming system uses the Wii Remote's 
 infrared sensor, but aiming at someone while also trying to steer the camera and escape danger 
 can be complicated. At least Lara's health regenerates automatically in the Wii version, so you 
 don't have to worry about finding and using health kits.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld offers an enjoyable adventure, but it's ultimately an unremarkable entry 
 in the series. On a technical level, the Wii version is an impressive facsimile of the PS3 and 
 Xbox 360 versions, but the Wii-specific elements are weak and there are more bugs and camera issues 
 to contend with. If you really like the Tomb Raider games and want to experience more of the same, 
 it's worth checking out. Ultimately, though, this is a buggy and rather lazy port of Lara's latest 
 adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xFaberDrivex
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  - Errrr..... 
  
  The Bad
  - Unlimited ammo (WHAT!!!)
  - Bad controls
  - Camera Angles
  - Easiest puzzles to solve
  - Very glitchy
  - Pieces taken out of the game 
 that were in the PS3 and 360 version
  
  
  This game is not worth anyones time when I found that you had unlimited ammo it was not a challenging 
 game anymore... The controls are useless because sometimes when you go to jump and grapple guess 
 what? Lara falls to her death! How nice!
  
  The camera angles will tick you off too when your trying to get a good running jump. The puzzles 
 COME ON! the old versions took alot of time to think about but with this rubbish.... Glitches in 
 this game are terrible too. At the last level you could literally jump down and not die and keep 
 going. The graphics are bad as well.
  
  The Plot
  
  Continuing from Tomb Raider Legend we meet Natla and Amanda once again. Lara's home has suddenly 
 been destroyed by an invader and Lara knows it is one of these twos doings. She sets out to find 
 Thor's belt to destroy a god. But what Lara doesn't know is that she is endagering the world once 
 again...
  
  This game is not worth $50 and it would be better if you spent it on another game.
  
  
  Gameplay 
 - 5.0
  Story - 7.0
  Graphics - 6.0
  Voice Acting - 7.5
  Music - 5.0
  
  OVERALL - 6.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:41 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld is a game worthplaying if you are a fan. In my point of view it isn't a wonderful 
 game as it has got many dissadvantages.
  To begin with graphics are not what most expected. They seemed to me dissapointing. Furthermore the 
 camera was very difficult to use and the controls a little complicated. What is more the sound effects 
 are weak and some of them completely terrible (The gun's sound that is heard throughout the wiimote) . In 
 addition the amount of battles is very little.
  If we compare this version with the versions on the other consoles we realise that the game can't 
 challenge them as long as it has got a lot more weaknesess.
  There are plenty of the same puzzles and areas to climb, but there are also unique ones. This isn't 
 a terrible version of Tomb Raider, but compared to the other versions of it, and even compared 
 to the PS2 prequel, Underworld is a sufficiently lacking title.
  However the game has also a lot of positive things. The game's environments look great by Wii standards. 
 It is fun and you don't get bored. I recomend it only in the fans in the serie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feznacho
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  my game completely froze during thors belt. The controlls sucked. the wii version was completely 
 different and dumbed down. camera... you guessed it SUCKED!!! I was so dissapointed in this game 
 i actually thought about snapping the disc in half, and popping it in the microwave before returning 
 it to hastings. Thank god i only rented this crap. DO NOT WASTE TIME OR MONEY ON THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! 
 If you want a tomb raider game for wii that is actually worth your time i suggest tomb raider annniversary. 
 I just beat that one. No glitches!!!!! Thats a plus. and get this the levels for anniversary are 
 the same on all platforms.... edios will have to work harder next time before i ever spend money 
 on a tomb raider game in the future. I may even only play the pc ones from before at this point. 
 seriously people read consumer reviews before you buy something you'll be glad you did. I'm Just 
 glad i rented it instead of paying 50 bones for it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Ehh just an awkward holiday outing. Sonic Unleashed was not to great and now I sit here with Tomb 
 Raider Underworld. To be honest first Tomb Raider game I played and I wasn't expecting much. It 
 was actually a secondary game cause the nearest Wal-Mart didn't have Tales of Symphonia 2 Dawn 
 of the New World. So the graphics on this game are really good. Too good in fact. The gameplay 
 is where it fails. Everyone complains about the camera, but you have to be extremely patient with 
 it. The jumping mechanics are way out of line You don't know what shes capable of making some outrageous 
 jumps and climbs when she misses something she dies in the awkwardest way. The shooting with the 
 Wii is good is guess but you know there's hardly anything to shoot so yea.... It just seems like 
 the Wii is being let down for hardcore gamers. Don't even feel like reviewing the whole game. Going 
 to trade this bad boy in the second I get the chance. Rent if first people and be let down on your 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayveechun
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Having seen the next-gen beauty of the game, I was frankly terrified of playing this since I only 
 have a Wii. Also, hearing that this is just a direct port also didn't add relief to my fear. 
 
  
  However, when I played this, I enjoyed it immensely! With a nice storyline, exotic locales, and 
 a lot of new stuff, I got into it instantly. Plus, I realized that this is NOT a port since some 
 areas were expanded for the Wii, as well as trimmed down to suit the console.
  
  However, I still have some issues with is, especially with the stuff that has been taken out. Enemies, 
 certain actions, small details such as brushing off bushes, things like that that made me anticipate 
 this game weren't added to the Wii version. 
  
  Also, as much as the graphics were beautiful, especially in the Thailand parts, her character model 
 kind of needs some work. She has eyebags for godsake haha. Also the wet effect wasnt' there anymore, 
 even if it was there in Anniversary and Legend. This frankly was disappointing. Also, i think anitaliasing 
 could have made this work better. The graphics here were great but Anniversary's had more of a... 
 dusty effect. I think antialiasing is in order.
  
  Overall, everything is great. The small music tones and sounds added great ambiance. The sheer 
 vastness of the temples were mesmerizing. Her actions, well whats remaining from the next gen ones, 
 made sense. HOpefully, it gets better from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld
  
  
  
  Game Controls: First off I have to say that the controls for Xbox 360 are much better and easier 
 to handle, the camera is rather difficult to adjust, and Lara looks undetailed and ordinary. The 
 only easy controls for this game are the swimming controls and the grappling, the swimming controls 
 seem difficult but once you know how position the camera it's pretty much easy from there. The 
 grappling controls are alright, thus far the grappling controls in the XBox version are better 
 more smooth and on point with timing and positioning of the camera. Overall this could use some 
 work.
  
  
  Game Combat: I haven't seen this portion of the game yet, but i'm assuming that it will very difficult 
 to control much less knowing where the camera will align and be on point. The shooting is different 
 using your hands to get the cross hair lined up with objects, broken doors, windows, hidden passages. 
 etc.: As far as this section is concerned it needs to be looked at and re-evaluated. 
  
  
  Storyline: The opening scene takes place from Tomb Raider Legend where Lara is told by a still 
 living Amanda that her mother is still alive and knows the location. But as always Lara will be 
 Lara she starts shooting at Amanda at not trusting what she is telling her. The story begins in 
 the Mediterranean Sea, where Lara is communicating with Kip and Alister aboard a small boat. Read 
 more online..
  
  
  
  Synopsis: This game wasn't the greatest idea for this console, the controls need work, the graphics 
 look plain and un detailed. On XBox 360 the graphics are beautiful and Lara looks real. The scenery 
 is well detailed and proportioned and not out of place or in the way. I can only imagine what it 
 will look like on Playstation 2 and 3 consoles. 
  
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld (PS3) Edition
  
  
  opening scene: Game opens up Lara's mansion gets 
 blown up by her. If u look closely you can clearly see that it's Lara.. but then again Lara doesn't 
 look that evil. Well, if your wondering if that was Lara blowing up her own house, it was but its 
 a dopleganger a look like with a mind of it's own, who copies Lara's moves and swagger, fast moving, 
 smart and most of all very tricky to catch. Towards the end of the opening scene Zip and Winston 
 are tryin to escape the burning Croft Manor, meanwhile Zip hears Lara entering the manor, Zip in 
 turn points his .45 at Lara and starts shooting while Winston is trying to remove Zip's gun. Lara 
 then explains it wasn't her who blew up her mansion. As Lara, Zip and Winston are standing outside 
 with the lifeless body of Alister, discussing who could have sent the look alike Lara. 
  
  
  Graphics: Outstanding, beautiful. And, the graphics are just like the xbox version. The Wii 
 graphics need a lot of adjustment, the camera rotations need to be less sensitive and more interactive. 
 The PS3 version's graphics are just simply amazing and the xbox version gets the same praise and 
 hype. Crystal Dynamics have, i think have outdone themselves again. The first 5 tomb raiders the 
 graphics for those were so horrible, and at that time every gamer thought it was so hot.. yeah right.. now 
 we know better. And, Lara herself is looking more realistic compared to the PS1 graphics.. OMG big 
 difference and change. 
  
  Weaponry: Just like the classic Tomb Raiders, Lara has her famous .45 dual pistols (obviously upgraded) , 
 along with her dual oozies. And, throughout the environment of the game and as you progress you 
 can use poles that you manually stick into columns to help you reach high ledges and wall grips, 
 you can also use the poles as weapons to fight off enemies.. hint hint. 
  
  Over all performance: The performance of this game is definetly more spread out, more puzzles to 
 figure out, detailed interface, maps, levels. This game is definetly more time consuming with having 
 to figure out ways to avoid traps, being seen my enemies. But if i had to rate this game i would 
 give ten fingers high up, this is by the far the best Tomb Raider i have seen.. well I'm not saying 
 that legend and anniversary weren't good.. cause they were. So, all in all this game deserves big 
 kudos. Standing ovation for the amazing team at Crystal Dynamics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyeusedto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  ARRRRGH!!! So i bought tomb raider legend after beating underworld and I must say its appalling 
 how much less effort they put into underworld. Playing them back to back makes it very obvious 
 that legend is a MUCH better game in every single aspect- graphics, gameplay (especially gameplay) , 
 level design, replay value and fun factor... if you played legend first then underworld will be 
 a general disappointment aside from a couple pluses here and there. the way lara jumps in underworld 
 is bound to annoy you, and after playing legend the gameplay just feels limited. Not to mention 
 the camera is 10times better than than underworld and the combat is easily better. I'm not even 
 one to write reviews but underworld, about after the first three or so worlds was complete DOODOO!!!! 
 If you're looking for the best Tomb raider game ever, just get legend. Dont waste your money on 
 underworld!!!!! they knew the buggy piece of turd they were putting out when they paid off the 
 early bad reviews!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thraxamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the nicest looking games on the Wii. It avoids a lot of the really awkward 
 attempts at including waggle controls, and the times you have to use the Wii remote for a motion 
 interaction generally make sense. The puzzles were a little too basic, and a lot of the play was 
 standard Tomb Raider, so meh. 
  
  The cameras were unhelpful, especially when they weren't locked into place. When will Crystal Dynamics 
 learn how to make a good camera system?
  
  The combat was similar to other Tomb Raider games; that is, it was more of an afterthought. The 
 Wii interactions were interesting. I liked the hand and tool more than the icon used in the anniversary 
 edition. I also was really impressed with how big the spaces seemed and how detailed everything 
 was. 
  
  The story had some weird bits in it. So many things happen to Lara that make very little sense. 
 Finding Norse stuff everywhere was also strange. I suppose I can just chalk that up to the way 
 Tomb Raider rolls.
  
  One thing the story does is add a lot of drama, right at the start. I was impressed by the strength 
 of some of the starting moments. I wouldn't normally think it good for a tutorial to be placed 
 in a burning building, but it works in this case.
  
  I was glad I bought this game. You will be too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: real-guitarhero
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  this game is different from the rest of the series; the creators have really thought about what 
 Lara can do. Already into the first five minutes into the game I was willing to explore the fascinating 
 worlds that I was put in. The graphics for the Wii are actually very good, not differing much from 
 Anniversary, but they are great graphics. Lara looks a bit meaner than in Anniversary in my opinion 
 too, but that doesnt matter much because she is still a very hot heroine. This game is very addicting 
 too. I already spent 10 hours on it in the first 2 days of playing. Lara also has new gear making 
 the game slightly easier because it gives you a sort of map when you enter a new area. It also 
 gives you the choice if you want to view a clue to the next step, and its also a choice wheather 
 you can view the answer. This is a great game and I really have enjoyed playing it so far. If you 
 are a Tomb Raider fan, you are guaranteed to enjoy this beacuse this game is the sequel to TR Legend, 
 and Lara is now on her quest to Avalon, where her mother is supposed to be. It cost me $40 Canadian, 
 $20 less than a regular Wii game, and I am very satisfied with it. I am sure I will be playing 
 this game over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnazario
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  tomb Raider have the chance of life time becaues pf it's seriesand graphic of it's gameplay had 
 maybe be possibly super game. Lara has a better body maybe different than in the previous title. 
 The models are very well done and the textures too.
  The game has a very long storyline, we can see places we saw in the first Tomb Raider title and 
 there are a new places too.
  Also I would like to say that at least this is one of the most realist Tomb Raider game for PS2, 
 (we are still waiting for Underworld) . I thought the previous title was the most realist but I 
 was wrong, that Lara sometimes looks like a cartoon, and in this title I see her more like an human 
 being.
  Oh I forgot to say, the light effects are very well done too. We need to adjust the contrast and 
 brightness because we don't have the light in our inventory.
  
  At least this is the best action/adventure game I hope it is. and also hope they may more part 
 1. Eidos? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
