-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/splintercell4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging campaign features a better story than previous Splinter Cell games.
 Good amount of cooperative two-player missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Little in the way of new gameplay in the campaign.
 Competitive multiplayer modes from other versions have been cut.
 The control scheme is unusual but flawed.
 Only one save slot, shared between single-player and co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 28, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Take the complicated controls of this popular series and make them even more finicky, then lose 
 the online versus mode, and you get Double Agent for the Wii. 

  Gruff, tireless Agent Sam Fisher and his top-secret missions in all the Splinter Cell games have 
 helped to popularize a style of play that blends a lot of sneaking around with quick, short doses 
 of extreme force. Unfortunately for Nintendo fans, these games routinely lost most of their good 
 qualities in translation to the GameCube -- and, in spite of having a chance at a fresh start, Double 
 Agent for the Wii does little to buck the bad trend. This version of Splinter Cell Double Agent 
 features an unusual control scheme that's certainly different. But the graphics are disappointing, 
 looking nowhere near as good as the Xbox version, though at least a little better than the PlayStation 
 2 version. Double Agent for the Wii is also missing those versions' competitive multiplayer mode. 
 But it does include the same content apart from that, which happens to be different from the versions 
 of Double Agent for the Xbox 360 and PC. At any rate, the Wii version isn't the best, or even the 
 second- or third-best, version of the game available, and its control scheme is quite complicated 
 in spite of the pick-up-and-play pretenses of the Wii Remote. However, there's a certain novelty 
 and added level of challenge to the controls that may appeal to Splinter Cell fans.  

          Double Agent for the Wii doesn't look so hot, but its weird new control scheme has a few 
 nice touches to it.     

  Other than the technical differences and missing features, Double Agent for the Wii is the same 
 game as Double Agent on the PlayStation 2. You play as Sam Fisher as he tries to infiltrate a terrorist 
 organization to find out what makes it tick, which is the same as on the Xbox 360 and PC. But the 
 missions in the other versions of the game are completely different from the missions in the Xbox 
 360 and PC games. The story is told differently and somewhat better, but none of the gameplay changes 
 in the Xbox 360 or PC versions are in here. This game holds over a lot of the good-looking animations 
 from its predecessors, but there's not much nice to say about the graphics beyond that similarity. 
 Noticeable seams mar the low-resolution textures in the environments, many characters don't move 
 their lips when they speak, and even Sam Fisher himself doesn't look quite right. At least this 
 version of Double Agent still sounds great, despite a lot of recycled sound effects from older 
 games. Michael Ironside again provides Fisher his distinctive voice, plus many more lines of dialogue 
 than in Double Agent's Xbox 360 and PC counterpart. The game has also got a musical score that 
 epitomizes this type of spy thriller.  

  The Splinter Cell series has grown increasingly complicated to play over the years, what with all 
 of the different moves and gadgets available to Agent Fisher at any given time. Double Agent for 
 the Wii takes all of this and tries to cram it into the Wii Remote and Nunchuk attachment, resulting 
 in a control scheme that's a hybrid of console-style gamepad controls and the mouse-and-keyboard 
 controls featured in the PC version of the game. The Wii Remote is used for rotating the camera 
 perspective in any direction around Sam Fisher, which is done by pointing the onscreen cursor toward 
 the edges of the screen. You can also interact with the environment and fire your gun using the 
 A and B buttons, while the D pad is used for your different vision modes, readying your weapon, 
 and digging through your inventory. Meanwhile, the analog stick on the Nunchuk makes you move in 
 different directions, and a quick flick of the attachment makes you jump or pull yourself up onto 
 a ledge.  

  Provided you already have a feel for how Splinter Cell games work, getting used to this new control 
 scheme doesn't take too long, though you'll also quickly spot some of its weaknesses. For one, 
 when rotating the camera perspective, there's a fine line between pointing at the edges of the 
 screen and pointing off the screen entirely. Natural attempts to make the view rotate faster by 
 pointing further off to the side will simply cause your view to stop rotating altogether, which 
 can be frustrating, especially if you get caught in a firefight. For another, aiming and shooting 
 in this version of Double Agent is significantly tougher than in other versions of the game. Agent 
 Fisher has always needed to stand perfectly still to be able to aim accurately, but now that aiming 
 is controlled using the Wii Remote, you'll need a very steady hand to get him to stop moving and 
 steady his own aim. So you'll wind up having to spend more time carefully lining up your shots 
 using these controls than you would using a dual-analog gamepad or a mouse. This makes this version 
 somewhat harder than its counterparts on other platforms, but not in a good way, since it shouldn't 
 be so difficult for a seasoned soldier like Fisher to just point and shoot at somebody. The controls 
 here are a case of "different" not necessarily being "better," and perhaps that's only to be expected 
 considering the gameplay of the Splinter Cell series was not originally created with the Wii in 
 mind.  

          Numerous two-player cooperative missions are available to give this game more lasting value. 
     

  If you've played past versions of Splinter Cell, you'll find that this one is basically very similar 
 once you get past the controls. Despite a new look to the onscreen interface and the ability to 
 work with computer-controlled allies in a few sequences, the underlying gameplay in the solo campaign 
 is nearly identical to that of last year's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. This means you'll be spending 
 most of your time skulking through shadows, sneaking up on foes and putting them in a vice grip, 
 or using either lethal or nonlethal close-combat attacks to take them out of commission. As previously 
 mentioned, Fisher must stand perfectly still for his aim to be true, preventing this from being 
 a run-and-gun style of game. However, it can still be satisfying to squeeze off single, silenced 
 shots to down unsuspecting enemies from afar. Fisher will also do plenty of climbing and crawling 
 through this game's complex, multistory environments. And while you get to decide whether to sneak 
 past foes, knock them out, or do them in -- and also whether to take on various optional objectives -- ultimately, 
 the solo missions are linear in nature. So Double Agent's mission design really is quite similar 
 to that of the last Splinter Cell game. It also recycles the same animations and sound effects, 
 creating a similar overall presentation. The game does have a different feel than its predecessors, 
 though.  

  Occasionally, you'll be forced to make a moral choice of some sort, such as early on when you've 
 got a chance to kill a man that one of your terrorist "friends" wants dead. This comes down to 
 a button press, and the consequences aren't usually significant, but it can still be fun to play 
 through sequences multiple times to see how the mission objectives finally pan out. There are also 
 three different difficulty settings to choose from, and even at the normal setting, the level of 
 challenge is significant. You can save your progress at any time, which you'll want to do because 
 you'll need to sneak past dozens of accurate, deadly foes in any given mission. Enemy behavior 
 isn't terribly complex, but enemies use cover well and their bullets hurt a lot. Sometimes enemy 
 resistance is so dense that Double Agent feels more like trial and error, but usually you have 
 a variety of options for dealing with enemies or navigating the levels. So when the going gets 
 tough, you'll sooner just rethink your strategy than get frustrated. Expect to put in a good 10 
 hours or so before you reach Double Agent's conclusion, which will be affected by some of the key 
 choices you make.  

  If you've had your fill of the solo missions, Splinter Cell Double Agent offers a complete set 
 of two-player cooperative missions. The co-op missions hearken back to the compelling but underdeveloped 
 co-op gameplay that was introduced in Chaos Theory; on the Xbox 360 and PC, the co-op missions 
 are just a multiplayer variant against computer-controlled opponents. This means you'll undertake 
 story-driven missions from the perspective of other agents in the employ of Third Echelon, which 
 is the same organization that pays Fisher's bills. These missions tend to be loosely related to 
 the solo campaign and add an interesting layer to the story.  

          Since it's harder than ever to shoot the bad guys, this version of Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent puts a premium on taking a stealthy approach.     

  Additionally, you and your partner will get to use a variety of double-team moves, such as using 
 one another as a human ladder. Some cool new co-op moves are also in here, such as the ability 
 to cooperatively interrogate foes for when a little intimidation is not enough. The co-op missions 
 still feel rough around the edges, because it's possible for both players to instantly fail if 
 just one player makes a wrong step off a ledge, for instance. But this mode can still be fun, and 
 it's also worth noting that there are nearly four times more co-op missions here than were bundled 
 with Chaos Theory. Only the Xbox version features cooperative play online, which is another reason 
 the Xbox version is definitely the one to get (at least of the old console versions) if you have 
 the choice. One issue with the Wii version is that you're limited to just one save slot for both 
 the solo campaign and the co-op missions, so if you save during co-op play, it overwrites your 
 single-player save, which can be annoying. But at least you can save at any time.  

  Splinter Cell Double Agent for the Wii doesn't get enough mileage out of the novelty of its controls. 
 The idea of a simpler, more intuitive Splinter Cell game that takes advantage of the point-and-shoot 
 nature of the Wii Remote sounds very tempting, but that's not what you get here. You do get a very 
 challenging spy game suitable for cooperative play, but if you're looking for a complicated challenge, 
 then the Wii probably isn't your only game system, which means you could be playing a better version 
 of this game instead. Earlier this year, publisher Ubisoft confirmed that the next installment 
 in the Splinter Cell series is being developed exclusively for the Xbox 360 and PC, which means 
 Splinter Cell Double Agent for the Wii is probably the first and last time we'll get to see Agent 
 Fisher on Nintendo's new console. Considering his shaky track record with Nintendo during the past 
 several years, maybe that's for the best.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  I Havent Done A Review In Ages So Bear With Me
  
  Tom Clancy's: Splinter Cell Double Agent Is A Fun Game For The Wii Its The Only Game Really Of 
 This Style For The Wii, And Is Action Packed With Skills!
  
  Too Start Off, We Have The graphics. They Are Fairly Average Decent For The Wii Maybe A 7/10 But 
 Graphics Will Not Turn You Away From A Great Game
  
  Now its Audio Is Nicely Done Throwing Objects Ppl Talking Whistling Ppl Dieing Etc All Very Nice 
 8/10
  
  Its Combat It Has Knockout Attack, Knife Attack And Simple Shooting Which You Aim With The Wiiremote 
 Realisticly, But There Is Also All The Extra Skillful Moves Such As Sneaking Up And Strangling, 
 Hanging From A Bar And Choking And Much More 
  
  it has 2 main weapons which is rapid fire and a silenced pistol, u will not need them too often 
 and shouldnt waste bullets as theyre limited.
  
  As Well As Flash grenades Hand Grenades etc..
  
  Now Theres co-op Mode Which Is A Different 
 Story Then Single Player, U play As Another Splinter Cell team And Play Off The Single Player Story, 
 it Is Fun And Has Co-op Skills Such As Wall hanging And Human Ladder, Throwing Your Teammate Over 
 A Gap , Using One Person To Disable A Camera Or Turret And Another To Run Through And Disable It 
 Permanantly And More.
  
  Its Single Player Has A Good Solid Storyline And Plenty Of Combos Itself, Split Jumps etc.
  
 
  Now its Controls Are Decent Enough Theyre Not The Greates With Shooting And Holding Still When 
 Disabling Stuff But All The More Challenge. 
  
  You Can Change The Sensitivity Anyway If You Need To, Now When Finished Single Player You Unlock 
 Elite Mode Which Is Basicly Expert Mode, The Wii Version Of This Game Is A Good Buy But Its Not 
 For All People 
  
  The Only Thing bad Is Really The No Versus Mode And No Wi-fi Which Is Odd As ps2 has it, they Couldve 
 Made This An Amazing Game But Its Just A Great One Now.
  
  Give it A Rent See What You Think.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Oh well double Agent here we are. Splinter cell trying to push it's earlirer exciting gameplay 
 to new levels and falls flat on the ground. The new concept about being the double agent and that 
 some of your actions will make one side happy and the other side mad is a good idea. But the fun 
 stops at the idea. You have no idea how pissed one side will be over the other and there for you 
 will find youself doing objective aimlessly without ever having a clue how it will all end up at 
 the end of each mission. The story is borring, but that is not the worst part of it all. The controlls 
 on the wii is absolutly horrible! I actually found myself crying over how bad they were. 
  
  Co-op could have been great but is about as long as an advertisment add, and is strangely filled 
 with a lot less enemies than in the singleplayer mode. 
  
  All in all this feels like half done work, and is only worse converted to wii
  
  Splinter cell 
 I have lost all respect for you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeyStix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  What's going on? Splinter Cell was amazing. Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow was super fun... Chaos 
 Theory.... But now? Double Agent is fun on other consoles, but all of a sudden to get on to the 
 Wii it's level of pwn has to be taken down to near fail? NO! This is unfair. Will someone please 
 make a decent action game for the Wii? Please?
  
  Okay, okay, let me catch my breath. Okay. Calm down. Right.
  
  The plot is good. The plot is 
 great. It's a nice, edgy turn for Sam Fisher, and it's fun to watch it all unravel. Where the game 
 falls down however, is where it becomes a game and stops being a story. Which I can't blame it 
 for doing, since it IS a game.
  
  The graphics are deathly disappointing, seeing as the first Splinter Cell's graphics were amazing 
 on the Gamecube, which is a lesser system. I'm pretty sure the graphics on this instalment of Splinter 
 Cell is far worse than that of the Gamecube's graphics. 
  
  The controls have gotten more complex. They've become fiddly, and just a teensy bit annoying. This 
 is another factor that has been badly ported to the Wii.
  
  The length of the game is irrelevant. It's not really solid enough for me to be able to sit through 
 it properly, but I'll assume it's pretty long, but less of a challenge for a better gamer.
  
  Dear, oh dear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chops556
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Ah Wii ports, the pinnacle of gaming comedy or tragedy, depending on how much you spend on them. 
 Splinter Cell is a franchise that's depended on numerous complex moves that require split second 
 decisions during game play. The Wii has an unorthodox control scheme that can make reaching certain 
 buttons awkward during gameplay. Together they're a match made in heaven... for the twisted few 
 of us who enjoy constant frustration. Double Agent isn't a bad game, but somewhere in the translation 
 from XBOX 360 to Wii apparently the controls, as well as the missions, got mixed and mashed together. 
 So it's unfair to compare this game against itself in it's other forms, therefore we must address 
 it as it stands within the context and library of the Wii.
  
  Even adapted from its original form, the storyline is good and is easily the best plot line in 
 the entire franchise. The addition of the trust meter which manages your allegiances between the 
 JBA and Third Echelon is a welcome addition to the series and creates a new replay value that seemed 
 to be missing from the previous games. Now you can retrace your steps and create a bizarro Sam 
 Fisher. That sense of control over Sam's actions helps engross you into the story and masks some 
 of the issues with the actual gameplay.
  
  That gameplay can be maddeningly frustrating. Using the Wiimote as your camera would almost work 
 if there was a way to quickly dislodge it when it gets stuck in the edges of the screen. You have 
 to crank the sensitivity down to it's lowest settings to be able to control Sam as carefully as 
 one would need to for espionage purposes. But if you need to turn around quickly under fire, or 
 while making a quick exit, you may find yourself flailing the remote in all directions trying to 
 get the camera to react, especially if you're in aiming mode. It is fairly easy to aim Wiimote 
 at your targets when you're under cover and able to pick off a couple targets without a quick retaliation. 
 Just don't expect to survive when you alert multiple guards and end up in a firefight. 
  
  The Wiimote can be a pain but the nunchuk can be unnerving. Some genius at Ubisoft decided that 
 some important maneuvers like jumping and backing up to walls should be executed by gyrating your 
 secondary mote. Every time you jump, make sure you Sam up perfectly underneath the ledge or be 
 prepared to spend 30 seconds swinging the nunchuk up and down waiting for him to get a grip. And 
 don't be surprised to find yourself attached to some nearby walls you were previously crouching 
 near. 
  
  When you get used to the wacky button configuration you will find that it's pretty comfortable 
 to use unless you're in a pressure situation. The game looks decent but some of the textures were 
 dulled down a little more than necessary and the lighting doesn't seem to be as dynamic as in other 
 Splinter Cell incarnations. An odd illuminating circle follows Fisher around the darker areas of 
 the game and seems to brighten up areas the way the fog disperses in a Silent Hill game. I can 
 only assume the programmers did not intend to make it as obvious as they did.
  
  The voice acting and sound are excellent. That recurring music still appears whenever you're in 
 a tense situation but that has become a staple of the series. It doesn't help in recreating real 
 life spy situations because it lets you know that something important is happening. However, as 
 far as creating tension within the context of an interactive plot based experience the score is 
 excellent. The voice acting helps deliver the story which is definitely the most involved in the 
 series. 
  
  Overall Double Agent for the Wii can be a fun experience. It's not the best looking or controlling 
 game but the story keeps you involved and the choices you get to make as Sam create a better replay 
 value than the majority of the series. The challenge of the controls can almost make the experience 
 rewarding if you're willing to stick it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  After Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, the Splinter Cell series had pretty much reached it's peak. 
 Chaos Theory was the near perfect stealth action game, featuring amazing graphics (on the Xbox 
 version at least) , a true-to-life dependence on light, darkness and noise and heart pounding gameplay. 
 Double Agent maintains all of these elements [WII] while sacraficing the graphical alure of the 
 previous game [360] while changing some of the mechanics yet maintaining the same gameplay of Chaos 
 Theory.
  
  Sam Fisher's mission is his most dangerous yet in Double Agent, he has to infiltrate a terrorist 
 organization in search of Red Mercury, but this is a review, not a plot outline, so I shall keep 
 the plot details minimal, but basically Sam must go undercover and perform certain acts that will 
 please one side of the law, whilst aggrovating the other. This is the new trust system. While doing 
 certain acts like not killing any innocents may raise your trust with the NSA, will not affect 
 your trust with the JBA, some tasks will require intricate balancing between the two organizations.
 
  
  [WII] The Wii version of Double Agent looks a little rough. Textures are muddy and rough around 
 the edges, most characters don't move there mouths when they talk and some other graphical blemishes 
 diminish the environment.
  [360] The 360 version looks almost identical to the Xbox version of Chaos Theory, with some next 
 gen improvements. The animations are all the same, but Double Agents locations are alot more stunning, 
 for example, when your falling through the sky and must activate the parachute at the right moment, 
 the motion blur etc. really looks fantastic.
  
  The sound in both versions is mostly the same, though the voice acting seems a little more enthusiastic 
 on the 360 version.
  
  There are two versions of Double Agent, version one and two, they feature different missions and 
 a partly different story. Version one is the 360, PS3 and PC version. It features the very basic 
 Double Agent plot, with some next gen enhancements and mini-games here or there. Version two is 
 for last gen consoles and the Wii. This features a slightly different story, but with more detail 
 than version two, yet it misses some of version one's features.
  
  [360] The 360 version features the strongest online multiplayer of the whole bunch. Spies versus 
 Upsilon delivers heart stopping excitement and brilliant thrills. 
  [WII] While some versions of Double Agent feature either Spies versus Spies multiplayer, or no 
 online multiplayer, just offline, the Wii version goes one step further and features no mulitplayer 
 whatsoever. This really hinders the replay value.
  
  Of the two versions, the obvious choice is the 360 version, but if you only own a Wii, then there 
 is nothing wrong with settling for a watered down version of the game. You just get a little less 
 for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  It gets hard to review a game that has appeared on mulitiple consoles. Tom Clancy's verenable francise 
 is back with Splinter Cell Double Agent. Now I have played the PS2, XBOX 360, and now the Wii version. 
 The previous two were great, with the 360 version being the best. After playing through sometime 
 with the Wii version, all I can say is "Yuck".
  
  Graphics
  Double Agent on the Wii is ugly, very ugly. The game looks like the PS2 version, only at a very 
 low resulution. The shadows are a mix of black white and strangley purple. The characters themselves 
 look horrid. The framerate is very slow as well, and when there are more than a few characters 
 it almost comes close to halt. What I don't like is seeing the Wii get a watered down port like 
 this. The Wii may not be able to render things in HD but the Wii is still pretty powerful when 
 it comes to graphics, and some polish to graphics engine (a major polish) would have been appreciated.
 
  
  Sound
  The game strangley sounds weird. Like Ubisoft went back and toned the sounds of game down to mono. 
 Alot of the voices have a strange muted like quality to them. Also strangley, some of the sounds 
 aren't even in sync with the game at all, nor is it even there at times.
  
  Gameplay
  The Wii mote control does actually save this game from and utter disaster. The wii mote surprisingly 
 responds very well to the game. Controls are mapped out for the most part pretty well. But what 
 is the major flaw in the controls is that Ubisoft failed to speed up the aiming axis when you withdraw 
 and use weapons. In all actuality the aiming is terrible. On many occasions I botched the mission 
 because of the terrible aim.
  
  Overall Splinter Cell Double Agent is a great game, just not so much on the Wii. If you have other 
 consoles, consider playing it those. This game pretty much came out for every console, including 
 the original xbox, so your better off playing it on other systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, no words before review so lets get to it.
  The story:
  As any Splinter Cell you have played before, the story is basically a Terrorist attack which you 
 have to stop at cost of your pathetic life, but with the Good-or-Bad system (don't know how is called, 
 I called it like that) you feel forced to make extreme decisions which may affect the ending of 
 the game, or so they say. Here I put a 7.5
  The graphics:
  The graphics are nothing special, those from the PS2 style, nothing to be surprised bout. Here 
 is a 6.0
  The control:
  The use of the camera with the pointer feels weird at first but can be easily mastered, the problem 
 is how the character moves, it is slow even when you are running, it makes hard to get a precise 
 move without being spotted, but it is somehow smart at the use of the lock-pick. I put a 7.8 in 
 here
  The Difficulty:
  Its hard even on the lowest level, if you are spotted is certain death, even thought the AI of 
 the bots are low, they always seem to have a perfect shot, unless of course you enter like a maniac 
 shooting down everything you see, that may work at first but when you are out of ammo thing get 
 really hard. I put a 8.0 here
  That is all I could notice of this game, it not big deal, so rent it first cause maybe you differ 
 from me but I personally didn't like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supardood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  Yes, compared to Double Agent on other consoles, this version has unstable controls and subpar 
 graphics. But it is still a great game. It has a gripping storyline, thrilling soundtrack, and 
 it makes excellent use of the Wii remote and nunchuk. You flick them up to jump, twist the nunchuk 
 sideways to sidle against a wall, and twist the Wiimote to pick a lock. On the other hand, the 
 aiming system is imprecise and shaky. The motion sensors are easily confused; sometime you'll try 
 to hide against a wall but instead you'll start to jump up and down, and this can be very annoying 
 when you set off an alarm. In addition, aiming is difficult, you'll find yourself frantically waving 
 the Wii remote at the screen as enemies open fire. Apart from that, it's great game and anyone 
 with a Wii should buy it.
  
  All in all, it's a great addition to the Splinter Cell franchise... but if you can, get Chaos Theory 
 instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game at first. It has good graphics and a good story behind it. But all and 
 all the controls weren't that good for the Wii. It took a long time to get used to the controls, and 
 even when I was used to them it was still annoying. It wasn't neither hard nor easy to beat. Although 
 there's some weakness' in the game you still want to play because the story is great, and the stealthing 
 is so much fun. I literally think they can make a movie out of this game. That' how great the story 
 is. Don't expect to get a lot out of this game. The replay value is Moderate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkiller145
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  n Double Agent we take control the control of Sam Fisher but is not the Fisher we knew. Now Sam 
 is a member of a terrorist company (JBA) . Sam become member of this company to arrest the leader 
 of JBA (Emile) for NASA (Lambert) , because he is dangerous to be free but Sam decided to take this 
 mission not because Emile was dangerous for the world but because someone from JBA murdered his 
 daughter and now he wants revenge.
  
  To complete the game you have to control the trust meter. Also trust meter affects your equipment 
 to each stage so you better be careful.
  
  To gain respect for each side you have to complete some tasks for each side. To complete a stage 
 you have to complete the main tasks and then you go to the extraction point to complete the mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ianb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  first off this was an amazing game i love it so much. its got a pretty good story line especially 
 for the first few lvls who am i kidding the stirylines great. one player is really fun the way 
 you work for the good and badside. there is some really cool moves u can do in this game. once youve 
 beet the game in one player beat it in elite. elite is pretty cool. beat elite and just one player 
 get a friend and play coop with totally differnt levels and its just as fun. then go and beat coop 
 in elite i dont think i will ever get tired of this game i mean its amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosabres26
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is easily the best of the 4 splinter cell games. Has a great story 
 that involves Agent Sam FIsher working for the good guys and the bad guys at the same time. Trying 
 to get information from the bad guys about weapons that could potentially destroy the world. A 
 nice twist on u working for two different agencies is that u have to try to earn trust on both 
 sides of the story. Variety of different levels that dont get too tediues. Each level has u making 
 choices about your actions and each action u take can have an impact on the ending of the story, 
 be it good or bad. You get plenty of new gadgets that can help u get past enemies. Even on the 
 easiest difficulty, the game is still rather hard to complete. Enemies however seem to be somewhat 
 ignorant that your there, even when they hear you. All in all, this is a great game, and even though 
 the wii controls make shooting difficult, this can potentially make the game more fun since it 
 puts more of an emphasis on sneaking past enemies or knocking them out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent takes place in 2008 in various places. The Wii control scheme is quite 
 unique in a way that makes you to never put the game down. There are about 10-12 levels in the 
 game. Each mission without stopping takes maybe about 45-1 hour. The 45 minute missions are quite 
 short, but hard. It's nice that you can have an assistant with you on a couple missions. They can 
 really help you out a lot. The Last boss can be a difficult challenge at first until you figure 
 out how to beat him. The multiplayer is quite fun. You need precision skills and complete co-operation 
 from your partner, or else you can't finish the missions. don't have a friend that's not very good 
 or you will never finish the mission. If you do, your % won't be very good. Overall, if you are 
 a Splinter Cell fan, this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is a double agent yet again for all you Splinter Cell vets. If you own a copy of Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent on Gamecube and own a Wii if you want to buy the Wii version then don't. Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent has been out on the Gamecube for a while now and most people know the story which 
 is: Sam Fisher is on a mission in Iceland when Lambert takes hi out of the field and tells him 
 his only child Sarah Fisher has been killed by a drunk driver which results in Sam breaks down 
 and is removed from active service in the NSA. Which Lambert uses as cover to get Sam to go undercover 
 with the most dangerest terriost group called John Brown's Army (JBA) . This has Sam working for 
 multiple people at once doing objectives that effect his trust between NSA and JBA which effects 
 how the game progress is effected. The controls are ok but can be a lot better the only controls 
 that work well is the way you pick locks on the game as the camera can be a real pain to move when 
 you are in the middle of a gunfight which will result in game over. The graphics on this version 
 are a lot worst then the Gamecube graphics which results in making the game worst then it could 
 have been. The game is identity to the Gamecube version and doesn't have online multiplayer which 
 could have uped the score a little. If you own a Wii and want to get Splinter Cell Double Agent 
 then buy the Gamecube version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Well lets get to it. First the gameplay is very bad. They give you so much to do and you will forget 
 what to do in a instant. Not to mention the shooting is horrible. They have aiming messed up here. 
 I know it is a stealth game and you should not focus that much in shooting but you might as well 
 not even have any weapons. The graphics are good. They don't really stand out but you will have 
 few complaints. The sound is great. You can hear the different effects of each weapon you use. Now 
 for the value of this game. This is a short adventure. I also doubt you will play this game even 
 more than once. I did not have fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell double agent ISN'T hard to control! It has a quick feel and has easy-to-learn controls. 
 It has the best story line yet and is far better then the Xbox, Xbox 360 and PS2-3 versions. the 
 completely changed most of the levels and kept Sam Fisher ON THE GROUND! instead of the parachuting 
 and underwater swimming in the other versions. The story line is easy to follow. The only problem 
 with the game is that it was to easy (for me at least) . elite took me four days to beat and no 
 longer. The game had just as good cinematics as the other versions. Ellsworth was far more better 
 then the one in the Xbox 360 version. It was longer and more realistic. co-op in double agent was 
 awesome but short. me and my friend beat it in 2 days. The game was different in the wii and VERY 
 different on the Xbox360. So if you want an awsome splinter cell experience, purchase Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent for the Wii. PN: Splinter Cell Conviction might not come out for the wii : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 24, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent for the Wii is indeed, a fun game once you've got the hang of the controls 
 but the problem is, the controls are really hard to get used to. Another problem is the camera. 
 You control the camera with the Wiimote but most of the time it doesnt work. Ubisoft did a pretty 
 lame job of porting the game onto the Wii just like all the other games but it ain't all that bad.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8. I've never played a Splinter Cell game before but I must admit, this is quite a fun 
 stealth game. Controls are hard to get used to but once you do, the game gets better. The missions 
 are interesting, you get to choose your actions but you've got to choose wisely because if you 
 go too far one side, there could be serious consequences.
  
  Graphics: 7. Im pretty sure the Double Agent games for the 360 and PS3 have better graphics than 
 this but I think the graphics on the Wii version ain't that bad. To me, the cutscenes look really 
 nice but the proper game doesnt look that good. It can be a bit blocky sometimes and some things 
 in the game just look messed up.
  
  Sound: 8. The sound is loud and clear in this game. You can easily hear the voices of the people 
 in the game and other things like the radio and footsteps. Couldve dont better with the sounds 
 but its alright the way it is.
  
  Value: 7. I highly recommend that you rent the game first. The controls and camera problems might 
 put off people playing the game so rent the game first, see what you think and if you like it then 
 go ahead and buy it. I bought this game cheap in the local game shop. I wouldn't buy the game if 
 it's full price.
  
  Tilt: 7. I liked the game. it's alright, not the best. Ubisoft couldve done better with this game 
 but they didnt. Hopefully in the future there will be a better Splinter Cell game but for now, 
 this is the only SPlinter Cell game for the Wii. Hopefully, if they make another Splinter Cell 
 game, they will fix the controls and the camera because those are the two main problems with the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panosfz6
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 16, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Game play : The game has a good twist to it and is really exciting but not FUN.
  
  Graphics : This is where the game loses its charm as the graphics are really bad even on ps2 it 
 didnt look this bad. Ubisoft really did a bad job on this port. On a 32'' lcd screen it looks bad.
 
  
  Sound : Sounds good no problems
  
  Value : Dont think it has any replay value . But for first time players it should keep them busy 
 for quite some time.
  
  Control : It takes getting used to after a while its ok, not great. using the wiimote for camera 
 angles are really bad ideas using a button with the analog stick would have been better. Ubisoft 
 not every game has to use the pointer its there dosnt mean you have to use it. Anyway this game 
 will keep you busy but ofter a while it looses to bad graphics and it just is not FUN. (I am sure 
 the wii is capable of better graphics) . Games have to be FUN quick nice colors and put a smile 
 on your face. If its going to need a nasa scientist to figure things out and remember 50000 things 
 thats not what iam looking for Iam 35 with limited time to play I want something Fun and colorfull 
 thats why I bought a WII. I will wait for MARIO and Company before giving these companies (ubisoft 
 EA) a go again so i can really see what the wii is capable of .
  They are getting sloppy and want a quick buck from me thats not going to happen again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiPlayer16
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I rented it one time and thought it was the worst game for the wii so far, but then I tryed it 
 again and its 20x better than what I thought. The controls are really hard to get used to, but 
 after a while, there cool. the main thing that I HATE is the lock picking, it take forever, plus 
 if you die you have to do it all over again. Another thing I like is the trust, either the JBA 
 trusts you a lot, or its the NSA. They decide what weapons you get before each mission. The JBA 
 wants you kill, kill and kill, while the NSA dose not want any deaths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really great. The only problems I had was with the controls. For example to 
 move the camera you had to move the Wii controller around. If you wanted the camera to stay behind 
 Sam then you would have to move the cursor outside of the screen. This sometimes made the camera 
 move as well which could cause problems during a fight. Everything else was great. I loved this 
 game. I still have to try the multiplayer version but I am sure it is just as good. The way to 
 pick locks is better too. All you have to do is twist the Wii remote left or right and the lock 
 will be picked in no time. To jump just lift the nunchuke in the air and Sam jumps. This allows 
 your fingers to stay where they have to because only your hand has to move. Even the graphics aren't 
 bad, they are really good for the Wii. I recommend this game to eveyone who owns the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, Double Agent has a great storyline. It keeps you interested and wanting a conlusion, 
 which you basically get once you complete the game. Gamespot's review is not really fair to the 
 game, because once you get by the first level, the game really picks up and gets very interesting 
 and fun.
  
  Controls: You'll immediately notice once you play the game that the camera is very strange and 
 may feel uncomfortable to handle. Dont worry, as you ill get used to it eventually and it'll feel 
 like second nature to you once you get through the first level successfully.
  
  Graphics: The most dissapointing part of this game. Overall, the graphics are pretty bad. Well, 
 I know the Wii is capable of better. The graphics is this game look like a decent PS2 game but 
 nothing better. The mini-cutscenes look pretty bad and the characters don't even open their mouths. 
 However, there are some nice cuscenes, and some textures are real nice and shiny and look rather 
 realistic.
  
  Sound: Pretty good score. The music at the end of the first level is really beautifull. Very enjoyable 
 to listen to and tense in stealthy moments!
  
  Lenght: The first time you'll play through you'll probably stuggle at parts but never for too long 
 that you'll stop playing. The game is short enough but not as short as recent games that have been 
 released lately.
  
  Value: I personally think 60 for this game is really too much to pay. The game would definitely
 
  
  Multiplayer: never played so I cannot comment!
  
  Overall: Splinter Cell Double Agent is a good stealth game. This game gives terrible first impressions 
 (mainly because of the camera) ; but the second time, its not that bad. And overall its a really 
 fun game that has got a lot of potential. Hopefully there will be another SC game for the Wii soon 
 and it wil improve on the camera system and graphics. Maybe rent this first, but It's not a bad 
 purchase if you own a Wii and you're looking for a different kind of game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I did not know what the hell to expect but when I started 
 playing it I got hooked to the storyline and the controls the controls are easy to pick up because 
 they tell you how to do it from the menus that pop up every time you move on to different parts 
 of the game, with the controls I had to press a curtain button to move in a different area, Also 
 the graphics isn't that bad it's decent. it's not like that other game from PS3. look at that terrible 
 game on ps3 Mobile Suit Gundam that was the worse game last year and this game is just a port it's 
 not even using most of the power of the Wii and it's way better then that piece of crap.
  Overall this is a game that people should try even if you have this game on 360 because the controls 
 do work well and it's a lot better than what people have been saying about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRocks1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent! People are always complaining about the controls and they are just used 
 sitting down. You start off as Agent Fisher working with his normal. Then you start working for 
 a company called the JBA. They are planning to blow up the parts of the Country with a bomb device 
 called The Red Mercury. Then it leads off from there. Gameplay is great. The Co-Op Missions will 
 last you long time (Kinda) You can not get bored with this game your heart is pumping all the time, 
 because you don't know what is who is on the other side of the wall, it could be a Turret or a 
 man (en) . Controls, don't listen to all those people complaining, the controls are great
  it fells like you are actually aiming the gun at someone's head instead of pushing a control stick 
 up and down. That's what the Wii is all about, interactivity. Graphics, okay so the graphics aren't 
 what you would expect from an Xbox 360 or a PS3, they are pretty much just an Import from the Gamecube, 
 does it really matter what the game looks like? Just as long as it's good? Wrong. But this game 
 is great anyway! Overall this game is awesome. Any Wii owner should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds360fn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Well, after reading Gamespot's review of the newest installment of the Splinter Cell series on 
 wii, I honestly didn't expect much. Until I decided that I wanted to try it. First, the graphics, 
 the are mediocre bearly better than ps2 version, but some lighting effects make the game look very 
 nice although in the shadows the graphics suffer with a spectrum of colors ranging from red to 
 gray. The music, and overall sound is probally the one of the best features of this game, the music 
 is catchy and gets you pumped to get into a firefight or steathily sneaking past a guard, or hiding 
 a body. The gameplay isn't really different from the past games but the new trust meter addition 
 is a very nice touch to the gameplay forcing you to make decisions in a split second. Another nice 
 touch to the trust meter is having different endings, offering limitless replay value. The last 
 and most disputed thing, the controls, the are accualy pretty gimicky. I don't like controlling 
 the camera with the wii mote, period. I also don't like the use of the nunchuck. Often times when 
 you in a firefight and near some cover, and you tilt the nunchuck, Sam will put his back to the 
 wall, leaving himself open, and then you need to mess around with the angle to get him off the 
 wall, or he may ,which is annoying having to flick the nunchuck to jump. Other aspects like the 
 aiming is a nice touch but thats about it. Overall, the game is solid mix of stealthy gameplay 
 with interesting controls, I use the term loosely, and lots of replay value. The only thing missing 
 is online play which made the 360 version a blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -The-Don-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I played this game for a while and when i got use the controls it was amazing. The graphics for 
 this game is alright, but with the controls it makes you feel like you are in the game. The rating 
 for this game i do not agree with game spot, but you should at least try this game out. This game 
 is very fun to play and I will bet you will enjoy this game too. This game is very similar to Splinter 
 Cell Chaos Theory and if you enjoyed that game you will definitely enjoy this game. I recommend 
 this game to splinter cell fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggywade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the first Wii games I picked up and I am not disappointed. The plot line is great and the 
 ability to affect it on a very real level is great! I also think the Splinter Cell controls translate 
 wonderfully to the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, giving you a great deal of control. (once you are accustom 
 to the Wii controllers) The loss of the Competitive Multi-Player mode on Wii may be a problem to 
 some. But the co-op mode is still their, giving you a behind the scenes story-line for a fresh 
 look at the events surrounding Sam Fisher in Double Agent. Not sure why the score for this was 
 so low here on Gamespot but I would definitely recommend this game for anyone who is lucky enough 
 to have a Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Crisp. They look almost identical to Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. Thats good, but I would 
 like to see some improvements. Still graphics are really good.
  
  Sound: Much, like Chaos Theory, the sounds are very realistic. They sound like real guns, not much 
 more to say about that. Sound is all good.
  
  Voices: Again, just like Chaos Theory. It seems like they got all the same actors from Chaos Theory 
 and that is realy, really good.
  
  Music: Similar to Chaos Theory. It's not as good though. It's not the music that is as memoriable 
 from past games.
  
  Gameplay: Although the Wii version has different camera controls it still is a really good game. 
 The controls like jumping and hugging against a wall are easy to do. Aiming seems alittle bit off 
 in this game, but that may just be for the Wii version. Also this game doesn't really help you 
 on your objectives. The new trust system is fun, but it doesn't do much to improve gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadSeaker
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  After completing Zelda I was looking for new games to play. I went to my gameshop and bought Far 
 Cry: Vengeance and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent. When I came home I started playing 
 Splinter Cell.
  
  Pointer
  
  The game went to the main menu, and I started aiming with my remote to select solo mode. Then I 
 missed something. Ubisoft didn't make a pointer for the main menu. It seems that they didn't complete 
 this game for the Wii.
  Also while I was playing, the pointer was just used as the right analog of the PlayStation2 controller. 
 I didn't like that.
  
  Teamwork
  
  I started walking around and found a cave. I walked in and captured the guy behind glass. I made 
 him talk a few times and after that I killed him. Good moves I thought. You could even use your 
 partner to get on higher parts. Wow! But still I really think Ubisoft trusted to much on the menu. 
 Also, as a gamer, we all are used to push 'A' when something happens. So I kept opening videos.
 
  
  Co-Op
  
  If there wasn't a Co-Op this game would score lower. It's fun to do this game with your friends, 
 with all those teamwork moves. We made it to the first save point for now. But I still don't think 
 the game its action will change much
  + your teammate keeps blocking your way to advance.
  
  Thanks for reading this review, and you should really think about it before buying this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSx0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  I'm 25 and I've had some time to sit down at length with this one.
  
  The controls are fluid, but the curve is a few solid hours of gameplay. I'm now making Sam do what 
 I want him to without having to think. There isn't the amount of inovation here as in say Wii Sports, 
 but there doesn't have to be. The graphics are worthy of the Wii. This means that you're getting 
 a small improvement over the Gamecube version, but it's not going to wow the neighbors like your 
 Xbox 360. I'm using the component cables and the graphics work just fine.
  
  The gameplay is Splinter Cell. If you're not familiar with the series, it's all about stealth. 
 The stages offer mostly linear gameplay with a few missions turning into a find 4 items in the 
 stage with each item being in a few different locations. This opens up the stage, but each item 
 seems like a linear course to the location. With that said, the course through the stages will 
 have some variety as to which path you take. For instance, it might be the difference between scaling 
 a pipe over the guards or sneaking past him on the ground level.
  
  The storyline is what you've come to expect from a Splinter Cell game. It's indepth and movie quality. 
 After you get the hang of the controls you'll feel like you're part of the Splinter Cell universe. 
 There are some twists and turns while the rogue agent missions, which make up the majority of the 
 game, will have you weighing decisions to help out the good guys or bad guys. The game includes 
 a faction meter that shows who you've been helping out more. If you kill a few guards in a mission, 
 the meter will tilt towards the JBA (bad guys) . Likewise, helping out Echelon (good guys?) will 
 move the meter the opposite way. The goal being to stay close to the middle and sometimes pushing 
 the limits to either side of the scale in order to open up some special toys in-game; More often 
 than not your starting gear at the beginning of a mission will be determined by where you are on 
 the meter.
  
  The sound is very good. Again, it's movie quality and will help put you right into the world.
 
  
  All in all this game may not look like it does on other consoles, but in the long run it really 
 doesn't matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  okokok i know it cant compare with the 360 SC but hell i loved the effects in it! The light bounces 
 off the water so good i swear i was in it. Of course the graphics are just a port from Gamecubes 
 but i still like the game. The controls are annoying at first but you learn to love them. i just 
 wish i had a game that shows me that Wii can really do! But it is only in the luanch window so 
 ill wait for metroid. Its basically just a port from Gamecube so you might as well ge tthe gamecube 
 one but i decided G cube was out and Wii was in. In closing i like Splinter cell Double agent it 
 rivals metal gear in my books.... but i like metal gear beter^.^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genexi2
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft has been on quite the track in throwing as many titles at the Wii as possible for some 
 quick and easy cashing in, unfortunately, a fair bit of said titles gleam with the word rushed 
 over it, which is usually apparent by glitchy gameplay, stuttering graphics, or handle awkwardly.
 
  
  SplinterCell: Double Agent for the Wii is a port from the code used in the PS2 version of the game, 
 with added-on control support for the Wii remote and nunchuk, and comes with a single-player campaign 
 of a decent length, and some co-op missions, which can be fun, albeit slow-paced in some portions 
 of a couple of the missions.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it's standard Splinter Cell fare, get handed some objectives, and achieve said goals 
 by moving around enemy territories by means of stealth. The story aint half bad, which has choosing 
 to do some of your objectives in a Good vs. Evil fashion as you'll be trying to please two factions 
 to be able to continue pursuing your goals.
  
  Do an objective in the name of one side, and you'll be favoured more by them, possibly allowing 
 you access to more weaponry at the start of missions, but in doing so you lose favour from the 
 other side, which is where you get the majority of your mission objects and intel from.
  
  It's easy to tell whether or not what you'll be doing will affect your outcome with regards to 
 the meter for your faction-favour, which shifts back and forth as you do your objectives since 
 it's fairly straight-forward business.
  
  
  Graphically, the game could have done a lot better, but giving consideration to Ubisofts' other 
 recent ports/reworks to the Wii system, this title is a bit of a miracle. My reasoning for that 
 is that this game looks of PS2-quality graphics, and runs perfectly fine with barely any graphical 
 hitches, in both the single-player campaign, and the split-screen co-operative play.
  
  Sure, it may look bland and ugly in some spots, more-so to the point you have to rely on a stealth 
 display to see if you're in the shadows or not due to the fact the PS2 version doesn't have the 
 graphical oomf to make it apparent as to whether or not you really are covered in darkness as the 
 resource-hungry Xbox360 and PC versions of the game, but it works on a modest level.
  
  For the sound category, standard SplinterCell fare, lots of convincing voice-overs from the returning 
 cast of actors for Fisher &amp; Lambert, and decent music to boot when things get shifted up a 
 notch when suspected or spotted.
  
  The game allows you to create multiple profiles for saving mission progression, the drawback is 
 the fact that there's only one save anywhere save file allowed, which is shared between all the 
 profiles, both in single-player, and in co-op modes. But it beats having to go by the check-point 
 saves the other renditions of the game require in my personal opinion, but you'd want to be sure 
 you've completed an entire mission for the completion progress to be saved if you have others who 
 will be actively playing the title also, else you may lose some progress by fully relying on the 
 save-anywhere save-state.
  
  With the Wii, one would expect a company to try different things with the control scheme because 
 of the different nature of the remote and nunchuk, and Ubisoft gave a little effort in this, even 
 though it has faults.
  
  On the Wii remote, you got your B trigger for shooting weapons, A for context-sensitive actions 
 (grabbing a character, opening a door, etc) , the d-pad has multiple purposes depending on the direction 
 pressed (Down for arming gun, left for toggling visor modes, right for quick-swapping weapons) , 
 and the 1 &amp; 2 buttons get some use, albeit not that much, mainly involving setting up your 
 weapons, whistling, and the co-op maneuvers'.
  
  For the nunchuk, C for croutching, Z for alt-fire, and the gestures, flicking up for jumping, which 
 works well, albeit not as tight as one would expect, and tilting for hugging walls, which can be 
 god-$#&amp;* annoying as a fair bit of instances where you dont want to hug a wall, you may see 
 your character do-so anyway because you shifted your arm slightly in the air, or on your lap, or 
 however you prefer. Anyways, to wrap things up, there's nothing really outstanding about the game, 
 but it can be enjoyed if you overlook the fact this game does scream port-job on it, at least it 
 just so happens that the content the port is based upon is decent on its own merits, and the fact 
 that the port itself went down well, with nothing being broken on the way, and it runs smooth at 
 least while it's at it, unlike some other attempts Ubisoft made with the system.
  (I'd kill for being able to change the control scheme/sensitivity though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badbob4546
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  We had the pvs-5 night vision scopes and repelling gear, decent weapons and fair telecommunications, but 
 nothing like what the army has now. First person shooters like this one remind me of similar circumstances 
 I had to deal with, and I hate to admit it but in situations were we needed stealth to complete 
 a mission, this type of gear would have came in handy for my team and me. Most of the missions I 
 was sent to do were night drops and required plenty of stealth. Games like far cry are more realistic 
 (excluding the genetically altered soldiers) than splinter cell games and if you ever experienced 
 jungle warfare, you would know exactly what I mean by that. I'm not disappointed too bad because 
 I get to shoot at them and they cant shoot back, so I guess that makes me bias because I do know 
 what it feels like to get shot at and run for cover. Shooter games are an outlet for me and I guess 
 the reason for that is ,I like to keep my shooting skills up to par. There were times that we used 
 scuba, but back then you couldnt take the nvgs underwater, so some of the things sam fisher does 
 are not that far from the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smurf_Assassin
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The controls don't make sense, they're completely unintuitive and aren't accurate enough for the 
 stealth-based segments, the sound, especially that from the wii-mote is a joke, and the multiplayer 
 is pathetic. If you bought this, you have my sympathy. If you liked it, please return to your mental 
 hospital or maximum security prison. As for difficulty, the game itself is easy, but the control 
 is so terrible that things are impossible. It's not a surprise, the shooter/stealth and Ubisoft 
 games categories on the Wii are unforgivably bad. Ubisoft is doing the right thing by not putting 
 Splinter Cell 5 on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Having played this game on the Xbox360, I was not at all pleased to see it's performance on the 
 Wii. I don't know what the thinking behind the controller scheme was, but counterintuitive and 
 unresponsive leap to mind. Given the gameplay in SC: DA those two factors alone make this a fairly 
 grim experience. The graphics are surprsingly good for the Wii, but they look wretched compared 
 to the other versions. Finally, far from using the Wiimote to it's advantage, there is a kind of 
 haphazard feel to the whole game's control. In a very real way this makes me wonder if 3rd party 
 high end games are ever going to be in the realm of the Wii... especially in a year or two.
  
  The game itself is the same as other versions, and it IS a fun game. The stealth gameplay is 
 still there, but for people who want to open up some whup*** there are options there too. The choices 
 you make are few and far between, but they do effect some things, and while they don't make the 
 game, they don't hurt it either. Splinter Cell games have always had good replay value, and SC: DA 
 has even more thanks to many MANY ways to accomplish your goals in the game.
  
  My friend who's Wii I played this on doesn't have a super home theatre, and I don't either, but 
 the game sounded about as good on the Wii as on the 360. It's inevitble however, that anyone who 
 has played this game off the Wii is going to be pretty revolted by the graphics. It goes to the 
 point of hurting the gameplay when you compare the sharp lighting effects and shadows I got on 
 an HDTV versus the look the Wii sported. The Wii uses a kind of bloom/blur effect to take the jaggies 
 out of it, but the result is an overly soft image that still lacks detail... not what you want 
 when the shadow you hide in is life or death in the game.
  
  It's to be hoped that future ports of high end games to the Wii will be more successful. The graphical 
 shortcomings are inevitable, but if the Wiimote were used to ADD to the gameplay rather than be 
 an awkward hinderance, it would be very different. Devs are going to have to realize that any good 
 port to the Wii needs to not just adapt to the Wiimote, but take advantage of it's potential... 
 if this isn't the case, than it's first party games for the Wii as the only options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Most of my problems with this game are inside the controller where everyonce in awhile they become 
 unresponsive but work most of the time. There are no sounds that come from the controller. Vibration 
 works well. Graphics are best ive seen on the Wii so far. . Aiming with the gun can become difficult. 
 Doing each of Sam Fishers moves can become mind boggling with the motion sensative. I can find 
 my self enjoying this game more than Zelda Twilight Princess (that was hard to admit) . I couldnt 
 find myself playing through this whole game because the story didnt immediatly immerse me into 
 it so i got rid of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
