-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tonyhawksdownhilljam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Moves fast.
 Steering with the Wii Remote works pretty well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Oversimplified trick system gets in the way.
 Not enough track variety.
 Kind of ugly, once you get past the high speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 469 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Toys for Bob
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is a passable but unexciting racing game that substitutes the finesse of 
 the other Tony Hawk games for simple and scattered action. 

  Activision's Tony Hawk skateboarding games have undergone some pretty serious changes over the 
 years, but this latest offshoot of the main series is taking things in a new direction: down. Tony 
 Hawk's Downhill Jam takes the trick-oriented gameplay of the Tony Hawk series, streamlines it a 
 great deal, and attempts to cram it all into a racing game. The result is a spasmodic game that's 
 good at making you feel like you're moving fast, but not much else.  

          It's often difficult to tell what's going on in Downhill Jam, but part of figuring it all 
 out is realizing that there's very little to it.     

  In Downhill Jam you can race as one of several skaters. Tony Hawk is the only real-world guy in 
 there, and many of the rest fall into an easily classified stereotype, such as the goth chick, 
 the perpetually stoned guy, or the self-proclaimed "rich white girl." Each character has different 
 starting stats in five different categories, but more importantly, each race starts off with a 
 little interview clip with one of the skaters, in which they show off a little personality. While 
 these clips start to repeat fairly early on, some of them are pretty funny in a subversive sort 
 of way. The game offers you a few different types of events, but the gameplay primarily revolves 
 around racing, so that's what you'll spend most of your time doing. Downhill Jam simplifies the 
 trick control system of the previous Tony Hawk games quite a bit, but most of the tricks are still 
 in there.  

  Like the other Wii games that feature steering as a major component, Downhill Jam uses only the 
 Wii Remote and has you hold it sideways, with the D pad under your left thumb and the 1 and 2 buttons 
 under your right thumb. Tilting the controller directs your steering. The 2 button acts as your 
 jump button, but it does double-duty as a grab trick button when you're in the air. The 1 button 
 is used to do flip tricks and grinds. Hitting directions on the D pad when you're on the ground 
 lets you attack to your sides, knocking down opponents or random pedestrians who happen to get 
 in your way, but when you're in the air, it lets you do different tricks. Downhill Jam's scoring 
 system is strict about trick repetition, so you'll want to vary things as much as possible to get 
 higher trick multipliers. Doing tricks fills the giggle-worthy "zone bone," which is a fancy name 
 for "turbo meter." It can hold multiple charges, and you bust out a boost by shaking the controller. 
 If you happen to fall off your board, you also shake the controller to get up, but the way the 
 game handles landings and wrecks is fairly forgiving. It seems impossible to blow a landing and 
 wreck completely, but the game slows you down a lot if you don't land at least somewhat properly. 
 So your wrecks instead come from slamming into solid objects, like walls, cable cars, and so on. 
 The steering control feels pretty good, but the trick system has been oversimplified, which leads 
 to some problems. When you're skating, you want to hold down the 2 button to crouch, so whenever 
 you're getting ready to land, you naturally start holding that button down again. Since that button 
 now also does grab tricks, hitting it early means that your skater's going to start doing a trick 
 and land poorly as a result. Taken as a whole, the control feels a little sloppy.  

  The racing is pretty straightforward, but the level design definitely isn't. Each downhill course 
 is filled with different ways to get down. So you might turn your way around and down a parking 
 garage, or you might just want to skip all that and hop through a window to get down to the street 
 below. There are plenty of grind lines that wind their way through turns, making them very handy, 
 since balancing your skater on a rail is much easier (and faster) than steering down is. Between 
 the high speed and the cavalcade of rails and paths, Downhill Jam can get pretty confusing. This 
 adds to the frenzied feel, but it doesn't make the game much fun, either. The confusion also has 
 a nasty side effect. It's possible to get turned completely around and start skating in the wrong 
 direction. The game has a "wrong way" message that pops up, but it doesn't pop up immediately, 
 so you might skate for a couple of seconds before realizing what the heck is even going on. Some 
 sort of "the track continues this way" arrow would have made more sense, but once you learn the 
 fastest route through the level, this isn't as much of an issue.  

  Some events don't focus quite as much on the racing, but they'll usually have a time limit. Slalom 
 events give you a tight time clock, but each gate you pass through gives you more time. Score events 
 require you to finish before time expires, but you're judged by how many points you score. In these 
 events, gates appear that slow down time when you launch through them, giving you more time for 
 spins and big tricks. The game also has multiplayer support for up to four players via split-screen, 
 and you can play the single-player race types, like race, slalom, trick, and elimirace. You can 
 also play "steal the head," which combines king of the hill with a downhill race. The leader gets 
 the head, while the other skaters roll around headless. You can get the head by getting into first 
 place or by knocking down the leader. The player who has the head for the longest at the end of 
 the course is declared the winner. You can select all of this yourself or just pick random and 
 let the game feed you different events. Like most games, this one is more interesting when played 
 against other players. But playing in a quarter of the screen can make things like rails and shortcuts 
 harder to notice. Considering that the Wii does have built-in network support, it's too bad the 
 game doesn't offer any sort of online racing.  

          While the single-player game has a lot of events, you'll be racing on the same tracks in 
 the same sorts of events again and again.     

  Graphically, the models and environments in Downhill Jam are muddy and sort of ugly, but at least 
 everything moves quickly and usually maintains a smooth frame rate. Like in most other racing games, 
 conveying a good sense of speed is key, and Downhill Jam at least does this pretty well. The trick 
 animations appear to have been taken from previous Tony Hawk games, and they look OK, but considering 
 the pace of the action, you won't have much time to sit back and appreciate how a Christ air or 
 a benihana looks. The soundtrack contains a healthy variety of licensed music from acts like Iron 
 Maiden, Sahara Hotnights, White Zombie, Public Enemy, and Lupe Fiasco. Most of the sound effects 
 sound like they came right out of the older Tony Hawk games, and some of those sounds also come 
 out of the Wii Remote's speaker. This comes as a bit of a surprise but doesn't add much to the 
 experience.  

  Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam starts with a time-tested trick system and an interesting idea on how 
 to reinvent it, but the concept doesn't come through clearly at all. There aren't enough different 
 tracks to keep the action fun for long, and while tilting the Wii Remote to steer works well enough, 
 the rest of the control isn't very good. If you're absolutely dying to check out a downhill take 
 on Tony Hawk, you might want to try the DS version of the game instead, which offers multiple goals 
 for each level and, yes, online play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Montebest
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  It is a good all around game. i think gamespot was a little harsh on its review.
  it has quite a few levels to keep you busy and if picked up by someone they can make a good challenge 
 after five minutes. One problem is that once you play it through with one character, it loses its 
 gameplay value. The tracks don't have good variety, considering their are 2 levels in the mountain 
 out of about 5 levels total. The E 10+ is really not deserved as they really do nothing bad and 
 all cussing would be recognized as "BAM" among the constant noise of the wheels. The controls respond 
 well however at times your board will "lose stability" and you must correct it unless you want 
 to fall down. this can get rather annoying considering to correct it you will lose considerable 
 speed which can threaten a race. Be warned, however, for if you look at your speed you will see 
 that it is one of those games that says that you are going highway speeds no mater what you are 
 on. ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superchi1d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Downhill Jam
  
  Overall Tony-Hawks is great game for the wii if you like skateboarding gam. I think this game is 
 dismally under-rated.
  
  Sound 9/10 As long as you manage to find the tracks you like (you can change the music.)
  Game 
 play 8/10 many different types not just races and bonuses to unlock
  Time Spent- Multiplayer for this game is excellent and you can choose from a range of characters 
 and styles. The single player is long and to get Gold/New Record in all races would take a very 
 long time.
  
  Single player/Career 
  
  At first it seems that it is a very short game as it looks like there is only 10races but that 
 is only the first tier, overall there are about 10+tiers there are lots of different types of races 
 all of which playable in multiplayer except bonuses and I'm not going to mention them as that would 
 spoil the fun =D. 
  
  Race
  
  Racing yes you do, you just tilt the controller left and right to go down the hill and you press 
 the arrow buttons to kick people of there boards, but wait. What are all these red arrows! Short 
 Cuts there are tons of these little alleys to go down or jump just to stay ahead of the other racers. 
 Racing is probably the most fun even in my opinion.
  
  Slalom
  
  Right again, you steer along going through (Hopefully) all of the blue rings (Gives you more time 
 if you do.) and if not hopefully finishing within the allocated time. This one isn't so good for 
 multiplayer.
  
  Trick
  
  Some people think the controls are really hard but there not, it's an arrow key and 1/2 in the 
 air and when you have full special arrow key plus A. Really not that difficult. And if you spin 
 the controller you do a 360/540 so on, which gives you more points. Really not that difficult.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is great fun and you can play all of the types above, you can also player some exclusive 
 games for multiplayer; 
  Steal The Head 
  This is where both players compete to have the head for the longest and you lose it if the other 
 person is ahead. When you have the head the timer goes up and when you don't it goes down. So you 
 really need that head!
  There is also Elimnation which i think is a really bad game where you have to stay ahead and whoever 
 is behind when the timer runs out is out.
  Hope this helped ... Superchild
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Alright, just picked up my Wii and I bought this game separately for 20 euros at Gamestop. Thought 
 it would be a rather worthless effort at that price... But instead I was positively surprised. 
 Even my wife likes it, and she doesn't care for games at all usually.
  
  This one's so much harder to master than the older TH games with "regular controls". You use your 
 Wiimote to turn your skater, and if he happens to fall, you have to shake the Wiimote to get him 
 to stand up. Also speed boosts are done by shaking the Wiimote. Wanna use the D-pad? You can't. 
 D-pad presses let you hit and kick pedestrians, and you can't reconfigure it to turn your skater 
 for easier gameplay.
  
  The standard character customization is there again. Unfortunately you can't customize your skills 
 this time.
  
  Shove the starting difficulties aside, the game's fun to play, quite challenging (I think it's 
 the hardest Tony Hawk game so far) and actually fun for the whole family. Nice graphics, decent 
 sounds, pretty sharp controls. Was pretty worried how all that would work with the small amount 
 of buttons on the Wiimote. It works. And most of all it's fun. Can you ask for more with such a 
 bargain price? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I love this game but i usually won't play it if i have to play by myself. This game is only fun 
 really if you have friends to play with. The single player mode is very fun though, but once you 
 beat it, you will probably not want to play it again. The controls are fun and exciting. You use 
 the controller as a steering wheel and move like that. It's easy and fun. I like the voice overs 
 and music. There is a very good playlist. This game isn't a traditional Tony Hawk game though. 
 It is a slalom race to the finish. If you are looking for an original Tony Hawk game then don't 
 buy this. This game has an unique feel and is very satisfying. Buy for multiplayer fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dislexsicknik
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  the new characters are pretty lame and cliche the courses are pretty cool but the control system 
 isnt that great some of the modes are pretty fun but nothing out standing and it will take an average 
 gamer a very short time to whisk thru it. its not the worst game on the system and worth picking 
 up if u see it cheap but there are alot better titles out there. nothing fantastic it falls somewhere 
 between TOP SKATER and SSX if it was more straightfoward like TOP SKATER was in the Arcade this 
 would have been more fun the soundtracks pretty good with Punky faves like Lagwagon and Good riddance 
 aswell as Strike Anywhere and a bit of Hip Hop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Let's go ahead and get the easy joke out of the way first. Tony Hawk sure is going downhill! Tee 
 hee! Seriously though, anybody that's been with the Tony Hawk franchise since the beginning can 
 tell you that it has been on a downward spiral ever since they started to focus on storytelling 
 and unnecessary elements that don't pertain to skating, such as walking and driving. I was a Tony 
 Hawk fanatic back in the day. From 1999 when the original came out all the way up until Tony Hawk's 
 Pro Skater 4, it was rare to see me in front of my Dreamcast or Playstation 2 without a Tony Hawk 
 game in. When they shifted towards a story element in the Underground games, I wasn't thrilled, 
 but it still had enough awesomeness in it to be excusable. However, the game that followed, American 
 Wasteland, was a pathetic excuse for a Tony Hawk game. It toned the difficulty down to such a degree 
 that even playing on the Sick difficulty didn't pose much of a challenge to anybody, much less 
 a hardcore fan. And here we are with the even worse Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam, a spin off racing 
 game.
  
  Upon hearing about this game, my first thought was, Wow. That is a terrible idea, and guess what? 
 I was right. Bringing this franchise into the racing genre just won't have good results no matter 
 how you cut it. The Tony Hawk games are known for having some very complex button presses that 
 the player must remember and correctly input if they plan on doing well. But in Downhill Jam, you 
 can more or less wave your arms around while pressing random buttons and rack up just as many points 
 as figuring out real combos. I played through the whole game doing just that. I did it so much, 
 even to the extent that I can't tell you how to pull off one trick in the entire game. It just 
 wasn't a necessity to know how to do tricks because you racked up more points and speed flailing 
 around like a mad man than you did consciously thinking about your actions.
  
  There are a couple factors contributing to that. The first is that you can't bail. I kid you not, 
 you cannot bail in this game while doing tricks. It's not that it isn't possible. It's just that 
 you'd have to try really hard to fall. The landing system is the most forgivable system implemented 
 in any video game I've played thus far. If you land sideways, it doesn't matter, you'll automatically 
 straighten back up. If you land on your head while doing a flip, you just jolt back into the upright 
 position and keep going. You can even hold your grab trick until you hit the ground where it will 
 land it for you. The only way you'll ever bail is if you run into something. The second factor 
 is that the game is extremely easy. There are 10 tiers in the game and the difficulty never ramps 
 up to the point of where you need to know what you're doing. I got through the whole game oblivious 
 to what the controls were and did just fine. You won't fail an event until well into the upper 
 tiers, and even then it's just a matter of finding the short cuts (which are conveniently marked 
 with a red arrow, so they're pretty damn hard to miss) , using your boosts at the appropriate times, 
 and one or two times practice.
  
  But what kind of events are there? Good question. There is the obvious racing event where you need 
 to beat your competitors to the finish, a slalom event, trick event, and a few special ones like 
 an elimination match, where the person in last gets booted out until there's only one skater left, 
 and an event where you have to knock down as many pedestrians as you possibly can. The first few 
 times you do these events is rather fun, but boy does it get boring fast. With only those handful 
 of events, you'll be doing the same things over and over again. Tack on to this that there are 
 only 8 maps and you have one repetitive, tedious game. The game tries to trick you by slyly cutting 
 some of the maps in half and starting you at a different starting point in some levels, but it's 
 very apparent and it's insulting to my intelligence.
  
  Also, the unlockables shamelessly try to make you feel like they're important despite them being 
 painfully bland. Here's what you can unlock: concept art, new boards, new outfits, and new characters. 
 How exciting! All you have to do to unlock most of these is get any kind of medal in a certain 
 event. It doesn't have to be gold. A bronze will do just fine. Since, as I mentioned before, this 
 game is ridiculously easy, you should have no problem unlocking every single useless item in the 
 game. The only thing that should have been exciting are the new characters, but the only real skater 
 in the game is Tony Hawk. The others are generic stereotypes of every person imaginable from the 
 weird goth chick to the prissy rich girl. The unlockables are worthless.
  
  There are some bright and shining moments in the game though. To start, the sense of speed is great. 
 You really do feel like you're blasting down these monstrous hills at intense speeds. Plus, at 
 the start of each race, there are short little clips of the other skaters talking. Some of these 
 are funny and some aren't, but there are a lot of them. They didn't start to repeat until I was 
 well into the game and close to finishing.
  
  The opening of the game shows a darkened silhouette close up of a skater. The character is blocky, 
 jagged, and ugly, and this is only a shadow! If that's any indication, I'm sure you can figure 
 out that the graphics aren't all that hot. The environments are big for sure with plenty of shortcuts, 
 but they're so ugly to look at that that it doesn't matter. The game tried to focus on the gameplay 
 (a lot of good that did) and the graphics took a huge hit.
  
  The sound is my favorite part of the game. As annoying and stereotyped as some of those characters 
 were, they were voiced pretty well. The various sound effects worked well too. But the best part 
 of the sound by far is the soundtrack. The Tony Hawk games have almost always had great soundtracks 
 with some great rock, metal, hardcore, and hip hop songs and this one is no different. It's not 
 the best Tony Hawk soundtrack, but it should have something there for everyone regardless of their 
 musical tastes. It even managed to include some of my favorite bands like the Descendents and Strike 
 Anywhere. If there's one saving grace to this game, it's the sound.
  
  When I write my reviews, I try to be as thorough and clear as I possibly can, which usually leads 
 to some long reviews. But with this game, I was literally pondering over what to write about. The 
 fact of the matter is that this game just doesn't have much in it, good or bad, to talk about. 
 The gameplay will be great for casual gamers, but it's hard not to notice how unremarkable it is. 
 The graphics are ugly, the unlockables suck, and the sound is good. That's this game summed up 
 in a nutshell. As this game proves, the Tony Hawk franchise needs to stick to their tried and true 
 formula and stay far away from the racing genre. As much as I disliked American Wasteland, this 
 game managed to top it in tedious, boring, and overly easy gameplay. If you count it as a part 
 of the series (which I do) , this is easily the worst of them all. Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is a 
 simplified, dumbed down, and unnecessary version of not just the Tony Hawk games, but racing games 
 in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  its not realy the best game for the wii but its in my top 10 games for wii it could of been better 
 with more charectors more places to ride and stuff like that but its one to only but is your dessparate 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
 - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -i just hae nothin else to say about the 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow! this game is amazing! there are many reasons why this game is great. the graphics are good, 
 and you have to love the scenery. from places like china to cold places like the alps, it is a 
 great skateboarding expierience. it made me want to strap on a helmet and skateboard myself. the 
 commentary from the other players are great, and add a little humor to the great game that it is. 
 the only problem i have with it is, (and it is not even a good reason, i mean it is TONY HAWK downhill 
 jam) , i hoped there would be other real skaters too, but i understand why they did not put them 
 in. overall, it is a great game, and you must buy it. it was very challenging and even frustrating, 
 but in the end, you will love, so buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This game should not be hated I like it I think that it is fine there is nothing wrong with this 
 game all you have to do is get use to the controls.
  
  Tony Hawk's DHJ is fun and decent for your Wii. It is hard not to like it sometimes. The graphics 
 are not next gen and the A i can be tough a bit so eventually it gets addictive but the sound is 
 okay though sometimes it is fun to watch the begining interviews with the skaters in the game like 
 Tony Hawk and Crash. The game doesnt take that long to get good at either, you go through the totorials 
 in the begining and learn. The way you hold the Wii mote is also new. You hold it sideways without 
 the nunchuck.
  
  If you really are not sure about buying it just try it and rent it if you have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederen
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk was one of the best-selling and hands-down greatest games on the PS2, Xbox and Gamecube. 
 With those consoles practically being out of the business picture, Activion's flagship franchise 
 is continuing on the next generation platform. Instead of making a traditional Tony Hawk games 
 for the Wii, Activision took another route and gave the developer &amp;#8220; Toys for Bob&amp;#8221; 
 a mission to make a fast-paced racing out of the million selling franchise. Did they accomplish 
 this mission? In short, Yes.
  
  Tony Hawk&amp;#8217; s Downhill Jam feels a lot like EA&amp;#8217; s SSX franchise. It is all about 
 racing from A to B as fast as you can while you do some wicked awesome and over-the-top tricks. 
 Instead of being complicated, it's accessible and fun. While THDJ isn't nearly as polished as the 
 previously mentioned SSX, it certainly offers a great experience to fresh Wii owners. The great 
 advantage of Nintendo's new console is with no doubt the controller. TNDJ is in my opinion, one 
 of the very few launch games that actually takes great advantage of the controller. To control 
 your avatar, you hold the controller horizontal (NES-style) and tilt it to left or right to tilt 
 your avatar. When you're in the air, you use a combo on waggling and buttonpressing to score points. 
 When you do successful tricks, you gain boost. To use your gained boost, simply tilt the controller 
 forward. The minus with this control scheme is that it lacks the depth from the other games in 
 the Tony Hawk franshice. Old-school Tony Hawk fans will probably grid their teeth, but if you don't 
 love the traditional TH games, you'll probably be more interested in this game than the 360 and 
 PS3 counterpart, Project 8.
  
  If you decide to pick up a copy of this game, you'll probably find yourself spending the bulk of 
 your time in the career mode. There are some different challenges, but the bulk of them are focused 
 around either racing as fast as possible or score as much points as possible. THDJ is not a very 
 long game, it will probably take you around 8 hours to finish it. However, if you're thirsty for 
 more, you can always go back and to do better on the challenges in the career mode. Since the Nintendo 
 Wii is branded as a social console, the multiplayer part of any Wii launch title is an essential 
 part of the value. THDJ offers a pretty good mulitplayer experience. You can play 4 player against 
 each other, and it is surprisingly fun. The intese speed and crazy trick system makes the game 
 great mulitplayer fun. It is very unforunate that Nintendo didn't alowe any online gameplay at 
 launch. With online absent, it limits the value of an already short game. Very disappointing.
 
  
  In all, Tony Hawk's Downhill Jame is a fun and accessible skateboard racer that you will almost 
 certainly have some fun with. 50$ is definitely a little steep, but that doesn't prevent it from 
 being a good game if you have a need for speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navinagx
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Its actually not the worst game but it gets old really quickly and isn't that fun. the graphics 
 are alright but aren't very sharp. the options menu is small and frustrating to use specially when 
 managing your tracks. the game play is really boring and very repetitive, almost every race in 
 a certain type of event is the same and slalom events are just plain frustrating in my opinion. 
 on the bright side the controls work extremely well and the soundtrack is alright but isn't great. 
 in the end it isn't a great game and i wouldn't recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiigamin_com
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Downhill Jam is a very fast-paced, and exciting racing game that is based on my favorite 
 sport (skateboardingduh!) . Hardcore gamers may not appreciate its simplicity, but for those 
 people who just want to beat the crap out of their friends and then perform a 1080 Varial Kickflip 
 to Backflip to Air Walk without having to memorize one billion button combinations, its a good 
 bit of fun. I had my doubts when purchasing this, but Im glad I did, there is enough tracks, and 
 modes to keep most people entertained for a few months.
  
  For my full review go to:
  http://www. wiigamin. com/tony-hawks-downhill-jam-review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamrock_kid
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 14, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  After thirty Tony Hawk games that are all essentially variations on the same theme, Downhill Jam 
 breaks the mold. Alright, so I'm exaggerating a bit, but as a fan of the series, Jam is a welcome 
 diversion. The graphics aren't breath-taking, but if you're moving slowly enough to really soak 
 them in, then you're missing the point of the game. And the roster of fictional skaters, as well 
 as their pre-race banter, is uninteresting (if not borderline obnoxious) , but they're easy to skip 
 over in order to get to the good stuff. The soundtrack is in keeping with previous Tony Hawk games, 
 and the variety of events (race, elimination, slalom, trick, etc) keeps things fairly fresh. Downhill 
 Jam has much more of a pick-up and play element to it than its predecessors, but still manages 
 to engage for longer, more in-depth situations, as there are always better medals or higher scores 
 to chase.
  
  The meat of the game is the speed, though. In the races especially, the momentum is exciting; in 
 each event the ability to react quickly is rewarded.
  
  While this installment of the series might throw off fans grown comfy with standard TH fare, for 
 those looking for something different, Downhill Jam satisfies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T3h1337Pwnz
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst games I've ever played. Not real skaters, not cool boards, not a good addition 
 to the Tony Hawk series. This game is terrible. You have to race through places to earn medals 
 to advance to even worse levels. The worst thing is, you can't choose your favorite real life skater 
 because they aren't even in the game. The interface is terrible and it's impossible to pull off 
 a trick you want to, its pointless mashing and shaking to obtain boosters. The music in this game 
 is what's saving my rating from a 3. Don't buy this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16tony16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk Down hill jam was a game worth playing. Good: I loved the controls, good multiplayer, 
 cool coarses.
  Bad: New characters are lame, no competative play.
  
  This game will take probably 10 to 20 hours. The first half of the game is pretty easy just to 
 let you get an idea of how to control your player, later on in the game it will get really really 
 hard.
  This game also has some pretty cool modes such as race, Salom, Elimination , Steal the head and 
 More. This game is worth the moneyand i think you will have tons of fun playing single and multiplayer... 
 Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowflow008
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Admit it, you were curious to see what this game would be like. It seems so strange! Different 
 controls, a new character cast, SSX-inspired gameplay! I can say thisremove Tony Hawk himself 
 (and Kevin Staab, a secret character) and this wouldnt be a Hawk game. It is so completely different 
 from the usual Hawk experience, its really got very little in common. Sure, youve got kickflips 
 and grab tricks, but it just doesnt feel anything like Hawk.
  
  Do not fret though, as thats not a bad thing at all! The game is very interesting, its different 
 and new and has some really cool elements to it.
  
  The Good
  
  This game is fun. The controls only take a short while to get used to, but mastering powerslides, 
 sticker slaps and learning all the shortcuts is integral to the downhill portion of the game. In 
 that, you see its not a regular Hawk game. While there are point-based objectives, this is mostly 
 all about racing. A very cool change to the normal formula, youll have fun locating hidden areas, 
 getting huge airs and on the point goals, hitting the portals will slow the game down, giving you 
 extra time to craft incredible combos and tricks.
  
  The graphics, while not breathtaking, are suitable. Vivid and colorful, diverse and creative, youll 
 be skating through some very cool and interesting stages here. The cast of characters are as detailed 
 as the stages, and each has their own set of 3 over-the-top special moves. Youll be playing a 
 wild and adventurous Hawk game. The Bad
  
  There is only one playable mode in single player. This means theres no free skate or single session. 
 Youre forced to go through Downhill Mode which gives you a wide variety of stage and mode choices, 
 but I cant just choose to skate through the Alps without racing or having to choose a section 
 of it. A minor gripe, it seems to go against what the Hawk series has done since the beginning.
 
  
  The layout otherwise gives you tiers of objectives to complete. As you progress, new levels and 
 goals become available. Goal objectives include races, point-based goals, knock over pedestrians 
 or destroy surroundings, and each will be featured in different levels or sections of levels. This 
 is cool in itself, but as I progressed, I felt less inclined to continue. Unlockables included 
 new boards, several characters and outfits and concept art. The latter appears in movie form only, 
 still screens wouldve been nice. The point here is that you chug through dozens of objectives 
 with no real sense of why. I think the layout of the main mode couldve been changed to give me 
 a desire to continue. Unlockables are rarely detailed, so they just appear when you complete this 
 or that stage, rather than saying, Complete this and get that! which might motivate me more.
 
  
  Then we get to the cast. Before each level youre presented with one character speaking about another 
 character andhonestly, does anyone care about this? I can see that the developers tried to spruce 
 up the game and give the cast depth. However, many of the comments are stereotypical, unnecessary 
 and just silly. I watched a bunch before I skipped, with consistency, and I never watch now.
  
  The most important part though is the controls and the gameplay. While fun, the game is broken. 
 You may find yourself at the end of a race, barely in first place, 10 seconds left but Oh No! Im 
 stuck in a corner! Oh No! Im backwards and I cant turn around (press the - button) . Youll find 
 yourself overcorrecting when youre trying to make quick shortcuts. The tricks seem interchangeable, 
 and even with some wild and creative special moves, they wont matter much as youre flying high. 
 Finally, I still have issues performing back and front flips, sometimes spinning as well, as Im 
 in the air. The controller is sensitive, so why am I still having issues?
  
  The Verdict?
  
  That section on the bad seems so much bigger than the good. That doesnt mean 
 this game is terrible though. Its not. Its fun, its new and it's different (to all you naysayers 
 out there) . It's not a truly deep Hawk experience, but I could see myself picking it up for a quick 
 round here or there. Again, this is where a free skate or level select is really missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Downhill jam.. I would've thought it would be fun to go down a hill at high speeds with nothing 
 but a skateboard as a sense of rush overwelms you, making you bust combo after combo as you race 
 for the finish. I though wrong. This game wasn't the game I hoped it to be, the speed does give 
 you a feel of rush but not as much as I'de hoped, a total letdown as that was what I was looking 
 for. Forget busting combos, half the time I was saying What the heck is going on? . This game gives 
 little options and a disappointing speed level that will make you regret wasting money on this 
 mediocre title.
  
  That about sums it all, so now I'm just going to suggest a few things hear and there. If you want 
 a sense of rush get Need for Speed or Burnout. If you want a good skating game go pick up THUG2 
 or Project 8, and if you just want a good Wii game go get WarioWare. You won't get much from this 
 game, only the hardest of the hardcore tony hawk fans could love this game.. and it'll still give 
 them major doubts.
  
  This game: Letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Well with another console generation upon us, it's time for Activision to rehash it's now 3 console 
 old Tony Hawk series. This time the Wii get's a special verison all it's own, and it's not really 
 all it's cracked up to be. The graphics aren't all that bad, the characters have an exagerated 
 look to them, but so far it's the best looking Tony Hawk game on a Nintendo system. One thing that 
 Activision does well is adapt it's controls and fun well and leave the graphics trailing behind. 
 But that's not totally the case with Downhill Jam. The music is the typical Tony Hawk style which 
 is a lot of rock mixed with rap in the soundtrack. This sound track I think is better then some 
 of the past incarnations. The sounds are typical Tony Hawk, and have some humor to them. The voices 
 are the true skaters, but some of the actual acting is pretty poor and laughable at times. As most 
 Wii games, what seperates the Wii is the controls and the premise sounds good on paper but it's 
 not really all that well done. You hold the Wiimote alone on it's side as you race down the mountains. 
 Most of the old grabs, flips, and grinds are there but they are overtly simplified. This game focus 
 more on speed then on tricks which is sad because you really don't feel like your going all that 
 fast. The controls aren't that spot on at times. Plus you can get stuck into respawn as you get 
 pushed up against walls.
  
  The replay value is lame! You can pretty much play through all the levels in one day. But it's 
 always the same thing every level. It's like Activision tried to revitalize the series away from 
 it's roots and didn't do a very good job of it. Every skater pretty much plays the same as the 
 other, and all the up grades don't really change the game play. All in all this is just a renter. 
 Even though Tony Hawk is name that always goes with reliability, it doesn't go with this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nesman27
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  In this one, there is no story, just racing and going fast. The stages also last under a minute, 
 so you just start, and in a short time, you get to the finish line. This dissapointed me because 
 in the previous one, Tony Hawk's American Wasteland, there were in-depth storylines and length. 
 In this, there isn't even a free play mode, it just forces you to play either with a friend, or 
 to beat the game. Also, if you start a game, you have to stick with the character you first chose, 
 or else you'll have to go through it all again. In other words, this game is not worth the money 
 it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I've always been bad at Tony Hawk games. Actually, bad doesn't even begin to describe it... I really 
 suck at skateboarding games. I wasn't sure what to expect from Downhill Jam, except for sucking 
 some more at controlling my skater. But for the first time ever in a Tony Hawk game, I actually 
 got a sense of accomplishment right from the short tutorials.
  
  First of, Downhill Jam is basically any snowboarding game you know, without the snow and on a skateboard. 
 It's composed of a series of races instead of mission-based gameplay. You're always launched off 
 a ramp and away you go, downhill, facing your oponents, pedestrians and all sorts of urban obstacles.
 
  
  After picking a skater or customizing your own (each skater has different attributes) , you are 
 placed in a series of short tutorials that teach you the basics of the game and its controls. You 
 steer with the remote. You hold it sideways and tilt to turn, just like in Excite Truck. It's simple 
 and easy to get into, but takes a bit to find out how much to tilt exactly and not end up turned 
 around going uphill, especially in those tight twists and turns. Tilting is also used for balancing 
 while grinding and to turn your skater while performing tricks in the air. If you fall, you shake 
 the remote to get back up.
  
  Gone are the complicated controls for doing tricks. Instead, you use buttons 2 and 1 to do any 
 trick combination and variations. To ollie (or jump) , press 2 and then release it. To grind, ollie 
 and then press 1 near a rail. Explore with variations of 1, 2 and flicking the remote to do all 
 sorts of flip tricks, grab tricks and more.
  
  Doing tricks during a race fills up your Zone Bone meter. This is your booster, which you can use 
 when the meter is full to get a speed burst, by simply shaking the remote. Knocking down pedestrians 
 or opponents and destroying things also adds to the Zone Bone.
  
  Trick chains build up your SPECIAL meter, which you can see under the Zone Bone. When your special 
 is all lit up, ollie off a ramp and press A and 1 (or 2) to do a special trick for extra points.
 
  
  Downhill Jam is divided into tiers. Your skater needs a certain number of progress points to reach 
 the next tier. You accumulate points by finishing a race among the first three.
  
  Each tier is composed of 10 races. The objectives are varied and they range from pure races to 
 slalom, scoring a certain number of trick points, head-to-head challenges, elimination races and 
 even causing as much destruction as possible (which is quite fun) . There are even some surprise 
 events market as question marks that will be randomly selected once you access them for the first 
 time.
  
  The game is packed with extras, but unlocking them depends on how well you finish each race. Some 
 of the unlockables include new races, new characters, better boards and outfit variations for existing 
 characters.
  
  Aside from the single-player story mode, there is a quick play race mode and also a split-screen 
 multiplayer component for up to 4 skaters. The events in multiplayer include Race, Slalom, Eliminator, 
 Trick and something like tag called Steal the Head, where you must be in first place the longest.
 
  
  The tracks are creative and the environments are fairly detailed and alive. You will race through 
 Honk Kong, Machu Pichu, San Francisco and Edinburgh. Each track has its own surprises and shortcuts, 
 and that's where the replay value is at: as you learn where the shortcuts are and gain better boards, 
 you will want to go back and do better.
  
  The character animations and facial expressions were nicely done, but there were a few instances 
 where graphical issues were apparent, particularly skaters going through walls or fences.
  
  The music is great, I personally never had any complaints about any of the previous Tony Hawk 
 soundtracks. Even if it's licensed music, it doesn't grow tiresome like many EA soundracks do. 
 You can customize it by choosing what songs you want to play, or you can pick one of the pre-set 
 character soundracks.
  
  The voice acting and sound effects are very good as well. At the beginning of each race, you get 
 to see a short piece of an interview with one of the characters (you can turn them off in the options 
 though) , and their personality really comes through with the voice. You get to hear them complain 
 about the other racers or reveal silly little details about their lives. You can skip the interview 
 though, and when you do, you will hear the character that was being interviewed scream in despair. 
 I personally thought it was a funny touch.
  
  In the end, not only is Downhill Jam easy to pick up and play, but you don't even need to have 
 played any Tony Hawk game before, anyone can do it. Mastering it is a different story. But finally, 
 I can feel more pleased than frustrated with my skateboarding clumsiness.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and mini-guide at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=thdownhilljam 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game i got with my wii at christmas. I must have completed it in a day and i think it was 
 really bad. It is the worst tony hawk game possible.
  
  This game has the worst gameplay, it is so repetitive game, it is short and has no real sense of 
 direction, you race, you win boards and that is it.
  
  This game is not really even a Tony Hawks game. Its just another racing game. The controles are 
 very senstive and are quite unbalanced, if the wii contoller goes slightly over rotated the charcter 
 will not turn, this is a major problem in the game. The soundtrack as well is not as good as the 
 previous tony hawks and is shorter choice.
  
  Oh well i think it was just a rushed game, just so that it would come out for launch, if they would 
 ahve worked a bit harder it would have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escobizzle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the Tony Hawk series and I have been since its debut on the original Sony Playstation. 
 That being said, this title was a huge disappointment in terms of features, skaters, maps, and 
 free style play. There are only a few maps, all but one of the skaters are completely fictional, 
 and gameplay is limited to going downhill. On the upside, the controls are decent and make what 
 little of a game Activision has provided, a blast. Definitely needs more features. I wouldn't suggest 
 this title unless you see it on the value rack for 20 bucks. Definitely not worth its 50$ price 
 tag. Wait for SSX Blur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Well we have a Tony Hawk game on the Wii. We are here to talk about Tony Hawks Down Hill Jam. Now 
 this game adds a few new things to the Tony Hawk series that seem that would make the series better 
 but they really don't. Besides a few good pre-race gags and some fun gameplay this is not an excellent 
 game that anyone would want to play. This game has quite a few problems that really hold the game 
 back from being good. Now the gameplay in Down Hill Jam is ok but has some problems. The controls 
 in the game are ok. You hold the Wii remote side ways and you turn it right and left to make turns. 
 You use the arrow buttons to punch and kick your fellow racers of their boards. You do tricks by 
 pressing the one and two buttons and you also turn the remote to do spin tricks. Now you may think 
 this sounds like a good control set up but it isn't. The trick system is too simple and gets old 
 after awhile. When you respone by shacking the remote you feel like the developers could have made 
 this a little more creative. Their are only a few mission types. Some of these are kind of dumb 
 like you have to destroy a certain amount of objects and rack up the replacement cost. You have 
 to nock down a certain number of people before you finish the level and there are som other mission 
 types. The biggest gameplay problem for the game is that the tracks in the races and the missions 
 are just to short. The gameplay in this game is just underacheving and really could have been better. 
 The graphics in the game are just really not that good. The characters in the game are not the 
 good looking and could have looked better. The alternate costumes don't look that good and don't 
 have that much detail. The best graphics in this game come from the track design. The developers 
 in the for the game put quiet a bit of detail into the track design and they all look ok. You will 
 not be overwhelmed by the design in the game and you will think they could have had a bit more 
 detail. The graphics in the game start to look sloppy when you start to get really fast. The graphics 
 start looking a messhed up and just look a mess. Over all the graphics in this game are just kind 
 of bad and sometimes look ugly. The sound in Down Hill Jam is ok. You will recognize some of the 
 rock songs in the game. They have some really songs in the game but also some bad songs. You will 
 like the music in the races because they kind of set the mode for the races because the races are 
 supposed to be hard core and the music is hard core. Now I did say that there are some bad songs. 
 These songs kind of put down the hard core racing scene and really just make the music worst. The 
 music gets repetitive and just gets really old after awhile. Over all the music is just ok. Over 
 all this is a mediocre racing game that is just a SSX on skate boards and really just doesn't have 
 the quality that those games have. This is a game maybe only the hard core Tony Hawk fan can enjoy 
 and is just a under achiving game that could have been so much better and sould be at the bottom 
 of the games that you should want to get for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedzoom93
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  The controls of Downhill Jam arevery easy and should take no longer than 30 minutes to master.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and speedy, after a while it does get frustrating though, whne you 
 keep smashing into the back of other skaters and slowing down. Playing the same level over and 
 over again get boring after a while. Unlike Mario Kart, when you can play the level more and more 
 time over and over but the fun just adds.
  
  Graphics
  
  The level graphics are very outstanding but when it comes to the karters they all look skinny and 
 boney which is kind of dis-appointing since the Wii is a next gen console. (Not that graphics matter 
 anyway)
  
  Sound
  
  Nothing more to say except... WOW!!
  
  Overall
  
  I give this an 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  I've always been a semi-fan for the Tony Hawk games. But this one is a big step up from the others. 
 Not only you still do cool tricks, but now you can race and collect those circle thingies. It actually 
 makes the game funner.
  
  On this game, you hold the Wiimote as if it was a normal controller. You hold 2 to go. You press 
 1 or 2+a directional button while in the air to do tricks. Everything else can be done with moving 
 the Wiimote itself. Cool, isn't it?
  
  The graphics are a bit of an improvement from previous Tony Hawk games. Their's actually a hot 
 girl here named Tiffany! Most of the music and sound FX are also good and realistic.
  
  Overall, this game is looks a cross between the older Tony Hawk games and SSX (Although, I've never 
 played an SSX game yet. ) . I reccomend this game to racing fans and skateboarding fans alike. I 
 hope they make a Downhill Jam 2. I want to see more games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12yon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk is usually a game about jus skating free in open areas , trickin off anuthing u can see 
 , but now its a downhill racing game .. sounds cool but it isnt . Basically u steer with the Wiimote 
 which is pretty hard and can take sum time to get comfortable with , its was SO hard at first but 
 i learned pretty quick .. also u do spins in the air by turning the controller .. also pretty hard 
 since u tend to over rotate , also flips are done by popping the remote up .. that is pretty easily 
 done , basically the point , tony hawk and racing dont mix that well , it is fun for about a half 
 hour or so but it gets very boring and repitive after awile .. replay value is very low , but if 
 u JUST have to get it i cant force u out of it , but i have to say i wasted 50 bucks on this ... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up because I am a fan of other Tony Hawk games. But this game is nothing like 
 the other games because it is a racer. Dont let this put you of because what you have here is a 
 fun high speed game that has great style.
  
  Gameplay: Tilting the controller is fun and more natural because on these kind of games you find 
 yourself tilting left and right. There are different riders and boards that have different stats 
 but there is not an amazing difference.
  
  Graphics: From a technical standpoint thre a PS2 game but from an art they are lovely and kinda 
 like Guitar Hero. Sound: The sound is dssapointment. The music is good but the sounds of grinds 
 and trick noises and wheel noises are not on par with others in the series. The remote speaker is 
 not used well either.
  
  Value: I have been playing for a day and am 19% with Tony which is kinda dissapointing but there 
 are boards to unlock and skaters although the skaters are easy to unlock apart for one that I haven't. 
 Tilt: I really like it because it is a cross bewtween Tony Hawk games and Burnout games which I 
 both love.
  
  Overall: Buy this if like easy to pick up and have a good time games like Burnout. But you may not 
 like it if you are a Tony Hawks purist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has fond memories of the Tony Hawk series whether it was the two minute jam sessions in 
 the classic Tony Hawk Pro Skater games or the Viva La Bam style of humor in the underground series, 
 everyone has a favorite Tony Hawk game. This one may not be my favorite but it is definitely something 
 new which is a good thing.
  
  The graphics are part cel shading part real life and work for the game very well. The enviroments 
 are very colorful and feature a wide variety of places from Machu Picchu to the Alps (SSX anyone?) . 
 The character animations are very well done from having Tony just stand there shouting out why 
 he won to MacKenzie showing off her fingers to the world.
  
  The game is pretty much just a SSX clone on wheels. There are several game modes such as your basic 
 race where you compete with four other racers to see who can make it down the hill first. In Slalom 
 races you travel through blue gates in order to gain some extra time and hopefully cross the finish 
 line before time runs out. These and some other game modes can make for a fun and exciting experience 
 in both the single player and multi-player modes.
  
  The sound in the game is the usual slew of signed artists that your friends claim to of heard of 
 even though you know they're lying. The problem in this game is you can't control what music you 
 want to listen to because even though there's the playlist options that adds or removes songs you 
 don't know which song is which because it doesn't display what song you're listening to while in 
 races. The game also could of benefited from a custom soundtrack option via SD card.
  
  The multi-player is decent enough with all the game's characters except your custom made character, 
 avalabile for choosing in up to four player sessions. In these sessions you can choose from the 
 game's variety of race types and courses. You will be playing this game for quite a bit thanks 
 to a ton of unlockable stuff such as costumes and concept art.
  
  All in all it is a very well done game and a great starting point for not only Activiosn and their 
 future Tony Hawk titles but also EA and their SSX series which this game basically is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _somerandomguy_
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  First thing I have to say is that it lacks in depth-based game play. I don't see any free skate 
 or practice modes, or an even slightly in-depth story mode like in THUG 2, just a watered down 
 get-it-over-with tutorial and a straightforward beat this stage and move forward type game play. 
 This may be the reason it feels so awkward; it thrusts you into game play when you may not be used 
 to it.
  I started out disliking the controls: being a Tony Hawk's pro skater game fan, the controls were 
 all new and tilting was a bit difficult to use in mid-air while trying to figure out what moves 
 you wanted to pull off. I didn't like the tilt-to-spin control, and would much rather use the D-pad 
 like in the classic TH games. Tilting it to steer on-ground and to balance on rails feels perfectly 
 natural though. After a few levels on the lower tiers, though, you will slowly get used to the 
 new style of control and begin to play the game for real.
  The story mode is called downhill challenge or something similar, and though it lacks a storyline 
 like in THUG2, it pulls through gaming swiftly through a few different modes of play: Race (Beat 
 the other characters to the finish without checkpoints or straightforward lines, use shortcuts 
 and combat to your advantage) , Slalom (Take a straightforward skating line to hit the blue slalom 
 gates which give you extra time, make it to the finish with extra bonus points for how much time 
 you had left) , Trick (Get as many points as you can using combos and special moves, checkpoints 
 are spread around and a bonus is given for how much time you had when you finished) , and an occasional 
 See how many pedestrians you can knock over! . Being truthful, the combat mode seems like it is 
 there to give the skaters a punk I can do whatever I want feel, though it is most probably just 
 another game mode because 3 modes is a little lacking.
  The goal in the game is basically to beat the levels and rank up, eventually reaching higher ranks 
 and unlocking more tiers of stages, more areas, more characters, and extra skateboards which add 
 stats that can be used to your advantage depending on what mode of game play you are about to engage 
 in. The game doesn't go into much depth anywhere, but this has a good side as game play manages 
 to move along quickly with only quick interviews between the fictional characters (All characters 
 in downhill jam are fictional except for Tony himself,) and the interviews can be skipped anyway. 
 Game play becomes increasingly difficult, giving about a perfect amount of practice for when you 
 have to move on to the next tier. It is only the awkward start-off you have to go through when 
 you first encounter the game's controls. One big thing fans may not like is that all you need to 
 pull off to do a special trick is hit the A button. Voila. The game may even be at the level of 
 button-mashing when it comes to flip tricks and throwing a few special tricks around because it 
 is so simplistic, but trying to add in the classic grab moves takes calculations in whether it 
 would give you more points to keep holding or to switch to another grab or trick altogether, leaving 
 a challenge if you want to master trick mode.
  Though many long-time Tony Hawk video game fans will be disappointed at the fact that you seem 
 unable to bail if you land incorrectly, adding easiness, the truth is that it grades you on a letter 
 based scale on how well your landing was, not to mention if you land awkwardly it may just send 
 you flying into a wall or off a cliff, which will inevitably cause you to bail or lose a lot of 
 time. Landing is probably the hardest part in the game anyway, because the tilting of the remote 
 can be tough when you have to tilt in the other direction to slow your spin a little. Overall the 
 game play is satisfying, especially when you become better at the controls, and will keep you occupied 
 due to a fair and gradual increase in difficulty as you traverse the tiers.
  The graphics in this game are actually quite good, compared to the general thought on how Nintendo 
 is labeled as the company who has the games with Ewww horrible graphics . The characters look smooth 
 and life-like, and during the interviews it seems as though the characters are actually the ones 
 talking; their mouths move really fluently in my opinion. Some may call it cartoonish, but I find 
 it to be above sufficient for my tastes. Stages can get a tad in-depth with detail, but don't expect 
 for a second that it will wow you with anything. Sound is the usual skateboarding noises, with 
 the Screeeeeeee! when you grind a rail and the wheels going wshwashewashwehsahwa when speeding 
 down pavement. Voice acting is definitely solid. Music is varied, but may not appeal to some audiences. 
 There is a multiplayer mode, but I have yet to try it out due to my lack of a second controller... and 
 some friends.
  
  Overall a good game once you get into it and get used to the controls. I will remind you once again 
 that even if you are used to the Wii, these controls could take a while to master without button 
 smashing and a little random tilting while in the air. A free-skating practice mode would have 
 easily remedied this; I am quite disappointed about that. Graphics and sound are relatively solid, 
 though nothing to write home about. Pretty good buy; I recommend it to Tony hawk video game fans 
 who want a different style game then what was given previously. If you want to stick with the old 
 story mode/do-whatever-you-want style, you probably want to steer clear. It mostly depends on preference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feildmouse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  this game is really good but actually has a spuriseing degree of dificulty. the gamplay here is 
 rock solid though some times the turning is a little to tight. It also uses the wii mote very nicely. 
 this game is over all a fun highly addictive game. If you are willing to put in some time to get 
 some better boards it you will be able to sweep the races. It does have a good bit of originality 
 being the first down hill skating game. Adding to the experience are the colorfull charactors. This 
 game is deffintly a good addition to any hawk fans library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalonoa6
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk DHJ is the new game of the series. Using the wii remote to steer you're character, you 
 race down the streets. Though the controlls are quite sensitive, it still is pretty fun for a little 
 while. Another thing you can do if punch and kick people by using the d-pad. You can also grind. 
 There are tons and tons of places to grind down the hill the make it go faster. There are differant 
 modes of gameplay- theres timing where you have 10 seconds at the begining and to obtain more time 
 you hit a blue target. There is also just flat racing- no special things, just get to the finish 
 first. And there is the most points wins where you try to get as many points as you can while racing 
 down and it dosn't matter who gets to the bottom first or last.
  
  Overall, I don't reccomend you get this game as it gets boring real fast, has horrible graphics 
 and there isnt much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4t4lfury
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I thought when I popped in the disc was oh, it's like Tony Hawk the Animated Series 
 in terms of graphical styling. I am aware of the SSX comparisons, and Downhill Jam really does 
 remind me of SSX 3-- which is certainly not a bad thing.
  
  Right off the bat, you can play as Tony Hawk, Gunnar (a muscular Norwegian) , Kyla (a hip-hop diva) , 
 and MacKenzie (decidely British) ; and everyone has different attributes, differing from SSX in a 
 positive way. True to form, you can also create your own skater. There is a brief but ample tutorial 
 at the beginning that gets you comfortable with the controls. You'll learn you must tilt the Wiimote 
 to steer, much like Excite Truck. Hold down 2 to speed up and release it to Ollie. Press 2 again 
 for a grab trick or press 1 for a flip. Pressing the D-pad before any of these results in a trick 
 variation. The result is an easy to use control scheme that lets you jump right into the action, 
 but still save some special moves for you to really master.
  
  You'll find unlockable skaters, boards, outfits, artwork, videos, and sound bytes, as you would 
 expect in a Tony Hawk game. As you progress through the game, you will rank up, which unlocks new 
 events for you to conquer. Each even you win results in points for you character's rank. The system 
 is fair and challenging. For instance, if there is an event you have a tough time on, you can reply 
 a previous event for a better rank (and high score) and earn yourself a few more points.
  
  The events you'll find throughout Downhill Jam are surprisingly varied. You'll encountered races, 
 slalom courses, trick challenges, elimination rounds, in addition to special events like distance 
 grinding and damage value (cause the most monetary destruction) . The racing conveys a sense of 
 speed, not quite as fast as SSX: On Tour -- you are on a skateboard after all and not a snowboard -- but 
 fast enough to make you feel as if you're really crusing. Shortcuts abound in each of the tracks, 
 which adds a little extra challenge to mastering each track.
  
  Environments are somewhat interactive, in that you must avoid or grind on vehicles driving down 
 the roads or you'll crash. (Just shake the controller to get yourself back on your board.) You 
 can hit people (and other skaters) to get a huge bonus for your boost meter (which you trigger 
 by shaking the controller or pressing B ) . You can also destroy trash cans, benches, fruit stands, 
 and other things if you skate into them or do tricks on them. You can grind on power lines and 
 the edges of buildings (by the way, just Ollie and hold 1 to grind, tilting the Wiimote to retain 
 your balance) .
  
  To tie the events together, one character gets interviewed between each event. It's light-hearted 
 humor, but it's also skippable if you don't care for it. The quality of voiceovers and animation 
 is very high, with several other real skaters, as well as Tony Hawk lending their voices and personalities 
 to the characters.
  
  The mulitplayer component adds another layer to the game, offering up to four-player split-screen 
 competition. It's not all head-to-head racing, however. Downhill Jam offers up a variety of mini-events 
 to battle against your friends. The standard races and slalom events are there, of course, but 
 you will also find elimination, destruction, and trick events. The mini-events can be played one 
 at a time or as part of a larger series -- fostering a tournament atmosphere.
  
  After getting about 79% through the game, I am left with this impression: It's like SSX 3 on wheels. 
 So, if you like the SSX games, Downhill Jam will appeal to you. If you like everything Tony Hawk 
 before American Wasteland, Downhill Jam might not do it for you. It's purely a racing game where 
 you do tricks in order to build up your boost meter so you can race faster -- which makes a very 
 enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niccross
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely a buy. No question about it. The game play is amazing and the graphics 
 aren't half bad they're actually pretty good graphics. There are a ton of levels and a lot of great 
 characters with special attributes. The only thing is, is that I think they should have more pro 
 skaters than just Tony Hawk, but still all of the made-up characters are cool. None of the characters 
 had the same personality. This game is easily worth the money. You shouldn't wait to buy it. The 
 sticker slaps really help with short cuts and what-not. The short cuts are awesome in this game. 
 There are tunnel short cuts, jumping short cuts, sticker slap short cuts, and a whole lot more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw this game advertised i was like that game looks like crap so its christmas day 
 and i get a wii and im opening a present and inside is downhill jam. OH BOY thank god i got this 
 as a surprise. at first the controles sucked, the game was hard and i didnt like it very much but 
 then i got better and i was flyin down the hills with ease. unlocking harder tracks and challenging 
 my skill even more.
  
  All i have to say is: dont give up and trade this in. keep at it and it will become fun and easyer 
 too play. The wii is new hardware and it takes time for everyone to learn including developers 
 and gamers alike so keep at it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  In Tony Hawk Down Hill Jam, you basically race down a huge hill in many different unique environments. 
 There are also other challenges like knocking people over. For the most part the game is pretty 
 fun. Its very addicting and challenging. One of the bigger problems is that there is zero depth 
 outside of racing, you can create a skater, but besides that there is nothing. The plot is very 
 weak and is very lame. Basically Tony Hawk started this big new race called Downhill Jam and random 
 skaters are now participating. Unfortuanutely, the gameplay nor graphics make up for it.
  
  The gameplay is pretty lame. You tilt the remote to steer and feels horrific to someone whos used 
 to using a controller, let alone even a wii mote pro. The steering controls are ackward and irresponcive. 
 The tricks in the game are really kinda dumb because you never bail from a trick. If you played 
 a previous tony hawk game, this is nothing like it. You can hold the trick button until you land 
 and you wont bail. Grinding is a joke because maintaining control on the rail is way too easy. 
 As you play you unlock new boards and characters. There is a single player rank system that is 
 a sort of incentive to get all gold awards in the challenges. Its still a fun game, but gets a 
 little repetetive after long periods of play. Overall the gameplay is really lacking substance.
 
  
  The graphics are good. They look good for the wii, but nothing extra ordinary. Character models 
 are clay like which looks dumb, but the environment is always unique and detailed, which is a great 
 part of the game.
  
  The sound is mediocre. Nothing bad, but nothing close to good. The music is typical Tony Hawk punk 
 rock which is pretty lame. Sound effects are ok, when you ride on a rugged terrain youll hear it, 
 but again, nothing amazing.
  
  Overall, rent this game. It is not anywhere near worth the 50 dollar purchase and youll be done 
 with it after a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMAN95
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  If you are one of those people out there that has a Wii and you like Tony Halk games then you will 
 love this game but I must worn you to only rent it because I rented it and beat it in 3 days and 
 I had 2 days left! Theres a good amount of characters and I like the inter view things. And the 
 courses are awesome Matchoo Pechoo is one of my faverets and Rio is cool to. The controls take 
 some geting use to but onec you get the hang of it its great! It becomes a way diferent experents 
 with that controll skeem. The game play it sweet going down hill get a boost go off a jump do some 
 tricks land it hit an aponent! The 1p is great all different cinds of chalenges like slalom, trick, 
 race, and some more the one fla in this game is its to short and multiplayer isint all that great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgb8007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, very addicting, and incredibly entertaining. I can understand some of 
 the poor reviews, but I would be willing to bet that many of the people that gave it a poor review 
 didnt play for longer than an hour or so. The game becomes much more fun once you learn to play 
 well and are able to use new boards, thus letting you do insane tricks, special moves, grinds, 
 all the elements of THPS we love. There are about 40 or so tracks, in about 9-10 major locations, 
 ranging from tibet, to chicago, to the alps., and about 15 or so boards per person.
  
  Bottom Line: Multiplayer leaves something to be desired, Career is incredible. Tons of great songs 
 to skate to as well. Do yourself a favor and at least rent this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is just that; a downhill skating game. Inspired by a few key levels in 
 the original Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, Downhill Jam takes the core design of a Hawk game - tricking 
 and competition - and adapts it to the downhill scene. Think of it as SSX on wheels. For general 
 control, developer Toys for Bob has opted to use only the Wii-mote, held in the classic position 
 as if it was an NES controller. Players will carve using the tilt function of the controller, grind 
 and jump with the 1 and 2 buttons, and powerslide for quick cornering and added boost with the 
 A button. The D-pad is used only in conjunction with the 1 and 2 buttons when in air, which will 
 pull off a variety of kick and grab tricks just like every other Hawk title before it. Where things 
 get interesting is the change in gameplay, revolving entirely around downhill course design. Players 
 will go head-to-head against either computer-controlled competitors or three other friends, participating 
 in race, trick, slalom, elimination, or steal the head events. The different events are spread 
 across eight different tracks, each inspired by real-world areas such as San Francisco, Hong Kong, 
 Machu Picchu, Rome, Edinburgh, Rio, The Mall (a throwback to the original downhill Hawk level) , 
 and The Alps. When playing through the main Downhill Challenge mode, players will select their 
 character, choose a board, and begin climbing tiers of an event bracket. The more you win, the 
 more you unlock. Also, while eight locales may seem like a small amount, keep in mind that these 
 areas are often chopped up into sub-levels, and very rarely will you actually make use of an entire 
 area - which takes around three to four minutes from start to finish - for the events. While the 
 idea of tilt control for a downhill racer seems like a no-brainer, Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam has 
 a few oddities that start to add up. For starters, the controller's analog sensitivity is a bit 
 low for our liking keeping the skater from engaging in a strong carve until about the 15-20 degree 
 mark. Slight tilts in the controller will begin shallow movements on your skater, but initiating 
 significant movement takes a more decisive tilt on the controller, and it's very easy to then overcompensate 
 once the strong turning kicks in. Granted this slight movement comes in handy when trying to line 
 up a mid-air spin, but on the ground it felt just a bit too loose. Since the racer is all about 
 hitting ramps or nailing grind rails with nearly pixel-perfect precision, skate control can make 
 or break the experience for gamers. It was originally an intention to include a sensitivity option 
 in the menu to tweak the controller's tilt, but that apparently had to be cut out. The result isn't 
 unplayable by any means, but it does take a few minutes to get used to, and the control never really 
 feels as precise as a regular analog stick does. Tilt is also used in air for doing spins and flips, 
 and again the tilt is a bit on the loose side to initiate the spin rather than being as tight and 
 precise as we'd like. Even still, the game has a ton going for it in the gameplay department. When 
 holding A around a corner the skater will go into a powerslide. If released at the right time, 
 a boost is awarded, instantly making Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam a game that's relatively easy to 
 get into, but has multiple skill planes to break through. When we first started playing we were 
 avoiding the powerslide almost entirely. By the end, we could carve in an S pattern all over the 
 levels, constantly boosting from perfectly timed slides. Factor in moves like these along with 
 shortcut routes and speed boosts for huge point combos and you've got a game with a ton of potential 
 speed.
  
  When it comes to tricking, Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is again a different experience form the traditional 
 game. Classic moves such as the manual and revert ability have been taken out, so tricking goes 
 back to essentially one jump for each score. To link tricks together, you'll have to grind; plain 
 and simple. To counterbalance the lack of huge combos, trick gates have been added, shoving the 
 screen into bullet time to rack up huge strings of moves. Also included in the trick attack mode 
 is the ability to grab double and triple point modifiers, which instantly add a ton of points to 
 the trick total. As a bit of a downside, however, trick gates aren't available for multiplayer 
 since they utilize a slowdown effect, making overall point totals much higher in the single player 
 mode. The special moves have been revamped as well, having the A button combined with either 1 
 or 2 in mid-air to perform an over-the-top animation specific to your character. These moves seem 
 to be inspired directly from SSX Tricky, having characters flipping and spinning with no regard 
 to realistic physics. The style may be hit or miss depending on the player, but there's something 
 awesome about seeing Tony Hawk torpedo forward like Superman over rooftops in Hong Kong. It is, 
 of course, amazingly over the top, but it seems to work well within the context of the game. All 
 things considered, Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam plays pretty well as a freshman effort on Wii. Newcomers 
 should get used to the main controls in the first few runthroughs, and will learn to wall-ride, 
 wallplant (ideal for shortcuts) , grind, and pull off insane special moves quickly, and be able 
 to provide adequate challenge to other players in no time at all.
  
  Unfortunately, not everything about Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is all that impressive. For starters, 
 the presentation of the game is very iffy, including everything from low-res cut-scenes and a rough 
 menu interface to an overall lackluster graphical engine. The game runs in both 480p and 16:9, 
 but the general look is pretty low poly and last gen. For some reason, all the videos within the 
 game are compressed in quality as well, a few of them worse than the exact same video we've got 
 in our media section below.
  
  And while the main audio in the game is decent, offering a ton of oddball commentary and an impressive 
 40 music tracks, there are still a few strange issues. The ability to create a custom soundtrack 
 from the game's song list has been included, letting you select which songs to listen to and which 
 ones to pass up while skating. Oddly enough though, there's no way to listen to a sample of the 
 songs while building the list, so you'll either know the song by title and artist, or you're out 
 of luck. In addition, band and song names are never shown on-screen aside from the actual play 
 list menu. When a kick-ass tune starts up, we want to know who it is we're listening to, and with 
 music from Motorhead, Iron Maiden, White Zombie, and Anti-flag we're surprised the game doesn't 
 show off its above average track list. It may seem like a minor gripe, but part of what makes Hawk 
 games so awesome is thrashing to your favorite tunes, and Downhill Jam makes working with the music 
 a hassle. We'd like to see the audio interface improved on for a potential sequel, as well as the 
 ability to add our own custom music via SD card.
  
  It may be a bit flawed, but Tony Hawks Downhill Jam still shaped up to be a pretty entertaining 
 racer on Wii. In no way does the spin-off game stand up to Project 8 on the other next generation 
 consoles, but as a popcorn flick equivalent to Hawk games, Downhill Jam is a decently entertaining 
 and innovative game nonetheless. A somewhat dated graphical look hurts, though the game runs in 
 480p and 16:9 to counteract it. And while in-game music is a hassle to work with, there are some 
 killer songs in the 40 track list. The stylistic look of the game is going to be hit or miss for 
 gamers, and whether you love it or hate it, your opinion is justified. Tony Hawks Downhill Jam 
 is an odd game, but it still can be a blast to play, and the replay value goes up a ton when you 
 throw a few more Wii-motes into the mix. A redesign for a franchise is always risky business, and 
 while there are definitely things to change in a potential sequel, Tony Hawks Downhill Jam is 
 a solid first step in a new direction for Wii players. More control customization and higher production 
 value is definitely needed, though the game is conceptually sound and still pretty fun in short 
 bursts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtiansk8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you actually tilt the wii mote right or left to steer. You jump with the 2 button. 
 While you are in the air, you press the 2 button + the d pad r, l, d, or u to perform a grab trick. 
 Also while in air, to do the flip tricks, its the same, but just that you press 1 instead of 2. 
 To grind, you have to be close to a grinding area. When you get close to the pipe, or whatever, 
 you jump (2) and then you press 1 to grind. Once you grind, its where you feel the speed. Once 
 you get in the grind, its kind of like the char is in turbo or something. You go real fast when 
 you grind. To balance in grinding, you just tilt the remote. To do the famous powerslide, you just 
 tilt the remote to steer, and while you do that, you press A, and it will do a powerslide. Its 
 awsome, cause sometimes, when you finish the powerslide, you get turbo. To get the turbo, you just 
 shake the remote like in a rush, and you will get a big boost, but it wont last long. You can create 
 your own character, but it doesn't have good stuff like in THUG2. It's still cool. I dont know 
 why, but they put that you can only play 2 players. They are WRONG. You can play up to 4 players, 
 but you can't use your custom character to play mulitplayer.
  Also, i forgot, when you fall down or crash, to get up, you shake the wii mote fastly. Also, when 
 you choose characters, you can, like change their appearance. They have like about 3 different 
 costumes. TH has like about 5 costumes. Its pretty cool. This game has enough modes to get you 
 playing with your friends for a long time, the graphics are great for the wii grapic type, &amp;, 
 i mean, its tony hawk. Yall guys should know it should be a great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
