-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Proving Ground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tonyhawksprovingground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the goals feel too plain.
 Not enough things to do.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 162 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Page 44 Studios
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This version of Proving Ground makes it pretty clear that the priority for the Tony Hawk series 
 is not on this platform. 

  With the core developers of the Tony Hawk franchise off and skating on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 
 360, the other console versions have been turned over to different developers. Those developers 
 are Page 44 Studios, who have turned out a version of Tony Hawk's Proving Ground for the PlayStation 
 2 and the Wii. As with many multiplatform games, the different versions operate on multiple tiers. 
 The PS3 and 360 obviously had the most work put into them, and the games were clearly designed 
 for those systems. Then there's the PlayStation 2 and Wii versions, which aren't nearly as fresh 
 as the 360/PS3 take on the gamewhich wasn't especially fresh to begin with. That means you're 
 left with a third-rate Tony Hawk game that uses some of the elements from the main versions. And 
 if you happen to be playing on the Wii, you also get to deal with a pretty bad set of controls. 

           You can take on goals in different orders, but it doesn't feel as if there are very many 
 of them.      

  The Wii controls weren't really designed to handle a game like this, especially one with so many 
 different little techniques. They've all been squeezed onto the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, but they 
 neither feel intuitive nor take advantage of the Wii's unique strengths. About the only concession 
 made for the Wii version is that the screen makes note of every time you move the Remote or Nunchuk, 
 so you can at least see what it's detecting and adjust if that isn't what you're trying to do. 
 But it never feels quite right when you're aggro kicking for more speed by continually lifting 
 the Remote, or when shoving both halves of the controller forward to perform an attack. On the 
 other hand, the PlayStation 2 version has the typical Tony Hawk control set. In both cases, the 
 game runs way too fast and the controls aren't tight enough to properly control your skater at 
 this high rate of speed. The end result is a skittish-looking game that feels kind of bad.  

  The controls are applied to a stripped-down take on a typical Tony Hawk adventure. The catch 
 this time around is that there are three different types of main goals: the competitions and photo-taking 
 of the career lifestyle, the rough-and-tumble world of hardcore skating, and the level-editing 
 and climbing of the rigger. However, it's all awfully straightforward, and none of the goals are 
 especially interesting or memorable. You'll also encounter street challenges, which set you up 
 to grind specific lines, manual past set markers, and so on. All of this same stuff is present 
 in the 360/PS3 release. The catch is that there just isn't as much of it on the Wii and PlayStation 
 2, and the levels feel a little empty as a result. Also, it's weird that there are "levels" to 
 begin with. Presumably due to technical limitations, the "one large world" concept of the other 
 versions isn't present on the Wii and PS2. You have to stop, hit a menu, and load up another section 
 of the world to take on different goals. But you don't need to compare this to the other versions 
 of the game to see its shortcomings. It's lackluster on its own merits.  

  The visuals get the point across and look all right compared to other recent PS2 and Wii games. 
 Taken side by side, the Wii version looks a bit cleaner around the edges. Unfortunately, most of 
 the animation appears to be recycled from previous games and doesn't look so hot. The levels feel 
 sort of barren and lacking in features, and the cutscenes that introduce the goals are all video 
 that was taken from the real-time cutscenes found in the other versions of the game. The sound 
 effects, like the animations, are largely recycled. Some of them don't match up so well, so you'll 
 occasionally hear the sound of your board grinding on a metal rail, but you're pretty clearly grinding 
 on concrete. The game also features the typical sort of multigenre soundtrack that you'd expect 
 from the series.  

  Now that the main games in the series have moved on to a larger and somewhat more realistic style 
 of level design, it's hard to go back and break it down into chunks again for these lesser versions. 
 Some chunks don't have anything interesting to skate on, and it's a pain to move around the city 
 and go back to accomplish different goals, especially when those goals aren't very good to begin 
 with. The Tony Hawk series has seen better days on all platforms, but the PS2 and Wii releases 
 are especially shabby this year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: liamologhlen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was a big improvement to thp8, not that i'm saying that project 8 wasn't good
 
  
  it gives more of a story, better graphics, more cas options and better misions. the controls start 
 of frustrating, but when you get used to them the game is a lot funner.
  
  One thing i want to know is how eric sparrow has his normal head back when it was crushed in thug 
 2 and replaced with an anus from an old dead man.
  
  Nail the grab is way x100 better than nail the trick, which makes up for nail the trick so much 
 harder.
  
  Other than it's short story mode it was perfect.
  
  
  I thought this game was a big improvement to thp8, not that i'm saying that project 8 wasn't good
 
  
  it gives more of a story, better graphics, more cas options and better misions. the controls start 
 of frustrating, but when you get used to them the game is a lot funner.
  
  One thing i want to know is how eric sparrow has his normal head back when it was crushed in thug 
 2 and replaced with an anus from an old dead man.
  
  Nail the grab is way x100 better than nail the trick, which makes up for nail the trick so much 
 harder.
  
  Other than it's short story mode it was perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kklpo3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Very disappointing. The controls on the wii are not as solid, and the game is a little bit to easy. 
 Way better in my opinion on the other platforms. I would like it of the graphics where better, 
 and it wasn't as glitched. Personally, i LOVE the tony hawk series. have almost every game. But 
 i saw this for the wii, and i thought it would be good, but as soon as i played it for about 5 
 hours, i beet it, and i hated it.
  
  So if you bye it, get it for the 360 or something else. But there are some good parts to it. I 
 kinda like the 2 player in it, and that the story is pretty good. There is a great variety of tricks 
 and such. One more low is that there is no on line to it. I like the skate games with the online 
 option, but this lacks that. But over all, a 4.5. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  This has been a kklpo3 review of "Tony Hawks Proving Ground." please do not copy, re wright, or 
 diss my reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan2050
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 5.0
  Graphics: 4.0
  Difficulty: 6.0
  Sound: 4.0
  Overall: 4.5
  I cannot really explain this game... The story is very hard to understand, the graphics are horribles (even 
 in the movies) The game is very hard and I would really prefer to get it for other console. This 
 game is the worst Tony Hawks I have ever played, seriusly. The graphics are as bad as like Project 
 8 for Xbox... Actually worse.
  Is way too hard and the controls are terrible. I had to repeat the "Skate-Check" mission like 10 
 times because the movement is too hard to do, they dont even tell you is slow or fast or whatever. 
 The Tony Hawks series shouldnt be on the Wii. This would have been fun on the Xbox or PS2. Only 
 Adventure games would fit on the Wii like Mario Galaxy but they shouldnt really make another Tony 
 Hawks for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajchicago
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The plot starts out with you and ur created skater trying to get notcued and sgined to a sponser 
 of either Tony hawk or other skaters that u may not know since many people like me jus dont giv 
 a dam bout the other skaters lol ---Its pretty Much like the plot from T. H project 8 but this time 
 you get to choose what type of sketer u want to be since your choices u have it sounds good...
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The 1st thing youll notice right off the bat while u play this tutorial mode is that it feels formilar.. oh 
 yeah its a baalded copy of PROJECT 8... yeah rember that?? These game desiginrs were so lazy to 
 come up with a totally orginal game play and brand new missions they O so promised during thier 
 interviews they decide to use somthing they created and barley passed the first time aorund thought 
 it could work the second time... well it doesnt... also the controls are notrotious i mean ur better 
 off dodging rain outside then excuting any moves or specials on the wii mote and chuk... they are 
 too far spread out and they never respond right away when evr u want them too but also u will also 
 notice do alot moves u dont inted to and ends up screwing u over all becuse u slightly move ur 
 nun chuk or mote to a specific loction that happned to be the direction for that move... in other 
 words ints very annoying & fu*king stupid!! 1 more thing bout this hidous game is the missions 
 are sooo boring unorgianl and on top of that most of em are imposiple on the wii version becuse 
 of the horrible controls i mentioned elryer! but on the other verions... not as bad
  
  Visuals:
  Since the wii is not knwon for its graphics all that well the games graphics are below 
 avergae for the wii's expectations... the graphics take me bak to ps2 graphics and thats a baad 
 thing & the cut scnes dont look any better and evrything else is pretty blocky yeah it sux but 
 not enough to be soo horrible u know??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k3nne3e
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  By saying this game is Very hard and Broken i mean the controls are terrible to the point that 
 you can barely get past shecklers mission which is like the third one: you have to complete a series 
 of tricks on something like 16 different obstacles in like a minute, i just gave up. i played this 
 game for like 2 hours and stopped. the controls feel like they were tacked on at the last minute 
 for the wii and the text and pictures for the wii controls are so small, you can barely read the 
 tutorials. The voice acting is pretty bad too compared to other versions like the ps3. also i bought 
 my disc brand new and for some reason the game was freezing in the first tutorial where it teaches 
 you how to ollie and do shovits off a ramp. This game is just terrible because of the controls 
 that make it so unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitt78
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  When I got Tony Hawk's Proving Ground, I was excited about playing it, thinking it would be another 
 excellent Tony Hawk game. However, once I popped it into the Wii and started playing, I realized 
 that this is probably the most lackluster Tony Hawk game ever made. I set out on the Career path, 
 and was done with the game in maybe three hours. All the goals in the game are unbelievably dumb, 
 and this game has the worst voice-acting ever. The controls are so unresponsive they're ridiculously 
 frustrating: sometimes when you're doing a manual and you flick the remote left to change tricks, 
 the game registers it, but nothing actually happens. Sometimes the game doesn't register at all, 
 regardless of the fact that you made a very large and clear motion. Nail-the-Trick is still fun 
 and Nail-the-Grab is interesting, but not enough to keep you into the game. Bottom line, if the 
 game was longer, with better voice acting, controls (they made the Classic Controller for a reason) , 
 better goals, and a seamless world like in the previous two Tony Hawk games, this would have been 
 much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Tony Hawk's Underground, and all the other iterations in the series. Of course they all 
 copy each other and really over emphasize the punk atmosphere with all the skaters. Proving ground 
 proved to me that the Wii seriously has some problems, and it may get worse.
  
  The story, no story. Make your character from a terrible character creation page (previous TH's 
 have been better, and this a totally new generation for god's sake) and then your all of the sudden 
 friends with everyone. Tony Hawk, Bam, some guy with a beard, some hobo looking fellow, allot of 
 hobo looking fellows, and allot of stereo typical punks. Your friends with everyone; before you 
 even meat them they know who you are, and act like your the best skater around before you've even 
 done anything. The story, you just do repetitive tricks for all your friends as they kiss your 
 ass along your skate boarding journey.
  
  The graphics, are Wii trying to pull photo realistic. Everybody is really grainy, look like they 
 have dirt smudges on their face, one guys beard looked good and some guy who looked like the lead 
 singer from the cure had good looking hair graphics. The environments are all the same, streets 
 that are grey, and constant wood ramps popping out of nowhere. The streets make no sense, it's 
 like the world has been designed for skaters not actual daily life for the rest of us who don't 
 want to scrap our knees constantly. After finishing the required "missions" to move on from the 
 first level, I did not hesitate to leave. I thought I was back again after pressing start and selecting 
 a new area then going through a loading screen, because it looked the exact same. 
  
  Previous TH games took away loading screens and crappy area moving, by linking areas with long 
 narrow passages for the underground skaters. That at least gave a sense of immersion. This game 
 reminds you constantly "you are playing a video game on the Wii, shake that remote!" In the beginning 
 you start off with not even the basic functions. This by the way is where the review gets nasty. 
 You'll start pressing around the remote and nun-chuck trying to do those good old kick flips, grabs 
 and grinds. Well you can't. Not until you go through what could very well be the absolute worst 
 motion control tutorials I have ever seen.
  
  Need a new paragraph, game play is a long list... There is a new style of skate boarding that lets 
 you flip the skate board around in slow motion until the game feels as though you've had enough 
 air time thus slamming your character into the ground, or you could press B+Z at the right moment. 
 This pretends as though your making up a trick, when in reality its the same as performing different 
 functions in mid air with normal (effective and fun) controls. Then of course, you can not get 
 off of your skate board right away so navigating is a terror. Your trying to line up with the section 
 where you must perform the trick, and you can't because your an idiot.
  
  Many first missions require that you get speed to go over jumps. Your going to get a kick out of 
 this, you need to time wagging the remote downward in a beat to keep pushing and gaining speed. 
 If you so much as screw up by a micro-meter the game will basically laugh at you and make you restart 
 practically getting onto the skate board.
  
  Later there will be a platforming aspect for when the game lets you get off of your board. Of course 
 jumps are not timed properly with the buttons, and a difficulty arises that should not be there 
 because the developers made it physically impossible period with their poor judgment.
  
  After completing some asinine motion based "missions" you can use some buttons to do the good old 
 tricks, but because the levels stink, its no fun.
  
  All the skaters sound like each other, with mannerisms and "punk talk", and the sound track is 
 also virtually no name punk bands. Skating sound FX are recycled.
  
  Oh and there will be people walking around each level waiting to beat you down, one guy kept following 
 me as he pushed me off my skate board and every time I tried to get back on (which takes forever 
 and eternity for the dumb ass skater to get back on his skate board after whipping out) this guy 
 would hit me back down before I could get going. I only managed to escape by luck, it was like 
 the game froze because I could not do a thing.
  
  I'm glad I rented this, I am severely angry with my Wii and can't wait to take this game back. 
 This is by far, one of the worst games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Its good to see that they put the elements of Tony Hawk Pro Skater in, but some of the features 
 that I were really looking forward to were not in the game. It had choppy gameplay and it was to 
 short for a Tony Hawk game. The only good things were the storyline and the skater classes. Why 
 did'nt they make the storyline longer? They should have put the same features that they put on 
 the PS3 and the 360. If they did it could have been a better game for the Wii. Making the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuck for controls was a very bad decision, they should have made the controls for the Classic 
 Controler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardkieran
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I have sat/stood for a few hours with Tony Hawk's Proving Ground after renting it, thinking that 
 much like the earlier Tony Hawk games, it would be a good continuation of the line. I was overall 
 proved wrong by Proving Ground.
  
  Graphics - Not bad for the Wii, visual improvements in models and textures from earlier Nintendo 
 versions. This is probably the only area I can say that was an improvement.
  
  Controls - Abysmal. Absolutely abysmal. This is a true sense of a tacked-on , afterthought of a 
 system. For example, when grinding a rail, you have to use the analog stick to maintain balance. 
 A smarter move would have been to actually put your arms out and balance as if actually on a skateboard. 
 The only thing that made sense out of all the controls was the jump button. The Wii controls were 
 severely underused for this game. 
  
  Sound - Not bad, on par with the series. Music seemed a little more trendy this time around.
 
  
  Gameplay - Some of the mechanics in pulling off tricks was difficult compared to previou versions 
 of the Tony Hawk Series. Goals were less forgiving, less clear, and going back to controls, some 
 tricks were just very hard to do, given the button and controller layout.
  
  Overall, I'd steer clear of this game. I'm sure there are a lot better games out there that deserve 
 your money. If you MUST see it for yourself, borrow a friend's copy or rent it. I'm sure you'll 
 see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Pro4Sh0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  THPG was not that great of a game as I thought it would be. Firstly, it was way too short. I beat 
 it in 2 days and i only played maybe 6 hours in total. There was not enough goals or missions too 
 complete.
  Customization was another letdown. You couldnt customize your character nearly as much as you used 
 to be able to. The Create-a-trick feature seemed to be replaced with the Nail-the-trick/Nail-the-grab 
 feature where you move the wiimote and the Nunchuck to move your skaters feet. This was pretty 
 much the only feature in which the motion sensor was used.
  Yet again, the Tony Hawk Series seemed to unrealistic, where you can ollie 20 feet from the ground 
 or do a triple kickflip from a stationary position.
  I found that this game was a disappoint despite the fact that I am not really a skater fan, I just 
 wanted to play a Tony Hawk game, but this one let me down. I would recommend renting this one because 
 you could probably beat it before you have to bring it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokery666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I will make this simple as possible, this game is so-so. You have great visuals, sadly the gameplay 
 is just plain terrible! The ollie is the only reasonable control. Some abilities are a little too 
 hard to pull off. Goals are unorigonal, and the framerate is choppy. Sound isn't a terrible issue, 
 but it could be improved. The character animations are a little off, but hey it's a game. The lack 
 of options kind of knocks this away from any lasting appeal. Maybe if you could play this with 
 a GC or Classic controller, the controls would be half way decent. So, if you are dying to play 
 this game and all you have is a Wii, rent with caution. I'm sure we all miss the old Tony Hawk 
 Games, it's sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidley
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has some decent visuals, and either bland or terrible everything else. First off, the 
 goals are ridiculous, considering some of those points you need to rack up with a shoddy skater, 
 even after you max out his stats. The controls, definetly disappointed. when i'm trying to skate 
 check some one, it is quite obvious that i am pushing both controllers forward, not just the remote 
 up and down, which doesn't work either when you attempt their new feature, the agro push . Whoop 
 ti effing doo. I mean COME ON, this is what you guys came up with for the best next gen system????? 
 And then it keeps telling me that I have unlocked a new sponser, then when i pause it, it tells 
 me i need so many more points to get to that sponser? Were they drinking when they made this game, 
 or just incredibly high. I rented this game and was pissed at spending that money, i couldn't imagine 
 buying it. It was full of ridiculously annoying glitches, like i would nail the trick, land the 
 amount of points required for sick, and i would get an am rating. The only time i had any fun was 
 when i wasn't doing any kind of goals. By the way, were was that video editor, cause i never got 
 to use it? And I thought a big part of this game was supposed to be about realism? They had downhill 
 jam to do their ridiculous stuff in, i don't want something that doesn't look nearly as real in 
 the physicis as thps2 did. All in all, this game was pathetic, and would recommend any other tony 
 hawk game over this one.
  P. S. i spent 10 hours, and beat it without getting a sick rating on everything. BORING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyalva222000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  really fun game, i love it. the grapics are awesome for the Wii. there is so much small detail 
 that u really noctic. the game is pretty easy to work after u play it for an hour. iv played form 
 2 hours for 3 days stairt and i only have two levels left. if u are a owner of the Wii u sould 
 get this game. u can really customize ur guy alot. the only let down is that u cant be a grl like 
 in project 8. it doesnt really let me down, cause im a guy, but its cool being something ur not. 
 this game is tons of fun and i reamaned buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRYANTINOCO
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  great game would be better if it was made for the psp. but overall a great game. the graphics are 
 good the gameplay is a little difficult but still good and it is the best tony hawk game sofar 
 oh yeah and its good. another thing good about this game is the story is great and you get to design 
 youre own character and board. not only that but in story mode you get to meet a lot of famouse 
 skaters who teach you moves. overall this is a great game and a must have for all tony hawk fans 
 and skateboard fanatics. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
