-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Transformers: The Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/transformersmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly detailed Transformer models.
 Environments break apart and blow up real good.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Robot-on-robot combat becomes repetitive and dull after a short while.
 Camera causes more problems than it fixes.
 Both campaigns combined still make for a short game.
 Side missions aren't worth doing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 496 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Transformers: The Game is a big, loud, shallow action game that severely lacks in content. 

 
  Transformers: The Game is very much the archetypal movie-licensed game. It's got all the hallmark 
 problems of the genre, including short length, overly simplistic mechanics, a barely-there story, 
 and a bit of a sloppy feel. It is simply an excuse for fans of the upcoming live action film (and 
 maybe even some fans of the old cartoons who, admittedly, will take pretty much anything they can 
 get at this point) to run around, awkwardly beating up Autobots or Decepticons in various semidestructible 
 environments. If that's all you want out of the game, then Transformers might provide you a few 
 mild hours of entertainment. If you were hoping for something more, Transformers will probably 
 just disappoint you.  

  The basic premise of the game is the same as the film's. The classic Transformers battle between 
 good robots and evil robots has spilled over to planet Earth as the two warring sides search frantically 
 for an artifact known as the AllSpark. The AllSpark is essentially the life force for all Transformers, 
 which explains why they'd want to get it back. Sam Witwicky (voiced with appropriate "gee whiz!"-ness 
 by Shia LaBeouf) is an average teenager who happens to hold the key to finding the AllSpark. From 
 there, it's a race for both sides to find Sam and get the AllSpark. There might be more to the 
 movie's plot than what is presented here, and you should really hope there is, because otherwise, 
 we're all in for one exceedingly boring film. With the exception of a few bouts of basic dialogue 
 between Sam and the various Transformers (including veteran TV series voice actors Peter Cullen 
 and Frank Welker reprising their roles as Optimus Prime and Megatron with about as much enthusiasm 
 as you could hope for) , there's almost no story to drive the game forward. In some respects that's 
 not surprising, simply because with this method, almost none of the film is spoiled for you.  

 
           Gigantic robots smashing up a city should be more fun than this.      

  The one potentially interesting thing about Transformers is that it splits the game into two campaigns, 
 with one for each faction. In the Autobots campaign, you'll play as Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Jazz, 
 and others as you hunt for the AllSpark and try to protect Sam, and the rest of humanity, for that 
 matter. On the flipside, the Decepticons campaign has you playing as Megatron, Starscream, Barricade, 
 and company to track down the AllSpark and destroy the Autobots. While the opportunity to play 
 as both the good and evil sides sounds enticing, you'll actually find that there's very little 
 difference between the two campaigns.  

  Regardless of which side you pick, you'll be forced to slog through a copious number of missions 
 that have you fighting easy-to-kill grunt Transformers using the same three-hit combo again and 
 again, or racing around one of the game's few, somewhat open-ended environments trying to chase 
 down one Autobot or Decepticon to fight a few times while using the same three-hit combo, as well 
 as an occasional throw attack. These missions might have been more tolerable if the combat were 
 a little more involved, but as it stands, you just need to mash on the melee attack button to blow 
 through most enemies, and the few that aren't so easy just require a random object from the environment 
 thrown at them to soften them up. As you are Transformers, you can also transform and roll out 
 as one of several different vehicle types. However, driving is decidedly less fun than running 
 around as a robot, as the cars handle very loosely and tend to get hung up on random environmental 
 objects -- which is odd, since when you hit other cars, they just go flying like they're made out 
 of cardboard.  

  The lone bright spot comes from the Decepticons campaign. In certain missions, you're tasked with 
 simply laying waste to one environment or another. Be it a big city or a sprawling military installation, 
 these environments are fun to destroy. Your weapons fire does a lot of damage to buildings, cars, 
 trees, and any other solid objects nearby. In the Autobots campaign, you can do the same types 
 of damage, but it's all incidental, since you're ultimately trying to protect humanity -- not lay 
 waste to it. On the Decepticons side, your goal is to cause as much chaos as you can, and that 
 can be a good bit of fun. What's neat is the way the destruction and battles are presented -- explosions 
 are frequent and large, the damage to buildings looks appropriately massive, and the combat moves 
 you can pull off actually do look cool. Seeing Optimus running around, double-fisting pistols, 
 and Blackout using his helicopter blades as a sword is pretty awesome. Part of that comes from 
 some solid animation, but it also helps that the Transformer models are so highly detailed. Say 
 what you want about the new robot designs from the movie -- they're represented very well within 
 the game, though the one issue is that sometimes you'll actually forget which Transformer you're 
 playing as, since many of them look the same in robot form. That's really more the fault of the 
 film's designs than anything else, though.  

  Adding to the mass-destruction effect is the camera, which violently shakes during battles, and 
 even jerks around a bit as your big, clunky robots run around. Unfortunately, that shaky-cam effect 
 tends to get in the way more than it helps. At times there are so many explosions and so much gunfire 
 going off that the added chaos of the camera makes the whole scene indecipherable for several seconds. 
 TThis is also one of those games where you can easily get boxed in by multiple enemies or trapped 
 in some chunk of the environment, unable to move because the camera won't steer around to a good 
 vantage point. By the same token, Transformers relies too heavily on contrived "action zones," 
 which are just chunks of the open-world environments that you can't exit while in battle. If you 
 go out, you've got to run back in or you fail the mission. Of course, it doesn't help when you're 
 getting blasted out of the zone and are continually forced out again and again by enemies who follow 
 you out and keep knocking away at you. That isn't a constant problem, but a few missions are made 
 far too frustrating by the fact that you have to constantly try to stay within these stupid action 
 zones.  

  At least you won't have to put up with issues like this for very long. Each of the game's campaigns 
 is only a few hours in length, putting the game's total length right around five to six hours. 
 If you're really looking to extend out the experience, there are a bunch of side missions in each 
 game area (most of which are just simple, slightly dull "kill a bunch of this enemy type" missions) , 
 some unlockable content to mess with, including film clips and photo sets, and some unlockable 
 skins for the Transformers that give them their original, G1 skins from the cartoon. Granted, you'll 
 have to go do all the silly side missions to unlock a lot of those skins, and those just aren't 
 fun enough to justify the effort.  

           You get gigantic blasters, but you almost never have to use them. That's pretty dumb. 

  There are some notable differences among the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of Transformers. 
 The Xbox 360 version has the usual smattering of achievements, many of which can be easily earned 
 just playing through both campaigns, though several of the remaining ones require you to do all 
 the various side missions. In terms of control, the 360 and PS3 versions are basically identical, 
 though the PS3 version lets you use the Sixaxis tilt controls to steer Decepticons that can fly, 
 like Megatron and Blackout. The Wii version obviously has its own array of motion controls, though 
 unlike some other, recent movie-licensed titles, they aren't completely half-baked. Yes, you swipe 
 the Wii Remote or the Nunchuk to attack, but these controls actually feel responsive enough that 
 you don't feel like you're constantly struggling to hit something. The one downside is camera control, 
 which is mapped to the remote. It's not unmanageable, but the camera will often move up or down 
 too far if you just happen to hold the remote at a slight angle. In terms of graphics, the 360 
 and PS3 versions are both entirely comparable to each other, though the PS3 version is a bit lacking 
 in the lighting department, looking overly dark in spots. The Wii version retains the basic look 
 of the other versions, though it's obviously scaled down to fit with the system's hardware. The 
 Transformers still look nicely detailed in the Wii version, but the environments have been scaled 
 back significantly. The frame rate also tends to dip more often on the Wii version, but not to 
 an unplayable degree.  

  Transformers: The Game ultimately delivers a passable, though entirely unremarkable tie-in to the 
 upcoming film. The one thing it nails is the size and feel of these gigantic robots and their ability 
 to cause massive destruction, but that isn't enough to carry the entire game, especially with the 
 burden of the periodic glitches, camera problems, and overly simplistic combat to carry as well. 
 If all you want is to see some nice-looking robots beat each other and the world silly, then throwing 
 down a rental fee on this game isn't a bad way to go. But regardless of your affinity for the film, 
 the franchise at large, or giant robots in general, Transformers: The Game doesn't have enough 
 going for it to make it worth a purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: red045
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I can't get past the first level in autobot so obviously I'm not the best at this game, but it's 
 still fun. The levels aren't all that great, but in the autobot story mode you are in the city 
 and in my opinion it's really fun to go on a robotic rampage through the city. In fact that part 
 is so fun I'd get the game for that only, which is pretty much what i did do since that's the only 
 thing I can do good, but don't go in the green circle at Sam's house or it'll take you to the level 
 that I can't beat. It's really fun to go on a rampage if you use either of the following cheats:
 
  
  (enter at menu that gives you the options of campaign, bonus content, and another option I can't 
 remember)
  no cops/military - 
  unlimited health - 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanz774
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Transformers the game is a takeoff of transformers the movie it lets you play as your favorite 
 characters as seen in shows and movies. Do not be fooled if you are expecting the movie storyline 
 to be the same as the game storyline you will be disappointed.
  
  This game has the same goal as in the movie to retrieve the cube but is set out differently. Although 
 in some parts it can be the same as the movie but not much. Transformers the game also actually 
 lets you play as both sides evil or good whatever you like it's there.
  
  
  The graphics of the game are a bit ordinary it's not pixilated or near pixilated but it isn't one 
 of those games that everybody likes because it has good graphics. You see the world normally but 
 when you zoom in on a characters face they look like they are made of rubber.
  
  You will get allot of fun out of this game it's not all just blowing up your enemies it's also 
 chasing flying racing to beat the opposite team there are a variety of missions to suite you. It 
 also has a couple of sub missions if you want to take a break from the storyline and sharpen your 
 skills, they also do things that you would never get to do in the actually missions.
  
  As you progress and finish the game you may find that there's nothing to do but blow up buildings 
 well the people who say that are often the ones who do not search for bonus feature icons and cubes. 
 Finding these pickups will let you view some small movies about the game and the TV show as well 
 as some snapshots from the movie and even products available to buy with the description of your 
 favorite characters.
  
  A few faults in the game are that you don't play as all the characters such as devastator, frenzy 
 and ratchet which would be the more interesting characters to play with. A small amount of glitches 
 have been found but very few try these glitches due to the fact they are too hard to perform. In 
 one of the chapters of the game you are in Hoover Dam and it is very hard to see as you are underground 
 with a small amount of light which can be very frustrating. And on wii the controls will be a small 
 challenge to master.
  
  Overall I think transformers is crudely under rated, people have put hard work into this game to 
 make it great but it never seems that people will ever care I think this game is good and should 
 be rated higher.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Byzantiumpirate
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  To begin with I bought this as a first Wii game and it almost ruined the whole console for me. 
 First you may like the clips and robot graphics that are awesome and you can see that everything 
 is destructible. But you will start to see that this games sucks more and more. First problem comes 
 when you drive as a car. I have drived in many games but none of them have this awful controls. 
 Its like you end in a wall every turn and in missions where you need to hurry you will always be 
 late. First mission aint too bad, shooting is repetetive but looks ok so it is ok. But second mission 
 already sucks. Some enemies require to be thrown at and grabbing is another bad thing. When you 
 need to grab something you will never get it and cars almost always explode between your hands. 
 Bad robots campaign is much more fun because of destruction but it gets bad after you get to town 
 with these missions and you see how similar both campaign town missions are. From more of bad I 
 could say that when you get to big city mission you are surely like ''Yeah now starts some real 
 destruction''. But you find out that these are only destructible from below what is a huge dissapointment. 
 Another bothering thing is when in good campaign police and army start to kill you too. Its like 
 it wouldnt be repetetive, confusing and hard enough. Its like Im trying to save the world leave 
 me alone and the police and army never seems to attack enemys that are alot more dangeroust than 
 you. Game gives alot of unlockables that include everything what is related to transformers, even 
 toys and also clips and photos about the movie. If I want to see the movie I wouldnt waste my time 
 with this game at all so its pointless because movie is million times better anyway.
  
  Good: Nice robots, clips are sometimes nice to watch, cool destructions.
  
  Bad: Very repetetive, 
 it destroys your mind and life, transformers fan will start to hate transformers, bad driving, 
 bad grabbing, bad gameplay.
  
  In conclusion I almost destroyed my TV because of anger this game made. I never had the patience 
 to play it completely through. I guess my score would have been little bigger when I would have 
 completed it. But the fact that this is a terrible game, escpecially for the Wii. If you want to 
 buy it then just dont. If you are about to buy or rent it, then take anything else and you do a 
 big favor to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for transformers the game I really really did. I mean Motion controls plus giant 
 robots would be a great thing right... wrong. The motion controls are lackluster and really for 
 a game where you can control the movements of giant robots... why are there so few uses for the 
 motion controls? The graphics are halfway decent even during cutscenes and it allows you to take 
 part in both campaigns but I preferred the decepticons because well... you can blow stuff up more 
 just self explanatory. Also the music is not really memorable basic action music I'd say so no 
 John Williams Orchestras here people. There can be some fun if all you want to do is blow stuff 
 up and knock cars over but that has limited fun factor unless you are into that sort of thing in 
 a weird sort of way. Sadly however this is at best a rental for hardcore transformer fans but don't 
 go in expecting a mindblowing life changing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  It is completely spectacular, consistently amazing, and occasionally staggering in its scope and 
 majesty. We are of course talking about the Spielberg-fuelled big-screen interpretation of our 
 favourite robots in disguise. The tie-in videogame on the other hand, needs to be consigned immediately 
 to the scrapheap.
  
  Blame yet another rushed development schedule, a game lacking in even the most basic spit and polish 
 in order to get it out in time for the movie's release. What we have is the rusted framework of 
 a free-roaming action adventure, as you battle on the side of good (the mighty Autobots, but mind 
 the property damage else you'll have the army after you) or evil (Decepticons, who have the same 
 problem, but who see an army advance as another chain-link in a points-racking collateral damage 
 combo) . 
  The differences between your choices (save or enslave) are far from distinct, with the mundane 
 structures of the missions blurring any true divide between the two. What we have is a rack of 
 carbon-copy objectives that revolve around smashing things until they explode.
  
  Robot Wars
  
  Enormous robots walloping the seven shades of coiled springs out of each other 
 should be brilliant fun, but the game's fighting system is beset by a woeful control scheme that 
 frustrates rather than stimulates, a problem that makes any ground-based transformed vehicle (car, 
 truck) virtually uncontrollable. 
  There's no feeling of weight behind transformation either. The robots feel like brittle exoskeletons, 
 while in vehicle form cars and tanks fly off your bonnet with all the force of a water balloon. 
 
  Graphically, this feels like an illegal bootleg of the other multiformat versions, with cut-scenes 
 and gameplay both having a terrible washed out look to them. We know the Wii can do better than 
 this; heck, it deserves better. Just look at Harry Potter: Order of the Phoenix. 
  Take our advice. Hold onto that 40 quid, see the movie a few more times then buy a collectable 
 and re-enact your favourite scenes. It'll be a lot closer to the big screen adaptation than this 
 cheap cash-in. Movie licence tie-ins have just sunk as low as they can possibly go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  if you have seen transformers the movie it was cool seening robots beating the crud out of other 
 robots and hurting them so does the game live up to that NO!!!!!!!!!!!! this game stinks stinks 
 stinks stinks the only really thing the game gets right the destruction even that it looks bad 
 it follows the story with a few twists like random robots that you ask where the heck did they 
 come from even though you have a gun and missles they have no have purpose because you cant kill 
 the robots with guns because they have shields the combat also stinks its bad you hit them 3 times 
 and thats it every time the other "fun" things is get to throw every thing. the gameplay is bad 
 and not fun. the graohics are bad but the robots look kind of cool. the sound is bad and is scartchy. in 
 the end dont rent or buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiratinaKing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to play if you want to wreck cities and military bases, and believe me, it 
 can grow on you, and it can be very addictive. You can play as an Autobot or a Decepticon. The 
 gameplay graphics are alright, but they're not as good as the graphics in the cutscenes. All of 
 the stages are fun to play in, especially if you're being very destructive. I only wish that they 
 had made the tops of tall buildings more destructible, but it's really no big deal to me. Some 
 of the missions might go by fast, while others, you might need a few tries to get past them. The 
 only thing that really gets to me is that the camera is extremely hard to control if you get into 
 the game, and like to move around while playing, because you control the camera with the wii remote 
 pointer. I also wish that they had made a multiplayer option for this game, and possibly a Wi-fi 
 option as well. Other than that, this is an amazing free-play game, and is totally worth buying!
 
  
  Hope this review helps you in some way, and please add me to your friends [I have very little: (.] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Transformers is a game based off of the 2007 movie and the Hasbro toyline. The game features a 
 selection of either the Autobots or Decepticons. The Autobots start as Bumblebee landing to Earth 
 in a meteor like ship and scans an old Camaro. The Decepticons start as Blackout shoots down a 
 millitary helicopter under the number of 4500X, scans it, and becomes that helicopter. His first 
 orders were to destroy the Soccent base. As Bumblebee's first mission was to fight some Decepticon 
 drones and get to Sam Witwicky before the Decepticons lay their hands on him.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics are amazing. Great giant robot action. Sandbox 
 style for both factions. Good Wii Remote use. Quick and easy transformations. Extra missions. An 
 actual voice over from the original Optimus Prime, Peter Cullen. You can play as G1 characters.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that there are some frustrating moments. Some changed voices 
 not from the movie.
  
  Overall, Transformers for the Wii is worth a look. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-ganon
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  Transformers the game had some pretty decent graphics. The flame and smoke effects were cool, the 
 textures were fairly decent, and the simple effects (such as fog) were done well.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound was really good and it had some of the best voice acting that I have ever 
 heard.
  
  Gameplay: 3/10
  This is were I get really angry. This game has the worst camera problems, The worst missions, and 
 the worst cases of really cheap deaths as well as the worst cases of getting hit cheaply. I cant 
 stand this games camera. I just hate it. When I try to move the camera I must use the wii-mote 
 and point it on the side of the screen i want it to follow. Good idea, bad execution. Sometimes 
 the camera will disobey me and go in the complete opposite direction, other times the camera will 
 randomly change positions on me without me even adjusting it.
  
  Another problem I had was the combat mechanics for transformer to transformer fights. Sometimes 
 when you have to fight other transformers you need to pick up an object (say a car for example) , 
 hit him with it, and then run up and start button mashing with the same 3-hit combo. Why is it 
 neccessary to hit them with an object first? why is it neccessary to fight at such close-quarters? 
 I mean, whats wrong with lasers and missiles? Those work pretty well against pretty much every 
 other enemy! And why is it that if i get hit i have to fly half-way across the map, causing the 
 camera to instantly rotate 360 degrees? If iI ever meet the guy who thought it was cool to make 
 it so you have to fight other transformers like this, im gonna hurt him...
  
  my third problem i had with this game is how i can never play as my favorite transformers when 
 i want to. All i wanna do is play as Megatron in the tranquility stage. i s that too much to ask? 
 In the DS version you could do this.
  
  Speaking of which, This version is a huge loss to the DS version. sure that version had few problems 
 but they weren't as bad as the console versions. I cant believe gamespot rated it slightly better 
 than this game
  
  The only thing I can think of thats good about the gameplay is how much fun it is to just blow 
 stuff up. In fact, thats the only reason i still play this game today.
  
  So in conclusion I give this game a 5/10 for the crappy camera and combat mechanics, as well as 
 the obviously rushed mission design.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 28, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase.
  
  Sound - Voice acting is decent. However, the lack of volume to these voices often involve the player 
 increasing the TV's volume. This causes the sounds of destruction to be obnoxiously loud. The soundtrack 
 isn't something to worry about though.
  
  Graphics - The graphics were surprisingly decent for the WII console. The WII's graphics are disappointingly 
 the same as the outdated PS2 graphics, but were still something to appreciate.
  
  Gameplay - This is probably the more aggravating part of the game. Repetitive, tedious, annoying 
 missions tire out the player's eyes, wrists, and patience. Often times, a near invulnerable enemy 
 has to taken in a method that goes for another near invulnerable enemy. In other words, the same 
 strategy is done for all enemies, bosses alike. Failing the mission puts the player all the way 
 to the beginning of the mission, meaning taking out the same aggravating enemies all over again 
 from scratch.
  
  To whoever actually bought this game, I have some advice for you. Either rent a game first, or 
 try to think for once in your life and conserve your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 4/10
  - Terrible gameplay, repetitve combat but story is great because its the same one from the movie 
 which was also great but this also makes the game not have any originality.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7.5/10
  - Fully destructable buildings and most of the environment is 
 too. Good luck actually ever getting in the zone with this game, I know of one person who did and 
 he was drunk all 3 times, go figure. Still good enviornment.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 6.5/10
  - Other than the transformers being very detailed, the graphics were ehh... a bit above mediocre 
 at best. Not much to say.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Sound was very good voice-wise and just action-wise, but certainly could have had better music 
 in some parts of the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Truely no problems I could find here.
  
  Replay value: 3/10
  - This game was difficult 
 to play for even an hour, just simply felt like a total waste of time.
  
  Value for money: 4/10
  - Not even close to being worth the original $30-$40 I paid. Can't say 
 it money Ill never get back because I just sold it for $23 on ebay....... if they could have only 
 read my review first... but that would have made me less money, oh well.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Heck no, and 
 if any of my  do mention this as a classic, I may just slap them.
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Extreme diehard Transformers fans would be severely disappointed so.... people with the bad taste 
 emblem might just like this or possibly children.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 3.5 - I even feel bad for the guy 
 who just bought this game from me on eBay. Everything about this game feels like it was rushed 
 into development. I feel like I just gave this game an academy award for the rating I gave it. 
 Seriously just don't waste your time buying this unless you have a kid and their begging you for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  How can I put this... This game is absolute crap!!! Play control is worst I have ever seen. The 
 stupid camera makes this game absolutely miserable. If you fixed that problem the game would actually 
 be playable. The way you utilize the WII remote is awful. To punch you move the nun chuck side-to-side 
 "Wow" how revolutionary..... The only good thing about this game is the graphics. The missions 
 are repetitive and boring. The checkpoints are not frequent enough so when you die you go way back. 
 This game gives me a headache just thinking about it. I think a better purpose for this game is 
 a Frisbee for my dog. I watched the trailer for it and foolishly purchased this game. I should 
 have given my money to someone to hit me over the head with a shovel. Avoid this game like the 
 plague it is a joke!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman712
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Boring. To much big things gets annoying! The one potentially interesting thing about Transformers 
 is that it splits the game into two story modes. They are exactly opposite. Regardless of which 
 side you pick, you'll be forced to slog through a copious number of missions that have you fighting 
 easy-to-kill grunt Transformers using the same three-hit combo again and again, or racing around 
 one of the game's few, somewhat open-ended environments trying to chase down one Autobot or Decepticon 
 to fight a few times while using the same three-hit combo, as well as an occasional throw attack. 
 Boring! The lone bright spot comes from the Decepticons campaign. In certain missions, you're tasked 
 with simply laying waste to one environment or another. Be it a big city or a sprawling military 
 installation, these environments are fun to destroy. Your weapons fire does a lot of damage to 
 buildings, cars, trees, and any other solid objects nearby. In the Autobots campaign, you can do 
 the same types of damage, but it's all incidental, since you're ultimately trying to protect humanity -- not 
 lay waste to it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Parts of this review is property of Gamespot. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  First, the movie was a big letdown, and now this game on the Wii, these are disgraces to Transformers 
 and all its fans.
  
  I couldn't get bear to play past the second level in this game, it was that bad. The graphics are 
 terrible, why this game was even released for a lowly system like the Wii is ludicrous. You can't 
 even have the pleasure to play each level at your own pace, to thoroughly enjoy it. Everything 
 is on a timer, feels like an arcade game. As most games that are born from movies, there are a 
 host of enemies that you've never seen in the movie but somehow makes their way into the game. 
 Worst, there are endless enemies and the soundtrack is way off. As a transformer, you can use the 
 Wii remote to change forms, and you can either smash or shoot objects/enemies.
  
  Bottom line is that this is a huge disappointment, and I'm sure it'll be just that to even non-Transformers 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phazoid
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  first it actually is a tiny little bit fun to destroy things and just walk treu the city just doing 
 nothing. but then you want to contineu the story and you will be very dissapointed by it.
  when youre fichting enemys you just want to use all of youre moves to evade and then shoot them 
 down. but you dont have to use this things. the only thing that you have to do the whole game long 
 is go straight at it and bash it to shreds, then go to the place where you can repeat this action 
 until youre finished.
  this will always be a tiny little bit different but it will all come down on excectly the same 
 point. whats even more anoying and what doesnt make any sense at all is that when youre doing this 
 you must stay in a circle where youre objective is. if youre outside this circle theres is a time 
 limit of 5 seconds or something to get back in it ore else you can start all over.
  if an opponent will launch you out of the circle you must get up (witch the game does for you so 
 you must whait all day before you are finaly up) and then ru back before time runs out. but wait 
 the best must still come.
  when you launch youre opponent out of the circle its stays there just standing there if nothing 
 happened so ... you must run out off the circle, bash him back into the circle and then quikly 
 run back before time runs out!!!
  youle probably will be thinking what this time limit has to do with the whole story. absolutly 
 nothing!!!!
  bubblegum or what ever they call him may as whell leafe his weopons at home because you will never 
 find yourself effectively using them. if youe in a boss fight you just run at the fella thats meanwile 
 is destructing the intire area around you because the computer just let him walk around while he 
 is rotating his knifes around him then you attack him in hope youre lucky because theres nothing 
 els that will decide the fight. no stragegie and no skillful moves. just bashing around you hoping 
 you hit something and repeat the scetual of trow punsh and again and again and again and again.
 
  its like fighting a giant swingmill with blades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Transformers movie. And when I heard it was going to be made into a video game, 
 I looked at it the same way I see any other movie to video game release. Typically this is the 
 case: all video games that originated from movies are complete garbage. The only reason anyone 
 would play them is because they are utter fans of the movies themselves. I loved the new Transformers 
 film, so I put aside my massive giant robot hard-on and dove into this title. I wasn't surprised 
 that the game was bad, what astonished me was how horribly it was put together. The game plays 
 like it was programmed by a bunch of retarded monkeys. 
  
  The Good:
  
  - Completely destructive environments. Even walking around town left holes in the pavement from 
 your massive metal feet. 
  
  - Peter Cullen as Optimus Prime.
  
  - The thrill of driving around, transforming and blasting stuff, then turning back into a car and 
 driving off. The one thing that makes the series and we can do it on a game... awesome!
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Voices. The rest of the robot's voices are replaced. The only familiar one is 
 Cullen.
  
  - Pointless missions. The missions involve driving to a beacon, blowing up drone robots, and beating 
 a boss. The missions themselves are frustrating because they should be easy, but something always 
 seems to kick you in the nuts and then you end up having to start over from the beginning.
  
  - Enemies. 3 types: disposable bots, semi-tough bots, and impossible shield-toting bots. Typically 
 a mission involves destroying drone robots, but then later on they toss you more "difficult" enemies, 
 mostly because they have shields that are impossible to get through. The way to defeat these guys 
 is to throw crap at them to knock them down (how does a tree knock back a robot more than one of 
 Ironhide's giant gun blasts?) and then smack them in melee combat. Thrilling, and it gets really 
 old really fast. Then there are the tougher robots with shields that never disappear. I defeated 
 one but I am still at a loss as to how I actually did it.
  
  - The camera. This was the extra chromosome that made our game so "special." In a short sense: 
 horrible. This is a 3rd person game, and if you were playing it on the 360 or PS3, you'd use the 
 right analog stick to rotate your view and move your aiming cursor. This is done with the Wii remote. 
 The first problem is that the cursor is nowhere near to the spot that you are actually pointing 
 the remote. Second is that it is slow and unresponsive, until you move the pointer a bit more out 
 of frustration, then the cursor moves like lightning across the screen and you end up running away 
 from your foes. Lastly is the magic of the camera resetting itself to a completely un-viewable 
 angle when you get knocked down by an enemy or something else out of the ordinary happens. All 
 in all, the camera sucks and it is a chore to keep hitting the camera reset button (the "-" button) 
 to see in front of you. 
  
  - As far as difficulty goes, this is a tough call. The game isn't hard, it's just ignorant and 
 frustrating. I rated it as "easy" in my review as opposed to going with the middle man of "Just 
 Right," which felt like a hypocritical move on my part because using the word "right" in any way, 
 shape, or form seems unfitting here.
  
  
  Final words:
  
  All in all this game made me feel sorry that I picked up my controller. I've only played this game 
 for about 5 hours and completed about 5 missions, but I can't even force myself to put the game 
 disc back into my Wii. There's a lot more to the game than I mentioned, such as unlockable content, 
 and the ability to play as the Decepticons; but I figured expanding on those topics would be a 
 waste of time as the drawbacks of this game not only make you not want to explore those things, 
 but they also take whats good about the game and unload a massive chocolate colon-load on top of 
 it. If you have bought this game, then you just wasted your money, and if you enjoyed this game, 
 then you must be some sort of retarded monkey. Now I'm going to go watch Transformers and cry myself 
 to sleep.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  If you liked the movie like me, i think youll love this game. i think this game is very under-rated, 
 you'll have to try it first... im not gonna waist your time so ill just go ahead and break this 
 game apart so you'll see what i mean..
  
  Graphics : for a wii game, i think it is the best (technically talking) , most of the environemet 
 is interactif and highly distructible. the in game movies are just greate. i couldnt believe this 
 was comming out from my wii !!!
  
  Sound : i would just say PERFECT and FLAWLESS. Listen to Optimus Prime talking and you'll think 
 your watching the movie.
  
  Gameplay : some missions just give you the feeling of repeating, but still the story is good, and 
 controlling / transforming an autobot is priceless.
  also when driving an autobot, the drivability quality is as good as many driving games.
  
  
 Controls : well, the controls are the week point of this game, they are just frustrating, it took 
 me a little while to get used to them, but even though, i still usually push the camera reset button 
 almost after each transformation because i just cant stabilize the camera, especially when there 
 is a fight going on and i dont have time. 
  
  i think that TRANSFORMES is one of the best wii games ever, i really enjoyed it, ill gladly buy 
 it for full price, it is far from a waist of time and money, and it deserves much more than the 
 6.0 (fair) rating. I was really shocked to see how many games are getting better scores, games 
 which if compared thechnically to TRANSFORMERS would look like from the stone age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Transformas is a good game although it has rather complicated controls but you do get used to it. 
 the graphics are pretty good you can play with just about all characters good and bad. the levels 
 can be easy and hard you can do just about everything thats in the great movie of transformas. 
 AND If you dont want do the levels you can have a great time wrecking the city and destroying police 
 force.
  
  hope you find my review usefull josh p. s my rank better go up and pls add me as a freind because 
 i dont have any : (
  
  my review isnt long enough so im just trying tooooo wasteeeeeeee someeee space ive only
  j u 
 s t j o i n e d this is my f i r s t review yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Transformers: The Game is an okay title, you get to play as either Autobot or Decepticon. In the 
 autobot campaign you defend the people of earth, blah blah blah, and in the Decepticon campaign 
 it's all about destruction. In the gameplay pretty much the only thing that frustrates me is the 
 camera, which is controled by the Wiimote pointer, which makes it interesting because your melee 
 attack is controlled by you waving the Wiimote back and forth which messes up the camera, you could 
 wave the nunchuck back and forth but the action for picking something up is up and down, so when 
 you are trying to aim the Wiimote at the screen and trying to attack someone with the nunchuck, 
 you find that the your robot is kneeling down trying to pick something up that isn't there. so 
 yeah the box also says "Fully Destructible Environment" or something like that, but the environment 
 can't be fully demolished, when you shoot at a building in the city that is 20 stories high, you 
 can only damage the first 5 stories (for some reason your bullets don't hurt the building from 
 that limit) , and the floors that you do damage there is still a skeleton left 
  
  Pros:
  Fun Decepticon campaign, you get to blow stuff up.
  
  Cons:
  Bad camera
  some missions 
 are too simple.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
  Blowing buildings up is fun
  Transformers are highly detailed
  Some nice voice acting
  
  ...::The Bad::...
  Worst. Camera. Ever
  Very short game
  Is 
 frustrating at times
  Guns do nothing...
  Visual Effects are rubbish
  
  
  Yeah, the movie was awesome. But the game? It's rubbish really.... The story has been cut down 
 nearly completely and your left with something that isn't engaging in the slightest. The main-game 
 is extremely short and repititive, the side-missions add nothing to it. You'd possible get an hour 
 or two of fun from the Decipticon Campaign blowing the crap outta everytihng you see, if you can 
 get passed the Wii Controls that is...
  
  The camera is controlled by the pointer forcing you to keep your arm pointing toward the screen; 
 and to make matters worse, they mapped melee attacks to the Wiimote's sensors. So in other words 
 you have to shake the remote to perform melee attacks, which you'll be doing alot i may add as 
 the guns (fired by pressing A and B) do absolutly nothing to enemies. 
  
  The one intresting thing is that the game is split into two campaigns, the Autobots and the Decipticons. 
 Or the goodies and baddies if you will. In the Autobots campaign you'll play as Optimus Prime, 
 Bumblebee, Jazz and Ironhide as you hunt for the AllSpark and try to protect Sam Wittwicky. On 
 the flipside, the Decepticons campaign has you playing as Megatron, Starscream, Barricade and Scroponok 
 tracking down the AllSpark and destroying the Autobots. But there really is little different in 
 these campaigns.
  
  You will get frustrated at times with a couple of the main missions and, if you can bother to do 
 them, some of the pointless side-missions.
  
  I've been extremely negative so far in this review, and that really is because Transformers didn't 
 really give me much enjoyment. Sure blowing up things is fun, yes, but not for the games 35/$50 
 price tag. I absolutly loved the movie, and am a big Transformers fan, but this game didn't deliever 
 for me. (The Wii version anyway) . 
  
  I'd reccommend Tranformers fans to give it a rent, but otherwise stay away from this version of 
 the game.
  
  5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  A very, very destructive but (somehow) fun game in some ways.
  
  Gameplay (6/10) -
  This game is a very destructive game. You choose one side-the evil decepticons... OR, the autobots. 
 Sure, it's REALLY cool that you can play as one of your favorite Transformers! But the story is 
 kinda... um, blank and all you do is destroy stuff... and do missions. 0_o But destroying stuff somehow 
 made the game really fun, and the game's actually kind of fun, but dulls quickly...
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  All I have to say is that it's very messy and stuff... and very KABOOM... you 
 know, like alot of exploding is around. The camera is pretty bad.
  
  Sound (9/10) -
  LOL.... KABOOM! Ah, the sounds of destroying. xD
  
  Value (5/10) -
  Pretty fun, and destroying 
 stuff is a blast! (what a corny joke) But it doesn't last long, and gets boring. Just get it if 
 you want. ^^
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (5/10) -
  It's just some messy, destructive, exploding game with bad camera, but it's fun destroying, and 
 it doesn't really last long.
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.5/10) -
  Pretty much the reviwer's tilt. Destructive. Messy. AWFUL camera. Lots of explosions. But fun if 
 you like exploding stuff, LOL! It's not a long game, but if you really want it, get it! Not stopping 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Transformers The Movie was the best movie ever but here is my review for the game.
  
  Storyline- The idea to play as the Autobots and the Decipticons was the only good thing about this 
 game. It was an okay storyline.
  
  Gameplay- Good in a couple of levels but other than that it was alright.
  
  Visuals- The Design 
 of the Cars was pretty good but the visuals of the levels were bad.
  
  Controls- The controls were kinda hard to play with since that you werent able to play with the 
 classic controller.
  
  Overall- The movie was awesome but the game didn't follow the exact stuff the movie followed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Before You call this a piece of Kid moivie licinced crap just try the game. Sure its reppetive, 
 u just press the same keys over and over agian. But man I am so happy i got this game. When u see 
 this game u think.
  *sigh* Another movie game. DO NOT NOT PLAY THIS GAME. It is awsome. Blowing up buildings never 
 gets boring. I have to admit tho the game is pretty short. But boy Was this game underestunated. 
 The graphics are absoulutley Beautiful. (Make sure u got a good pc tho) . You can play as alot of 
 diffrent robots each with there own unique attacks. Your missing out on alot if you dont play this 
 game.
  Thanks for Reading My Reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airmon
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  The mechanics, camera and gameplay stinks. Possibly the worst grinder game I have played for the 
 360. Go here kill this. Go here pick up that. Thats it in a nutshell.
  Never mind that the camera fights you the whole way. You cant see what your shooting at because 
 they had some idea that and over the shoulder camera would be better than a FPS and you keep getting 
 in the way of what your trying to shoot at.
  Infinite spawns on a map make it seem like your not making any progress unless you ignore everything 
 and just go after the objective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this to be a good game, wanted it so bad.
  
  You start off with two campaigns to choose from; Autobot or Decepticon. Once you choose your side 
 you are placed in a mission and given objectives. The main area is big and wide open as you move 
 between missions which are indicated by a yellow ring on the ground. There are no enemies here 
 allowing you to move around freely.
  
  Once you complete a mission you may enter it again, though I'm not sure why you would want to. 
 It's for this reason that I never tried it.
  
  There are side missions to complete though they are very uninteresting and didn't seem worth my 
 time. You collect items that are laying around till you have enough of them to unlock a mission.
 
  
  Bonus content may be unlocked as you finish missions. Nothing worthy here other than blatant advertising 
 as you will unlock like 3 different previews to the movie. Useless especially after seeing the 
 movie.
  
  The story felt quite disjointed and hard to follow, seeing the movie helped a bit but seeing as 
 how this was released before the movie, you shouldn't have to go see it to understand the game.
 
  
  The graphics are descent with the Robot models looking quite nice and detailed. The environments 
 however could have used a bit of work in the amount of detail.
  
  The sound was good; nothing special here but also nothing that will grate on your last nerve. The 
 controls are a major detriment to this game in that the camera controls are a game killer until 
 you get the hang of them. Once you do though it is actually not that bad and it really doesn't 
 take all that long.
  
  Transitioning between forms was quite fluid and easy to get used to... one button will change you 
 from a Car into a Robot and vice versa.
  
  Battling other robots was quite fun at first as you maneuver around firing missiles or picking 
 up a local item to swing at it. However it got old pretty quickly.
  
  Ultimately the game did not have enough to keep me interested for the whole thing. It moved from 
 a game that I played, to a game that was just in the pile, to a game I saw no interest in playing 
 so it got traded off.
  
  Now I'm not a big fan of trading in games; if there is any value to it at all I keep it, heck even 
 if I will never play it again but it was a great game I will keep it... Transformers was none of 
 those things so it went towards my purchase of another game.
  
  I'm not jaded, I can see how some people would really enjoy this game. It, however, wasn't for 
 me.
  
  I will finish off by suggesting you rent it first. I would rate it as a good rent because it is 
 fun for a little while, but you will most likely soon see that Transformers: The Game has very 
 little staying power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonBrawl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I can start of by saying this game sure did suprise me, it was a disk in disguse of a pretty crappy 
 game. I mean at times this game was not that bad, but other times it was poor. The Graphics were 
 quite good, the textures and colors mixed in well I can say they I liked. The Backgrounds had there 
 times as well, they sure did go with the different senerious, although I hated barricades becuase 
 it was way to dark. The Design for all the other extra robots I think sucked, big time. The Flying 
 and other transformations were cool and useful, also with the new melee attacks and combo's you 
 could preformer I enjoyed. Blackout is my favorite character in the game. 1 thing I would love 
 to get on is how short this game was, a few levels and some mini games and it was done, I think 
 they could have made it longer and more enjoyable. I disliked the fact of how easy and stupid you 
 could go out of the zone it was a stupid and bad idea to add that in. I can this this, the camera 
 angles suck sooo bad its not even funny, its hard to control and very poor overall. A few more things 
 I liked about the game were the addition things you could aquire in the game, like the pictures, Movies 
 and new costume colors/ designs with some transformers. All in all this game is Just another Brick 
 in the wall. If you enjoy destroying things, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs_maniac
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  At first the game looks promising. But after 30 minutes of gameplay the games was dull because i 
 was doing almost the same missions over and over. The camera is really annoying because i must control 
 it with the wiimote. A good thing about the game is that the robot changes from a robot to a car 
 and visa versal. While in car mode nitro boosting is available which is really helpful on some missions.
 
  
  Gameplay: The Good thing of the gameplay is destroying other enemies while in robot mode which is 
 really difficult because of the camera angle. Another thing is climbing some buildings but it is 
 slow. In Overall the gameplay is nice but gets repetitive and dull with the sucky camera controls
 
  
  Graphics: My Favourite part of the game is the Graphics. SIlck and Shiny Graphics which aren't buggy. But 
 You cant play with Graphics : (
  
  Sound: There isn't anything good about the Sound. Its those standard Sound that you can even notice
 
  
  Overall: Ok game with some problems in the gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for the Wii, and since I was a huge fan of the the movie, I expected it to be 
 good even though it had gotten some bad reviews. It was actually really good. The story pretty 
 closely follows the general gist of the movie. You can play as Bumblebee, Optimus, and Starscream, 
 all which fight somewhat differently. This being on the WIi, you swing the remote to do melee attacks, 
 and an upward motion with the nunchuk to pick up nearly anything or to kick. Overall this is a 
 pretty good game despite it being kinda short and some combat issues. I recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoyed the movie and wants something to do until the DVD comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  As cool as it was to see a Transformers movie on the big screen this summer, the lame plot and 
 even-lamer acting left a bad, metallic taste in my mouth.
  
  And so did the inevitable video game tie-in, Transformers: The Game.
  
  Released as part 
 of the pre-movie hype, the Activision title contained few sequences from the movie to protect the 
 plot  as if there was anything to give away.
  
  You alternately play as Autobots and Decepticons in brief, bland campaigns. Fighting mostly consists 
 of doing the same combos over and over. As Autobots, most of your missions are to protect humans 
 and destroy generic drones, which gets old quickly. As Decepticons, you simply wreak havoc by destroying 
 everything  being good is bad.
  
  The robots look great, and the transforming sequences are undeniably smile-inducing, but it becomes 
 laborious; constantly transforming is the only way I was able to center the awful third-person 
 camera. The clunky camera prevents you from seeing which direction youre being attacked. And whats 
 the use of being a giant, butt-kicking robot if you cant see where youre going? An onscreen map 
 copied from Grand Theft Auto helps point you toward mission objectives, but the camera problems 
 make controlling your Transformer feel like flying a blimp in a blizzard using only radar.
  
  The voice-acting and sound effects are strong, and the high-destructible environments are a 
 nice touch. Plus, the unlockable content is sure to entertain fans.
  
  But the broken camera, repetitive gameplay and easy-to-defeat foes dim the spark of Transformers: 
 The Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverlolskiba
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  this is a good game if you like the film and you like robots kicking the heck out of each over 
 then you should get this game it was the seveth game I got it is like three games in one its transformers 
 a car and a flying game. the only bad part of this game is the camera because every five min you 
 are the pressing camera button robot on robot fighting is the best. when you are evil you can destroy 
 everything and its A GOOD THING!!!!!!!! playing as the jet guy is the best. just play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj-andy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is shallow but simply playing as a huge robot that can transform at any given time 
 is pure fun.
  With the fight system is basic, it works well on the Wii as being complicated just ruins a game. 
 Despite having the power of nuclear like bombs, most enemies can only be defeated with a simple 
 punch combo. This is because of the COM using a shield even during their own attack. The game seems 
 unbalanced in that aspect, as does small time limits in which long tasks must be completed.
  
  The graphics for each robot are superb, with all the details intact. The environment is not 
 the best looking but it generally is all destructible. This said but as the game is free roaming 
 you can expect a lower level of detail.
  
  Explosions and bullets make a realistic sound with epics music playing in the background. This 
 intensifies the game and makes you feel like your actually in their world.
  
  The game is not great value for money as it goes for the short but sweet style. After completing 
 certain objectives Generation 1 versions of characters can used. Many side missions fill the game 
 if you really want to suck the game dry. Overall, I think this one is probably left to fans of 
 the movie or of Transformers in general. While it is fun it remains short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ianb
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  here just to get this straight the movie i loved one of my fav movies funny action packed everything. 
 wait am i get sidetract from the game oh ya i no y i am because it SUCKS. the movie is is good 
 so i got back from seeing the movie i quickly run out and go rent the game because i loved the 
 movie get bak play it for 20 mins then i finally go to bed saying well its ok it might get better 
 wake up next morning go down to play for like 10 mins then i say this sucks i decide to play on 
 the bad side i got do that for like 20 mins and i say this is an awful game how does anyone like 
 it GOD!!!!!! Watch the movie its great but do not i repeat do not play the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeman127
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The game was developed by activision (the guys who made tony hawk games, spider man, quake games and 
 some more. Also going to make the upcoming guitar heroes III: legends of rock anywhoo heres what 
 i think of the game.
  
  First Off i started out on the auto bots storyline mainly because i wanted to play as the great 
 optimus prime! Anyways you start the story out playing as bumble-bee. You need to fight some decepticon 
 drones. No big deal eh. After the somewhat long fight theres a series of other missions involving 
 Sam. Of course i was suprised i even beat those decepticons because the camera kept on screwing 
 up, so i spent an hour or so learning how to play the game and how to control the camera. The camera 
 is controlled with by pointing the wii mote at the screen. This screws you up the most when fighting. During 
 a fight you need to flick the wii mote left and right to do various combos. Of course this sends 
 the camera flying to each corner so basically you need to keep pressing the minus button to reset 
 the camera behind your transformer. While i was learning the basic's of the game you can get bonus 
 features by doing such heroic autobot deads. This can be from being heroic by destroying the decepiticons 
 or even just attacking them, other ways to get autobot points can be when you jump, slide (in a car) 
 or fast (it says speed) . Im not too sure how the last three are all that autobotish. Anywhoo while 
 in a fight i threw a gaint wheel at an enemy. It missed because i had bad aim and hit a building. 
 The building got damaged and caused me to get a bad juju point (an X over the autobot symbol) I 
 find it absurb with the red X feature since its somewhat impossible to not cause destruction. Like 
 come on at points your a gaint robot in a small neighbourhood, or you need to smash things so peices 
 of rubble will come off to throw at your opponents (and alot of opponents can only be destroyed 
 by throwing) I find how youre not supposed to destroy things on of the biggest flaws in the game (besides 
 camera) for the fact that there is a mission where you must destroy builings so your fellow autobots 
 can get away.
  
  The camera is not only difficult to control but very annoying and most likely the death of you 
 when fighting an opponent. To control the camera you must point the wiimote at the screen. When 
 trying to change the angle it turns your bot around which is not only slow and time consuming but 
 dangerous when fighting. To fight you swing your controller left or right to do various combos. 
 This can get awfully confusing esspecailly if the conrol is tipped up or back because your bot 
 will attempt to pick something up. Aiming (for your guns) is also done with the wii mote, it wont 
 do much good since mot of the enemys are so badass bullets dont hurt them (well most of them) Anywho 
 this is easily the most annoying feature of the game and will get you most frusterated. When i 
 first started the game i spent an hour or so trying to get used to the camera. If the wiimote sensitivity 
 is set to high switch to low or you will get mad and frusturated and feel like throwing the controller 
 threw the screen.
  
  Im not sure if the game's story is similar to the movie. In the first chapter you need to destroy 
 some decepticons. This follows by beating some decepticons to the car lot so the Sam guy can pick 
 you as a car. So basically you need to get the decepticons to become the robots again so you can 
 kill them. After this happens optimus prime gets you to look over Sam. A decepticon called barricade 
 tries and attacks him but then bumblebee comes stopping him. When sam and his friend saw his car 
 transform there were no emotions except Hey, my car followed by Cool where can i get one .I find 
 it retarted how two people arent scared by there cars coming to life and attacking eachother destroying 
 the entire city. For the first mission as the decepticons you basically need to destroy the entire 
 military base in a set amount of time as blackout. This was probably the most fun mission i played 
 in this game yet. Another part of the game is when the police are constantly chasing you. If anyone 
 ever played hulk ultimate destruction then you would know that when just going around destroying 
 things the police are somewhat like mostquitoes annoying you. Anyways in this game it takes a while 
 for them to reach you. Alot of times they come with tanks and helicopters. The good part is that 
 the enviroment is basically fully destructable. You can go smash a building and then throw the 
 gaint hotdog on top at a helicopter. I found roaming and destroying stuff very fun. So i put missions 
 off for a bit. Driving as a car was actually so very annoying. Especailly during missions. Steering 
 is very hard to control and its a slow reaction time. You cant back up which is the worst especailly 
 in missions where cars ram into you then the only way to get out it transform back into a bot and 
 back into a car. Flying is very easy and not much flaws to it.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty good of course the game on the xbox 360 or the playstation three 
 probably would've looks much better infact take a look at the Wii version pic and a pic from the 
 360 version (ill add urls)
  
  Now to how fun the game. Even with all this complaints, once you take a while to learn how to control 
 the camera and how to attack. etc, then the game actually becomes somewhat fun, whether your  
 whatever, the game can be a blast at times when your not paying attention to the crappy camera and 
 difficult controls.
  
  This game is awarded a 6/10. For crappy camera controls, difficult driving and battling. The five 
 is for somewhat okay graphics and for quite fun gameplay. Now i was quite suprised with this game 
 since its a game made after a movie. Most movie games arent all that great and im probably not 
 the only one who thinks so. Games like the spider man trilogy were quite good and was also developed 
 by activsion. Fantastic four was very bad, gfames like chronicles of narnia have its moments. Other 
 movie games like the star war's series was bad same with street fighter the movie the game. This 
 game was actually very suprising. When i got it i thought it would simply be another movie game. It 
 has its flaws but what game doesnt. The game is fun so i recomend it. (not sure about any other 
 versions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx369
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Like everyone knows this game is based in the new blockbuster movie, Transformers. Like the movie, 
 the game is about the war of the Autobots (the good guys) against the Decepticons (the bad ones) 
 for the AllSpark. The game has two campaigns, the Autobot campaing and the Decepticon one, both 
 of the campaigns are incredibly small (each one lasts 3 hours) and you keep doing the same thing 
 in all the missions. In each campaing you control different robots, here goes the list:
  
  -Autobots:
  -Optimus Prime
  - Bumblebee
  - Ironhide
  - Jazz
  
  -Decepticons:
  -Megatron
 
  -Blackout
  -Starscream
  - Barricade
  -Scorponok
  
  The game does not follow the exact same story from the movie, so don't be surprised if you watch 
 the game, and then see the movie.
  
  The graphics are absolutely stunning, every robot is really well detailed, and it is incredible 
 watching them turning into cars, the environment is fully destructible, and everything can be used 
 as weapons in the game. The voice acting is pretty amazing, too. The controls are good and uncomplicated. 
 You can perform melee attacks by shaking the wii-mote or the nunchuk, and, yes, you have giant 
 nuclear blasters, but they are not really useful, because most of the enemies just go and block 
 them.
  
  Ironically, the greatest enemy in the game are not the other robots, it is the camera. The camera 
 is in charge of the wii-mote, if you point to one edge of the screen, the camera will go to that 
 direction, and someone had the stupid idea of putting your melee attacks in charge of the wii-mote, 
 too, so ween you shake the controller from side to side to attack your enemies, the camera shakes 
 too!! But there is one solution, the melee attacks can be performed by shaking to nunchuk, so the 
 does not go crazy, but even doing this, it is hard to manage the camera. 
  
  In the end Transformers is a good game, it really is repetitive and small, it does not has good 
 extras, but it has great graphics, a solid voice-acting, and it is a great deal of fun. If I were 
 you I would rent it in a weekend, finish the game, unlock all the extras and have fun with it, 
 and then, send it back to Cybertron.
  
   8,0
   
 6,0
  
  Replay  7,5
  
   
 7,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Took me less than a day to beat the entire thing. Although the graphics and sounds were amazing 
 as well as a great amosphere while playing the game there lacks a certain excitiment while playing. 
 Fighting at frist is fun cause you can smash apart your aposing robots but soon after the first 
 mission every robot has a sheild in which you must throw something at him to hurt him. It gets 
 really boring really fast and halfway through the game i found i was looking forward to the ending, 
 not because i wanted to beat the game, but just because i wanted it to end. My advice, good to 
 rent if you want a few hours of fun, but dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Well July is here and so is transformers the movie... and what would any money grabbing movie be 
 without the money grabbing game.
  
  Transformers the game falls foul of the same problem as Superman Returns, Spiderman 3 and the fantastic 
 four, ok-ish films turned into bad, repetitive and boring games. Now Transformers the game follows 
 a story line similar to that of the movie (one that makes no sense and wastes huge amounts of time)
 
  which has both the autobots and Decepticons arriving on earth to find the AllSpark the life force 
 of all transformers and use it to bring peace to or destroy the universe. Now in terms of characters 
 available to play we have:
  
  Autobots:
  Optimus Prime
  Jazz
  BumbleBea
  Ironhide
  
  Decepticons:
  Blackout
  Starscream
  Megatron
  Barricade
  Skorpinok
 
  
  This in lines one of the games biggest issues.... while playing in the latter
  Levels you come off against bots such as Brawl, Frenzy and Bonecrusher, but can only fight against 
 them or protect them, very much a wasted opportunity by leaving out several characters that fans 
 wanted to play as. Bonecrusher himself is nothing more then an escort where in a Starscream mission 
 you have to protect him as he moves from point A to point B (I guess a few humans and he folds 
 ^^) . but what makes it worse is that for some reason skorpinok returns later on in the game for 
 a mission that last no more then 20 seconds _ ... so thats why I cant be Bonecrusher or Brawl. 
 : (
  In terms of missions the autobots seem to have a good range of areas and
  missions to carry out, while a bit repetitive and boring driving around the same streets again 
 and again. But worst of all is Starscream.... confined to a small area that if you turn into a jet 
 and try to move just slightly away you get a leaving mission area warning. Its pathetic how the 
 only transformer in
  here who can truly fly is given such a small boring area , a small air base and a tiny town to 
 9 buildings.
  
  Another problem in this game is the camera... for some reason the developers beivlled it would be 
 a brilliant idea if it shacked uncontrollably not only making it hard to see whats going on but 
 also to the play game.
  Now combat has the same problem.... only 3 hit combo + the ability to pick up and throw objects 
 (enemies as well) this gets boring fast as you'll be using the same moves throughout the game, 
 and yes every playable transformer has weapons (machine guns + missiles) dont get to excited
 
  as these are useless against other transformers and drones... they just stand there blocking everything, 
 makes me wonder why they made the weapons so powerful if you cant use them on other transformers??
 
  
  All in all this is another rushed movie tie-in; if they waited and developed a good transformers 
 game then this would be a sure fire it. But as it is this is only a game that a transformers fan 
 could like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Apart from a camera that's harder to wrangle (sp?) than an alligator on steroids who hasn't eaten 
 for three days, Transformers is a fairly fun action game for the Wii. The graphics are tremendous 
 given the console's limited ability, so props there. The controls are good and easy to use, and 
 rarely screw up on you like some other games that have tried similar approaches. Mission structures 
 and gameplay are repetitive, and there's almost zero difference between playing as Decepticons 
 or Autubots.
  
  There are three vices to speak of. 1: Whoever decided that the camera and attacks should both be 
 controlled by shaking the Wii remote should be sacked. Fighting becomes almost impossible because 
 every time you give the baddy a good smack, the camera gets stuck looking up your @$$ and you can't 
 see where you sent the baddy flying. This is especially annoying in levels where you have to simultaneously 
 chase other baddies, as you'll get stuck wandering around.
  
  2. Transforming looks awesome on screen... unfortunately, the controls for your transformed robot 
 are not. Any insignificant object can bar progress when you're driving, and I wasn't sure what 
 I was doing as an airplane/jet/helicopter thing. Both can cause significant problems in missions 
 where you need to move fast.
  
  3. Due to both of the above, missions can be insanely difficult. A paragon of this fault would 
 be one of the earlier missions where you'll spend half your time chasing Decepticons, and half 
 your time kicking them around. The main problem; driving isn't fast enough and you'll often get 
 stuck, meaning you waste valuable time trying to de-transform and then re-transform. Secondly, 
 you'll turn into a big robot, get ready for some fighting... and you'll knock the baddy far away 
 in what direction you can't tell, because the camera is busy looking at your feet. All the while, 
 the other Decepticons are escaping; enough said.
  
  Transformers is fun, but shallow and repetitive. It's Achilles Heel is ultimately its awful camera 
 controls, which sometimes seem like they are trying to thwart you on purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareddra
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game in one word?  This game 
 has everything that I was looking for in a game. I mean it looks just like the movie characters 
 and it really kicks butt on the Wii. It probably is the best on the Wii anyway because the Wii 
 rules all consoles in my opinion. Anyway this game really got a very low score that I really do 
 not agree with at all. When I went to Gamestop. com to check the score of this cool game I was like 
  Well anyway I definitly recommend this game to anyone that 
 wants to play a cool and fun game. I like to be the decepticons the most because you get to destroy 
 anything you want without a penalty. This game is a must buy regardless of the review it got. Go 
 Transformers the  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HMN_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so i bought the game yesterday and im happy i did. This game is awsome.
  
  Story: 7/10 Havent seen the movie yet, but i guess it follows the movie path.
  Well, i like the 
 story, but its weird that the artefact are some glasses
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Hmm... you fight robots, fire missiles to destroy houses, drive around on cool cars/helicopters/scorpion 
 thing/plane... i like that.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 The robots are highly detailed and the enviroments look good.
  
  Sound: 8/10
 
  Good voice acting and music, but dialouge (specially from Sam and/or... Sam&acute; s friend who 
 is a girl) suck
  
  Replay Value: 8/10
  Well, there are no missions i would replay, but i could spend alot of time destroying buildings 
 and houses.
  Oh, and if you win the game as an autobot or a decepticon, you could play the decepticon or autobot 
 missions. Yay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  For this review im gonna start off by saying yes the camera can be terrible in this game but its 
 not bad enough to spoil the game. In the game u can be either the Autobots [ good guys ] were u 
 play as optimus prime ironeye and jazz or u can play as the desiceptacons [ bad guys] havent really 
 got that deep into that campaign so i couldnt tell u the charecters. Anyway on to the gameplay, 
 as i said earlier the camera can be really bad but really all u have to do is hit the Minus button 
 on ur wii mote to center the camera. In my opinion the controls are pretty good hit up on the d 
 pad to go into vehichle mode A or B to fire ur weapons and u swing the wiimote to use a melee attack. 
 Another problem this game has is that it is really short. The best parts of this game is that in 
 bewteen missions there is a sandbox type area were u can just run around and blow stuff up and 
 the missions are fun also the voice acting is very good. Also by wii standards the graphics are 
 amazing except explosions. In conconclusion u should rent this game first then if u like it u should 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesarspalace
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game was really good, i really liked it, i dunno wut everyone else was playing, yes the game 
 is really short, but its real fun, and bad ass when ur playing. u get to be ur favorite Autobots 
 like Optimus Prime, and Jazz and thats bad ass, and u could also be the Decepticons such as Megatron 
 and Starscream. and at least they made all the versions of the game all the same for all the sytems. 
 it was a fun game but the camara really sucks, and could really piss u off, but other than that 
 the game is bad ass i would recomend it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud7254
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  i dont know why this game didnt get a perfect 10, i loved it, i spent half and hour playing the 
 game and it is one of the greatest wii games out right now. I grew up with the transformers, and 
 i played with the toys. Now that theres a video game and a new movie out, a whole new generation 
 of kids is going to be introduced to the autobots and decepticons. The game has a good story, i 
 like the idea of being able to use anything in the environment as a weapon, and i just overall 
 love the game. For anyone whos thought about buying it, id buy it because it has a really high 
 replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terravolta
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets be real here people, if you remember the 1980's you can probably remember the Transformers, 
 and lets be even more real, it seems like a pretty good TV/Movie to game transistioning idea. So 
 with all that said, is this version of the Transformers game any good at all? After all theres 
 a lot of hype and a lot of dorito eating fans out there that want to see this game done right.
 
  Well I can honestly say if you own the Wii this is a sure shot, this game is way up to par and 
 surpases what I've come to expect from the Wii, nice graphics (esspecially on the character models) , 
 good sound, great voice acting, and most importantly extremely fun gameplay that stays true to 
 not only the movie but also to all that good ol'nastalgia that we've come to love.
  
  I won't go too far into detail but some of the juicy stuff you'll see is great vehicle game play, 
 fun little GTAesk side mission, really worth wild bonus unlocks (hint hint: old school comic book 
 pictures, videos ect..) . I'll say it again except differently this time, if you own a wii get this 
 game.
  
  I will say one thing, and take this not as a word of advice to stray away but more as a tip, if 
 you don't own a wii and you want to buy the wii because of this game... uhh, buy an xbox 360. Review 
 over. Ryan Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to try this game. After the dissapointment of Spider- Man 3 and the fact they messed 
 up a great Movie Game Series I went to get Transformers the game. The good part of it is the Free- 
 Roam, it's pretty fun in the begining, it's cool being Autobots or Decepiticons, and the fact mostly 
 everything is destructable is fun. Everythign else is bad. The control and gameplay gets stale. 
 A button- Masher through and through. A big dissapointment and like how Gamespot said both storys 
 together still equals a short game. This overall wasn't worth the Price tag and the Transformer 
 name. The first PS2 game that wasn't based on the movie was pretty good and if they mixed elements 
 with that one it would have been a solid game. The graphics are pretty much one of the best parts. 
 Pretty mcuh I recommend renting it or if you have a 360 rent it for that. It's worth the achivments 
 on that system. If you have a DS get ehtier the Autobot or Decpticon game. That game was good and 
 Succeded where the Home System games failed. Just the graphics aren't as good and could be a a 
 motton masher in the begging but better. So rent this or get the DS one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay since you can't see the movie yet lets play the game! The gameplay is not the best by any 
 means. You will fight more with the camera than the enemies. Also not to mention some of the controls 
 that you have to learn did not work out that well for me. It is not as much fun pounding robots 
 as it might seem. The graphics are actually good. They however do not make up for the gameplay 
 though. The game has original voices for the charecters. Also the clash of thousand pound robots 
 don't sound shabby either. The game is very short and trust me, you will not want to play it again. 
 It is about 4 hours for both campaign sides. This is a game I was really looking forward to this 
 one. It looked good but fails all in the end. I don't reccomend even renting this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistic90
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure how anyone that's a Transformers fan could possibly go into this game and not have 
 fun, unless they were incredibly pessimistic. The detailing of the world and the characters is 
 amazing, and with the exception of the camera control being hard to get used to, the game controls 
 really well. I'm not sure what people are complaining about with the missions, they're no worse 
 than the ones you'd find in a GTA game, except that you also get ones where you can destroy entire 
 military bases. There's a fair amount to explore, even if the locations aren't as large as the 
 other free roaming games. Yes, you often do get enemies that don't take damage from your long range 
 weapons, but only the dimwitted could overlook the effect they have: When they're blocking your 
 fire, they can't move. Pining down enemies with machine gun fire and then picking up a street lamp 
 and hitting them into a building is a very satisfying and viable tactic. The voice acting is also 
 very well done, with Peter Cullen and Frank Whelker amongst other really good voice actors.
  
  Overall, this game is FUN. If you're about to play the game expecting the next Legend of Zelda 
 or Metal Gear Solid, then you're not going to enjoy the game. If you're going in just wanting to 
 have fun, then you will have a good time. Well, you will after getting used to the controls.
  
  I believe the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerocool40
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I had been watching all the trailers trying to find 
 out anything i could about it. And finally when i play it its a complete let down. The graphics 
 are great for a wii game and it does not lag very much. The biggest issue for me is the camera. 
 To many times i will be in a boss fight or just walking around and the camera zooms up to close 
 or or just acts like it has a mind of its own. Most missions of the game are driving from point 
 to point and fighting a few transformers along the way. Boss fights are not to original and usually 
 involve throwing something at them to stun them so you can do a few hits before you have to throw 
 something else at them. The decepticons are a little better then the autobots little more fun flying 
 i mean. Just destroying the town is fun but gets old after awhile. The g1 one skins are ok and 
 other unlockable content is just meh just a lot of picuters and a few trailers for the movie. To 
 me it just felt like the rushed something that could have been really good. They put in a few things 
 like peter cullen and frank welker doing the voices and g1 skins to hook transformers fans. Feels 
 rushed and would suggest renting before buying. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
