-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trauma Center: Second Opinion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/traumacentersecondopinion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced puzzle action gameplay shows off a lot of what the Wii Remote can do.
 surprisingly engaging storyline rife with the best kind of anime melodrama.
 multiple difficulty settings make the high level of challenge more manageable.
 controls do a great job of simulating some surgical procedures.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 While the presentation looks good, it feels dated--no support for widescreen 480p displays.
 some scenarios demand trial and error or punishing degrees of precision.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,808 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You don't need a surgeon's patience or precision to appreciate this quirky, inventive, very likable 
 remake of a remarkable Nintendo DS game. 

  One of the most memorable Nintendo DS games released last year, Trauma Center: Under the Knife 
 put you in the role of an up-and-coming surgeon who becomes embroiled in a series of surprisingly 
 intense medical emergencies. So perhaps it's only fitting that such an unusual game would make 
 the unusual transition from a portable game system to Nintendo's new console, the Wii. Trauma Center: 
 Second Opinion for the Wii is essentially a remake of the original for the DS, featuring redrawn 
 artwork, a redesigned control scheme that's a great showcase for the Wii Remote, some new story 
 sequences and operations, and a really good subtitle. While this isn't the full-on sequel that 
 a fan of the first Trauma Center would want, it's a refreshingly original, tense, and exciting 
 game that embodies the Wii's promise of being able to deliver great, involving gameplay experiences 
 over flashy graphics.  

          And now for something completely different.     

  Those who've played the first Trauma Center game will already know Dr. Derek Stiles, a young surgeon 
 who is fresh from having completed his residency. The game identifies Dr. Stiles as the story's 
 main character, but Trauma Center turns out to have a lot of great characters in it, even though 
 all the story sequences are told in a simple, rather old-fashioned way, using still images and 
 text dialogue. Nevertheless, the story is engrossing, and broaches some surprisingly intense and 
 serious material, from patients with suicidal tendencies to doctors who are morally predisposed 
 to euthanasia -- and that's just the beginning. The story goes way over the top as Dr. Stiles discovers 
 he has the Healing Touch, an ability inherited from ancient Greek times. Meanwhile, a world-threatening 
 epidemic is discovered and believed to be a work of bioterrorism. There's a lot of intrigue to 
 this story, and the dialogue is well written to drive it forward plausibly enough.  

  All the anime artwork is nicely redrawn from the DS original and looks good, but from a graphical 
 standpoint, Trauma Center: Second Opinion doesn't have any bells and whistles that couldn't have 
 been found on, say, the Sega Dreamcast years ago. The game doesn't even allow you to run it in 
 a widescreen progressive scan mode like most other Wii titles. However, Traume Center still has 
 a nice sense of style to it, and the 3D surgery sequences feature just the right level of detail 
 to make them a little unsettling or intimidating, without being gruesome. The audio is similarly 
 understated but effective. There's not enough speech, but the few spoken lines of dialogue that 
 come from the major characters help establish their personalities, and the quality of the voiceover 
 is solid. Also, the game's sound effects and musical score fit the anime-style look very nicely. 
 The music runs the emotional gamut, tensing up during an operation, and the scalpels sound like 
 ninja swords.  

  When you're not experiencing the melodramatic storyline, you'll be in surgery, viewing the patient 
 from a first-person perspective. Typically, you'll need to make an incision, fix the patient on 
 the inside, and then close him up. As you might expect, though, operations can be quite different 
 from one to the next. You'll have access to a wide variety of tools for getting the job done, including 
 a scalpel, a drainage hose, sutures, a precision laser, an ultrasound machine, forceps, and more. 
 On the Nintendo DS, you selected these by touching the edges of the screen, which resulted in a 
 lot of back-and-forth tapping (unless you were crazy enough to try to play with two styluses) . 
 On the Wii, you use the nunchuk attachment's analog stick to access tools from a radial menu while 
 keeping your other hand steady, concentrating on the operation. This is a significant reinvention 
 of the Trauma Center control scheme; by requiring you to use both hands, it seems like a better 
 simulation of the surgical process. Some well-placed rumble effects make the control scheme even 
 more convincing.  

          Trauma Center proves that a game about surgery can be fun and exciting, and have a good 
 story.     

  For the most part, the controls have a great feel to them and could make a believer out of you 
 if you're still on the fence about the Wii Remote. Surprisingly, one of the tougher parts of the 
 operation occurs when you make that initial incision with the scalpel. On the DS, it was easy enough 
 to draw a straight line, but on the Wii, it can be difficult to keep a steady hand and make a clean 
 cut. This certainly isn't unrealistic, but it seems disproportionately challenging given that you'll 
 go on to remove tumors and worse using simpler maneuvers. The Wii Remote feels responsive as you 
 work away, and some of the tools are simulated particularly well. The best example of this occurs 
 when you pick something up with the forceps: You have to press and hold buttons A and B on the 
 remote using your thumb and index finger, much like you would to squeeze the tongs on the real 
 thing.  

  Trauma Center: Second Opinion also features some new and redesigned tools that require you to do 
 more than just point at spots on the screen. If a patient's heart rate stops, it's time to bust 
 out the defibrillator, which you'll need to push down onto the patient's chest by moving your arm 
 toward the screen. One of the new operations also has you mending a nasty compound fracture by 
 moving and rotating pieces of bone so that they fit into place. The times when you have to work 
 in three-dimensional space will be quite unlike anything you've ever played before, assuming this 
 is one of the first games you play for the Wii. You'll need to get used to these parts, but the 
 effort is worth it.  

  You'd probably expect a surgical operation to be hard work, and sure enough, Trauma Center: Second 
 Opinion isn't easy. However, its level of difficulty seems better balanced than the very challenging 
 DS original, especially because you now have several difficulty modes to choose from for each operation. 
 You earn a rank that is based on the speed and precision with which you operate, and even at the 
 easiest setting, it can be tough to earn above a C ranking, let alone successfully complete some 
 of the later operations. Also, the story-driven nature of the game means that you're going to run 
 into some unexpected events as you operate. This makes for some tense and exciting surgeries, at 
 the expense of forcing you to go through some trial and error until you figure out what you need 
 to watch out for and what you need to do. But even when you know exactly what's going to happen 
 during a given scene, it's still challenging just to get the job done in time. You typically have 
 five minutes for each surgery, and your progress is saved after each mission, so this is a good 
 game to play in relatively brief stretches. At the same time, the controls don't require any wild 
 motions, so you shouldn't feel worn out after playing for longer stretches.  

          The control differences and other changes are enough to make this remake of a Nintendo 
 DS game seem new again.     

  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is divided into a series of scenarios within a series of chapters, 
 with some occasional side-story sequences added to the mix. There are dozens of individual operations 
 in all, so even though each one is short, this is still a reasonably lengthy game that makes you 
 feel as though you've been through an awful lot since your humble beginnings. The action-puzzle 
 nature of the gameplay and the ability to easily go back and replay any scenario at different difficulty 
 settings invite some replay value, as well. Some sort of multiplayer component would have been 
 a welcome addition to the game, but you still get some good value for your money here, especially 
 if you've never played Trauma Center for the DS before.  

  This is about as unorthodox of a launch title for a new game system as they come, but then again, 
 the Wii is pretty unorthodox too. So maybe it shouldn't come as any surprise that the game and 
 the console make a great match. Trauma Center: Second Opinion isn't going to wow anybody with its 
 presentation, yet it's got so much inventive gameplay and takes such a spirited approach to its 
 subject matter that it still stands out from the crowd.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (132 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is one awesome Wii game. It was the very first game I've ever gotten 
 for my Wii and it's really good. Now I know this game is a remake of Nintendo DS game that came 
 out in 2005 but since I missed out on the DS version I decided to pick up the Wii version. Here's 
 the story. Dr. Derek Stiles is a new recriut for a hospital. So now he must learn what it means to 
 be a good surgon while trying to eilminate the dangerous Gulit virus. The story is told in text 
 but with a little bit of voice acting. Gameplay is nice. You have to do surgery on someone whenever 
 it means removing a Tumor and elimnating the Gulit virus it's something new most of the time. You 
 also play as another new character known as Naomi Weaver. She has something that Derek has as well. It's 
 known as the healing touch. It's able to slow down time and make sure that the person who is having 
 surgery has a better chance of living. There are also some new items added as well. There's the Defibrillator 
 which can bring the person back to life if he somehow lost conncetion to his vital's. There is also 
 the Penlight and Flash Camera which however is only used one level though. It's used to make things 
 lighter in dark area's of surgery. Overall Tramua Center: Second Opinion is a good game. The only 
 flaws are that the game is too short, There are no online leader boards, No multiplayer and the story 
 telling is kinda bland if you tell me. But overall Tramua Center: Second Opinion is a good game as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  one of my favorite wii games I havent played the ds truama center but bet its pretty good the game 
 does use the wii remote very well and not in the annoying gimmiky way that some games do and I 
 have to say the game is fun but challenging at the same time and its long which is a nice bonus 
 and you would think a game like this would get reppetitve quickly but it doesnt the levels are 
 always diffrent like when you have to do a operation int he dark and I like that they tried to 
 add a storyline but I think thats also where the game gets hung alot the text cutscenes are why 
 to long and there isnt a instent skip which they really need and what is really bad is that if 
 screw up you have to start out from the very beginning which can be very annoying if its like 3-4 
 part operation this is even worse if your on one of the more annoying really frustrating levels 
 there should be some kind of in game checkpoint system but I guess that would kind of sorta deafet 
 the purpose of a time limit but I could settle for checkpoints on the lower difficultys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Normally in video games, when you cut something, you're trying to kill it. But Trauma Center is 
 different; when you cut someone you're trying to save him or her. It's a unique concept to video 
 games, and one that could only be possible on either Nintendo's DS and Wii systems. Second Opinion 
 isn't a true sequel to the DS Trauma Center, but rather a remake with additional content. But it's 
 how well Trauma Center works on the Wii that makes it worth playing.
  
  The set-up seems simple at first, you're Dr. Derek Stiles, a young surgeon looking to help people 
 as a doctor. But the story quickly escalates from there. You have the power of the Healing Touch, 
 it allows you to essentially slow down time, or rather, help Derek seem as if he's moving with 
 quick reaction times to everything. This comes in very handy when the actual medical terrorism 
 occurs and GUILT- a man-made virus is unleashed on the world. The plot may seem outlandish with 
 super diseases, the Healing Touch, parasites and the man known as The Death Doctor and more. Now, 
 if you've get bleeding headaches at anime-style visuals or if you simply didn't pass English in 
 high school, Trauma Center's story may not be for you. But if you've got a soft spot for well-written, 
 dramatic games that are a cut above most others, then Trauma Center is definitely worth checking 
 out for it's story alone.
  
  However, while the story is absolutely fantastic, the way it's presented isn't so hot. Many Wii 
 games try to not push any limits; Trauma Center is one of those. There are no cutscenes, everything 
 is done in stills. You'll get an image of the character talking and some dialogue following from 
 there. The presentation shown here was cutting edge in the PS1 era and the visuals could have just 
 as easily been passed for a Dreamcast game. The lack of voice acting, aside from a few lines here 
 and there, is a bit of a shame as well especially considering how good the few spoken lines are, 
 and the sound effects are very understated in the game. But the well-written plot easily brings 
 it all together to make for a fascinating experience regardless of the lack of any technical prowess.
 
  
  As a surgery game Trauma Center is one of the most innovative games around. Second Opinion is a 
 perfect fit for the Wii Remote and the developers clearly put a lot of thought into the control 
 scheme. The hand controlling the Wii remote is in charge of the actual manuevers done in the game, 
 while the hand controlling the nunchuk attachment is in charge of selecting which tool to use. 
 It's all very quick, on the fly and extremely responsive, making for one of the best uses of the 
 Wii's functionality ever. Second Opinion is a perfect fit for the Wii, and it shows brilliantly.
 
  
  As a surgery game, Trauma Center is mostly a puzzle game, though you wouldn't think that to be 
 so. However, you're given a time limit, presented with a problem and asked to solve it. Sure, there 
 are some arcadey shooter-like moments when a strain of guilt moves around, causing damage and you're 
 tasked with getting rid of it, but for the most part, you're just solving the problems found in 
 the patients. Of course, sometimes the game mixes up what you're doing based on what's going on 
 in the story, for instance, a surgery on a plane with bouts of turbulence, performing on someone 
 in the dark with a flashlight going on and off, as well as diffusing a bomb.
  
  One thing to keep in mind is that Trauma Center can be a genuinely challenging game. The difficulty 
 will gradually pick up as play the game, but should you stop for a while and come back later to 
 the game you may be forced to play from the beginning again simply because you can't keep up with 
 the surgeries. The game is never really unfair though, but some surgeries can be very daunting 
 and difficult to complete. Gamers looking to simply cruise through this game need not apply here.
 
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a fabulous game; it's one of the few games that uses the full 
 potential of the Wii Remote to create an engrossing and memorable experience. If you haven't played 
 this game yet, now is an excellent time to do so. If you're looking for a new Wii game that's challenging, 
 well-written, fun and properly uses all of the mechanics of the Wii Remote than look no further 
 than Trauma Center: Second Opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm actually facinated that this transported so well over to the Wii. The original DS game was 
 good, but frustrating on so many levels. I remember getting through a whole surgery and at the 
 very end, for the love of all that is good, the bandage would not stick for some stupid reason. 
 I actually gave up on the DS version because of this. 
  This is not to say the Wii version of this game is without faults and frustraiting moments. It 
 has it's fair share. Some surgery's controls could use a little bit of work but most work very 
 well. 
  
  If you are new to this series, the controls will take some getting used to. I actually had to consult 
 the booklet that came with the game to understand what buttons to push because the game pretty 
 much asumes you know how to do it yourself. But other than that, the controls work well. 
  
  Another thing I like about this game is the playable second character that the first game did 
 not have. She's interesting but I wish we had seen (and been able) to play her more. 
  
  I do have one last thing to complain about and that is the crazyness of the last few surgeries. 
 I love the sci-fi tone of some of the surgeries and story line but sometimes it's a little too 
 much and I find myself wanting to go back and pick glass shards out of someone's arm rather than 
 battle a mini-boss battle in someone's lung. 
  
  So the bottom line is, if you really want a challenge (even on the easy level) I would give this 
 game a shot. It's actually got one of the best control schemes out there on the Wii and it really 
 tests not only your hands reflexes but your minds as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tacoman001
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center. When I first started playing Under the Knife on my DS I thought I was good enough 
 to get through the game. I did manage to get through the game, by the skin of my teeth. It was 
 fun, it was challenging, it drove me nuts and made me want to keep playing even when I could barely 
 keep up with the operations pacing. I never put it down. Now with Second Opinion, we've all got 
 the chance to experience Under the Knife, on a big screen and with a flashy control system to boot.
 
  
  Overview:
  If you've never played Trauma Center, the basic gist of it is, you're a surgeon (Or Cutter, if 
 you prefer Scrubs terminology) named Derek Stiles and you've just finished your residency at Hope 
 Hospital. Now you get to move on to bigger and better things but first you'll be walked through 
 the easy starting operations. Basic suturing (stitches) , removing foreign objects like glass, and 
 using a surgeons best friend, the scaple await you. As the game progresses you pick up more fun 
 surgical instruments like an ultrasound, surgical laser and drain. And of course healing touch 
 but more on HT later.
  
  Story/Characters:
  Ah probably the gem of the game apart from the surgery itself. The characters of the story are 
 designed with a heavy influence of our friends from Japans mangas. From our young surgical master 
 Derek, to the older more experienced Doc Hoffman, every character looks and feels like they belong 
 in the game.
  
  But the storyline itself focuses on Derek's rise from a rookie to a master surgeon. How it does 
 this, is through well written dialogue from pre op to post op, its heavy on reading but the storyline 
 is well done that I didn't find this to be too much of a burden. In fact it reminds me of the writing 
 used in Ace Attorney, just with a bigger medical flavour to it. I'm not going to spoil the game 
 for those who haven't played it.
  
  Oh right I forgot about Naomi/Nozomi. Naomi, well I havent spent too much time with her character 
 yet so I cant really comment on her too much. But from I have gathered, she's a surgical whiz just 
 like Derek only with a dark secret in her past which I havent discovered too much about. But from 
 the locations her operations take place in, I've guessed it has something to do with the storys 
 main villain. Oh she also possess healing touch, only hers is different to Derek's.
  
  Gameplay:
  Surgery, looks hard on TV shows right? Well SO throws you in at the deep end but the 
 first few ops are so easy that its really hard to actually accidentally kill a patient you're trying 
 to save. But later ops when you've got to juggle, two or even four things at a time, thats when 
 it gets hard and some ops will drive you insane for what should be only minor mistakes but land 
 up costing you the patients life. But dont let that drive you off, the ops are fun and can be made 
 easier with Healing Touch. HT is a power only a few doctors possess, those doctors are thought 
 to be descended from Asclepius, the greek god of medicine himself. Derek's HT slows down time giving 
 you 4 seconds surgery time for every 1 second of op time limit passed. Naomi/Nozomi (Why can't 
 the European version just be the same, its obvious Nozomi is meant to be Naomi anyway) , well her 
 HT boosts vitals for a certain grade of accuracy in operating. Operational moves are rated as Bad, 
 Ok, Good or Cool. Cool being the best, Bad being the worst. Operations themselves are ranked from 
 S through to C (I think, I've never scored lower than C) or on Hard XS, S, you get the idea.
  
  Sound/Music:
  Nothing too special here, most of the tracks are just rehashed DS tracks. Which 
 is just fine with me because the DS music was great. SO's tracks sound great and I'm listening 
 to one of my favorite tracks from the game as I type this. Yeah its just that good.
  
  Difficulty:
  So there are 3 difficulty settings in TC. Easy, Normal and Hard. The main difference 
 between the 3 being the rate vitals drop off, penalties for wrong moves etc. Which is a welcome 
 change from the DS's one difficulty suits all approach.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  There's alot of lasting appeal in this. The desire to see an S or XS rank beside every operation 
 is a challenge some people will savour.
  
  DS-Wii Changes/Control:
  Not too many to speak of, most of the changes are mainly in the way the games controlled. The Wii 
 mote acts as your scaple or other surgical instrument, while the nunchuck acts as the tool selector. 
 Its a welcome change from the DS where you'd have to tap the tool you wanted to switch costing 
 you valuable time. The Wii definitely beats the DS in my opinion on controls.
  
  Apart from the control changeover from DS a few of the ops have been changed. I'm not going to 
 reveal which ones but there is an op on Wii which is like its DS counterpart for only the first 
 phase of the op, the rest of it is completely different. So if like me you come into Second Opinion 
 expecting to blast through the operations easily, think again.
  
  Overall Rating: 9/10.
  Challenging, frustrating and fun in one game is hard to find these days. SO delivers on all three 
 and with a great cast of characters and some good music to back it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Previously a title for the DS, Trauma Centre has been updated and adapted for the Wii taking advantage 
 of the Wiis unique control system. 
  
  You take on the role of a young new surgeon learning the ropes. The game follows his (your) progress 
 from being a rookie surgeon to an experienced specialist surgeon with some plot twists along the 
 way. 
  
  The story is told through cut scenes with pictures of the characters and text coming up showing 
 what they are saying. Sometimes these can get a little boring and monotomous, all you really want 
 to do is get to the surgery! But as a method of telling the story, they work quite well, you are 
 able to skip through them quickly unlike in other games. 
  
  Operations are performed with the nunchuck and wiimote. The nunchuck control stick is used to select 
 tools, and actions, such as stitching or cutting, are performed with the wiimote. When the pressure 
 is on, it can sometimes be irritating trying to select the right tool quickly with the nunchuck 
 stick but for the most part it's not too bad. 
  
  Using the wiimote to perform different actions during an operation is fun, you actually feel like 
 a surgeon! Plus, being able to understand medical language is cool (even if some of the words are 
 a little bit wrong!) Graphics are simple, non gory, although some of the language and plot may 
 be difficult for younger gamers to understand. 
  
  You have a large amount of control during the operations, being able to really choose whether a 
 patient lives or dies. As well as performing the operations, you really need to keep an eye on 
 the patients vitals (heart and breathing rate) . The assisting nurse tends not to warn you until 
 it's nearly too late which can be annoying, especially if you were close to the end of a complex 
 operation. 
  
  The game saves after each operation which means that if you do make a mistake during an operation, 
 you don't lose too much. This is important the further through the game you get as the operations 
 do become more challenging (and frustrating at times) and you may have to attempt them more than 
 once. 
  
  Overall, I would say that this game is good fun. It feels educational, even if it's not, and it 
 takes advantage of the motion sensitive Wii controls. It can be challenging at times, but all good 
 games should be. Potential surgeons, apply here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center as most of us know is a Surgical based game which was originally on the nintendo 
 DS. This is my first Wii review of a game which i had mixed thoughts about.
  
  There are no games made like this before Trauma Center and it is a very... different experience. 
 At first i didnt really enjoy the game... but after you perform your first operation you become 
 weirdly addicted. The game does have its moments where some sort of typical japanese magic type 
 stuff is involved.
  
  The game is supposed to be based in a very distant future, where we can cure cancer... even remove 
 glass from the hearts of small children. There are many tools used in order to do the operations, 
 you are shown what to do in the first few operations, then you are left to fend for yoursel... 
 you have to remember how to do a procedure. You use scalpels, dis-infectants, lasers and things 
 like that. 
  There isnt really much to the game apart from the fact you perform operations on people. 
  
 
  The bad side is that of personal matter and of boredom. I find that the cutscenes sometimes go 
 on forever... the cutscenes are of Anime characters who dont speak... you have to read what they 
 say. The cutscenes look like they have been set up in a powerpoint presentation since they dont 
 move. The women in it are always young, large chested blonde females or middle aged women, large 
 chested and have mid length cut brown hair and have seductive voices. The only speech in the game 
 is of some of the characters just saying stuff like "Doctor!" or something like that. The personal 
 thing for me is the fact i dont like Anime... and the fact that some of the cut scenes a boringly 
 innapropriate to what your actually trying to do in the game. Its like watching some sort of Japenese 
 E. R. due to the fact they try to add some sort of emotion or drama behind the game by adding cutscenes 
 that turn your brain into useless mush.
  
  Besides all the boring stuff its quite fun cutting into people :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rexlan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I don't write many reviews, but this game and all of its interesting quirks has truly prompted 
 me to do so. I was talking with my cousin one day and he insisted that I give this game a try. 
 I had never really been all that interested in Trauma Center (granted I'd never played it myself) . 
 Within a few minutes I was hooked. Trauma Center: SO is a remake of the DS title Trauma Center: 
 Under the Knife, and it looks and plays a lot better. 
  Here's the rundown:
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  The story in this game is quite an interesting one, with many twists and turns 
 along the way. The story follows young doctor Derek Stiles, who works at Hope Hospital in Angeles 
 Bay. Initially he is a very inexperienced and neglectful doctor. As time passes and more patients 
 are treated he matures and masters a hidden power known as the "Healing Touch" which allows him 
 to temporarily slow down time in order to treat serious conditions effectively.
  
  Eventually Derek faces a new threat, a deadly synthetic virus called GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin 
 Immuno-Latency Toxin) created by the bioterrorist group "Delphi". GUILT causes the body to basically 
 kill itself in various ways within a short time of being infected. With his nurse, Angie Thompson, 
 and the rest of the hospital staff behind him, he joins "Caduceus", an organization dedicated to 
 curing GUILT. Derek battles GUILT in 7 different forms and eventually is able to overcome each, 
 thus ending GUILT's grip on humanity. Yay.
  
  The Second Opinion part comes in the form of Dr. Kirishima, a Japanese doctor who operates on a 
 new side-plot that intertwines with Stiles's. She has mastered a Healing Touch as well, one that 
 allows her to quickly raise a patient's vitals when they begin to falter. The whole story is very 
 original and fresh. Even though it is basically a re-hashing of Under the Knife's story, it continues 
 to impress (especially if you skipped UtK like I did) .
  
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  OK, so the graphics aren't that great. But that's not what Wii owners bought the system for, so 
 I won't grade as harshly. The organs all look like they should and the GUILT all have very unique 
 designs that are clearly distinguishable in the middle of an operation. All in all, how this game 
 looks is not really all that important. As long as I can clearly tell what I'm operating on, I'm 
 happy.
  
  On a side note, even though it is a game about surgery, it's not overly bloody or gruesome. Blood 
 doesn't come gushing out of the patients or anything like that. The organs appear somewhat cartoony 
 and the whole thing reaches a nice middle ground. But if you really don't need to see blood, then 
 go and play Wii Sports for a while and leave this game alone. If you do need to see blood, then 
 go play some God of War.
  
  Music: 8/10
  
  There's really not much music in this game. You have a few themes that play through cutscenes, 
 a "Hurry Up!" kind of song when something bad happens, a standard operating theme, a GUILT theme, 
 and a few boss tunes (yes, BOSS music. There are bosses in this game. Took me by surprise too.)
 
  
  However, the music suits the activities and for a game like this I don't think a truly epic score 
 is necessary. I DO like the chanting during one of the boss themes though. It made the battle much 
 more epic.
  
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 10/10
  
  Man, am I glad Trauma Center went with dual controls on this one. Makes the whole thing much easier. 
 The Nunchuk stick controls what tool is being used and the Wiimote is used to aim and use it. The 
 whole control scheme seems intuitive and very natural, even if it is a bit unwieldy at first. When 
 you use the forceps, for example, you actually have to push both the A and B buttons, giving the 
 feeling that you're actually grabbing the thing instead of just clicking on it.
  
  My only real complaint control-wise is the difficulty in pulling off a successful Healing Touch 
 when you really need it. You have to draw a star on the screen and if it's not good enough or if 
 you don't do it fast enough, it doesn't count. Even with the pointer to guide you, it seems consistently 
 hard to do.
  
  You are given several tools to operate with. First there's the scalpel, used to make incisions 
 and reveal embedded objects. Then comes the antibiotic gel, capable of healing minor wounds and 
 restoring a small amount of vitals to the patient. Next are the forceps, used to grab objects or 
 tissue. Sutures are used to stitch wounds closed. Then there's the ultrasound, used to detect things 
 within organs, the drain, which is used to clean up excess blood or toxins, the syringe, which 
 allows for vital stabilizer or other solutions to be injected, and a laser used to burn or cauterize.
 
  
  All of these tools are used not only in typical ways but also in imaginative ways as well. In one 
 mission Derek must disarm a bomb using only the tools in his medical kit. In another the drain 
 is used as an offensive weapon rather than just a cleanup tool. The missions cover a wide variety 
 of surgical procedures, both real and imaginary, and there are many missions that keep me coming 
 back.
  
  At the end of operations you are given a grade based on how long you took, how many mistakes you 
 made, and how many successful actions you chained together. Other mission-specific bonuses are 
 added, and then you receive either a grade of C, B, A, S, or XS (though I've never seen a grade 
 of XS on anything except the final unlockable bonus missions) . It helps to add to this game's replay 
 value, at least for those perfectionists out there.
  
  
  Difficulty: 7/10
  
  This game's difficulty stems from two things. The first is the need to switch tools quickly during 
 an operation, which is something that just comes with practice and knowing ahead of time where 
 each tool is. The second is the precision that this game demands. It's not unreasonable. I mean, 
 come on, it's a game about surgery. You'd better be precise.
  
  The game has four difficulty levels: Easy, Normal, Hard, and Extreme (Extreme only for the final 
 7 bonus operations) . The missions themselves vary in difficulty as well. Some are fairly easy (Glass 
 extraction) , others continue to frustrate me to this day (Bomb disarming, for example) .
  
  The real difficulty lies in the game's 7 unlockable bonus operations once the game is completed. 
 In each of these missions, you treat a specific form of GUILT on an extremely high difficulty. 
 I'm not kidding. One or two wrong moves and your patient will die. I once lost literally about 
 15 seconds into the operation because my patient bled to death. It's just that hard. Beating them 
 gives a nice sense of satisfaction, though.
  
  
  Replayability?
  
  It definitely has its charms. The higher difficulties, unique missions, and story will keep you 
 coming back for more, even if it is just for a little bit at a time.
  
  
  Final Verdict: 9/10
  
  Trauma Center: SO takes Under the Knife's system and improves it greatly 
 with enhanced graphics and a new sidestory. All Wii owners should at least give this game a try, 
 even if you don't end up buying. It doesn't take very long to work your way through the game and 
 it's certainly more than worth your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  With so many games out there that focus on finding out new ways to kill people, it's very odd to 
 see a game that focuses on saving lives. This is exactly what Trauma Center: Second Opinion is 
 all about. This is a direct port of the DS game, and it might be better than the original. You 
 play as Dr. Styles, a naive surgeon who doesn't take his career seriously. When he's seen as not 
 qualified for a doctor, he vows to shape himself up. Fortunately, he possesses a power called Healing 
 Touch, which allows him to slow down time in order to save a patient from death and find a way 
 to save it on time. You activate it by drawing a pentagram in the air. Anyway, the control scheme 
 is perfect for a game like Trauma Center. You point the remote at the screen as use it as your 
 various tools, such as a scalpel, a syringe and a laser. You can quickly select your tools using 
 the nunchuck control stick. You'll be doing just about anything as a surgeon, from removing tumors, 
 to reconstruct bones, to battling dangerous viruses, and even deactivating a bomb. The main story 
 is really soap-operaish. It's very overly framatic at times and the dialogue fits, but I found 
 no big problem with that. the main story also features a brand new side story featuring a new surgeon 
 named Dr. Weaver, whose path will inevitably cross with Dr. Styles'. If there was only one complaint, 
 a major one by the way, is the game's brutal learning curve and inforgivingness. The first couple 
 hours are simple, but the defficulty can sky-rocket really abruptly. You'll find yousrelf wondering 
 why the previous mission was a cakewalk while your current mission has faile multiple times already. 
 Fortunately, before you choose a mission, you can select the difficulty. Also, the gaming's punctuation 
 can punish you too hard for not doing everything right on the first try. Just a small nitpick would 
 be that there's barely any voice acting in the game, which makes me wonder why couldn't the developers 
 settle for complete voice acting or not at all. But overall, this games is lots of fun. I felt 
 surprisingly satisfied saving people rather than going Jack the Ripper on their asses. It's a new 
 type of game that I hope I will see more of in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  "Doctor, his arm is bleeding!"
  
  "Doctor, his tumor is growing!"
  
  "Doctor, he's crashing!"
  
  "Doctor! Doctor!!"
  
  The first Trauma Center brought innovation 
 and creativity to a handheld that's known for having both. When the Nintendo Wii  the quintessential 
 home version of the DS  was officially unveiled in May, it was announced that Trauma Center would 
 be operating its way to that console as well.
  
  If you've yet to perform your first surgery, let me bring you up to speed. Trauma Center is a story-driven 
 action/strategy game where your only goal is to save lives. That sounds simple enough, and if you 
 were stretched out on the couch watching ER or Grey's Anatomy, the task wouldn't be that difficult. 
 In Trauma Center, you aren't watching anything  you are the doctor. You're the one they come to 
 when a patient is covered in broken glass. Its tiny, piercing shards must be removed one at a time 
 with crucial steadiness.
  
  When a patient starts having intense stomach pains, you're the one who has to cut her open, explore 
 her insides, remove the source, and stitch her up with care for minimal scarring.
  
  The game is brilliant in concept, and positively stunning in execution. Trauma Center: Second Opinion 
 comes to the Wii with more than rehashed elements from the DS original.
  
  There are games like Madden and Excite Truck that can use the Wii remote to change the control 
 and gameplay style. Trauma Center, however, is a game that could not have existed with the last 
 generation of game controllers.
  
  The game assigns many motion-specific functions to your remote: scalpel, syringe, forceps, ultrasound, 
 laser, antibiotic gel, stitches, and drain (a vacuum that reduces blood interference) . Each of 
 these are heavily dependant on the player's movement.
  
  At the start of each operation, your first task is usually the most difficult to get exactly right: 
 you have to cut open a patient. Try to envision how hard it must be to do this on a real person, 
 then apply that thought to the game but not with a real scalpel, but with the Wii remote. Your 
 arm, suspended in air, must gradually draw a line  indicated by a few points on the screen  across 
 the body. There's a time limit, so you can't take too long. But if you go too fast you're likely 
 to veer off course. The patient will feel additional pain, his or her vitality will drop, and you'll 
 have to start over.
  
  Aside from drawing a perfectly straight line, players must also keep this motion steady. Think 
 of it as playing an instrument. If your tempo isn't consistent, the outcome won't be music to your 
 ears  or anyone else's, least of all the patient.
  
  The process of removing glass and tumors is a simplified version of the real thing. You clamp onto 
 the glass or tumor using the forceps. Both the A and B buttons must be held down, reinforcing the 
 sense that you're clamping something. Tumors may be picked up quickly and tossed aside, but glass 
 needs to be lifted out with care. Slow and steady movements will prevent the glass from striking 
 the patient as it's removed, which results in less pain and a higher vitality rating.
  
  Tumors are easier to lift out, but their removal is much more involved. You first have to locate 
 them with ultrasound (point to different parts of the body and press the A button) . Tumors will 
 only stay visible for a short time after being located. Make a small incision to reveal its true 
 location. Drain the blood, then cut around the dotted points to separate it from the patient. Small 
 growths may form next to the tumor -- zap those with your laser. Finally, clamp down on the tumor 
 and remove it, clean the wound, and patch it up.
  
  All of the described actions are done by pointing and waving the Wii remote. Many of these were 
 found in the DS version, in which you would push down on the screen using the stylus and drag as 
 necessary.
  
  Second Opinion introduces a lot of cool things that are only possible on Wii. When a patient is 
 crashing, the player must push both controller pieces (the remote and nunchuck) toward the screen 
 for the defibrillator to make contact.
  
  Broken bones can't simply be removed  they must be put back together. The pieces of the broken 
 bone come in different shapes and sizes. Your goal is to grab those pieces and position them in 
 the proper location. To do that you'll have to clamp down on the pieces and twist your wrist until 
 each piece is lined up. Release both buttons and, if done correctly, the piece will snap into place. 
 That part is nothing like a real operation  doctors don't have that luxury. But this is a game, 
 and as realistic as the developers wanted to make it, they also wanted it to be fun and accessible 
 to those of us that haven't gone to medical school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those excellent, fresh games that there needs to be more of. It uses a really good, 
 fairly new concept, and executes it perfectly. This game does suffer from some insane difficulty, 
 along with a few other quirks, and may not be for everyone.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly stellar. It's essentially hand-drawn manga style art for everything 
 but the surgery itself. During the actual surgeries the graphics are on par with a bad PS2 game 
 graphically. All the menus and such are set up to look very clean and easy to navigate. I find 
 the art to be appealing and pleasing to the eye, and the graphics could use a lot of work but still 
 works, and that's what really matters for a game like this that centers around game-play so much.
 
  
  The sound work is pretty average. The soundtrack is your typical fast paced, erratic Japanese game 
 soundtrack, nothing stellar but it doesn't detract from the experience either. It speeds up during 
 the more intense parts of the game, which is nice for building the tension/suspense. There isn't 
 really any voice work other than a few quotes. They really could have made the story flow better 
 if they had implemented full voice acting rather than just have you reading text. 
  
  The game-play is where this game excels. The Wii-mote and the concept of video game surgery were 
 made for each other, it just works perfectly. The story is pretty dumb, but it keeps things going 
 I guess. There is an insane amount of difficulty once you get to later parts of the game, so be 
 ready for a challenge. 
  
  Overall it's an awesome game that deserves at least a rent if you own a Wii. It's really a lot 
 of fun, and different from most other games out there. Just beware of the difficulty and you should 
 be fine. Definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a fun game to play that is themed around an ER style surgeon. 
 The game has some great gameplay, but there are some elements that distract from it. Overall though, 
 it is worth playing and quite enjoyable.
  
  The gameplay on TC: SO is based around using the Wiimote in combination with the nunchuck. As a 
 surgeon you select your tools using the nunchuck and perform the operation using the Wiimote. Simple 
 Right? Well, although at first you're given some very easy tasks the game progresses really well 
 and adds in some quite enjoyable elements. The game is set in a fictional future so some of the 
 techniques are conveniently simplified for the game, but it keeps things playable. For people who 
 feel skilled there are three difficulty settings to challenge even the most advanced doctors.
 
  
  The story has to be one of the weaker points on this game. It is narrated by still pictures with 
 written dialog. That wouldn't be so much a problem for me if the story wasn't so weak to begin 
 with. To help you get started in the game you're constantly interrupted while performing a surgery 
 so that the game can provide you with instructions. Though its alright the first time, these instructions 
 get repetitive especially when retrying a stage to improve your score. The story does do a good 
 job of pushing the game along, but I have to feel like the game would have not suffered should 
 it have been left out entirely.
  
  Anyway, there is plenty to enjoy with TC: SO. Its great use of the Wii motion controls make it a 
 unique experience. The game is fun and I would suggest anyone who is curious about the game to 
 not hesitate giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msi276
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Most people would think this game is just some cheesy Wii port, but it actually has solid gameplay 
 and a good story. The story is you are a surgeon who is working his way up the ladder to become 
 an excellent surgeon. The gameplay is easy to understand and easy to get addicted to.
  The graphics may not be the best ever but they have a certain uniqueness about them. The fact that 
 there is no voice acting may put some gamers away, also the several plot twists get kinda old after 
 a while. The controls also get odd during some missions.
  
  Pros
  Unique Gaphics
  Fun Gameplay
  Not A Crappy Port
  Good Story Overall
  
  Cons
  Controls Sometimes Get Odd
 
  Many Plot Twists
  No Voice Acting
  
  Sincerely,
  msi276
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  After hearing about this game a bit I thought I better try it out. Here are some misconceptions 
 that must be removed before playing though:
  1. It is not a Medical or Surgery Simulator
  2. It is set in the future a little bit
  3. It is not a graphical powerhouse via the story line.
 
  4. If you have a shaky hand, you are screwed with this game.
  5. Also, if you played Trauma Center for the DS, you can skip it.
  
  Here is what it IS good 
 at though:
  - Action, fast paced, pointer driven puzzle game.
  - Replay value comes from high score achievements
  - It's hard or easy depending how you want 
 it.
  - IT's extremely hard if you are up for the challenge.
  
  You play as one of two doctors throughout the game. Mostly just one of them, Derek Stiles. The 
 story starts awkwardly if you expected #1 as the doctor is working with live patients out of the 
 gate and has to be walked through the procedures by the nurse attendant. Each operation lasts 1-10 
 minutes depending on how good you are and multiple operations are grouped into Levels. 
  
  Each operation comes with a opening and closing story line that is bare bones dialog, with picture 
 stills popping in and out based on who is talking. The picture stills will change based on emotion 
 attempted to be conveyed (anger, shy, embarrassment, etc) , but the dialog portrays the emotion 
 enough that the picture actually makes you laugh as they seem over the top. The good of this whole 
 bit is, you don't waste a lot of time in dialog, and once you have seen it once, you can skip straight 
 to the operation. Some characters seem pushed into the game, and the dialog unfolds too fast in 
 some places making it awkwardly funny. This is definitely the weakest point of game if you expect 
 too much. The storyline itself is simple enough, but fits in why you are doing all of these operations.
 
  
  The core of the game comes in during the operations. You use the Wiimote pointer to direct all 
 the action. You have to accomplish the goal of the operation, without making mistakes, and keep 
 your patients 'life' meter above 0 at all times. As you operate there is the pop-ins and dialog 
 to help push along what is going on in the operation (you can auto-skip these too and they won't 
 get in the way) . The first few levels are operations that attempt to imitate operations in an actual 
 hospital, broken bones, replacing a kidney, etc. But the fun starts when you find out you have 
 'the healing' touch, or the ability to slow down time. (the other doctor you play with, can't slow 
 time, but rather has health regen ability as she works) . Some levels will cause you to think a 
 lot about how to move on, either by playing with all your tools or getting lucky and trying to 
 reproduce the results. But, once you figure it out you can redo these levels without getting stuck.
 
  
  Each operation is ranked C, B, A, S and on hard mode XS. Sometimes it is very easy to go from a 
 C to an A or S, and on some levels absolute perfection will only get you an A unless you slow down 
 a bit to earn more points to capture that S. But this is where the extreme level of play is for 
 this game. You can breeze through the main story line in 4-6 hours. But if you are going to get 
 an S or A in all operations on all difficulties plan on investing a lot of time and getting perfect 
 at the Wiimote pointing scheme. 
  
  Once you finish out the main story line you get a bonus level of operations with a new difficultly, 
 'extreme', to try your skills against but if you can't pull off Hard mode you will need to practice 
 a bit first. So mastery and full completion of this game is something only obtainable by a driven 
 gamer.
  
  As far as bugs go, there weren't any I saw. On the rare occasion I have done things so fast in 
 an operation that it appeared to get 'hung' when really I just needed to break out the 'gel' and 
 spray it around a bit more and found a wound hidden on an edge or something. And sometimes it felt 
 like I was in the healing touch, but wasn't and one level requires it to finish out. Just remember 
 that once you know how to invoke the HT you can do it manually once per operation.
  
  All in all, if you didn't play the DS version of this game, you need to play it now, if nothing 
 else than to see that all games don't have to be a platformer or a shooter to be intense with the 
 gameplay. Rent it if you must to at least see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Trauma centre: Second opinion is one of those games that you just wouldn't see on any other console. 
 If it wasn't on the wii then it wouldn't be worth buying, it's as simple as that. The wii controls 
 make it what it is. It is is a great game that offers the kind of new experience only the Wii can 
 provide.
  
  The plot focuses mainly on Doctor Derek Stiles who is the main playable character throughout the 
 game but there is the occasional side mission involving Doctor Weaver a female doctor with a secret 
 to hide. Derek starts off as a fresh faced doctor who is quite frankly lazy but over the course 
 of the game he matures well and the threat of GUILTS a new terrorist biological disease is what 
 it takes to transform him into one of the best Doctors around. 
  
  Infact I think that the story is one of the best parts of the game. It's well told and genuinely 
 captivating. Cutscenes may be still backgrounds with still characters popping up with text but 
 that doesn't hold it make. For me that serves to give the game a more unique feel because you don't 
 see that a lot in this day and age. Voiceovers are non-existant in cutscenes but in the operating 
 room during missions there is the odd moment of text but it's never a sentence as such, it's more 
 of a soundbite.
  
  Now onto the actual gameplay. The game plays very well and it feels natural. You use the nunchucks 
 analog stick to choose a surgical tool, point at the screen using the wii remote and use it with 
 either A or B. Variety is key to the game because without it Trauma Center would grow old pretty 
 quickly and thankfully with a wide range of equipment and missions your not likely to get bored 
 throughout the games six hour + duration. Only six hours I hear you cry well considering the game 
 is made up entirely of five minute missions with the occasional ten minute mission thrown in for 
 good measure I'd say that's pretty good.
  
  Missions are set out well and each start with a briefing from your assistant and fellow doctors. 
 The briefing shows the time limit and what you'll need to do. Don't worry if you forget though 
 because your assistant is always on hand guiding you through the operation. Once you've compoleted 
 an operation you'll recieve a score and a rank. This is to encourage replay value and i'm sure 
 you'll want to replay it anyway because it's a very enjoyable ride throughout the game.
  
  One key gameplay mechanic remains for me to describe and that is the healing touch. The healing 
 touch is a gift that only few doctors posses. The two mai characters Doctors Stiles and Weaver 
 both possess the gift. If you hold down Z and B and draw a star on the screen time is slowed own 
 making it much easier to complete some of the later, harder missions. You'll need to use it becaue 
 even on easy the later missions can be very hard. I'd recommend any players who are new to Trauma 
 Center to plau it through on easy first so they can get to grips with it.
  
  Last but not least the games graphical style. The graphics aren't bad but becaus eof the way the 
 story is told on still backgrounds they're nothing that couldn't have been done on the Dreamcast. 
 Also the music is good but not amazing. It won't win any wards for best soundtrack.
  
  So to conclude Second opinion is a fun, enthralling experence that only the Wii can provide and 
 it's a game that player who are looking for something different in a market saturated by Minigames 
 and first person shooters will relish.
  
  Score= 86% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  If you don't own this game either on the Wii or the DS your missing out. 
  
  Its a bit gory occasionally, but its amazing. I personally like the wii version (second opinion) 
 more. it has a couple of new challenges which is nice. the motion controls are incorporated wonderfully 
 and it offers more of a challenge than the DS, making room for longer and more fun gameplay i believe.
 
  
  very rarely have i played a game that is more capturing and involving. Sometimes a level can really 
 get on your nerves, and sometimes it seems to easy, it has a very steep learning curve but its 
 worth the effort. 
  
  ignore the annoying characters to begin with and your set. Also ignore the fact that a lot of the 
 stuff is unbelievable. its also a shame that they put in a "magical" element, but i guess you do 
 need it for some of the levels.
  
  i look forward to "new blood" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The games controlls are pretty confusing if you hadn't play trauma center game yet and will probably 
 take some time getting used to which I'm still trying to get used to the controlls and remeber 
 what to do what and what goes where.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound needs improvement and I recommend probably listening to a cd player since this game does 
 really use music and the sound effects are good as always.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  I do not know what to say about the graphics there are pretty good and graphics are better than 
 the ds game and what is also odd why isn't there a sequel for the ds.
  
  
  Overall
  
  This game is different which is why I got the game but luckly I do not plan to be a doctor which 
 this game is a safe way to play doctor without killing somebody other in the game. I would recommend 
 renting it first just incase you do not want to waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  The first Trauma Center game titled "Trauma Center: Under the Knife" was released on the Nintendo 
 DS in 2005. The game was successful as far as critique and had a bit of a cult following. Just 
 one year later the title would be released for the Wii right along side the launch of Nintendo's 
 new console. The title has jokingly been referred to as a "Wii-make" since it's essentially the 
 same game but with Wii controls. I haven't got around to playing the DS Trauma Center so I can 
 not tell you if this "port" is better than the original. But I do my best to convince you that 
 this game belongs in your Wii collection. 
  
  In Trauma Center you play as Dr. Derek Stiles. A young inexperienced doctor who finds out that 
 he may have more than what medical school was able to give him. Dr. Stiles is a bit unusual in 
 a good way. He has a "power" called the healing touch. By using the Wii-mote to draw a star on 
 the TV while operating on the patient you will be able to slow down time to better your chances 
 at a better operation. Drawing the star can be a bit of a pain in the neck, but once you practice 
 enough you'll have no problem using it. The game has a great cast of characters. And by great I 
 mean the characters have great and unique personalities, and I also mean that there are a lot of 
 characters in the game. You start the game off at "Hope Hospital" where you must perform a surgery 
 on a patient who had a motorcycle accident. The first couple of surgeries are really nothing more 
 than practice surgeries. Surgeries to get you used to the controls, selecting your tools, using 
 your tools, etc... The surgeries all have time limits and become much more difficult as time goes 
 on. Surgeries aren't as simple as remove this, remove that, and bandage that. You'll be injecting 
 different fluids, restructuring broken bones, draining fluid, and destroying viruses that require 
 more strategy than you might think. Each surgery is also timed. Usually when a patient comes in 
 with something minor such as glass fragments in their forearm you will have up to 4 minutes. But 
 when a patient that has been hit by a car comes in you may have a little over a minute or two. 
 The amount of time you have to complete the surgery in the upper right hand corner isn't the only 
 thing that could make you lose. The patient has vitals and depending on their condition they will 
 either be low, stable, or well when starting the operation. What makes Trauma Center: Second Opinion 
 so tense is you could be performing a seemingly smooth operation one moment, but then something 
 will go terribly wrong and the next thing you know you find yourself shocking the patient to try 
 and revive them. As I said earlier Trauma Center: Second Opinion is more deeper than one may think. 
 The game is pretty much a puzzle game but it disguises its true identity without having a bunch 
 of blocks and insane high scores and such. The game is pretty much centered around the Wii mote's 
 motion sensitive controls. You will make incisions, suture wounds, remove tumors, and kill strange 
 deadly viruses with tools such as "the laser." You will use the nun-chuck controller to select 
 your tools. The tools are shown on the bottom left of your screen on a little octagonal shaped 
 chart. The knife is on the left and the stitches are on the right. There are plenty of tools that 
 come and go as the game progresses, but I am trying to give you an example of how you select your 
 tools. To select the knife you would simply tilt the analog to the left. To select the stitches 
 you would simply tilt the analog to the right. As the game goes on you will have to pretty much 
 know what tool is where and know how to select it in a hurry. You may have to use one tool and 
 to keep whatever it is from getting worse or from regenerating, you may have to select another 
 tool and do what you have to with it within a few seconds. The game goes by "chapters". When you 
 complete one operation you move on to the next one. You will watch a lot of cut scenes in between 
 them as well, which is not a bad thing despite the outdated presentation. 
  
  Trauma Center has a very unique story, and it does well with its cast of characters. It's just 
 something we love to see how the relationships of these doctors will be affected, or what they 
 will encounter next as a team. The cut scenes have no full voice acting. They're really just pictures 
 of what ever character is speaking, with some form of emotion on their face pending the situation 
 or what is being said, and with the text of what they're saying displayed below them. Graphically 
 Trauma Center does not look that great. The 2d pictures of the characters are very sharp, but they're 
 just what they are, pictures! There are backgrounds of the location when the characters are speaking, 
 but they don't look too nice. In one cut scene Dr. Stiles is standing outside and suddenly it begins 
 to rain. You can certainly hear the rain but see none at all. The background is just cars in the 
 city, no rain. I mean come on, how hard would it have been to put up some animated rain or stiff 
 rain even? Trauma Center has some nice catchy tunes. The problem is that there are not a lot of 
 tunes in the game. Throughout the game you will hear the same tunes repeating over and over and 
 over. But for some odd reason they don't get all that tiring to hear. The music is nice, and I 
 guess once you get used to hearing the same music played when a certain something happens you sort 
 of associate that music with that, and without it it just would not feel right. Trauma Center: 
 Second Opinion is a single player experience. The story mode is pretty long actually. I would predict 
 15-20 hours to finish it perhaps? That's just on easy mode, and even then the game is pretty challenging. 
 If you dare to go beat the game and up your surgeon ranking on normal or hard mode this game will 
 keep you busy for quite some time. The game can now be found brand new for $29.99 in most places 
 from what I have seen. Believe me, it's a great deal. The game has great puzzle like game play, 
 a great story, a good cast of characters. That alone makes it worth the $30 you'll pay for it. 
 It does lack in some areas but it's easily over looked. In the case of Trauma Center: Second Opinion, 
 playing doctor is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  ..::The Good::.. 
   Incredible controls, they make you feel like you really are performing the operation
   Mulitple 
 difficulties add more challenge and replay value
   Really show what the Wiimote is capable of
   Engaging Story
  
  ...::The Bad::...
   No 
 voice acting
   Alot of text at times
   Can get rather difficult, even on easier difficulty settings
  
  
  I should first point out 
 that this is indeed a remake of the DS game, Trauma Center: Under the Knife. But that isn't bad. 
 The game has been highly improved, and feels like something new. 
  
  You take control of young doctor, Derek Stiles, who is indeed the games main character. But Second 
 Opinion contains lots of great characters who help move the story on. 
  You soon find out that Dr. Stiles has the Healing Touch ability which is inherited from ancient 
 Greek times. Derek is called to use this ability to help stop a world-threatening epidemic believed 
 to be the work of bioterrorism. 
  
  The story is really engaging and the dialogue is well written to drive it forward. But there can 
 be times where you have a lot of text to speed through. 
  
  The anime is very nicely drawn and is a tad better than the original DS version. But it could look 
 alot better, as other Wii games has shown. The 3D surgery sequences feature just the right level 
 of detail to make them a little unsettling or intimidating, without being gruesome. So players 
 that can't stand to look at real life operations taking place, will be fine with Second Opinion.
 
  
  The games soundtrack makes the operations that more involving. It really adds to the atomsphere, 
 and gives you a surge of urgency. But where the audio does lack, is in voice acting. Yeah, there 
 is a few sopken lines in there from major characters, but some more wouldn't hurt.
  
  Now down to Trauma Center: Second Opinions controls. They're great. They show what the Wii mote 
 really can do control-wise, and it's easy to get used to. You'll be removing tumors in no time! 
 
  
  The analouge on the nunchuck controls which tools you have equiped. This is far easier than on 
 the DS. Pressing A then lets you use your selected medical tool. The Wii Remote feels responsive 
 as you work away, and some of the tools are simulated particularly well. The best example of this 
 occurs when you pick something up with the forceps: You have to press and hold buttons A and B 
 on the remote using your thumb and index finger, much like you would to squeeze the tongs in real 
 life. 
  
  Second Opinion features some bonus operations and re-designed tools. For example, if the patients 
 heart stops, Angie, your assistant will get the defibrillator, which you'll need to push down onto 
 the patient's chest by moving your arm toward the screen and pressing the required buttons at the 
 right time.
  New operations see you doing things like rotating pieces of bone so they fit back in place, and 
 performing a transplant.
  
  The game is a little on the short side. It is divided into a series of 6 chapters (plus some bonus 
 missions) . You can finish all of the operations in 10 hours or so. But you'll want to go back and 
 replay them on different difficulty settings, while trying to get a better grade. 
  
  It would of been nice to see some sort of co-op mode added, or multiplayer. But the game is still 
 worth your money, especially if you never got a chance to try out the DS original. 
  
  Second Opinion may not look the part, but it will wow you with its innovatice controls. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Seeing as its same as the DS version, this review is taken from my Under The Knife review
  
  GOOD- Brilliant story; well wrote with perfect dailog; exstreamly fast gameplay keeps you coming 
 back; The drama is so stroung it feels like your accualy there in the OR; Great music will get 
 you into the game; uses the styles with perfect gameplay; Cool, intresting casts; tons of oporations 
 from removing glass, removing tumors and heal wondes; i could go on and on
  
  BAD- Rock solid to beat; Abit to short
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You play as Doctor Derek Stailes, its 
 based in 2018 and desiges like Cancer ect has been treated with a new cure, but a new virus is 
 out and its spreading called GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency) and its your job to get 
 rushed into O. R, Put on some Scrubs, and cure this virus befor its too late, this is a great unqiue 
 gameplay found on no other consols, use the styles to cut open a patiant or stick in a needle and 
 stictch him, rub his heart to increse Vital Points, Speacking of which, Vital points is what keeps 
 them alive, if a VP reaches 0 then they die!, so you must heal them befor that happens, but if 
 you not carefull it'll drop even faster, so you need to be very fast and very accurate, so you 
 need quick reflexes, sturdy hands and a perfect eye, this is what makes the gameplay awesome!!, 
 its very fast pastes and you always do a *Sigh* at the end of the oporation, thats how deep this 
 game can be, now we know what realy doctors are like, and give them respect for it!!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are brilliant, there is'nt any cineamatic cut sceanse but insted there 
 cut out heads and spech texts undernithe, so if you like this kindda stuff, then good for you, 
 if not..... still get it cos its awesome!!, there well drawn and its like an Anime style drawing!, 
 who does'nt like anime?. during the oporations the bodies are 3D and they look great!! perffectly 
 animated and sturdy, not bad for the DS!
  
  SOUND:
  This game does'nt feature any voice acting, well it does alittle bit, but when they do, its pretty 
 good, they'll say somthing like "Good work Dr. Stailes" or "Get Ready" ect, other than that its 
 all text text and more text, but its well writen and very intresting, it tells a very deep story 
 thats very dramatic and pulls you into it, along with the gameplay its..... the best!
  
  OVERALL:
  Brilliant Asset to the wii, no need to not like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is an innovative game. You already played games that involved hospitals, 
 but you never played like the medic, doing surgeries and extractions. At first you think you can't 
 play the game, have to manage people lives don't look good, but after, you see how good is it. 
 It has an interesting engine, you have many instruments, at first it's not easy to change between 
 them with the Nunchuk, but after some minutes it gets really easy and fast, so you can do the surgery 
 faster and successfully. It may get boring sometimes because of long dialogues and organs do not 
 look so real, but it is a nice game with new ideas, i recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center its a unique franchise, a medical franchise, you make operations like a surgeon and 
 the wii remote control makes it one of the best experiences I ever had. You do everything with 
 the wii remote, get bones in place, place bone pieces, close patients, remove fragments, inject 
 substances and much much more. The game its also intense cause of the time limit and the hard dificulty 
 its a real challenge to experienced players (doctors) . The game its not to long with something 
 like 10 hours of campaign, the storyline its presented in images and text, this is not bad and 
 gives a certain style to the game but i would prefer voice acting and real graphics.
  Graphics in trauma center are nothing special but they do a perfect job for the game, simple stylish 
 graphics.
  Trauma center its a Wii must buy, no one should miss this game since its a really unique experience, 
 there is no franchise like trauma center. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  When I think fun , a surgery-themed game on the Wii probably isn't the first thing to come to mind, 
 but I find myself oddly intrigued by this game. The game's mechanics require a good degree of precision 
 with the Wii remote, but the controls are easily learned, if not necessarily mastered.
  
  The storyline is somewhat empty, so far, but this game is more about the personal challenge of 
 developing your surgery skills with the Wii remote than the plotline. The game gets a bit hokey 
 with the Healing Touch superpower your character acquires early on in the game, but you'll find 
 yourself glad you have that particular skill in the more challenging surgeries.
  
  The actual surgical procedures are more challenging than you might initially think (you can adjust 
 the difficulty of the game, by the way) , and I've failed quite a few times. But since you can always 
 retry a surgery, you simply have to learn from your mistakes and perform more quickly and accurately 
 the next time around.
  
  This game probably won't win any Game of the Year awards, but it's certainly entertaining enough 
 to merit spending the asking price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Story is set in the year 2018 where you take the role of a young surgeon named Derek Stiles working 
 in Hope Hospital at Angeles Bay. Soon things start to get going and you find yourself fighting 
 against medical terrorism, defusing bombs and of course performing a lot of surgeries. Your main 
 disease to conquer eventually reveals itself as GUILT, or Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin. 
 Story is filled with interesting characters and you actually want to know what happens in the actual 
 story.
  
  Unfortunately the story is told through text and still-images. It works and the dialog is sharply 
 written, but still it would be a high time to say goodbye to this style of story-telling. There 
 is no voice acting what so ever aside a few words like Doctor! and Let&acute; s begin the operation.
 
  
  Graphics do their job, but don&acute; t expect to see any HD quality here. Still this game is colorful 
 and bright to look at. Unfortunately the frame rate takes a serious hit every time when there&acute; s 
 a lot of movement on screen. This is very annoying, but luckily it doesn&acute; t happen that often. 
 Music is different comparing to other types of games: it brings memories from the early years of 
 this first decade of 21 st century. Music and sound is not going to blow you away, but you may 
 find yourself humming the songs even after you&acute; ve stopped playing.
  
  Controls are almost perfect and most of all intuitive. Everything works as it should and almost 
 always as precise as you would want them to work. Only thing that doesn&acute; t work perfectly 
 is the way you choose your equipment by using the analog stick in your Nunchuk controller. When 
 in a hurry it&acute; s very easy to miss what you were trying to choose as your working equipment.
 
  
  Trauma Center Second Opinion is basically a puzzle game that consists of many independent mini 
 games. Each operation has a strict time limit and multiple phases to perform. Usually I hate games 
 that have time limits, but this time it&acute; s no problem at all, because you&acute; re way too 
 busy doing to surgery itself and usually time does not run out. One surgery takes about three to 
 five minutes, but there&acute; s a lot of them. It takes around 10 hours or so to finish the game 
 and after that you can try again by using a higher difficulty.
  
  Sometimes there&acute; s some irritating trial and error gameplay, where one mistake ends the game 
 and you need to do the whole mission over again. Luckily there are not many of these, but still 
 I hate defusing bombs. I also would have liked to perform more of those so called normal operations, 
 but now the main focus is to stop this GUILT and not much else.
  
  There&acute; s no multiplayer what so ever, so Trauma Center: Second is just a one surgeon&acute; s 
 affair.
  
  I encourage you to read the manual before starting the game unless you are already familiar with 
 many medical terms in English like aneurysm, carsinoma and laceration.
  
  I recommend this game to you, who hasn&acute; t played the original DS game Trauma Center: Under 
 The Knife. This Wii version is a unique and different gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is one of those games that some ahrdcore gamers won't try, because 
 of the fact that it just has you doing surgery. However, this game is a lot funner than some may 
 think, and offers a good challenge for the best of gamers. With great controls, doing surgery makes 
 feels very natural with the Wii remote. The graphics aren't they greatest but for a game like this, 
 they don't need to be. One thing that could have improved is the fact that there is no voice acting. 
 The stroy is suprisingly deep and has you fighting off a parasite that is the result of a medical 
 terrorism organization that is trying to kill people. The game conists of different missions, which 
 are usually doing different surgery on people, but in some cases offers alternative goals like 
 disarming a bomb, and solving a puzzle as part of making vaccines. Over-all, everyone should definitly 
 give this game a try, and most people won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraHACK
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The Wii launch lineup wasnt exactly the most impressive set of games you could offer, but there 
 were a few standout titles that made early adopters of the motion-sensing console quite happy with 
 their purchase. One would obviously state Zelda, but another would mention Trauma Center: Second 
 Opinion, the oddest yet most addictive title Ive played in years. What is that you say? You want 
 a surgery videogame with a ridiculous storyline surrounded by great dialogue and fun gameplay? 
  Yeah I wasnt aware of the demand either, but Trauma Center: SO offers it and most certainly 
 delivers.
  
  What made Trauma Center: SO so addicting and different from its Nintendo DS counterpart is how 
 intuitive its controls are. You have all your surgical tools on the bottom-left side of the screen 
 on a scroll-wheel of sorts and you pick your tool with the analog stick on the Nunchuk. The cursor 
 you control for the Wiimote is also precise, quick and moves like you want it to, unintended motions 
 non-present thankfully. The only spot where issues were encountered was using the Defibrillator 
 the game gives you at times. You have to hold up the Wiimote and Nunchuk vertically and push them 
 forward towards the screen, like youre pushing the defibrillator against a body, then press the 
 Z and B buttons simultaneously to charge up the electric shot. The problem is that the Wii shows 
 issues detecting the controllers in that position at times, so pulling and pushing the controllers 
 away and towards the screen doesnt always work that great. Thats really the only problem youll 
 encounter throughout the game regarding controls, everything else works fine, if not great, and 
 never gets in the way of you enjoying the game.
  
  To some people though, the story might get in the way of enjoying the experience, you know, prejudice 
 of a Japanese-made title, but I could hardly see why. The storys essential premise is ridiculous 
 to some extent, but its never exaggerated to the point of disgust. The unfolding story is that 
 a terrorist organization is spreading a disease known as GUILT (Which is an acronym for the most 
 obscenely long name Ive seen in a game, Gangliated Utrophin Immuno-Latency Toxin) and the elite 
 team of doctors and scientists at the Caduceus Medical Institute are having a tough time fighting 
 against the virus to cure it. Meanwhile, a young prodigy known as Derek Stiles is rising the ranks, 
 and later uncovers he has a gift known as The Healing Touch, a medical blessing from ancient 
 gods. Caduceus later recruits Derek as a doctor to help fight against all the forms of GUILT youll 
 encounter, and the story unfolds with a bevy of great characters and exceptionally well-written 
 dialogue, which is a surprise coming from such a game. Needless to say voice acting would have 
 been nice, but its a small complaint to an otherwise very solid story.
  
  As fulfilling as the story is, I really wish Trauma Centers graphics were up to par. While playing 
 the game, you can pretty much tell it was a port from the DS game, not by pixilated graphics or 
 anything, but simply by the fact that all the graphics, minus the very well drawn art depictions 
 of the characters and backgrounds during cut-scenes, are bland and undetailed. Even for a Wii game 
 this seems just a bit over the acceptable mark, but Atlus had the great idea to make the gameplay 
 work, so youll forget about the fairly average graphics a few hours in. The same most certainly 
 cant be said about the sound on the other hand, of which is very well produced, voice acting and 
 music standing out as more than just a DS hand-me-down. The occasional Dr. Stiles!, Oh!, 
 Close him up, doctor. from your nurse is well-acted, though it can become tedious after the 100th 
 youve heard it. The background music is well executed, with the score switching to a tense or 
 soothing tune in the appropriate situation. So what exactly keeps you playing Trauma Center past 
 the first time youve beaten it? Its incredibly challenging difficulty and bonus content, thats 
 what. The game unfolds with increasingly difficult missions that youre ranked from a range of 
 D ranks to S ranks, all of which eventually become about GUILT, the horribly fatal disease 
 spreading throughout the world. There are 7 forms of GUILT, the first one, Kyriaki, being the easiest 
 (It involves simply removing tumors) to the final GUILT form, Savato, easily the most difficult 
 missions in the game (Savato involves destroying a setup of web-like tissues in the infected area, 
 then moving on to eliminating a terribly speedy virus that is rummaging throughout the infected 
 area.) Once you beat the game on any difficulty, youll unlock bonus missions that deal with an 
 advanced form of the GUILT strains youll already have encountered throughout the regular story 
 arc. These missions have you dealing with the regular GUILT strains, only you have much stricter 
 regulations on how to deal with the diseases. You also have the Hard mode, which not only is 
 very demanding towards you not making a single error, but in this difficulty you can unlock the 
 XS rank for any mission you successfully complete. So you can play through several times the 
 story and the bonus missions and keep you busy for quite an extended amount of time, a lot of which 
 will be spent cussing and yelling at your television at the obscene difficulty of the final missions.
 
  
  In its all, Trauma Center: Second Opinion is the near-perfect launch title. It has intuitive, 
 addictive, yet extremely challenging, gameplay, a well-executed story and appeal that will make 
 your friends and family unable to look away from the frantic action happening on the screen. Though 
 it shares its flaws, Trauma Center offers not only a very well-made port of a DS game, but offers 
 a more than compelling experience that will most certainly have you feel you got the full treatment 
 for the price you paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I found this game very fun, especially in the beginning. But as time went on, the storyline got 
 more cheesy and the procedures got redundant. *POSSIBLE SPOILER WARNING*
  First you do different kinds of real procedures that are pretty cool and fun, then you run into 
 a disease (Which is the main storyline) and then you find yourself doing the same procedure time 
 and time again just on different people, then things go from realistic, to fantasy. Then to make 
 it worse not only are you performing the same procedure but some levels take time and it really 
 sucks to be almost done then BOOM you run out of time or you mess up and gotta start from the beginning. 
 I work in the medical field and was quite impressed with the terminology and realism, but that 
 was before I got to the half way point in the game. And all that went out the window.
  
  Overall it was a fun game tho that I enjoyed and also got frustrated at times. And it felt cool 
 to feel like a Doctor! But sometimes the hot nurses got annoying with there repititive statements. 
 Also sometimes they don't give you enough helpful information on what to do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Some like it, others don't. Personally I liked to operate and didn't care much about the hole story 
 arround it. But the game does try to give an impression how things work in a hospital. It's not 
 merely opetaring patients all the time but there are a lot of moral issues around it.
  
  The different settings are nice and there are some unexpected situations you'll deal with. Allthough 
 the number of tools is limited and the focus is on different kinds of GUILT (apart from one bone 
 fracture, wich is too bad, should have been more of those...) the game does give you the routine 
 of treating several things. The way you act fast and accurate without thinking a lot wich tools 
 to use etc. after playing all the chapters is impressive.
  
  So, if you're into some scalpels and draining... rent the game. And when you like the first operations 
 buy it. The game is a bit short though, 7 chapters. But it sure is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a launch title for the Wii that has you in the shoes of a new surgeon. You don't 
 play the whole game as just this one guy named Dr. Derek Stiles, but you get to play a part of 
 the story, as sort of a side quest with another surgeon who in time becomes a major character in 
 the story. The game lasts probably a little around ten hours and has plenty of replay value, which 
 I found out when trying to get the highest rating for everything which is much harder then it sounds. 
 The game, as I said earlier, puts you in the shoes of a new surgeon Dr. Derek Stiles, who knows 
 that he is good, which gives him a much more prideful apperance then he should probably have. When 
 his partner nurse leaves him she gets replaced with a younger nurse who like you is wanting to 
 be the best, but after a few falling outs she puts you in your place and you end up losing most 
 of that pride you had. The game continues and you come across a special ability that you have, 
 the ability called the Healing Touch. With this you can slow down the operation to seal up multiple 
 wounds, take out multiple peices of glass and etc in the matter of minutes. You find out that this 
 ability doesn't mean that you can always save people form your superior and he warns you to not 
 use it, but an association dedicated on fighting deadly illnesses calls on you to help them, of 
 course you want to help the world in all that you can so you join up. Not much longer a strange 
 virus is being seen throughout the globe and no one has the ability to deal with it, until they 
 figure out that the only way to get rid of it is with your help. The game unfolds and has many 
 other aspects to it including a defusal of a bomb, traveling to Africa, and doing series of surgeries 
 in one sitting. The graphics are a nice set of pace. They aren't meant to be to gory or gross as 
 it would most likley have recieved an M or AO rating. They a 'cartoonized' so a wider variety of 
 people can play it. There is some blood, which does show off that not the entire game is cartoony. 
 The cutscenes have little to no voice acting, which is bad and good, but after reading it once 
 you can skip it and still get the feeling that something bad is going on. The game has an extreme 
 learning curve as you must memorize where all the instruments are, what to do when, and also to 
 keep an eye on multiple things (heart monitor, blood loss, and hints) . The controls are simple, 
 but there are many differnet motions to do different things. After an hour or so one can learn 
 where everything is and how to do everything. The music is a little dissapointing and random. The 
 loading screen is intense and medically sounding, and then the menu turns to mellow and sad. The 
 sound effects are few and you will know by the end each sound and what it means, normally bad sound 
 by that.
  
  The game is though very addictive and had me playing for only hours at a time, and was the first 
 Wii game that I beat (yes even before Zelda) . If this game is not a must buy, it at least must 
 be a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stigmati-zed
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I replaced Mario Party 8 with this game as there wasn't much choice in terms of Wii games when 
 I had to make the decision. It's nice to see that they have made some effort in this game with 
 a storyline, but it's nothing much to be desired or get worked up over. The gameplay, as I've rated, 
 can be quite hard at times, due to the Wii mote being very annoying at times, and trying to remember 
 procedures recently done in the game, can be quite difficult mid-operation... with a time limit 
 counting down until the patients doom!
  
  There are some very odd things that happen in the game, without spoiling anything for you, that 
 have nothing to do with doctors, or the game itself really, it's quite random. The game does, however, 
 take you around different hospitals and locations occasionally which is kind of nice after being 
 in Hope Hospital for rather a long while after at least 2 or 3 of your assistants leave their jobs!
 
  
  Overall I would say this game is a bit of fun if you're bored, or you want a laugh with your mates 
 (because when you kill a patient, it is very funny!) . I wouldn't really bother spending the money 
 on this game unless you have some spare cash lying around (for some reason or another) , otherwise, 
 save it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is my most valued game on the Wii that I own at the moment. It's something different that 
 you won't be able to experience in any other game. This is one of the main reasons I bought this 
 game.
  
  SOUND: Voice work and music was okay, but I really wish there could've been more of it. In the 
 middle of the game you'll hear just about all of the sound clips and music there is within the 
 game. 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are definitely not the best on the Wii right now. The anime art work is 
 great along with the detailed backgrounds, but when it comes time for surgery, you'll notice the 
 lackluster visuals the moment you start. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where the game truly shines, and also the most important aspect of any game. 
 The storyline is interesting, and won't bore you the 15-20 hours you'll play this game. Switching 
 tools when cued to do so may seem infuriating and difficult at times, but you'll eventually get 
 the hang of it. You're going to want to because it really shows what the Wii mote/nunchuck can 
 really do. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: It's a great game if you can put with the dull graphics and steep learning curve. 
 And don't let your logic ruin your experience of the game. This isn't a surgeon simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center Second Opinion for wii is a game that is the fist of it's kind. (The DS version doesn't 
 count) I have compared DS to WII versions of this game and Wii version dominates. Trauma center 
 is a surgery game. and what you do in the game... well thats self explanitory. Using the Wii remote 
 has never been so fun. In this game you have contol over a lot of things. And the best part is... 
 The Controls Are Always COOPERTIVe and responsive! Most games the motion contols screw up, but 
 not in this. The story is really good and deep, and the drawings and SFX are really good, but sometimes 
 repetitive.
  
  However the game tends to be kind of repetitive in the beginning, but when you get into the game 
 it gets a bit better. the game is a bit on the shorter side of games. Sometimes hard missions are 
 so hard they will make you want to kill kittens. But it is the kind of hard where you know what 
 to do, you just can't do it without killing the dude your operating on. The music is 3 beats and 
 repeats itself, but you dont even notice the music when doctors are screamin' at you and your operating 
 on someone you don't know.
  
  Overall, if you want a new, fun, and fresh Wii game. This is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  My little brother of 11 years bought this and i was pleased that he did because he wishes to be 
 a doctor when he is older. So i thought this would be good fun practice. Altogether this game is 
 really well thought out and well constructed. Its very different for a start and should be worth 
 a look if your interested in trying something new. This game in short: a bit of text telling you 
 the patients symptoms and a bit of a background story followed by an operation. The operations 
 are good fun....... while they last. It varies from stitching, slicing, pulling out glass and becomes 
 more complex with lasers and ultrasound. So naturally this is where i begin to point out the bad 
 parts of this game. The graphics are nice but not much different from the DS version of the game 
 and well because this is a surgeon sim don't expect it to be easy. However if this game wasn't 
 hard it wouldn't pick up the urgency of real surgery also this game has fast pace!
  
  Graphics: All look pretty decent but not really much difference between the DS version. Anime look 
 is a nice touch.
  
  Gameplay: Really does pick up the feel of being a surgeon from the urgency to the amount of operations 
 you must perform. Only downside is the replay value and having to repeat the same things is each 
 operation, can get a bit boring.
  
  Sound: Pretty nice would have been better with a bit more dialog.
  
  Story: Well this game 
 has a bit of a story but i didn't really feel that interested in it. Overall: A nice game and a 
 step forward for Simulators. Only real problem is it gets boring pretty fast. Great fun but if 
 you don't like hard games you may not like it but i recommend you at least give it a rent.
  
  Score: 7/10 recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a unique franchise, and, not having owned a Nintendo DS, this was my first game 
 in the series.
  
  The story for Trauma Center: Second Opinion begins with our protagonist, a young doctor, often 
 facing ridicule from his peers for being a rookie, performing surgery on the things we're used 
 to seeing in an emergency room.
  One day, a patient with an unusual disease will change the course of his entire life, forcing him 
 into a field specializing in G. U. I. L. T, a disease whose origins I won't go into for spoiler reasons.
 
  
  A female protagonist's chapters are progressively unlocked along the way, and tell the game's immersive 
 story from a different perspective.
  
  The two characters share a common ability- The Healing Touch .
  Though some operations require 
 its usage, others can be performed without it, and in those cases bonus points can be earned toward 
 your ranking (issued at the end of each procedure, your ranking (based on a letter basis, D, C, 
 B, A, and a special rank for those perfect surgeons)
  
  Surgical procedures, depending on their complexity, are easy to learn. Apply a gel to cleanse the 
 area, make an incision along the area indicated on the screen, and the camera will zoom in, allowing 
 you to better see the organ (s) you're operating on.
  
  Smaller cuts can be easily treated with a gel.
  Large cuts are sutured (as simple as sowing, 
 by the time you complete this game's story you should be able to suture three cuts in three seconds, 
 even if it's sloppy there are some chapters where you can't afford to waste any time) bloody openings 
 require drainage before suturing.
  
  Part of being a good surgeon is always keeping an eye on your patient's vitals (their heartrate) 
 once it drops below 20, you're in extreme danger of losing your patient.
  Luckily, a green serum can be used to raise their vitals at any time.
  
  Surgeries have a time 
 limit, between five and ten minutes.
  The ten minute ones require you to operate on more than one patient, and, with time, you will learn 
 which patient, and at what time during the procedure, that the Healing Touch needs to be used, 
 and things will all fall into place.
  
  After you've finished your surgery, suture your initial incision back up, and apply tape across 
 the stitches to complete the finish the procedure, and see your rank (as well as the various bonuses 
 that you earned, some specific to the type of operation performed)
  
  Once you're operating on GUILT patients, you're required to have some quick reflexes (even the 
 best of doctors should take the time to PAUSE every once in a while, especially if their hands 
 are shaky) and, one strain of the virus in particular, requires either complex puzzle-solving, 
 or quick use of the healing touch, because otherwise if you don't remove the virus in the right 
 order it spreads, and there's really no choice at that point but to restart the operation.
  
  The viruses each have their own treatment, which, since the doctors are learning as they go, 
 it would be a major spoiler to reveal the actual procedures here.
  
  After completing the game's main storyline, you unlock the EXTREME difficulty missions.
  I'm 
 gonna be honest with 'ya, tried the first one a few times and said forget it, that's way too hard 
 for my patience.
  
  The extreme missions are, however, very intriguing as it relates to their part in the story, but 
 I wouldn't recommend spending hours trying to complete them lest you want to add a new window to 
 your house (by punching a hole in your wall)
  
  The game's story takes so many turns- sometimes there's a little comedy, others there's drama, 
 suspense/horror, and consistent action along the way; it's a can't-miss thrill-ride, and while 
 some of the missions in the main story can seem tedious, and may require you to check your nearest 
 walkthrough, the end result is worth all the effort, and sometimes what seems like an impossible 
 chapter could simply require that you figure out the virus' weak point, and on your next attempt 
 you'll not only complete it, but do so with plenty of time to spare.
  
  Bottom line, whether you're into medical drama, sci-fi, anime, or all of the above, you'll be more 
 than satisfied with what Trauma Center: Second Opinion brings to the table.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  The first Trauma Centre entitled Under The Knife came to us on the DS which I never got round 
 to playing, when I heard that there was a Wii title coming I got pretty excited as a lot of people 
 told me not to. Apparently it was just another quirky title that wont last long, but it has and 
 its had its highs and its lows for me.
  
  The most fun thing about TC is the fact I can finally become a surgeon without having to suffer 
 endless years at University and the likes and also the fact that my patient isnt real and cant 
 actually feel anything (which is always a bonus) The first time I turned the game on it had a whole 
 Japanese feel about it like a few of the DS titles such as Another Code or Bleach. The look of 
 the game ties in nicely with the feel of it, music and backdrops make it heavily more appealing. 
 The game pretty much throws you straight in the deep end as your given your first stint in the 
 operating theatre which isnt the easiest of ops for your first time round if you have never played 
 the game before, but never fear everything is clearly explained so youre not really left scratching 
 your head. You are given a little help in the form of a practice nurse which I found to be really 
 helpful as she guides you as to what you have to do.
  
  Gameplay wise you think TC will get repetitive but funnily enough it doesnt every operation is 
 completely different which make it more enjoyable and leaving you wanting more, on the down side 
 TC does get very text heavy and involves a fair bit of reading but the game actually turns out 
 to be really interesting story-wise if you bother to read it all as oppose to just skipping it 
 and cutting right into the operating. The music works well with the game as its very dramatic 
 and puts you under more pressure when the clock is counting down causing you to make more mistakes 
 as the pressure builds. As side from that the rest is very elevator inspired.
  
  To sum up briefly TC is a great game that gave great impressions to me, I did expect it to be a 
 lot less appealing but I was mistaken. If you played the Ds title and liked I recommend TC: Second 
 Opinion and if you never and are looking for something new for the Wii I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  This game is simply outstanding! Revolving around a great storyline, you make your way up as you 
 take tasks which get harder and harder... Many features of this game improve upon the gameplay 
 itself when compared to its original for the ds. If you are unfamiliar with the series, stitching, 
 pulsing, spraying, and disinfecting are few of many things that you will be doing throughout the 
 game... Characters play a good role in the game, most of the time you'll be playing as only one 
 of them but when you become more familiar you will have a chance to play as others... Under the 
 knife is an excellent sequel and should be in any wii owner's library! With the power to change 
 difficulties, newcomers can roam free... I highly recommend this game and if you get it you'll 
 know why... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  As you may already know, Second Opinion is the Wii-make of Under The Knife. In this game, while 
 operating with the medical tools (eg. scalpel, forceps, laser) using the Wiimote, instead of touching 
 at the sides of the screen to change tool (like in Under The Knife) , you can select which tool 
 you'd like to use next using the Nunchuck's Control Stick. This game contains remakes of old missions 
 from the previous game, plus some completely new missions that include bone surgery and a kidney 
 transplant. Plus a completely new final chapter that includes new operations that even contain 
 mixtures of GUILT (eg. Kyriaki + Paraskevi) . I know... it sounds hard... But don't worry, unlike 
 in the last game, you can change the operations' difficulty (except the X operations) anytime! 
 With completely new gameplay and new missions, Trauma Center: Second Opinion could keep you waving 
 that Wiimote for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelerj92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  i got this today with resi4 and i cant stop playing it!
  
  its far more addictive then the last trauma center on ds and the graphics, sound and gameplay have 
 all been improved. it really doesnt take long to get used it unless you have played the ds version 
 where to change the tools you have to touch them but on wii u simply use the stick on the nunchuck-its 
 quite confusing if u r used to the ds version. what i like is that the nurse doesnt bother you 
 that much... she only ever pops up on screen when she has to tell u how to use a new tool. also 
 the whole procedure
  is so much faster now and its easier for example tool change.
  
  the only thing thats bad is that u have to be very persice when cutting into someone so that always 
 takes me a while to cut it also when u are stuck on a mission it can b very frustrating to have 
 to act quickly. but each time u do a little better until u complete the mission
  
  if u have slow reactions and doesnt like blood, even if its mild, dnt get this game... i would say 
 rent it first jus to get the hang of it or play the ds version
  =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  After playing the ds game which while i didnt get into it very well it was a pretty cool idea and 
 the overall concept and was great. Now they have brought out a Wii version so i thought why not. 
 Graphics: Not a game that relys on graphics to show its charm and it pretty much in the cutscenes 
 sence is exacly the same as the DS version. Of course the operations them selfs look alot more 
 polished than the DS version.
  
  Gameplay: They real reason to buy this game. Original. Fun. and very addictive. The general rules 
 is that you get person after person with problems such as a tumar in the stomach or a sore throat 
 and it is your job to slice and dice your way to sucess. You have a massive range of equipment 
 from scalpult to a blood drainer and all of them feel pretty good. Sound: The overall soundtrack 
 is ok at best but there is next to no voice acting in this game. Abit lazy of nintendo but you 
 can't have it all.
  
  **** The cutscenes arent cutscenes at all really just random shite about what they had for tea 
 last night or something and the worst of it because theres no voice actors you have to read pages 
 and pages or random crap. I dont mind reading but i expect more from a console game in 2007.
  
  Overall: I good fun game the gameplay is spot on and totally original but they could have put 
 abit more effort into the sound and graphics because as nuts as it sounds its not that differnet 
 from the DS version. Still if you like something diffrent or havent played the original. The you 
 should at least rent it, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a unique game released by Atlus, a game developer which is famous for making anime 
 themed video games, that uses the medical world to draw in new and current video gamers. The basic 
 concept of Trauma Center is that youre a doctor and you heal patients, and a whole lot of them. 
 The way the game works is that youll be given around 10 tools that help you heal patients in various 
 ways and different environments. As the doctor you learn techniques and certain processes in the 
 game so you will be able to use the tools to the fullest. Atlus at first created TC: Under the 
 Knife as a new innovative game for the Nintendo DS. By using the touch screen and the stylus the 
 DS made this game a very simple, fun, and a unique game for players of all ages. By using the stylus 
 you control the tool and suture wounds, spread medicine, and all types of various healing techniques. 
 However, in order to use different tools in an operation you must switch them out by tapping on 
 their avatar, or icon, on the sides of the screen, and then use them. This makes finishing an operation 
 with a high rank very difficult. However, the innovative use of the touch screen is something that 
 makes Trauma Center a very wholesome game.
  On the top screen will be fed your operation time limit which will range from 5 minutes to 10 depending 
 on certain situations. Also displayed on the top screen will be the Operation Score which will 
 determine your rank on the operation and comments from your assistant. The bottom screen displays 
 the actual operation and the vital signs on your patient. If the vitals on the patient reaches 
 zero, the game is over and you must restart. On the left and right sides of the bottom screen the 
 tools for the operation are lined up vertically. These tools range from forceps, scapels, laser, 
 magnifying glass, and much more. The game difficulty is set automatically to one setting; however, 
 for slow players the game will punish you dearly if you wish to get high ranks. The operation itself 
 is made so that its possible to beat for anyone but for players that seek challenges the rank 
 of getting S will suit you well. Ranks are determined by bonus points in an operation, how well 
 you perform a certain technique, how fast you perform the operation, and how many misses you made 
 in an operation. All of these factor into the scoring which will rank you to be a Rookie Doctor, 
 Specialist, Senior Surgeon, Expert Surgeon. Overall the difficulty is set so that nearly anyone 
 can finish the game without many problems, though at times certain operations might be frustrating.
 
  The presentation of the game of music and graphics quality in Under the Knife is actually presented 
 in a way that its a bit of a drama in a doctors life except shown through an anime styled story. 
 The story is told through text, however, the way the character speaks and present themselves in 
 text brings out a great deal of character and personality. While a character is talking in text, 
 the character themselves are shown above the text and present themselves in an emotional state 
 that they are talking like. Such as if a doctor was angry, hed start shouting in text and a picture 
 of him yelling would show up above the text. The characters are, once again mentioned, in an anime 
 style, though its not very finished and the characters dont look dazzling the overall presentation 
 of the characters do the job well of keeping the game together. Even though the story is text based, 
 its very well thought out and goes into a suspense action feeling throughout the whole entire storyline. 
 The music of Under the Knife is presented in a midi style file so it doesnt have great detail 
 in sound, however, the way the music is weaved into certain situations is just fascinating. The 
 music score isnt very diverse but the music fits into every conversation and dialogue of the characters 
 and is also quite catchy. One year after Under the Knife was released for the DS, the Wii would 
 launch soon after, and Atlus took advantage of the Wiis motion sensing abilities and remade Trauma 
 Center into a better game than it DS version. Trauma Center: Second Opinion was a remake of the 
 version Under the Knife, and even though it was a remake this games extra content and polished 
 music graphics and gameplay makes the game worth buying. Trauma Center: Second Opinion does a very 
 well job of making a remake of the version much better than other game companies would. The reason 
 being is that they finished and polished up much of Under the Knifes unsatisfactory factors of 
 the game such as midi music and unfinished character designs on the characters. The gameplay has 
 changed quite a bit to also handle the Wiis separate nun chuck and the one screen gameplay. Unlike 
 the Under the Knife which utilized two screens, the Wii would use one screen therefore Atlus would 
 have to change how the game worked a bit differently. The interface of the game changed by having 
 the time, score, character, and the dialog all shoved into one screen. However, Atlus made a very 
 smooth transition by making the operation section of the game fit in with all of the other minor 
 details on the screen. The dialog of the character and the character who was talking were moved 
 to the bottom right part of the screen and didnt take up much space so that it wouldnt interfere 
 with surgery. The score and time was moved up to the top right corner of the screen and it was 
 an easy way for people to glance up and see the operation time and pointage on the operation. Also 
 the whole idea of selecting a certain tool by pointing with a Wiimote was taken out due to the 
 new Wii nun chuck. All the medical tools were placed on each corner of the polygonal shape of the 
 nun chuck joystick. The tools that represent each point and the tool currently used would show 
 up on the bottom left screen. However, this is for beginning players as players start to memorize 
 where each tool is. Second Opinion therefore gives a better gameplay interface than Under the Knife 
 did by giving easy selection of the tools needed in an operation and having everything on one screen 
 so you dont have to go searching for something a long distance away from the operation screen. 
 The music contains the same tune it did for Under the Knife except Atlus made it into a full mp3 
 file where it doesnt sound like the same instrument playing a music. Rather they made the music 
 more melodic by putting in multiple instruments that would suit the type of music being played. 
 Such as, for a sad music a piano would be played and for a dramatic music a trumpet would be played. 
 The polishing up on these music files gives a greater audio presentation on the game. The game 
 also adds a bit more vocal sounds from the characters in the game and made it sound more emotional 
 in the game rather leaving it a bit monotonous like the previous game. The exciting part about 
 this version of the game is that they extended the game from where the previous game left and continued 
 it with an additional episode. This game therefore gives more operations than it did in Under the 
 Knife. Another very important addition in the game is that it also included difficulty settings 
 so that you can change the difficulty anytime you think an operation is too hard. This option is 
 very useful for new players into the game and helps later on for player who cant handle certain 
 operations.
  Trauma Center takes place in the future where a new full-time surgeon named Derek Stiles begins 
 to work at Hope Hospital. He learns the important values of being a doctor and learns that being 
 a doctor is an even more serious job than he ever thought. However, through a mysterious encounter, 
 Dr. Stiles is engaged with a new virus called GUILT, where the parasite starts harming patients 
 from the inside until he or she dies. With the bio-terrorism out on the loose it seems like Derek 
 has the motivation to stop this GUILT at all costs.
  Both versions of Trauma Center are great games that give gamers a bit of insight into what its 
 like to be in the medical life. The game is very innovative, unique, and challenging in various 
 ways and brings about a new way to play games now. For people who like to accept challenges and 
 find new ways to play, or take full advantage of a gaming system, both versions of this game would 
 be a great addition to a gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who has played the game from beginning to end.
  
  Trauma center has a descent storyline that I won't spoil here other than to say it is a story of 
 medical terrorism and a young doctors rise in skill. One nice thing is that a tangent story develops 
 giving you a sort of glimpse into the other side of things. It is a relatively short play, requiring 
 16 hours for me to advance to the end.
  
  There is no voice acting so you'll be following the storyline by doing some reading. It is a good 
 thing that you can skip the text between surgeries if you are redoing something because some of 
 the text could be overly verbose at times leaving you wanting to just get on with the action.
 
  
  The story will lead you through interesting scenarios such as handling bombs, or dealing with low 
 light in a tunnel or turbulence on an airplane.
  
  You will get to play as different surgeons, though they are all essentially the same and you switching 
 only serves to drive the storyline forward.
  
  General game play involves some trial and error as you work to find a pattern or a weak spot so 
 you can advance in the operation, which tend to resemble mini puzzles. There is always a time attack 
 feel to it as you race to find and cure the problem while keeping the patients vitals up.
  
  There are three difficulty levels: Easy, Normal and Hard. Playing through the game on Normal 
 didn't pose too much of a problem though I see how increasing the difficulty would sure make things 
 harder. There is actually a fourth level which is Extreme, but that is all i'll say about that.
 
  
  The controls are great, using the Wii motes interesting capabilities. The game utilizes twisting 
 action on things like bone fragments and screws, push and pull with a defibrillator. The whole 
 time, you are pointing the Wii mote at the screen while using the Nunchuck primarily for instrument 
 selection. There is also a special move that is accomplished by pointing the Wii mote at the screen 
 and drawing a certain image.
  
  The graphics are good but certainly don't dazzle. Objects are usually overemphasised giving them 
 a cortoonish feel, while the characters are all static anime-style images. But you don't have time 
 to oogle the visuals anyways, you are saving patients remember!!
  
  The music is ok, it definitely gives you that urgent feeling as you operate, adding to the tension. 
 Sounds like a constant beeping heart monitor and the crunch of a mistake will have you stressed 
 out more than once.
  
  Overall this was a great game that is fun to play. Quite different from any game I've played which 
 was quite welcomed. I can only see this series getting better with the additions of a few things 
 and expanding on this great concept. I have high hopes and am look forward to the upcoming sequel, 
 Trauma Center: New Blood.
  
  The clincher is that I can definitely see myself plugging this game back in even after having beaten 
 it, if only to see if I could score a better ranking here and there.
  
  With that I will say is that if you go out and buy this game you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewillsmith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a very addictive and entertaining masterpiece. Once you start playing this beauty 
 you won't be able to put it down I promise. I was a little peeved by the games length. I got about 
 6 hours out of it before the final credits. The missions were very carefully crafted and very fun, 
 but I would have enjoyed a simulation much, much more. After playing the first surgery I was in 
 love with it, but then the bugs came out and I kind of lost the craving... although I still couldn't 
 put the Wii remote down! I would have given a 10 if not for the outrageous GUILT. If you haven't 
 played the game, then you won't understand that. Rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamestorm232
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game as soon as I got it. At first I was a little skeptical about it. but boy I was 
 wrong. The game met all my expectations. And I can't wait for the seqeal comming out soon. They 
 can do so much to make this game even better the next time around. With new medical tools added. 
 And just by letting there minds open up to all the parts of the human body and all the things they 
 could do with it. Another thing I liked was being able to refer back to the medical terminology 
 in the back of the book for the words you don't understand and learning in the same process. They 
 could have put alot more terms down. Mabye in the next one. Anyways I love the feel of having someones 
 life on the line and your the only who can save them when your in the OR. good luck FEALING LUCKY 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Do various operations on patience. even learn some sort of demonic magic to help you in 
 your operation. You can remove glass in one mission and stop a crazy disease fromt entering somebody 
 elese body.
  
  Graphics: With a release title for the wii they are nice and polished and really sets the wiis 
 power off. Another game from Japan tho which usually means anime graphical style.
  
  Sound: Sounds ok Takes some sound from the DS version of the game and makes them better. Sound 
 of cutting people open are nice but the sounds of the scrolling text is very very anoying at times. 
 usually the charcters only say 1-3 words. SO voice acting is good.
  
  value: The game is pretty long but tottaly not worth 50 bucks right now
  
  The Good: Great 
 gameplay and sound
  
  The Bad: Annoying text sounds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  even i thought wow a surgeon game how stupid when i first lookat Under the knife for the DS but 
 when one of my sisters friends had it with her when she came over i was liek lets see how teh game 
 was and i loved it and couldnt get enough of it
  
  a great game for the DS now comming oout for wii iw as like oh baby i need to get a wii :D but 
 that would be silly
  
  after getting a wii for graduation this was the first game i got and still one of my favorites
 
  
  i havnt beaten it yet due to some of the harder missions (god damn GUILT)
  
  but even though its on the harder side its still very fun and a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokenem
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  There's just something about this game that is very addicting. There are no other games like it, 
 and as a long time gamer, this new experience is something that I look for often being lost in 
 a world of redone fps and rts games. The story is quite boring, and long. Who cares about the doctor's 
 personal troubles and battles with his career, anyway? I understand, teach the kids a lesson, but 
 dang, are they serious? When you put that aside, the gameplay is great. It harnesses the wii controllers' 
 capabilities, much like a laser pointer. It's a great one-time through game, and adding the other 
 doctors operations into the game was a great idea. As fun as the DS version was, this one is way 
 better. The GUILT strains are the same, it would have been nice for them to expand on that, but 
 there are a few added twists. Replay value is small, once you master the operation, it's boring 
 to do it again unless you're going for the Expert Surgeon rankings. There are no benefits for how 
 much better you do besides point, so it only inflates your doctor ego. It can be quite difficult 
 at times, and frustrating, which is good as you have to find quicker and more efficient ways of 
 operating. The nunchuck controller allows you to do this way easier than the DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If I were becoming a surgeon, I would definitely have to own this game. This game makes me wonder 
 what other sorts of every day tasks could be made into an interesting video game.
  
  For those who don't know, trauma center turns surgery into an intense fight for the future of mankind. 
 I guess it reminds me of Blackjack in ways. Anyway, you have to take on this contagion that can 
 only defeated with surgery, a contagion called GUILT (?) . Anyway, you'll soon be hacking your patients 
 to bits to stop this epipedmic. You'll be injecting, sewing, and patching up patients over and 
 over, especially during the boss fights and they'll end up fine (if you hope to win that is) . Yes, 
 there are boss fights. In these intense surgeries, you have to fight vicious evolutions of strains 
 of GUILT, and in one case, defusing a very strange bomb. There are other ways that the game mixes 
 things up as well, with environmental conditions like airplane turbulance. As if this wasn't over 
 the top enough, the two main characters in this game each have super healing powers, which are 
 activated, timed super abilities. The guy slows time, the woman can do surgery without the patient's 
 vitals dropping.
  
  I never played the ds game, but I would say it is a great port. There are some things that I imagine 
 a stylus would be better for though. For example, the first incision is extremely difficult to 
 get a good rating on, as well as some other aspects. I would have to say that I wish the inbetween 
 plot sequences were improved more; they seemed very 'ds'. All in all though, it is a blast of a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Anyone that played the original version of Trauma Center on the Nintendo DS when it was released 
 two years ago, knows how fun, challenging and entertaining the series can be. However, when the 
 game was released for the Nintendo Wii a few months ago, many of the games biggest fans wondered 
 if the games publisher, Atlus, would be able to bring the same kind of addictive gameplay to a 
 next generation console. Luckily for them, not only does Trauma Center: Second Opinion on the Wii 
 provide a solid gameplay experience that will entice fans of the series and bring in new ones, 
 it uses the Wii-mote and nunchuck in a way that almost makes you feel like an actual surgeon yourself.
 
  
  Using the Wii-mote as your pointer and the nunchuck to pick which tools you wish to use during 
 operations, its never been easy to cut someone open and stitch them back up again, good as new. 
 Having such an emphasis played on successfully controlling the hands of the surgeon makes Trauma 
 Center: Second Opinion extremely nerve-racking to play, but extremely rewarding at the same time. 
 The only problem is that each operation is timed and each patients health needs to be monitored 
 very carefully. Taking your time using a scalpel, or failing to remove a tumor in time can result 
 in a patient flat lining and the patient dying, thus ending your game. Helping you make sure your 
 patient does die on the operating table are a host of characters, including nurses, interns and 
 doctors, that guide you through the operations until you know what youre doing. This kind of assistance 
 during gameplay by the computer makes learning the ropes of a surgeon a fun and interesting journey. 
 Also making the adventure worthwhile is a solid storyline that is extremely entertaining. Following 
 the career of the young and rambunctious Dr. Stiles, whos trying to find his way in the big city, 
 Trauma Center: Second Opinion feels like an anime version of the Emmy Award-winning TV show ER 
 and is filled with twists and turns that keep the gamer wondering whats going to happen next.
 
  
  With such a solid story and control that makes you feel like youre actually performing the actions 
 on-screen, the graphics in Trauma Center: Second Opinion really doesnt play as huge a part in 
 the games success as you would think. Slightly better looking than what you would expect this 
 game to look like if it was on the Gamecube, Trauma Centers anime-inspired graphics do a solid 
 job of showing the player the inside of the human body, but wont blow your mind. The vivid colors 
 used in background during cut-scenes and beautiful drawn-in characters also get the job done and 
 take nothing away from the additive and entertaining experience the game affords.
  
  Simply put, any fan of the original Trauma Center game on the DS will absolutely fall in love with 
 its big brother on the Wii, while anyone else looking for an entertaining and enjoyable game that 
 uses the Wii to its fullest capabilities should look no further as well.
  
  By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a puzzle game or a surgery sim or whatever you may call it. It 
 may sound lame and boring but trust me, it's an awesome Wii game.
  
  Gameplay: 9. At first the controls may seem a bit weird but soon, you will get the hang of it. 
 The controls work surprisingly well in Second Opinion. You use the nunchuk to select the equipment 
 and the Wiimote to do stuff. The story in the game is great. It really makes you want to keep on 
 playing and never stop. The only problem is, it's quite short and a bit boring after a while since 
 you'll be doing the same stuff most of the time. The only thing that will make you continue playing 
 is the story.
  
  Graphics: 7. The graphics aren't all that spectacular in the game. You won't expect much in terms 
 of graphics in this game but it is decent. The GUILT diseases look like insects and the victim's 
 body are in 3D and really thats about it for graphics.
  
  Sound: 8. The sound fits the game very well. It makes you feel like you're really a surgeon and 
 that you've just got to save your patients. The music later on in the game is kinda catchy. The 
 music where you have to cure the Savato GUILT sounds like the victim is doomed and that theres 
 no way you can ever save him but its still kinda catchy.
  
  Value: 9. I think this game is definitely worth buying. It's unique and fun and has a good story. 
 If you're unsure then rent it first and see what you think. As for me, I think it's worth every 
 single penny I spent.
  
  Tilt: 9. I really enjoyed this game a lot. This game is unique and really fun. Although it does 
 get a bit tricky in some stages but its alright. After a few tries, I managed to find a way of 
 passing the stage. I recommend this game to anyone looking for a puzzle game on the Wii but maybe 
 it's best to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up on the Wii launch day and was immediately impressed with the gameplay. It 
 was completely different than anything I had played before. I thought it was a great use of the 
 Wii Controller and was a very interesting game. You play the role of a young up-and-coming surgeon 
 throughout the game. One thing immediately missing from the game is voice dialog which isn't so 
 bad but sometimes the text story can be a bit overwhelming. Each operation in the game is pretty 
 unique and requires a certain degree of thinking. The controls overall are very precise which you 
 can see after making surgical incisions, stitching up patients, or removing tumors.
  
  One thing that really started to take away from the game was some of the later operations. The 
 game's story starts to go off into a fantasy type situation (think disarming bombs) which I would 
 have preferred it did not but that doesn't take away from the game so much as the difficulty and 
 similarity of the later chapters. Once you hit about Chapter 3, all of the operations are almost 
 identical and some get extremely frustrating to accomplish. One thing I really did not like was 
 when trying to use your healing touch ability, you have to draw a star on-screen. This was about 
 the only instance in the game where the controller is not accurate at all. You would have a patient 
 flat-lining and you'd have mere seconds to draw a star quickly and accurately and it just didn't 
 work very well overall, resulting in many failed operations. Aside from the above complaints, the 
 game is well worth checking out for the originality of it alone. I'd love to see a sequel to this 
 game that's a bit more like a real ER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  How can a motion controller innovate video games? Trauma Centre does a an excellent job of showing 
 us how. Trauma Center Second Oppinion is essentially an enhanced remake of the original DS title. 
 You play as Derek Styles, a rookie doctor who has shown potential to be a great medical prodigy. 
 He starts with little knowlege, but learns quickly. You must perform all sorts of operations on 
 people, ranging from removing tumours to performing open heart surgery.
  
  Control is all done using the Wii Remote. The analog stick is used to select which tool you need 
 to use, and the remote is used to perform the actions. Tweasers use both the A and B butotns, making 
 it feel like you're using a real pair of tweasers. It is extremely precise, and a better system 
 couldn't be thought of.
  
  There are some new additions to the game. Some side missions have ben added. In these, you play 
 as Dr. Nozomi Weaver, a Japanese doctor who recently transfered to America. Rumble as also been 
 added, adding another layer of immersion to the game.
  
  The graphics look really nice. All the characters have bene redrawn, and the art is nothing short 
 of beautiful. It's far from a technical marvel, but it is still very noce to lok at.
  
  The sound is good too. The music is good for the missions, creating a nice atmosphere, eith just 
 enough tension. If there's anything wrong, it's that there is no voice acting. The entire story 
 must be read, making for some long string of text. The only speech you her is simple phrases suring 
 operatios like Let's begin. 
  
  Traumacenter plays very wel, but it is short. If you are commited, it can be completed in 1 or 
 2 afternoons. After you finish it, there's isn't much reason to play again. You get a few bonus 
 missions, but no real unlockables.
  
  This is an easy game to recocmend. The remote does a great job of mimicking you movements, it looks 
 good and has an interesting story. You should deffinately check this out if you have even a slight 
 interest in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Most people stick with Trauma Center long enough to hear that it's a game about surgery. WHAT! 
 that's the stupidest thing i've ever heard! Normally, i'd agree with you, but after playing through 
 it, it's easily one of the best games on the Wii right now.
  
  Story/Gameplay: Really cheezy, anime storyline. Not much to say about that. A weird virus/parasite 
 thing called GUILT gets spread throughout the world and you have to stop it using your surgical 
 skills. The storyline's pretty bad but it's easy to ignore it just from how fun the game itself 
 is.
  You start out as a rookie doctor who is just ending his internship. You have to remove glass from 
 a motorcycle crash victim and from there, you're set off into a chapter-based surgical journey. 
 The tutorials set you up really well and don't last very long so you're off on your own pretty 
 soon. You use the wii numchuck attachment to select your surgical tool by moving the joystick in 
 the direction associated with the tool you want. You then use the wii-mote to aim your tool and 
 press the A button to use. Very simple but there are a lot of factors that complicate this game. 
 Your patient is constantly dropping in vitals due to various injuries/diseases that you have to 
 cure. You must cure the person of their ailment while making sure to keep their vitals above zero 
 or you lose. Add into that a 5 minute time limit and you've gotta be extremely careful and quick. 
 The level of difficulty is a little high but due to the five minute limit, you aren't usually replaying 
 that much if you lose. The game ends relatively soon but with a bonus X chapter that comes after 
 you beat the game that is absurdly difficult, you won't get bored too quickly.
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty poor but it doesn't detract too much from the game. The injuries 
 are all pretty much the same looking and are basically just the same cut or tumor over and over 
 again. Also, the organs look horribly unrealistic. The anime graphics outside of the gameplay look 
 refreshing though and add a touch of color and happiness into the game.
  Sounds: The voice-overs are sparsly repeated lines but they sound pretty good. They do a good job 
 of saying their overly dramatic lines. The music is also not bad, especially the last mission music. 
 It adds a sense of calm that helps you stay steady during normal missions but the last battle one 
 gives an extreme tension that is almost an obsticle in itself. This isn't a bad thing though since 
 it just makes it feel all the better once you win.
  Value: As I said above, it's a relatively short game but a hard one. If you are an average gamer, 
 you should finish this in about 20 hours including side missions. Due to the cost, i recommend 
 this as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a great idea for the Wii, although I never played the DS verison I would be willing 
 to give it a try. Trauma Center maximizes on the Wiimote ability and nuchuck side stability. It's 
 an interesting gaming expierence and unlike anything I have played before. Basically you are a 
 new Dr. trying to prove yourself to the older and more expierenced staff. Along the way your character 
 learns valueable lessons like better bed side manner and stop flirting with your nurses. So on 
 and so forth. The story is rather shallow and unfortunatly takes up more of your time then the 
 operations. Basically if you've seen ER or Grey's Anatomy, you will understand the drama behind 
 the story. As a matter a fact I can't stand the cut scenes in this game, but more on that later. 
 The actual game play (the little that there is) is an interesting graphical expierence. The graphics 
 aren't wicked realistic, but more of a cell shaded see through human type of presentation. The 
 game is overly gorey, in fact very little blood is spilled. The in game conversations are presented 
 with text, and Japanese type anime drawings of the characters. The controls are surprisingly good. 
 While using the Wii mote the pointer is right on and follows your movments exactly. I actually 
 feel that this game really only needs the Wiimote, and infact would be easier to play without the 
 nunchuck. Basically the Nunchuck is only used to pick the surgical instrument you are going to 
 use. It would be easier just to point and click with the Wiimote and the utalize the instrument. 
 The Wii mote micks slicing, stiching, injecting, and even using the defribulator. It just takes 
 a little while to get used to them, it's note really a pick up and play kind of game. The music 
 is kind of forgetable and the sounds aren't so awesome that they pull you into the game, but they 
 seem in place and game appropriate. The cut scenes are what really hold back this game. You're 
 into operating and can't wait to go forward when your slapped with another lame cut scene. There 
 is no spoken dialog in the game which is fine for games like Zelda and Paper Mario, but with the 
 way this game goes it might be a little more interesting if some voice acting was included. The 
 dialog is boring and doesn't really have much to do with the operations. By the time you reach 
 level three you'll just be scrolling through it to get through it and won't even be reading it. 
 The story is kind of lame and the characters are a bit excentric but pretty annoying. Overall this 
 is a good game to rent and see how the Wiimote can be used further. I think it effectively uses 
 what Nintendo set out to do, but is held back by boring story as filler. i just want to operate, 
 and get on with my life. It's worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Twilight Princess aside, Trauma Center: Second Opinion was the Wii's best launch game. It may be 
 just a remake, but this game was made to be on the Wii. Really. I can't think of a better fit.
 
  
  The gameplay is great, and the control with the Wiimote is flawless. This game may have debuted 
 on the DS, but pretty much everything about it feels better on the Wii. And the game puts up quite 
 a challenge.
  
  The graphics, though not technically impressive, are definitely styled, and it suits the game's 
 melodramatic story well. I don't think I'd have it any other way, to be honest.
  
  This may have been a launch title, but it belongs in everyone's collection, unless you're just 
 grossly opposed to this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoffmabo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have played this back on the DS you know somewhat what it will be like. It 
 is quite fun, and most of the surgeries are much easier than the DS version. Although I have found 
 a couple to be quite a bit more challenging. I love the tool switching system, they've made it 
 so much easier with being able to use the nunchuck. You don't have to run your stylus, or pointer, 
 all the way over to the other side of the screen. So, in that aspect it is much quicker. I do enjoy 
 the fact that you can switch over to the harder mode, it gives me more of a challenge. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who just wants a good challenge, or if you just plain want to save 
 people. It's up to you whether or not you buy it, but I would recommend it, even if you have played 
 it on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is so much fun well i have never played the ds version so maybe i might not have liked 
 it as much but never the less i enjoyed this game from sucking out blood from something to stitching 
 people up after a motercycle crash those are just a few of the missions in a game that lacks much 
 of a story but makes up for it with stunning gameplay i mean i never though shocking someone back 
 to life would be so much fun actually? i never even thought about shocking someone at all unless 
 i was the shocker of course lol how lame of me to drift away from the game, like i was saying traume 
 center is a must have if you have a wii i think it was a launch title and from all the games i 
 have played on the wii which i have not played the new zelda which i will have to do traume center 
 is the best game from the launch period and def still one of the best on the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyHeyMyMy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a action-surgery game from Atlus for the wii, and it is easily one of the most 
 impressive and original games on the wii, and for that matter, anywhere. The gameplay is addictive, 
 entertaining, and tough. It can get very frustrating, which is it's only real flaw, but it makes 
 up for that with smooth motion controls that are one of the best showcases for what the wii can 
 do. In the game, you play as Dr. Stiles, as you try to cure different patients of ordinary diseases 
 or even man-made super viruses, but be warned, it's definitely not realistic, and that's not the 
 point. This is an action game, and it's a very intense one at that. The graphics are adequate, 
 they don't push the hardware, but they look nice and have good style. The sound is a little better, 
 with some catchy japanese music, but it lacks voice acting, unfortunately. As for the value, it 
 is a port of the ds version, but it has better controls, as well as lots of added missions, and 
 new difficulty levels and tools, so overall I'd say it has great value. In conclusion, if your 
 looking for a game, don't own the ds version, or even if you do and simply need more trauma center, 
 you should definitely consider picking this up, though the difficulty and crazy style means its 
 not right for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  In Trauma Center: Second Opinion you play Dr. Styles a fresh new doctor who has a lot to learn. 
 You start the game off doing every day surgeries but as the story intensifies so do the surgeries. 
 With out giving away much of the story you are going to be in for quite a ride! As you would expect 
 in a Wii title you use the Wii-mote to use all the different tools you will need to save your dieing 
 patients but ponting the Wii-mote at the screen and using the nun chuks joy stick to switch between 
 toold and this makes switching very fast and very easy once you memorize the the controles. The 
 game's stpry is an all text story only lil voice clips are used when the nurs needs you attention. 
 While you might think this would be a set back the game is written very well and it's like sittting 
 down with a good but very compelling book. The music in the game keeps up with the intensity of 
 the surgery. And it keeps you blood pumping fast!
  
  The only real set back the game has it that thegame goes from easy to very hard quite abruptly 
 and it make set you through a loop but the game is very fun and replaying the level untill you 
 pass isn't a big thing to be asked of. Also you will probably want to play the level after you 
 beat them because you are ranked for every surgery and it's fun to get try and get all SX score!
 
  
  Over all the game isn't that long so if you only plan to play it once I would deff go and rent 
 it! This is ony Wii game that should not be unplayed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarDestinyGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Okay, you're a doctor named Derek Stiles, who starts out as a rookie, but near the end becomes 
 a serious and great doctor. You're fighting against a terrorist disease called G. U. I. L. T. Also, 
 there are many strains of G. U. I. L. T. Throughout the story you'll see a few surprises, but it's 
 a pretty simple story. The game play is great, and choosing tools is a simple thing to do, improved 
 over the DS version. You just move the analog stick on the nunchuck to choose a tool, and you use 
 the wii remote to use it. The graphics in the game are all that they need to be. They're not amazing, 
 but they fit the game. The sound is pretty good and it fits the game well, and the song you hear 
 when you fight the final strain of G. U. I. L. T is great. The only problem that I had in this game 
 is that the wii did not recognize some of the movements that I did, but that was only for a few 
 things. Lastly, to any squeamish people out there, it's not that bad. Overall, I would recommend 
 to buy this game, and if you're unsure about buying it, you should at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tassadar27
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Im glad i just rented this game because im getting very bored of doing the same operations over 
 and over again. The best part is reading the text between operations.
  
  Basically you are some doctor and you get this ability called healing Touch which makes time go 
 slower during operations.
  Then you get transferred to this place called Cade.. trtjhrj (something like that) and you have 
 to find a cure for this disease called.. Guilt.
  
  The gameplay is that u go and open up patients and fix them before time runs out which is usually 
 5min.
  
  The good part is that its a long game, and theres moments where u will enjoy it. But personally 
 i didnt really find it to be that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AParkedCar
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I never completely finished this game. I got to a level where you have to try to operate on 4 people 
 within a very short period of time and never beat it. This is how I would like to begin my review. 
 Trauma center is not inherently a bad game, it has a decent plot and sometimes intuitive controls. 
 The bad part is the time limit with certain terrorist-engineered viruses. I could not beat the 
 game on EASY! If you're a puzzle game person then you'll probably love it. If you are typically 
 a shooter person you will probably hate it. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  The story in this game follows Derek Stiles, a rookie surgeon who is fresh out of his residency 
 at Hope Hospital. At the start of this career he is perhaps a bit lazy and does not care to seem 
 a whole lot about the well being of the patients, he is helping them because it is his job. Early 
 on, he operates on a particularily difficult case and discovers that he has an ability called the 
 Healing Touch, which is a form of complete concentration. He uses this ability to treat a disease, 
 which carries on multiple forms. This new disease is suspected of being the source of medical terrorism 
 and the organization's intentions behind it are a mystery. Derek Stiles and his assistant Angie, 
 use their amazing abilities to change the world of medicine forever. On top of this story, there 
 is a side story about the japanese surgeon, who also has the healing touch. Eventually their two 
 stories intertwine.
  
  The main difference in the mission outline comes from this side story, which are completely new 
 missions that you would not have seen in Under the Knife. The final section or two of the game 
 also feature a very different storyline that what you would expect. The gameplay is similar to 
 Under the Knife in the sense that there is a time limit and you a forced to complete an operation 
 before the time runs out, or before your patient's vitals reach 0. You can recvor your patients 
 vitals by using the seringe on the wheel. You select the various items at your disposal by using 
 the nunchuk attachment. Also on that wheel you have, suturing, scalpel, laser, maginification ultrasound, 
 suction, antibiotic gel and forceps. You control your cursor by pointing the Wii Remote at the 
 screen. The missions start off fairly easily, and then progressively get harder until they actually 
 are very stressul even for the player. Sometimes theres a mission that ramps of in difficulty compared 
 to the one before it , however. There are also 3 difficulties to choose from ,if you get stuck 
 on one mission, you can try it on an easier difficulty first.
  
  The graphics arent necessarily realistic looking but they do have a certain style to them that 
 will stay in your mind for quite some time. The sound is the same way, there are a few really great 
 tunes that accentuate the seriousness of the points in the story. Overall this game is not just 
 a port. Those who liked Under the Knife in any way will get even more out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The overall gameplay was enjoyable. Very clever objectives and medically accurate, and mentally 
 stimulating. Nice storyline to follow but not interactive you just complete each operation and 
 continue the storyline. the last storyline levels are unrealistic but funny and enjoyable and completely 
 take you away from doing proper surgery technics especially when it is on hard difficulty. Graphics 
 arn't realistic, not really human-ish but they are clear and easy on the eyes. Music is enjoyable 
 and very fitting, and compliments the game very well. The music is techno-ish and poppy. This game 
 will NOT make you a doctor and will NOT give you any realistic pre-doctor job expierence. (Worth 
 playing, Worth buying)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife first debuted on the Nintendo DS, and it now gets its Wii treatment. 
 Let me tell you, you wont be disappointed. The basic point of this game is to do surgery (and sometimes 
 more, but that would spoil it) .
  
  Gameplay: The Wiimote works simply amazing here. From making an incision to using a defibrillator, 
 this game feels as if you are really in the OR. The new difficulty levels make it much more user 
 friendly than the DS version, and make it a lot easier for casuals. The story is actually pretty 
 good, while kind of corny. This has to be the mos innovative game I have ever seen, and anyone 
 with a Wii needs to pick this one up. 10 out of 10!
  
  Graphics: Nothing too amazing here, but still good. The cutscenes are all Anime. The repeated cartoon 
 cutouts do get annoying. The surgery graphics are actually 3D, and look pretty good. If anybody 
 is afraid of blood, it doesn't matter, because there really isn't any (just dark red blobs of color) . 
 8 out of 10
  
  Sound: The sound is also not too impressive. The repeated sound files get very annoying, and there 
 are NO voice overs (text-based conversation FTL) . The actual surgery sounds are passable, and overall 
 gets a 7.
  
  Value: The story is short, and unless you want to replay the game on higher difficulty, you will 
 get finished with it fairly quickly. 8 out of 10
  
  Tilt: This game is amazing, to put it simply. It doesn't matter if the Wii has bad graphics if 
 game developers use the Wiimote as well as this for every game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is an interesting game that I like to think of as an ER-simulator. 
 It has one of the cheesiest storylines I have ever seen (people are infected with a virus named 
 GUILT, come on!) , and it can be very repetitive if played in long sessions. But, it is also one 
 of the best and most challening launch titles for the Wii and is worth a play.
  
  Second Opinion is very similar to it's DS counterpart, but has some upgraded graphics, effects 
 and character sprites. These all look very nice and help to give the game a cheesy anime feel.
 
  
  Gameplay has also been reworked. To select a tool, you use the analog stick on the nunchuk, and 
 with most tools you'll use a combination of motions and button pressing to get the job done. Most 
 buttons on the Wii actually go unused due to all the motions involved which, in my mind is very 
 welcome as some of the procedures and situations would be much more difficult otherwise. Chances 
 are you may have to try the same procedure several times.
  
  Sound is somewhat lacking. The soundtrack is largely filled of suspensful music which gets old 
 very quickly. Sound effects are alright, and gets the job done but is nothing I havn't heard from 
 my mother's CSI games. Re-play value is best in short sessions. The game's procedures offer a lot 
 of repetition, and could prove repelling to gamers craving variety, but again: the key to really 
 enjoying this game is short sessions, much like Wii Sports or Rayman Raving Rabbids.
  
  All-in-all, Trauma Center: Second Opinion comes off as a very nice launch title and is a nice source 
 for challenge that mature gamers will desire. However, for thsoe who already own the DS game, Under 
 The Knife, you may find yourself playing the same game a lot fo the time. Having not played the 
 DS game, I don't know if the Wii controls will be enough to refresh the game for you. But for those 
 who have not played it: this is a gmae that deserves to be in your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  At first glance at this game I was like this game blows who the heck wants to do a bunch of surgeries 
 in a game? Feels more like a chore then a game? So several months after its release I got a wii 
 in Febuary and kept glancing at this game debating and final decided to get it. I am glad I did, 
 but I will warn you the game is preety short so if your just in to playing games then rent this 
 first off. If your a collector like me, then its a nice addition to your games. First off this 
 game starts you off as Dr. Styles a doctor who works at Hope Hostiple. He has a special gift called 
 the healing touch and theres a nice story that goes along with this game. During the course of 
 the game your preform surgeries. Each one is a bit different, some are the same but theres alot 
 so don't worry to much. You use your nunchuck to select your equipment such as scaple blade or 
 fluids and such. The games graphics arn't the best but honestly I think its nicely done as if it 
 went into huge depth in graphics alot of people would be grossed out at looking at a human heart 
 and such. So the graphics fit nicely showing bleeding and scars and such. If you playing the DS 
 version of this game, most of the missions will seem familar but they added extra material into 
 this game if you have and the wii mote is a whole new experience. The controls work very nicely 
 in this game, probly the best I have played on my wii thus far. The music and sound is preety basic 
 in this game, having most of the levels with the same background music which is kinda bland and 
 boring but your so focused on the surgery its not a huge issue. All the cuts and voices sound farly 
 nice overall. This game is very addicting and makes you want to play it and its the first game 
 on my wii thus far that made me not want to stop and keep playing. The game offers 3 modes easy, normal 
 and hard mode. Each with there own ranks. The game offers 6 chapters and can be quiet challanging 
 depending on the mode you choose. The only downsize to this game is the time. It will take you 
 8-10 hours probly to finish this game maybe a bit more if your having trouble. So its hard to say 
 is $60 or whatever the price is where you live worth it? Well thats hard to say. If your a guy 
 strapped for cash well I would say rent it. Not because its a bad game, but the fact you could 
 get everything out of this game in about a week. Its a very enjoyable game and I recommand it completly 
 to all gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  In 2004, Nintendo released the Nintendo DS, which was a handheld that had a new way to play games. 
 It had 2 screens and had a stylus which you used on the lower screen, and it could be used in different 
 ways depending on the games. These things were placed on the DS to give game developers a chance 
 to make new kinds of gameplay if they wanted to. However, for about one year, no developers took 
 full advantage of this technology, and it seemed like a Gimmick. In 2005, however, the company 
 Atlus decided to make a game called Trauma Center: Under The Knife, which was about a doctor who 
 had to fight an unknown disease called G. U. I. L. T. In this game, the player used the stylus as if 
 it was the Doctor's tools. This was the game on the DS to do things that couldn't have been done 
 before on a regular handheld.
  
  About one year later, Nintendo relased a new home console called the Wii. Like the DS, the Wii 
 has a new way to play games. It has a controller with motion sensors, so that the game developers 
 can use it for many different functions. Atlus decided to support the Wii, and has made Trauma 
 Center: Second Opinion. This game was basically a port of the original game. However, Atlus has 
 improved the graphics, added new abilities to the game, and have made a few new operations, which 
 expand on the original game's story. This may not be a new game, but it does a good job at fitting 
 the old game for the Wii, and improving some aspects of it.
  
  I unfortunately have never played the original game, so if you have played it and are looking for 
 a review to decide whether this game is worth purchasing, you might want to look for a different 
 review. This is a review for people who have never played the original game, and want to know if 
 it is worth the purchase.
  
  Story:
  
  As stated earlier, this game is about a doctor, named Derek Siles. Derek is a doctor in the future, 
 who has to fight an unknown disease, which is revealed to be called G. U. I. L. T. Derek Stiles is 
 not the most professional doctor in the world, always slacking off, and often coming in late. However, 
 he is a doctor with a lot of potential. In fact, he has certain abilities which make him a very 
 skilled doctor. I don't want to spoil too much about the story.
  
  It is a pretty good story. It has some of the typical medical drama stories, with a big anime influence. 
 Because of this, there are some really cliche elements to the story, but overall, the story is 
 not bad.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are not technically great. It doesn't use the full power of the Wii. 
 In fact, it doesn't even come close to being great from a technical sense. However, in this game, 
 it doesn't matter. In fact, I would say that it is a good thing, because I honestly don't think 
 I would want to do operations on people in a game with realistic graphics. It would just be too 
 disgusting.
  
  Instead of being good in a technical sense, the game has taken a more artistic route when doing 
 the graphics. This game uses an anime style. This style fits well with the story, and I personally 
 think that it looks really nice.
  
  Controls:
  
  Now more than ever, with the Wii, there is a need to review the controls of games. Bad controls 
 can easily ruin an otherwise good game, while good controls can make otherwise below average games 
 better than they would have been before (although not great) .
  
  This game, like the original, is a very unique game, which you can't do on other consoles. It takes 
 full use of the motion sensors of the controler. It also uses the Nunchuck attachment. In the lower 
 left hand corner of the screen, it shows the different tools that you can use in the game. There 
 are eight spaces for those tools. You use that to choose the different tools, by moving the analogue 
 stick in a different direction. These tools do different things, like using the scalpel. You control 
 these by pointing to different parts of the screen and pressing certain buttons.
  
  For the scalpel, you point at the area which needs to be cut (shown as a yellow dotted line) , pressing 
 the A button, and trying to make as straight of a line as possible along the dotted line.
  
  For the forceps, you point at the part of the screen that you want to use them on, and press 
 both the A and B button. This makes it feel a lot like you are actually using tweezers, which really 
 adds to the experience.
  
  For the stitches, you point at the place where you want to use it on, and do a zig-zag with the 
 controller so that it closes up the wounds.
  
  These are just a few of the controls for tools in the game. There are more, most of which are just 
 pointing and pressing a button. The pointer in this game is great. It hardly ever messes up. The 
 only other pointer in a game that I've played which was as great as this is was Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess.
  
  There are some other aspects of the motion control wich is explored in the game, like the ability 
 to actually twist the controller to twist the tools in the game (but you are only allowed to do 
 this in certain opperations.) . Overall, the controls are very well done. This is a great game to 
 play if you want to test out what the Wii's controller can do.
  
  Gamplay:
  
  Gameplay is another aspect of the game that is very good. There are different opperations that 
 you do throught the game. The opperations are very different, with different focuses in the opperations. 
 Some of them focus on the actual medical part of the gameplay. Some focus on the speed and accuracy 
 that you do the opperations. Some are more like puzzles.
  
  The majority of the opperations have to be completed in five minutes or less. However, there are 
 some harder opperations which are done in ten minutes, and some practice opperations where you 
 are given as much time as you need.
  
  The gameplay is very fun, and is very different from any other game that I have ever played before.
 
  
  However, one of my complaints of the game is that it is very short, despite the new opperations. 
 I was able to complete the game in about a week. Because of this, you might want to pick it up 
 at a lower price if you can. However, it is still worth playing, and if you want to perfect your 
 skills, and get the best rank for every opperation, then you will get more out of the game.
  
  Replay value:
  
  Replay value for this game is going to be different for different people. 
 This game has different rankings for the different opperations. It also has different difficulty 
 levels. And after you beat the game, there are new opperations which are unlocked, which are extremely 
 difficult. If you are the kind of person who likes to become the best at every game you play, then 
 the replay value will be high because of this. However, if you are not that kind of person, then 
 you will not get much replay value out of this game. Once you are done with the game, then that 
 is it. There really is nothing else to do besides improving your skills.
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a very good game for the Wii. But it won't last you a very long time, unless if you are 
 a perfectionist. Whether you are or not, this game is a game that you shouldn't miss out on them, 
 even if you get it for a cheaper price than most stores are selling it for. It does a great job 
 at showing off the Wii's motion sensor technology, and showing how it can make new kinds of games 
 that you couldn't play on other consoles (unless if you get a DS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is not so bad except the fact that graphic sucks, story is ridiculous. I mean whe you 
 loose it says that our caracter desapeared in shame and have never been seen again. I mean LOL, 
 every doctor on the earth must have at least once not been able to save someone haha! anyway, also, 
 isn't it weird that someone have like 4 desease, 2 tumor and a broken leg, with an headache and 
 glass trought his hearts. lol. anyway except this weird part of the game, it's cool. Hmmm lvl can 
 be beaten at different rank (thats cool for the replay value) but also it have some challenge. 
 I have to admit I enjoyed it somehow. i would defenetly not buy but rent yes. the tools are used 
 a lot and there is a whole list of different things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever worked a job that you enjoyed but the enjoyment was always destroyed by a boss who 
 endlessly pushed you to work harder and faster? That's kind of what this game feels like. It's 
 like you never get a chance to just run around and enjoy the game because there is always some 
 annoying part of each operation that you have to figure out. Maybe it is because the story line 
 and cut scenes just suck. They don't really give you anything or inspire you to go to the next 
 level. Yet, you trudge on because some parts of the operations are fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I love the concept of this game. It really is like a virtual conception of the 
 game operation. However, the cheesy story lines and lame dialogue scenes make getting through this 
 game more of chore and a bore than a pleasure. If maybe there was a way to skip the lame scenes 
 and bust right into the operations it would be much better. The anime chicks are hot I will say 
 that. The operations are fun and challenging so I will give it that and the game play is really 
 easy to learn so it has that going for it as well. Not great but not terrible. Rent it. Save your 
 money. Oh and p. s. go see 300 it is one of the best things I have ever seen... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  You almost have to admire the sheer audacity of a game like Trauma Center: Second Opinion. The 
 game refers to itself as a medical drama simulation, yet there's nothing the least bit realistic 
 about it. On the contrary, it's gloriously over-the-top, chock full of totally nutty things like 
 surgeons with magical powers and viruses that scurry wildly about peoples' insides. But if you're 
 willing to buy into the game's outrageous take on surgery, you'll find that there's a genuinely 
 pulsepounding experience to be had here.
  
  Trauma Center first appeared on the DS in late 2005, making terrific use of the handheld's touch-screen 
 functionality as it presented a series of operations that you had to perform, letting you use the 
 stylus to cut people open, cure them, and sew them back up again. Second Opinion isn't a sequel 
 to that game; it's essentially a re-tellng of the same story, with the gameplay modified to make 
 use of the Wii remote and nunchuk, and with a few extra missions and a new final chapter tossed 
 in as well. You play (most of the time) as Derek Stiles, at first a fresh-faced, disorganized, 
 irresponsible young doctor who quickly finds himself skyrocketing to surgery superstardom when 
 it becomes apparent that he has a gift called the Healing Touch, allowing him to concentrate so 
 intensely on an operation that it's almost as if time slows down. Derek is soon recruited by a 
 medical agency that's caught up in a battle against a terrorist organization which has engineered 
 viruses that it's using as weapons, and many of the surgeries involve treating patients who have 
 come down with one of the forms of this disease, called GUILT. The story is told simply, with character 
 portraits and text balloons, which may sound disappointingly simple, but it works well enough, 
 keeping things moving along briskly from one operation to the next. One of the most immediately 
 striking things about the gameplay in Trauma Center is how perfectly suited it is to the Wii. You 
 use the nunchuk to quickly switch between surgical implements, and the remote to apply the currently 
 selected implement. The game has a terrific built-in learning curve with some basic early surgeries 
 familiarizing you with the different surgical tools, but it's not long before the game's pace and 
 challenge ratchet up significantly. It can be genuinely nervewracking to watch a patient's vital 
 signs drop during an operation, and genuinely thrilling to successfully complete the procedure 
 and narrowly save the patient's life. On the normal difficulty setting, the game gets quite tough 
 in some spots, which makes completing the tougher operations all the more rewarding, though the 
 game nicely offers easy and hard options for those looking for more or less of a challenge. While 
 the game is never unfairly difficult, it can be a bit frustrating to have to rely on trial and 
 error, going through an operation a few times to familiarize yourself with it enough to get it 
 right. The frustration is compounded by the fact that each operation has multiple parts, and it's 
 usually not until a few stages into an operation that it gets tough, so having to go through the 
 first few steps over and over again just to get back to the problematic part can get tedious, even 
 though they only take a few minutes or less each time. It's also worth noting that the game does 
 what it does really well, but that's absolutely all it does. This game is very limited in scope, 
 and even though you'll encounter many types of crazy viruses, infections and injuries throughout 
 the game, there is a kind of sameness to many of the game's missions. Pretty much all of them involve 
 some cutting, some injecting, some suturing, and, of course, some zapping with lasers. There isn't 
 much room for creativity on your part, either. The game is not about deciding what to do, but about 
 reacting quickly and doing what needs to be done.
  
  Visually, Trauma Center isn't impressive, but the clean graphical style of the game, while basic, 
 certainly works quite well, and the character portraits you see between operations have considerable 
 personality. The sound is similarly basic, with some sound effects like footsteps and applause 
 accompanying the story sequences and a few speech samples here and there from key characters, such 
 as Derek shouting I will save this patient! before an operation. The music can get pretty melodramatic 
 at times, which actually fits in nicely with the game's overblown story.
  
  The game may take you about ten hours your first time through, though you can certainly plow through 
 it all in considerably less time if you skip the story sequences and know just how to tackle each 
 operation. There are some especially challenging bonus missions you unlock upon completing the 
 main story, and perfectionists may enjoy doing operations again to get better ranks, but that's 
 about it.
  
  A simulation it is not, but fun, it definitely is. Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a fast-paced 
 action game dressed in scrubs, and it makes really terrific use of the Wii remote and nunchuk to 
 provide a challenging, exciting and unique gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillydawg5000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I played the original DS Trauma Center, and couldn't put it down. When I saw that the game was 
 coming to the Wii, and was a launch title, I was very excited. The easy setting is fairly average 
 difficulty. I like the challenge, so I played the game on hard. The end missions on hard are HARD. 
 But they are fun. The story is pretty cool, but it seems to go on forever at points. I love the 
 innovation that this series offers. Doing operations on your television is such a cool idea. The 
 x-missions after you beat the whole game are pretty much impossible... I know they are beatable, 
 but I still have yet to complete them all. The game is pretty short, so $50 might be a bit much 
 if you aren't sure that you will like it, but I really recommend this game for anyone who is looking 
 for a fun, challenging game that uses the innovative controller that the Wii offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hq3000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  TC was perhaps one of the most refreshing experiences i've had on a console. It's a mix of an appealing 
 story and addictive gameplay. When I tell people about this game, they get very intrigued about 
 the prospect of playing a surgeon in a game. The graphics are clean and vibrant even on 480i. The 
 idea of playing a surgeon is probably one it's greatest aspects. It's a refreshing concept that 
 should appeal to many people. The story line which is told through mostly static images is fun 
 yet a bit tedious. It is also an interesting addition to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samakar
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, Trauma Center, we knew ye well on the DS, and now, what's this? You want to be on my Wii? 
 Ok ok, you can come to the Wii.
  
  Yes, it's true TC fans, there is a game for the Wii, and it's not that bad. I mean sure, we all 
 expected a kick ass game with a wonderful experience, but seriously, let's not get ahead of ourselves. 
 *coughs* PS3 failure *coughs*
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion offers wonderful innovation in this new gaming technology, I mean, 
 what's cooler than taking control of a surgeons hands and saving lives? Well, that's also where 
 it falls short. The game is very difficult to play if you don't have a very steady hand. Myself, 
 I have a very shaky hand, which screws up incisions tremendously.
  
  The game requires EXTREME precision, and it can be very frustrating if you're not right on the 
 line. But the game does have its shining moments. Using forceps to close large wounds, using stitches 
 to patch up huge cuts while trying to frantically keep your patient alive.
  
  The music itself isn't anything special and is very uninteresting, and speaking of uninteresting, 
 the graphics aren't exactly wonderful either. But hey, what can you expect? Nintendo said it themselves, 
 we're not going for power, just fun so I won't hold it against them. But even in this, they could 
 have still done something like full on graphical cut-scenes instead of animated text screens with 
 no voice acting (yeah, I know, it's SOOOO 2002 man) , thought we were in the future here?
  
  All in all, the game feels a little rushed, but it's novelty does shine for the first time through, 
 but afterwards, well, I just don't see a reason to keep on playing. If you want a great, innovative 
 experience for your Wii, and have some fun, definitely rent this title, you won't be disappointed!
 
  
  -Samakar
  Long Live Xen of Onslaught! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  This was the first game that I bought for my Wii and it was worth it. Note that I haven't played 
 the original DS one, so I won't compare it to that.
  
  Okay, so you're a doctor. Depending on the mission, you'll either play as Derek or as Nozomi, but 
 you'll mostly be playing as Derek. This game uses stuff that a doctor would in real, like a scalpel 
 or forceps. This game starts off as pretty easy, but then the last few missions are pretty hard. 
 Infact, this one mission, called Fallen Heroes took me about 20 tries to beat! And if you think 
 that's hard, wait until you try the optional X missions. I haven't even beat any of them myself 
 yet. Most of the missions revolves around some kind of virus called GUILT. Some of these kind of 
 annoying, most notably the Paraskevi and Triti. In Paraskevi missions, these little creatures swim 
 around inside you and splits into two when you cut then with your scalpel. The annoying thing is 
 the whenever you cut them, they leave cuts behind that you must stitch up. When these things are 
 smaller, the can go into the person's heart and if that happens, it's an automatic game over for 
 you. It's hard to explain about Triti. You'll just have to play it for yourself to see what I mean.
 
  
  The music sounds like it would fit this type of game. The music in the cutscenes reminds me of 
 Mega Man music too. The graphics aren't too great. No matter who you're treating, the person's 
 body looks the same as anyone else. This graphics gets some points for some hot girls, like Angie 
 and Cybil.
  
  Overall, this game is fun. I imagine being a surgeon in real life wouldn't be fun, but in a videogame 
 it definitely is. If you're really interested in this game, you should just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash83
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  This game is BAD for your hands, wrists, and arms. If you are a dedicated gamer and can't accept 
 defeat, this game will frustrate to no end. Here is where the game can actually be dangerous to 
 the player. Tendons are what connects your muscles to your bones. Repetitive movement can cause 
 your tendons to become inflammed and full of fluid which is exhibited by swelling and soreness. 
 If you've really played this game for more than 30 minutes at a time, you've felt it. Any level 
 with the triti guilt is a prime example of what makes this game a literal pain. If you don't know 
 the pattern learn it, but be ready to feel the burn regardless. It isn't so much that the concept 
 is bad or that the game isn't fun most of the time (although it is a regurgitation of the ds title 
 with a different spin on the sixth chapter- basically the same operations with a different storyline) 
 but it suffers from launch title laziness. This game could have been beyond excellent if more time 
 was put into it, but when the movement detection is poor, its very poor. Having said that, it does 
 shine from time to time with the z missions and the addition of difficulty settings was nice even 
 if easy was too easy and normal is not the right word to describe how hard it can be (episode 6-7 
 and 6-8) . It was initially impressive, but so was limp bizkit. boo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrphilip11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a remake of a game for the DS, called Trauma Center: Under the Knife. Although it 
 is a remake, it is a completely new game. It has updated sound, graphics, as well as some exclusive 
 content. Some people are thrown off by the fact that at some points it may seem overly dramatic, 
 but once you get past some the occasional cheesy dialogue the game really stands out from the rest.
 
  
  This is a game that anyone can get into, really it doesn't matter who you are. Maybe you're a 60 
 year old woman who loves cats, or just an average joe shmoe gamer, you probably will like this 
 game. You play as Dr. Derek Stiles, who has just finished his residency and is kind of a crappy 
 doctor (at first) . He later discovers he has a talent that is needed to save the world from.... 
 something. Maybe he saves the world from Godzilla, maybe he saves the world from the giant flying 
 spaghetti monster. Play the game to find out. Anywho, back to the game...
  
  Trauma Center has adjustable difficulty, ranging from easy to angering. At the end, if you're hungering 
 for a challenge, you unlock some challenge operations, (quite hard, I must say) so if you can beat 
 all of them, hats off to you. There is a ranking system that offers some replay value if you're 
 quite bored, so you can go back through and get a high rank on all of the missions.
  
  The story is very interesting, pretty emotional at points. Really thats all I can say about that 
 without giving away anything about it.... Short paragraphs -_-.
  
  As for the overall value of the game, you will probably go back to it at some point, and the difficulty 
 settings and ranks, along with the unlockable bonus mission at the end, this is most likely something 
 you will come back to somewhere down the line. I think this deserved a little more than an 8, but 
 not very much. An 8 is equivalent to great, after all. So if you are reluctant to give this game 
 a try, rent it. It is worthy of a rent no matter who you are, unless you happen to have no arms, 
 but then I don't see why you would be reading this. Anyway, this is a great game,. so go play it. 
 It's just.... fun.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aussie21
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game. You get to use the wiimote in very cool and different ways. It can be 
 very hard at times, and you may have to do missions over several time, but if you dont get to frustrated 
 it can be very fun. Overal a good game, but the fact that it is very short and offers little replay 
 value makes it impossible to say buy it and actually very hard to say rent it. If you are looking 
 for something different, and got some extra money, ill say go for it. Otherwise, i would go with 
 something with more replay value like Wario!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renger6002
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I don't have a DS (unfortuantely) , so I had never played this game before. I decided to give it 
 a rent.
  Trauma Center introduces the player as a rookie surgeon trying to make it big, the first few missions, 
 your assistant will help you a lot giving a fair tutorial that will probably be all that you will 
 need thanks to the game's smart interface. The analog stick on the nunchuk is used to choose one 
 of your eight tools by moving it to the correct side. Then, using the wii remote, you will be able 
 to move the tool, hold A, and move it in the right motions to use it, or in case of your forceps, 
 hold the A and B buttons at the same time to grab. Occasionally you will need to use different 
 materials, a defibilator for example, in which case you move both controllers forward and press 
 B and Z (on the nunchuk) at the right time to release a charge.
  
  The story is told through text and well drawn anime characters. The frequent words told by solid 
 voiceovers help to understands characters better. The music during surgeries is often intense and 
 contributes to the mood well. The graphics are flashy and satisfactory for its cause.
  
  There are a TON of missions to go through. As the player is gaining more trust from his colleagues, 
 he discovers he has the Healing Touch. When executed properly- by holding two buttons and drawing 
 a star, the time stops, helping you beat the sickness, whatever it may be. It might just be GUILT; 
 Later on in the story an epidemic occurs, and you will have to cure some bizzarre, man-made viruses.
 
  
  The game will occasionaly throw a totally random mission at you, such as difusing a bomb. And along 
 side your normal missions, there are 5 or 6 side missions that have you playing as a world famous 
 female surgeon who also has the healing touch.
  
  The only downside to this game is that it could be finished in a week at two hours per day. Some 
 missions could be very frustrating, and beating the time could be next to impossible in some missions, 
 even with the Healing Touch!
  
  Overall Trauma Center : Second Opinion is a great game with an intriguing story, very fitting music, 
 and a great way of pushing you through the story at a good pace. There are a fair amount of bonus 
 content, and if you want to get an S , standing for Master Surgeon on everymission, it will take 
 occupy you for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  A decent enough game if you are looking to explore the different ways that the Wiimote can be used 
 in a game. Is a port of the DS game that was released previously. Hard as heck, even on the easy 
 difficulty level. Simple graphics made my physician assistant laugh when she saw her first Wii 
 pancreas. Static cut scenes get old fast as well. Same with the sound effects, simple and not very 
 entertaining. In the game, you play as a young, learning doctor in a local hospital. You get thrown 
 a few bones in the beginning of the game and that opens up a whole new set of opportunities as 
 your experience grows. A few more twist and turns later, you find yourself at the end of pretty 
 boring story line.
  
  This game is definitely a rental if you are interested in the Wii and different control schemes 
 but that is about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krustykikr999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm still a noob to the trauma center unievrse yet, but I decided to make it the first game I buy 
 for the Wii, and let me tell you I am not one bit dissappointed. I haven't actually played the 
 original Under the Knife for the DS, but since I heard it was just a remake I decided to pick it 
 up. The graphics for this game are no where near state of the art, but I don't think anyone cares 
 how a game really looks. The only in game graphics (not hand drawn) in the game are in the actual 
 surgery, and by the looks of it have been revamped for the Wii. The X chapters are impossibly difficult, 
 possibly a little TOO difficult, something I probably won't actually conquer for a while yet. But 
 the gameplay and sound are where the game truly shines. From the misplaced item sound to the games 
 truly dramatic music, the sound design is top notch. Trauma Center is one of those rare gems that 
 have tons of potential, has no problem showing its greatness, yet everyone ignores it, like its 
 been lost at sea. Pick this one up, a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Strong Stomach?? This game is great, I have really enjoyed playing this game. The learning curve 
 is fairly high, due to the fact that the game does a horrible job of showing you how to do each 
 step. The games tells you what you have to do. You need to drain the tumor, but doesn't tell you 
 how to drain it. It was pretty easy to pick up though. Another thing that I noticed about the game 
 is the difficulty becomes very hard very fast. It is pretty simple the first 4 or 5 levels, then 
 it gets hard QUICK! My friends wife actually couldn't play because she was grossed out and queezy. 
 Overall this is a good game and uses the wiimote excellently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdharken
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: SO is really what we can call the closet realism to doing surgery on a person. This 
 game is pretty fun if you give it a chance. Compare to its older brother Trauma Center: Under the 
 Knife it's a really good remake of it. The game takes you through a story about two doctors and 
 their power or what they call The Healing Touch Giving the quick of edge saving a patience life. 
 As the doctor you operate on the person and there are pretty good ben of operations for you to 
 take on. You get to operate on a heart, stomach, throat, and more for that matter.
  
  Pros: Great feeling to how an surgeon would work under pressure, catchy music in my opinion, Wii 
 mote works really well with this game, the story is a cute story so you'll enjoy it while you play 
 it (or you can skip it) , the diffculty sometimes can make it really fun and make you sweat, if 
 you're worried about it being bloody, don't worry its not that bad really, that's why it keeps 
 a T rating, and even you beat it , it can kick for awhile to play with after you beat it.
  
  Cons: The story will take you an average of 10 hours, somewhat repetitive sometimes you'll get to 
 operate on a person that had something... again, Your nurse might drive you insane by saying DOCTOR 
 over and over if you mess up but hey its a cute nurse so no worries right? and activating your 
 special ability can become a conflict if you're not careful. Overall: Wait this is Anime? Ewwww 
 (I like Anime) Yes it is an Anime game if you guys haven't figured it out by the front cover. But 
 just because its Anime give this game a try it is a lot of fun. My opinion this is a great game 
 for anyone that has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  this was a great game, i think it was made perfectly for the wii, definetly worth a rent, and really 
 enjoyed. always a new puzzle and a new way in which you have to accomplish your goal, good story 
 line, and great gameplay mechanics. somewhat hard at points and does tend to get on your nerves 
 during the last couple of operations, which are extremely difficult to complete, and if one mistake 
 is made, or you don't do something fast enough, it gets to the point where it becomes impossible 
 to succed, and you have to start the entire operation over again from the beginning. but i enjoyed 
 the challenge and was very proud of myself to have beat it at normal + hard difficulty, as it definetly 
 isn't your normal game. in the end, i thought it was a great, well made game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick11478
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-I don't know where to start with this. One of the best for the Wii if you ask me. I hop 
 Atlus keeps coming out with this series because it's awesome. Tons of operations to do. Great concept. 
 I don't think anyone can challenge a game like this.
  
  Graphics- Well.. I mean you can't be showing actuall livers and lungs ect. But they did a very 
 nice job annimating everything. Once again there is not much you can work with on this type of 
 game.
  
  Sound- There isn't to much sound on this game so I don't see where you can go wronge. So.. Yeah.. 
 The sound is fine.
  
  Value- Great value! It's a must buy. One of a kind game.
  
  Keep these games coming Atlus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chankk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Lives hang in the balance as you take on the role of upcomming surgeon in this Wii reevaluation 
 of the unique and innovative DS game, Trauma Center: Under the Knife. Though some have called it 
 simply a port of the DS title, TC: SO adds a few elements which increase players' interactivity 
 and control over the situation. The Wiimote takes on the role of countless surgical tools while 
 your nunchuck allows for rapid transitions not possible with the DS version which required tap-dragging 
 to select proper instruments for a required action. The time gained of course is often necessary 
 when performing an operation on it's most difficult settings, however. Similarly with added tools 
 the Wiimote and Nunchuck allow for a more hands-on feel to events unfolding as you cut, zap, suck, 
 and stitch your patients back to health. Control elements have a rapid learning curve as with the 
 DS version, through the game's own tutorialesque introductory operations. And, while at first certain 
 actions may seem more akward than on the DS version one rapidly gets into the groove of the game's 
 control scheme and item transitions. One particular element which took a moment of getting used 
 to was the use of a defibrilator via the Wiimote and nunchuk over the manual hand-massage used 
 in the DS version of the game.
  
  The Wiimote seems to have already been recognized by developers for it's ability to recognize its 
 location in 3D space and use that to reflect in games such as this one. Players will have to push, 
 pull, aim, drag, and twist to accomplish everything needed to save their patient but the controls 
 are far from a burden or tacked on. Even those who have played the DS version will soon feel that 
 this game felt like it was almost planned for the Wii first with it's innovative controlers, and 
 then simply tested out on the DS.
  
  The game definately can be a challenge, and does require a certain level of skill at steadying 
 the Wiimote as you pull a shard of glass from a patient's chest, but there's a reason there are 
 three difficulty settings. While not terribly different in their requirements, the easier settings 
 can be progressively more forgiving than the most difficult, particularly when it comes to making 
 incisions and suturing wounds. However, as the player progresses controls quickly start to feel 
 more natural and likewise, so do the motions and actions of the player become smoother and more 
 natural.
  
  As for the game itself, the player once again plays the role of surgeon, primarily as Dr. Derek 
 Stiles, as he struggles to save lives in his operating room. TC: SO also introduces a second doctor 
 during it's story who, through her own story and character development, reveals a great deal concerning 
 issues left to question in the DS version, as well as bringing up numerous others as the story 
 of Dr. Derek Stiles continues to develop. Meanwhile, all the other story's characters help to build 
 and reinforce the development of Dr. Derek Stiles as the master surgeon as well as human being 
 he hopes to become.
  
  With redrawn character designs and more space to actually see events unfolding the game is one 
 of, if not the most beautiful Wii game released thus far. The standard Japanese 2D environments 
 and static, voiceless anime characters expressing themselves and progressing the story and their 
 individual development exist during the game's story progression while the surgeries themselves 
 take place in a beautifully rendered 3D world: generally the inside of your patient. There are 
 some minor voice overs in the game which do seem to portray their characters' personalities through 
 their momentary interjection into the game's dramatic storyline and help reinforce characters' 
 attitudes and development throughout.
  
  For some, the story elements may seem monotinous or even boring, particularly to those who demand 
 everything move and make some kind of noise; but, if you're actually paying attention between your 
 slicing and dicing, there's a deeper story of a doctor's hope and his struggle to share that hope 
 with his patients in their desire to survive.
  
  My ONLY complaint is that Angie's redrawn character design isn't quite as cute as she was in the 
 DS version... and that nobody says Dr. Derek Stiles' full name enough... Dr. Derek Stiles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center was hands-down one of the most innovative titles for the DS, so I was really excited 
 to see Second Opinion coming out for the Wii. As with its handheld counterpart, Second Opinion 
 simulates the frantic pace of a hospital OR, complete with all the life-saving tools of the trade. 
 Where the DS stylus worked as scalpel, bandages and forceps, the Wii remote and the Nunchuk make 
 excellent stand-ins, taking the action to a whole new level.
  
  For the most part, Second Opinion follows the story of the handheld game, as Dr. Derek Stiles finishes 
 his training as a hospital intern and realizes his true healing potential through the use of a 
 mystical Healing Touch. Shortly after, the city is swept up in a strange plague of viruses called 
 GUILT. Second Opinion introduces a second character, Dr. Nozomi Weaver, who is also working to 
 unravel the mystery of the GUILT plague. Oddly enough, while Second Opinion takes the story a bit 
 further in regards to the GUILT aftermath, it glosses over the climactic finish of the first Trauma 
 Center game! Adding difficulty modes and a few new surgical tools to the game doesnt explain the 
 omission of a key part of the story. And if you havent played the first game, this skip can be 
 a little confusing.
  
  The graphics havent changed much from the DS version, which either says a lot for the DS or not 
 much for the Wiis launch title graphics. The story chapters are presented with 2d still figures 
 and the musical themes are dramatically scored. Second Opinion presents a number of challenges 
 and is an interesting game, to say the least. Plus, it makes terrific use of the Wii controls! 
 You wield the remote like a scalpel, rotate it to turn bones to set them properly, and use the 
 Nunchuk to select your tools. And forget about massaging the heart to get it restarted; in Second 
 Opinion, both controls are utilized as defibrillator paddles. All in all, this is a terrific game 
 to add to your Wii collection, in spite of its brief hiccup with the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldOnHold
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I've owned a Wii since day one. After beating both Zelda and Red Steel, I felt that I needed something 
 more to occupy my Wii. And that led me to Trauma Center: Second Opinion. I heard some positive 
 things about it, and since I never played the DS version I decided to check it out. I walked in 
 expected a quirky little diversion, but walked out feeling that I've played one of the best games 
 I've played in years. Seriously. Major fun.
  
  Gameplay - Where Trauma Center positively SHINES. Basically, you play the role of a young surgeon 
 performing numerous life-saving operations to make your patients lives worth living. The story 
 is played out through a medical drama, which really provides an atmosphere as well as pressure. 
 Right away, the innovative and original ideas are thrown at you, and that's great. The actual operations 
 are incredibly fun. Plus, the tools at your disposal are varied and while offering great use of 
 the Wii Remote, has surprising depth. From the moment I cautiously removed a piece of glass lodged 
 within a patient's arm I realized how excited a game on surgery can be. IF ONLY REAL SURGERY WAS 
 THIS FUN! Pretty soon, I was making stiches left and right and making incisions with class. You 
 will too. Just don't take up med school after this.
  
  Graphics - Unfortunately, the game's only stumble (but a minor one at that) . Granted, the manga-like 
 art style used for the cutscenes look fantastic. The sharp visual style is very stylish. Unfortunately, 
 the in-game graphics don't look as good (or flashy) . Realistically speaking, this game can be done 
 on the PS1. That's not to say the graphics are a total miss; they're still cartoony but it would've 
 been nice to have more detail and textures. But then again, maybe too much would make it grotesque. 
 Hmm...
  
  Sound - Great work here. The music is really well done since it fits the atmosphere perfectly. 
 It can make you very tense, very relaxed, or make you emotional. That's a great thing to have and 
 really adds to the drama. The voice acting is also good. Too bad there isn't full voiceover during 
 cutscenes. It results in making the cutscenes feel dated. But hey, when the voiceovers are present, 
 it's good, so no complaints there.
  
  Value - Sure Trauma Center may not be the longest game out there, but it sure is very fun while 
 it lasts. And thats all that matters right? If you blaze through the operations, you can finish 
 the game in about 10 hours. However, if youre a perfectionist like me, youll be replaying them 
 to get higher ranks and to reminisce. Difficulty levels are here, and its a nice touch to amp 
 up replay value.
  
  Rent or Buy? - Buy. This. Game. Now. You wont be disappointed.
  
  
  THANKS FOR READING MY REVIEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrycesDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  So far I've just started playing, but it is a fun and addictive game. Only playing easy at this 
 point. Hard might be nightmarish, but the game is certainly fun in the surgery portions. The storyline 
 plot is straight anime, but bearable. At least I haven't seen any strange translation errors. Using 
 the Wii remote for surgery is great. Some really neat stuff can be done with the remote, like having 
 to rotate the controller to put bone splinters back into their proper orientation It's surprising 
 how anxiety ridden play can be when something crops up unexpectedly during an operation. So far 
 it's pretty darn cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Its just so awsome, the story, gameplay and dialouge are just awsome. Well your a noobie doctor 
 named Derek Stiles who has just started operating on people at Hope hospital and you just learning 
 the ropes when your nurse leaves and you get the new one who is a real pain in your ass at first 
 but eventually starts to say under her breath (Derek is so amazing) .
  Well then you learn the healing touch which you use against your Will the first couple missions 
 you use it but eventually you choose wether you want to do it. Im kinda ify on the Healing touch.... its 
 the sign of the devil! i mean you draw a pentagram on the screen and it slows time.... souls. The 
 lovable characters in this make the game all so much sweeter, and the plot twists.... or the twists. 
 Well im going to have tio give this game a pretty 9.8 becouse the sound track loops over and over, 
 although you barely notice it while playing its just annoying. I would recomend this to any person, 
 young (well not too young) and old (not to old or they might have to operate on themselves) . I wish 
 this was the game that made people go out buy a Wii and this game and just play, but thats why 
 we have Loz TP^.^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerazer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's just say you probably have not played a game with the premise of Trauma Center. But 
 that's pretty much what Atlus Co. is all about. Delivering games that even you have not thought 
 up. Trauma Center takes place in a future time, a time where AIDS and cancer have been cured, and 
 a new disease called GUILT is creating havoc everywhere. You take the role of Derek Stiles, a young 
 doctor with an unique ability. As Stiles, you operate on patients using several tools. The tools 
 are selected with the Nunchuk attachment, and then applied to the patient using the Wii remote 
 and its buttons. The whole system works quite well, though there are some gameplay issues with 
 the drain and forceps. But all the other tools work great. Trauma Center tells a pretty decent 
 tale while giving fairly challenging gameplay. You can even take the easy way out by setting the 
 difficulty to easy. I feel that on easy, it's easier to lose than win. But regardless, the game 
 is quite challenging. There are also X missions at the end set at Extreme difficulty. So far I 
 have completed one. Ha, they're probably some of the harder tasks in my recent video game history. 
 So you're getting a pretty decent value in this package, though it would have been nice to have 
 some more unlockables by beating missions on hard or obtaining enough S rankings or something to 
 that effect. But the way it stands right now is pretty solid. The sound and music are good, but 
 some of the voices, most notably Angie's, can get a bit obnoxious at times. The artwork and graphics 
 are very good, and they fit the game very well. Overall, it was an interesting experience that 
 seems to fall a bit short in the rewards category. I mean, what's the point in trying to get an 
 S ranking for every mission if the game doesn't even acknowledge your achievements. Bragging rights 
 just aren't enough for some of the tasks the game presents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I picked up TC as a launch title when I snagged my Wii, for a simple reason: it looked different 
 and seemed like a game that would showcase the new control mechanism for the Wii.
  
  Right on both counts, and I get an interesting (although dialog-heavy) story with my operating 
 room action. The story is told in the usual hyperactive Japanese anime style, and features a lot 
 of twists and turns to keep you interested. The real action is in the operations, and these are 
 kept varied and sport great controller response and you slice and dice your patients in ever-increasing 
 complications.
  
  It's fun. It's interesting. And it's all in YOUR hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDIguy103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  I'm a medical student. Is this game realistic? Absolutely not. Is it fun? Does it teach anything? 
 Yes, be patient or you'll go insane. Literally.
  
  The Good: Trauma Center: SO is a really well made game for the Wii. The game scales in complexity 
 from the first set of missions to the last, so you can get used to the Wii-mote in the operations. 
 I found the nunchuk attachment to work well for selecting surgical tools, although by the end of 
 the game I had them memorized. The game really rewards you for being patient and methodical. Although 
 it definitely gets crazy in the latter half of the game, most of the time I found myself ignoring 
 the timer completely and just focusing on what had to be done. The plot isn't the best out there, 
 but it works for the game. At only about 12 hours, it's short, but definitely re-playable as you'll 
 want to try for those well-earned XS scores.
  
  The Bad: While good, like a previous reviewer commented, the uniqueness wears off a little, as 
 there are only a couple of missions where you get to play with twisting the remote or moving it 
 toward and away from you (I'm convinced that's broken) . The Healing Touch ability is difficult 
 to master, but you should be able to get it by the time you get to the harder missions. Lots of 
 frustration ensues... but the shortness of the main set of missions makes up for it.
  
  Summary: Definitely rent or get this game for the Wii, it's one of the better ones out there. And 
 remember... be patient, and think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Trama Center: Second Opinion for the Wii is a second in the franchise (the first being on DS) and 
 one of the first games for the Wii. To start in Trama Center u are a new starting sergon that is 
 new to the hospital and u must operate on people useing the Wii remote and change hospital devices 
 using the Numchuk. The controls in this game are much better that the DS version. The story will 
 keep u guessing throughout the game.
  
  The Gameplay is very good u really feel for the Patient if he/she dies which keeps u on ur toes 
 most of the time. The interaction with this game is very good because there has never been a game 
 like this in general and with the Wii's conroller it bring the best our in this game. The game 
 is very hard in the later levels in the game so be prepared.
  
  The Graphics are not very good. For example all the storys begin with the main characters talking 
 and the backgrounds are just plain Hospital style pictures which is very bland. When u operate 
 the graphics are better because of whats going on withe the patient but there is nothing spectacular.
 
  
  For Sound the music is very tense and gets u very nervous. It adds alot of pressure and makes u 
 focus on whats going on in the game to make it feel like life or death. Also the sounds the instuments 
 make are very good. Away from the operating room though its just usually the same tunes nothing 
 special.
  
  Since this game is very hard in the later levels and it uses the Wii contols in a very good way 
 I would say the Value is pretty high. If u do have a Wii u should buy or atleast rent the awesome 
 games it will keep u guessing and wanting more.
  
  The tilt for this game to me is high because there has been no other game like this and for a first 
 this one succeds in a big way. If u want something new or just want a good game for the Wii check 
 out Trama Center Second Opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefly1jedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, if u have a wii and u really can't find the next big game to get addicted to (u know something 
 besides zelda) well my friend u have just found it!! Trauma Center: Second Opinon is a must have 
 for the Wii right now!
  
  It starts u out as just a rookie surgeon tryin to make it by with what u got, Ur not really a good 
 surgen, but not a bad one, u just can't seem to connect with the residents very well and r a little 
 clomsy in the operating room... but then u start to find out that u have things goin on with u 
 that makes u end up one of the best surgens in the WORLD!! I don't want to give away very much, 
 but with ur new powers (healing touch) u r able to slow down time so u can futher help the residents, 
 sweet huh? But with great power come great response ability (I know, sounds old and lame, but really 
 aplies here) as u set out to stop medical terrorism that is hitting ppl all over the world!! All 
 and all I really recommend this game for anyone and everyone, nice story, good gameplay, and something 
 that keeps u going. (more then likely cause some of those sugeries take FOREVER!!) But seriously 
 this is a definite buy for the Wii... so that's all I really have to say and I hope that someone 
 takes my wise council and buys this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamecek
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I am not a doctor, nor do I ever plan to be one. Yet, while playing Trauma Center: Second Opinion, 
 I felt like I could become a surgeon just by playing this game. Trauma Center makes excellent use 
 of the Wii's intuitive controls, and makes for a fun and engaging experience.
  
  You play as Dr. Derek Stiles, a twentysomething surgeon fresh out of Med School ready to jump into 
 his field. The game throws you into your first surgery and guides you along until you get the feel 
 for the mechanics. Then, it starts a slow and steady drop into the weird. You see, Trauma Center 
 is an anime game, which means you'll be getting all the usual anime cliches along with the package. 
 That means.. Facist cults obsessed with world domination, secret power held by the main character 
 that no one understands but is the key to survival, girl with amnesia, and all of the subpar melodrama 
 that we've all come to expect.
  
  Trauma Center is an extremely and and additcing game, which is what makes the ridiculously concocted 
 story bearable. Its not bad, its just.. long.. very long. Along with the story are the stale and 
 boring backgrounds that are presented during. The presentation follows its DS predecessor in that 
 all the characters are animated in lame stills.
  
  Presentation aside, this game is highly addictive and last for quite awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcelice
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is probably the greatest game i've played in a while and is an actual 
 competitor for best wii game in my collection. For one thing, the controls are VERY responsive. 
 Also, the difficulty is just right. It can be extremely hard in some parts, but if you play them 
 enough times and consult to the guide by rmz posted on this website, you can get through the hardest 
 of levels. The only thing i despise about this game is the fact that sometimes the explanations 
 can be a but confusing, resulting in massive failure and sometime massive bleeding :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is honestly the game that I couldn't wait to play when I first got 
 my Wii. I blew through a few games of Wii Sports and then ripped open Trauma Center. I know, Zelda 
 is an absolute stunner, but Trauma Center is seriously worth your time.
  
  Trauma Center is innovative, quirky, and just plain fun. I am working through several PC and Xbox 
 360 games right now that are grand, sweeping masterpieces with superior graphics and amazing depth. 
 Trauma Center does not succeed in this way, but it succeeds in the way the Wii itself succeeds- 
 it is totally different from anything else you play and it really is a lot of fun.
  
  The game succeeds on many fronts: the story is great if you are into anime/Japanese-style storytelling 
 (I am) , the Wiimote and nunchuk feel much better than the DS stylus (especially the nunchuk for 
 swapping instruments... praise the Lord!) , and the sound/music are surprisingly good.
  
  Negatives include lack of 480p support and lack of 16:9 support (looks very subpar on an HDTV) 
 some outrageous levels that demand incredible precision, and the extreme frustration you will feel 
 from a few key gameplay elements. My chief complaint is the Healing Touch, a special power that 
 your character has. Whenever an operation is looking grim and your patient is about to die, you 
 can activate this power by holding the B and Z buttons ( clenching your fists ) and then drawing 
 a 5 pointed star with the Wiimote. You are able to use your Healing Touch once per operation, and 
 it only lasts for about 10 seconds. During these precious few seconds, time slows down and you 
 are able to do many things quickly to save a patient's life. It more or less boils down to Trauma 
 Center bullet time, if you will. The problem with this, is that it is nearly impossible to activate 
 this power. I am ambidextrous, so I can tell you after experimenting with both hands and every 
 possible way to draw a star known to mankind, I still consistently fail to use this power about 
 95% of the time. I literally have done missions about 25 times in order to pass them because there 
 are a few missions where you simply must use this power. Ironically enough, this is the most difficult 
 part of the game by far. So, something that is supposed to help you out of a tight spot will often 
 cause you to completely fail missions.
  
  Overall, Trauma Center is well presented, very engaging, and most importantly, worth your money, 
 but after playing this game, I will never look at a 5 pointed star the same way again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Remember Operation? That weird board game with the fat guy who had all the missing organ problems 
 and a large, red nose that lit up if you put those organs back in the wrong way? Well say hello 
 to Operations modern- day successor, Trauma Center: Second Opinion. Now I know what youre thinking: 
 Operation sucked because I could never beat my mom at it. Thats okay. Trauma Center offers up 
 its very own brand of thrills and twitchy excitement for Wii owners that is nothing like the dark 
 nights of your board game playing past. Through competently written dialogue, stylized manga art 
 and ground-breaking gameplay, Trauma Center shows off just how fun life-or-death surgical procedures 
 can be. Truth be told, Trauma Center is, in fact, what is affectionately referred to as a Wii-make. 
 You see, the original Trauma Center made its debut on the Nintendo DS last year, demanding from 
 players a surgical precision (get it?) with their styluses in order to earn so much as a C rank 
 from the games unforgiving campaign mode. To say they least, Trauma Center on the DS was tough. 
 This time, however, Atlus has you slicing, bandaging and suturing all with the help of Nintendos 
 new wiz-kid, the Wii remote. The Wiimote functions as your surgeons hand inside the patient during 
 the course of the missions. By selecting any tool necessary for the job, via the analog stick on 
 the nun chuck, players can, say, use their forceps by pinching both the A and B buttons together 
 (mimicking the motion one would make with real forceps) in order to pry a shard of glass from a 
 patients arm. Sounds a little cooler than Operation, hey? It gets better.
  
  Being the anime-inspired game that it is, its not long before Trauma Center takes off from the 
 runways of reality and into the skies of  that only you can stop 
 because you have the mysterious Healing Touch. Whoa. Whats that, you ask? Well according to 
 a cryptic conversation with your hospitals senior surgeon near the beginning of the game, the 
 Healing Touch is an unexplainable property that affords doctors unbreakable focus and unmatched 
 surgical skill when performing an operation. What this means to you is, simply, that you get to 
 slow down time when it matters most in order to save a patient. While it does come out on paper 
 sounding fairly gimmicky after all, bullet time doesnt belong in every gameits a technique 
 that is absolutely necessary to use in order to progress through Trauma Centers lengthy storyline.
 
  
  And lengthy it is. On the DS, this bad boy clocked in at around five hours on the first playthrough. 
 Mind you, that count doesnt include all the hours put into just failing the missions the first 
 several times, so your real time put in would have been more likely around the ten hour mark no 
 slouch for a portable game. On the Wii, though, all of the original missions from the DS are retained 
 and on top of that youve got a shiny new character, Nozomi Weaver, and her additional side-missions 
 that progress alongside Dereks. The story is largely untouched so if you played the DS version 
 you may find yourself mashing the minus button on your Wiimote in order skip every bit of dialogue. 
 If, however, Second Opinion is your first foray into the world of digitized life-saving, youll 
 find a pleasing plot that not only touches on some major real-world issues like suicide and euthanasia, 
 but also packs in a good portion of intrigue to keep the story clipping along at a good pace. The 
 presentation side of the storyline does take a bit of a hit, though, as it is entirely dialogue-fueled 
 and none of it is actually voice acted. Occasionally youll get a snippet of Derek the main character 
 who you will be performing most of your surgeries as saying Lets begin the operation or your 
 nurse, Angie, anxiously exclaiming Doctor! when youre doing something that may be less than 
 beneficial to the patient, but thats about all youll be treated to. The big question is, I suppose, 
 does the game work? Everything thats been released on the Wii so far has had this question asked 
 of it, for obvious reasons, and with Trauma Center the proof is in the pudding. Just play for five 
 minutes and youll see how this game could only have been made possible on the Wii. Every aspect 
 of Nintendos new controller is put to use here and it is put to use with both style and flair. 
 The game gets you to play with the Wiimote and the nun chuck attachment together, but the real 
 focus is, of course, on your dexterity with the Wiimote. Unless youre playing on easy, youll 
 find out mighty quick that Atlus forgot to program forgiveness into the game. But then again its 
 not as though the surgeons table has ever been thought of as forgiving in the first place. Fortunately, 
 you can swap difficulty settings between missions, or after having failed a mission, to adjust 
 to your current level of frustration. In short, Trauma Center is definitely something unique, challenging 
 and, without question, worth picking up. It shows off all the best parts about playing on a system 
 that has chose a gyroscopic controller and a nun chuck attachment over hi-def options and the promise 
 of Halo 3/Metal Gear Solid 4. You should also bear in mind that Atlus has a reputation for only 
 having their games published for relatively brief periods of time, so if youre at all interested 
 in owning a copy of Trauma Center you should jump on it now while its still fresh and available. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I first saw trauma center on the DS and thought to myself, I will buy a DS just to play this game! 
 , I didn't, I bought a Wii instead. And I bought Trauma Center: Second Opinion for it at launch.
 
  
  The game is essentially a remake of the game for the DS, but the innovation of using the wimote 
 to control all the medical tools was great fun, and it shows the potential for the system.
  
  The game can be very difficult at the higher levels, but when you complete a very hard operation 
 after several tries, it can be very satisfying.
  
  It is a shame that the visuals in the cut scenes are cartoons and not 3d cut scenes or something 
 along these lines, and I really wanted to hear more of Dr. Stiles and his friends, but that is 
 the price of a port from a handheld system!
  
  All in all it was a great game to play and I recommend it as a first buy for the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctcarton
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I hadn't played the DS version so this was new to me. It is a really neat idea and fairly well 
 executed. It makes excellent use of the wiimote.
  
  However the operations are fairly hard and every little mistake is very frustrating. It takes a 
 lot of practice to complete most of the operations without making any mistakes. Technically some 
 mistakes are ok because as long as the patient lives you're fine, but I don't find it satisfying 
 unless I get it correct. So basically I spend a frustrating 10-20 minutes practicing each operation 
 and then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonicKirby
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  In the latter half of 2005, Atlus released a game by the name of Trauma Center: Under the Knife 
 for the Nintendo DS. The game was met with much critical acclaim, but due to the low amount of 
 units per shipment the game was not as vocal in the mainstream community as most players of the 
 game would have liked. Nearly one year later, Atlus has come out with their second take on Trauma 
 Center; this time, using the Nintendo Wii's motion-sensing technology as well as sporting a crisper 
 and cleaner presentation. As a result the game feels fresh and new regardless of the high amount 
 of recycling Atlus went through to make the game. Trauma Center: Second Opinion is essentially 
 the same game as the DS' Under the Knife, but the overall package is worth a look whether you've 
 played the first game or not.
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion places you in the role of Dr. Derek Stiles, an intern-turned-surgeon 
 who's experience is somewhat lacking in medical field. As one might expect, it is up to you to 
 operate on various types of surgeries with demanding speed and precision. As the story progresses, 
 you'll come across many dramatic twists not seen in the original game. While making slight twists 
 in the plot seems like a cheap tactic on behalf of Atlus, the alterations in the storyline are 
 done well enough to be an incentive to beat the game. The story may seem over-the-top at times, 
 so as to emulate medical drama, but the characters are memorable and distinct enough to harness 
 a sense of style and personality.
  
  The puzzle-based gameplay of Trauma Center: Second Opinion can be one of two things, the first 
 of which is frustrating. When it comes to Second Opinion's use of the motion-sensing, Atlus has 
 the whole thing nearly perfected; the Wii Remote responds correctly and the precision is forgiving 
 when it needs to be. Given that fact, the truly frustrating part of the whole ordeal is some of 
 the harder surgeries that pop up later in the game. Some of the operations border on near-impossible, 
 but their difficulty only contributes to the second way the gameplay can be described: Addicting. 
 Though the average gamer is prone to fail multiple times, especially in the game's later chapters, 
 the ability to triumph over malignant tumors is oddly refreshing, inspiring and satisfying all 
 at the same time. That refreshing feeling along makes Trauma Center: Second Opinion one of the 
 best puzzle games of the year.
  
  Veterans of Trauma Center: Under the Knife would most likely tell you that the only way to beat 
 the DS game would be to dual-wield with a stylus in each hand. Thankfully the developers put in 
 a control scheme that isn't quite as crazy, but works well with the Wii's new control scheme. In 
 one hand you have the Wii Remote; your scalpel, your syringe and everything you need will be played 
 out on that. In the other hand you have the Nunchuk which acts as the middleman of the whole operation 
 by giving you the ability to switch your tools on the fly. By using the Wii Remote and pressing 
 a button, you will be able to play the role of a surgeon with precision never realized on any home 
 console before the Wii. Second Opinion is one shining example of innovation at its best.
  
  A cleaner presentation and new art style are the most prominent improvements when Trauma Center 
 transitioned from the touch screen to the TV screen. Beyond that, it's disappointing to see that 
 there is not much else going for the game in terms of graphical improvement. The menus, bars and 
 screens that guide you through the game are all crisp, so there is nothing really bothersome to 
 look at when you first boot up the game. The characters still look cool, collect or cute when they 
 need to be, and the redesigned models look much better than their DS counterparts. While on the 
 subject of graphics, if you're looking for a realistic surgery game then you would best look somewhere 
 else. Second Opinion has a consistent cartoon-like appearance to it, even during surgery.
  
  The sound, much like the graphics, is only cleaner and crisper the second time around. Second 
 Opinion uses an enhanced soundtrack taken from the DS game, so there's definitely some disappointment 
 as far as the music goes. As for other sound effects, the game supports voice sampling rather than 
 full-fledged voice acting. Again, there's disappointment even though the samples are well done. 
 There are also subtle chimes and sound effects that come during surgery and menu selection, nothing 
 disturbing to the ears as far as those sound effects are concerned. Surprisingly enough, Atlus 
 decided to skip out on the Wii Remote's built-in speaker; that could be a plus or minus depending 
 on whether or not you're a fan of the remote's speaker.
  
  Value is Trauma Center: Second Opinion's strong asset because it shows exactly how extra content 
 should be defined. Second Opinion is essentially the same game as the DS version, but if you're 
 hesitant to buy the game for that reason you're going to surprised if you decide to pick up a copy. 
 As far as the actual content, some of the new goodies tie in directly to the story. For the sake 
 of avoiding spoilers, what can be said is that there are a lot of new operations with three difficulty 
 modes for each one. If playing the game the first time wasn't enough, Second Opinion does a good 
 job tripling the length of the initial playtime. Beyond the new operations and difficulty modes, 
 you'll just have to pick up a copy to find out what other surprises are in store.
  
  If you're asking for a second opinion on this game, chances are that the next person you ask will 
 recommend it as well. The second take on a great DS game is one that all Wii owners should choose 
 to embrace. If anything, deciding to miss out on any Trauma Center game would be the equivalent 
 of deciding to miss out on a truly unique gaming experience. As one of the better titles for the 
 Wii, both now and later, Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a worthy purchase that sparks the rebirth 
 of what will hopefully become a successful series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McBorisJr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  personally, this game was fun and had me addicted. i really enjoyed the storyline, it kept me playing 
 to see what would happen next. some parts will get really difficult or confusing, so i'd say to 
 just play on normal and youcan change to easy, medium, or hard on the menu where you select which 
 operation you plan on perfomring.
  
  a couple problems, its like an anime/manga kinda thing. the people dont move but they have different 
 pictures of them of say when they're mad/ happy/ depressed/ in pain/ serious. but it doesnt affect 
 the gameplay much at all, you probably wont care once you're into the game. its also a rather short 
 game and i really suggest you rent this game cuz its definitely a game you can beat within 5 days 
 or w. e. also, just want to point out, hehe, not that i care, but you will perform surgery on women, 
 and to those who think you might get to check out their.. well yeah STUFF, you wont, it covers 
 it all up. but dont let that affect whether you're going to buy/rent or w. e with this game!! thats 
 all i really have but i must say, its a must play, not keep. if your friends wanna play it, tell 
 em to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone8462
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Trauma center: Second opinion is a remake of a DS game I have never played. So anyways what is 
 Trauma center you wonder? Its bassicly an anime style surgeory game where you are a new docter 
 who does tons of surgeory's through the entire game. You also defuse a bomb on one level. Trauma 
 center is a game that you can't judge by its front cover. You actully gotta play the game to enjoy 
 it. So anyways In this game you use many tools to perform diffucult surgeory's, and go through 
 many awesome plot twists. The gameplay is very simple to learn and is very exciting also. Its not 
 just the gameplay in here that makes it so exciting, its also its very catching story. All the 
 cutscenes are displayed in text and it displays the charecter on screen. The charecters got facial 
 expressions also to show there mood. During parts of the game some of the cutscenes are very emotional 
 and sometimes sad also. The game also has a good sense of humor in it to. The story stuff is prolly 
 one of the best things about the game.
  
  So how does sound go hmmm... very well actully. There really isn't much voice acting the most memorable 
 voice is the DOCTER scream when you mess up during surgeory. As for music there isn't really many 
 music tracks but they are all so damn good that no many how many times you hear them they are always 
 good. The sound effects are alright I guess also there arn't to many but they are there and well 
 placed.
  
  Overall I reccomend this game to preatty much anyone who is getting a Wii do yourself a favor and 
 don't miss out on this game.
  
  Pros.
  Highly addictive gameplay
  Beutifully drawn anime charecters
  Very very good and affecting story
  The game paces very 
 well
  Lots of twists
  Good length of 10-15 hours
  A difficulty for everyone
  Very memorable music
  
  Cons.
  Can really get frusterating sometimes (even on easy)
  Dosn't 
 have the best replay value May not to appeal to hardcore action and violence fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I played this game first on the DS a couple months ago. I fell in love with the game. I still have 
 yet to pass the DS version but it is tons of fun. I bought the Wii version hoping to get more of 
 the same... I did get that but it was pretty much exactly like the DS version. All Atlus did was 
 soop up the graphics and now instead of a stylus you have the wiimote and nunchuk. I like the controller 
 setup on the Wii a bit more than on the DS only because I don't have to stop doing surgery to select 
 a tool like you do on the DS. This is a fun game. The surgeries begin easy but they increase in 
 difficulty as you go along. I am trying to pass it on normal right now, and so far I have not gotten 
 to the same level I am at on my DS. You can change the difficulty between operations so that is 
 a perk in case you have a tough time completing an operation on a tougher level. The sound is nothing 
 to scream about but it works for the game.
  
  There is no multiplayer which I think would have been a nice addition to this game since the DS 
 version also did not have any multiplayer action. I have bitter sweet feelings towards this game. 
 It is a good game and worth owning if you have never played the DS version, but Atlus should have 
 created an all new game instead of recycling the DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iheartmario
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I purchsed Trauma Center: SO on a whim.... I was curious about what the game had to offer on the 
 Wii. I was immediately drawn into the game; not the story, mind you. The story was unnecessary 
 and dragged a bit too much to be interesting, but the gameplay was quality and diverse. Until a 
 point. When the various forms of the GUILT virus were introduced as the main enemies of the game, 
 I became annoyed. Repeating the motions of each virus in every other stage grew monotonous and 
 mundane. And, to top it off, the increasing difficulty became extremely steep - some chapters required 
 little skill and precision, while others forced you to work at lightening fast speeds. These selectively 
 difficult missions became more frustrating than fun, and by the time I had unlocked the final X 
 chapter (it described itself as Extremely difficult) , I put the controller down and decided that 
 I wouldn't pick it up again for a while. All in all, the game controlled brilliantly, was stylish 
 (though repetitive in some ways) , and delivered fast, fun puzzle gameplay only found on the Wii 
 console. But I couldn't help but question myself: This is really fun!... right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Trauma Center: Under the Knife for DS I though We'll see and just like 
 that it recieved critical praise for being truly unique. A breath of fresh air if you will, and 
 now a few years later I am here to tell you that it's latest incarnation on Wii is truly both a 
 unique experience and a breath of fresh air.
  
  Gameplay in most games these days are aim and shoot until it dies. Well in a complete twist you 
 will save lives instead of taking them and the closest thing to a gun you get is your surgical 
 laser. The gameplay is fairly easy to learn. You simply point at the area you want to treat with 
 the tool you have selected. To select your tools you tap the nunchuck's control stick in one of 
 the directions to select the tool matching that direction. For example your gel is one of your 
 basic tools used in every operation, to use it simply tap up on the control stick the use A to 
 rub where needed.
  
  The nunchuck's Z button is used for the healing-touch. The healing-touch is like the matrix mode 
 of medicine. Time will slow down and you can operate a lot more effectively. Depending on when 
 used it will only last a short time. To activate you hold down the Z button like mentioned before 
 and while holding A on the remote you draw a star. If successful you enter the matrix mode style 
 healing-touch.
  
  The graphics are a huge leap from the DS version and while fairly simplistic are done well enough 
 without glitches to ease you into the game and clearly examine everything around you.
  
  The music in the game really sets the mood in the game, espicially in later missions of the game 
 where it is vital to move quickly.
  
  The game will have you hooked real fast. With many missions and three difficulty levels for each 
 plus bonus sidequests for the Wii version you will be playing for a while to come.
  
  All in all you will get addicted to this game and it's wonderfully crafted story. The story is 
 so good don't be surprised to see Trauma Center: The Anime any time soon. Seriously a must have 
 for any Wii owner looking for a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFactorInfinity
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  A year ago, Trauma Center: Under the Knife was released. It was a revolutionary and amazing puzzle 
 game, with great graphics for the DS handheld. Now, Trauma Center: Second Opinion has arrived. 
 Unlike a sequel to the original like you may have wished for, it is a Wiimake of the original. (hehe... wiimake) 
 The game's art style has been revamped drastically, and the characters look very different. Doctor 
 Derek Stiles in particular looks quite different from his DS counterpart. However, this is a good 
 thing, and it works well. The stylized look of the originals characters is replaces with a more 
 realistic approach befitting of Xenosaga, and the realistic detail put into the organs has been 
 replaced with a stylized, transparent look. (go figure) .
  
  The music is great. Most of the tracks from the original are back, but are remixed for Second opinion 
 with very good results. There is also some new voice acting, and it's good.
  
  The game has quite a lot of replay value. The original let you play through the story mode and 
 also play through any missions you completed, while this game has only one mode - the story mode 
 - but unlike the original you can replay any part of the game as you go on, which is a nice touch.
 
  
  The game's story is that of the original (except for chapter 6, which ends differently) , meaning 
 you are Dr. Stiles, a young doctor who has just apparently found out that he has the Healing Touch 
 , mystical abilities of Asclepius, the Greek god of medicine, just in time for an outbreak of GUILT (Gangilated 
 Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin) a new virus with an insane amount of punch. You have the abilities 
 needed to cure this incurable disease. Thus, you are drafted into Caduceus, an organization built 
 on helping cure disease.
  
  Also, a new sidestory is available, with five new missions taking advantage of the Wiimote. The 
 new story revolves around Nozomi Weaver, a surgeon from Japan that also just so happens to have 
 the Healing Touch. The game has many other new things as well. The difibrilator replaces the so-called 
 heart massage , and some of the missions have new names as well. Most notable of which is the former 
 Miricle at 9,800 feet which is now retitled Caduceus on a Plane . Kudos to Atlus on that one. Samuel 
 L. Jackson would be proud. The mission An Explosive Patient is completely redone, as are all 7 
 X missions.
  
  In all, Second Opinion is well worth 50 dollars, especially if you liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up after my wife insisted on having a Wii party and at the current time all 
 we had was Wii Sports. To my surprise this game became a bread winner and I was caught up in the 
 profession of being a surgeon. I found (or find) myself going back and back again to repeat the 
 surgeries (don't dare call them missions) to achieve better times and ranks. Trauma center I found 
 out was a remake from the DS game. Well, this is one I glad became a port to its big brother console 
 as it delivers on all aspects and I recommend it to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  I'm not in the mood for a big review so I will keep it short and simple. Trauma Center is a great 
 showcase for what the Wii can do. Its a simple game yes, but it shows you that certain games that 
 can't be done on other systems can be done on the Wii. Thankfully the game is extremealy fun as 
 well.
  
  TC is a port of the DS game with some added missions and some new controls. The game is hard to 
 describe, it plays almost like an old school fast pace arcade game. You have your different tools 
 at your disposal like scalpel, stiches, a laser, etc, you quickly change them on the fly with the 
 analog stick, then you use the wiimote to tackle the problem. You may need to close up wounds with 
 stiches, so you do a zig zag line across the cut. Or drain a tumor and then inject it with a medicine. 
 You may need to pull out glass with your forceps. The variety of actions is pretty impressive, 
 all the while you need to perform them fast and accurate to get the high score. The outcome of 
 all this is a fast paced game that requires percision, its just really fun.
  
  As the game goes on it focuses on a certain made up strain of virus, this opens up a ton of gameplay 
 possibilities. Each strain has a unique way to take care of it, some are little parasites that 
 you have to shoot with your laser, one is like a giant puzzle, others are almost like a boss fight. 
 Yeah the game is about treating patients but strip all that down and you have a really cool fun 
 game that makes use of the wii.
  
  Your main actions with the wiimote will be standard pointing and pressing the action button. Using 
 the forceps is done by pressing A and B so it feels like you are grabbing something, it works great. 
 The game really shines in the specific made for Wii stages where you will be twisting your wiimote 
 around and using it in really unique ways. But that only occurs in far too few levels.
  
  The game is rather large, there are at least 60 missions, each with three different difficulty 
 levels and different ranks you can achieve. If you plan on playing each mission on each difficulty 
 and trying to get the best rank (incredibly hard) you will spend way over 20 hours with this game. 
 You will get your money's worth. Also there is a pretty decent story told with anime like characters. 
 Trauma Center is not a big budget mega game, its a small simple game. But the sheer amount of variety 
 and amount of missions makes it worth the money. If you want something that uses the wiimote in 
 a fun unique way this is it. Its challenging, it will test your basic gaming skills, it has puzzles 
 to keep your mind in it, overall its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senbonzakura1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is based around the surgical carreer of the hero of the story, Derek 
 Stiles a rookie doctor with a knack for a special skill known as the Healing Touch. Immersed in 
 a strange world of Bio-Terrorism, he tries to cure the incurable. Thats where the player comes 
 in. Basically, for this quick, fun, puzzle all you need is a bit of speed, some liking for easy, 
 puzzle action and alot of spare batteries. You'll need them for all the amazing operations you 
 preform.
  
  This game has a nice Anim&eacute; feel to it having all the twists and turns of a classic Anim&eacute; 
 series and essentially Anim&eacute;-style graphics. 3D is what this is about rendering the Wii 
 to it's limits. Using the old way of still pictures, dialogue and strangely unique characters, 
 it puts across a story of Euthanasia and special powers. Fans of the first know most of the story 
 already, since afterall, it is a remake of Under The Knife. But, with an added feature of Extra 
 missions and a bit of contiuation, it warrants a purchase. Out with the old and in with the new 
 they say. I say the same for this. Possessing a number of new and better tools makes it gain that 
 new upgraded feel th make it seem entirely new. Rather than constantly tapping the extremities 
 of the screen (Or being crazy enough to master Doube Stylus like me) , you now use the Wii's Nunchuk 
 to switch tools simply tilting the stick in it's icon's direction. Fiddly at first, amazingly ingenious 
 later, with the added rumbles scattered about, makes a realistic but simple feel.
  
  Other new features include the ability to tilt the remote thus tilting bone or objects helps in 
 later missions. Also, holding various buttons for different tools such as the forceps adds to the 
 fun. Using the defibrillator, you push you arms towards the screen. The remote feels responsive 
 and the light easy movements needed just make this heavenly.
  
  Easy at first, tougher later, this gives an light rate of difficulty increase which is much better 
 than it's predecessor and with varios difficulties to choose. Regardless, trial and error is your 
 best friend and with exciting, unpredictable surgeries ahead, you will be on edge the whole time.
 
  
  A must for all fans of the series. If not, now is a great time to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianistkaida
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I was told this game was cool so i gave it a chance. I bought it for my wii on the reasle date 
 and it awesome. The controls were a bit hard to figure out, especially because I was new to the 
 wii controller, but I got the hang of it and it eventualy. The game is hard, but it's a good difficulty 
 that keeps you determined. Sometimes it lacks instructions on what controll to use in certaion 
 operations which can by annoying if you are stuck somewhere not knowing what to do. The game is 
 overall a fun game that i recomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleitonSL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is very unique, takes total advantage of the wiimote and the story is very good. The sounds 
 are also good, the music, not lots of speaking but it helps because you need to focus. It starts 
 very easy but then challanging making it better, totaly worth it paying 50 bucks on Trauma Center, 
 but you need lot of patience and focus, oh and not shaky hands, gotta be very accurate to get good 
 scores. The game is huge in all aspects, Zelda and Trauma is my favorte till this point.
  
  The game is very unique, takes total advantage of the wiimote and the story is very good. The sounds 
 are also good, the music, not lots of speaking but it helps because you need to focus. It starts 
 very easy but then challanging making it better, totaly worth it paying 50 bucks on Trauma Center, 
 but you need lot of patience and focus, oh and not shaky hands, gotta be very accurate to get good 
 scores. The game is huge in all aspects, Zelda and Trauma is my favorte till this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth617
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  When i bought my wii, i thought i was going to be playing Zelda first. But since it didnt SHIP 
 (grr) i played this. And i am so glad i did! The game is immersive with addictive little missions, 
 none of them being longer than ten minutes. The gameplay and use of the Wii Remote is done superbly, 
 and felt natural soon after i started. The graphics were fun, i hadnt played Under The Knife, so 
 i cant compare the two. The sound is cool, as it often comes out of the remote (startled me, the 
 first time) . And its overall a fun game. Its kindof hard, but not impossible. And i was completly 
 and absolutly satisfied with the game. The only reason i didnt replay and do the extra missions 
 and such was because Zelda came, but after that im sure to make use of the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power81005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  This game definitely makes use of the wii controls in a fun an interesting way. At first class 
 you might think to yourself this game looks cheesy and uninteresting, but to the contrary any 
 person liking the way the new wii system works, needs to play this game.
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion puts you in the shoes of a surgeon just starting out in the field. 
 You begin the game going through some tutorials teaching you everything you need to know on what 
 to do and how to play. Upon completion of these you begin your work repairing broken bones, eliminating 
 tumors, helping crash victims and even discovering a new strain of disease. In the beginning I 
 found this game extremely addicting and hard to put down. You have to use the nunchuk and wii-mote 
 together to perform your surgery, using the nunchuk to choose your tools and the wii-mote as your 
 hand. The surgeries can be intense and at times frustrating to complete but still fun none the 
 less. After you reach a certain point in the game however, you notice that the it starts to focus 
 more on one specific disease with minor adjustments each time. As you progress through the game 
 you earn grades on how well you did the surgeries ranging from C (rookie surgeon) to S (Master 
 Surgeon) and with three difficulty settings you can make this game as easy or as hard as you like 
 and extends the replay value. There is also a second storyline throughout the game in which you 
 play as a doctor on the opposite side of the law. The in-betweens of this game may be disappointing 
 to some with unanimated cut scenes extremely long reading periods.
  
  In the end this game has its cons like any other game but is definitely worth adding to your Wii 
 collection. It makes full use of the controls in a fun an interesting way and makes you feel like 
 you have immersed yourself into the life of a surgeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game fails to capture a sense of excitement as you lazily and somewhat mechanically proceed 
 in this shallow software. While theres no doubting many operations are quite fun and enticing the 
 games overall quite repetitive in its nature. It goes downhill as soon as Guilt comes up and the 
 operations, despite enormous effort on the developers part, it never quite maintains a spur of 
 the moment thrill you'd expect.
  
  Theirs a few redeeming qualities however, such as the surprisingly good storyline and challenging 
 nature. The female doctors missions are all very fun but her missions are outweighed heavily by 
 Derek's. A few times throughout the game you will see something amazing that is unfavorably short 
 lived. Gameplay - 8
  Solid gameplay mechanics, however their poorly applied in most operations.
  
  Graphics - 6
 
  Crisp and efficient, however don't expect nothing to keep your attention to long. The presentation 
 however is very weak. No voiceover and everything is dialogue based with a complete lack of cut 
 scenes.
  
  Sound - 6
  Once again, efficient. However its shallow, as you hear very few unique songs, though the sound 
 effects are decent.
  
  Overall - 7.5
  Don't let my main title deceive you this game has a strong flair and for a while will keep you 
 entertained. Its just sloppily pulled off and fails to maintain excellence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbazabba1977
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game. I wasn't so sure of this purchase and was very skeptical when I walked out of the 
 store. Well after opening this game up and the Wii wirred to life I was pleasently surprized. Now 
 the graphics on this game are no Gears of War but thats not what makes this game.
  
  Gameplay is the standout feature of this game. The various operations have you twisting, turning, 
 and ever so slightly moving the remote to perform the different functions of the game. The storyline 
 is engaging and really adds a nice touch to the game.
  
  
  Pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_jabon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the first game on the DS, so I didn't really know what to expect when I played 
 this.
  
  There are two main things that I need to say about this game.
  
  The dialog between operations and the still shots of the anime characters are extremely goofy/cheezy!!! 
 Almost to the point where it hurts the game.
  
  Despite this the game play is really interesting, and can be quite challenging to get things to 
 go as perfectly as you see them happening in your mind. It really takes a steady hand of a surgeon 
 to be great at the game, but the challenge adds quite a bit. Overall it is an exciting and very 
 enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honestgamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  If this doesnt work, at least we can say we tried. Those are the words a nearby doctor says 
 when you find yourself locked in a dark room, forced to defuse a bomb or face premature death by 
 explosion. Its an unintentionally funny moment in a game thats all about serious themes like 
 euthanasia, survival of the fittest, terrorism and the meaning of the medical profession. Somehow, 
 though, it doesnt seem out of place in Trauma Center: Second Opinion.
  
  Trauma Center was originally developed with the DS in mind and released on that platform to resounding 
 success and primarily positive review. Second Opinion on the Wii is simply a retelling of the original 
 game, with more polished visuals and a few side scenes that add to the plots depth. The whole 
 Second Opinion subtitle is amusingly accurate in this case. At its heart, the game remains untouched 
 in most areas that are important. You still get an involving plot, you still meet the same characters 
 and you still wonder why (in spite of three difficulty modes) everything has to be so dang difficult.
 
  
  As the game opens, players are introduced to a young doctor named Derek Stiles. Hes fresh out 
 of med school, where showing up late for work and letting someone else handle all of the big responsibilities 
 worked because no one really expected better. The difference is that now they do. You will follow 
 Derek on a quest for maturity and the satisfaction that comes from knowing he chose the right line 
 of work, that hes an expert in the field.
  
  Since this is a game, there are certain plot elements thrown in to keep things interesting. Theres 
 the afore-mentioned bomb, of course, but its simply one of the cheesier moments in a game that 
 otherwise manages riveting narrative with surprising consistency. Trauma Center: Second Opinion 
 is full of interesting faces and hidden agendas, anxious people who just want to save their loved 
 ones and the world. Early surgeries are fairly straight-forward, as are the storys introductory 
 scenes. Youll open bodies up with a scalpel, root around for awhile, then fix the ailment and 
 close everything back up with a bit of disinfectant and some stitching, maybe a bit of gauze bandage. 
 As the game and its plot progress, though, simple becomes yesterdays fond memory. Suddenly, 
 youre fighting against replicating viruses and tumors with minds of their own. Youre cutting 
 things to bits and using a special skill known as the Healing Touch.
  
  It turns out that Derek is blessed with a talent from an ancient god. When things get tense, he 
 can focus and suddenly everything moves in slow motion as he does his usual slicing and dicing. 
 His gift permits him to cure illnesses that would send other doctors running, but the narrative 
 sequences are quick to point out what a tremendous burden this truly is. Sick people come to him 
 convinced that his success is a certainty. They tell themselves that he cannot fail because he 
 has such a good reputation. That would be enough pressure for anyone, and its certainly enough 
 to send Derek into moments of quiet introspection in the rain.
  
  As the player, you get to watch those events and press the A button to scroll through dialogue. 
 Since people have so much to say between operations, you might be tempted to keep scrolling through 
 the walls of text without reading any of it. Dont do that, though; youd be depriving yourself 
 of half the games appeal and you might miss a vital clue that gives you a better idea how you 
 need to perform that next surgery.
  
  Surgery, of course, is the real reason anyone would buy Trauma Center: Second Opinion. Angst and 
 self-realization can only take a game so far. At the end of the day, its all about the scalpel. 
 As a gamer, you need to feel like youre there in the operating room, like youre the one holding 
 the needle or reaching for the bandage. Play control had the potential to either make or break 
 the experience, depending on whether or not it delivered. Fortunately, it did. The Wii remote works 
 wonderfully. You may find your hand shaking as you make that first incision, but isnt that what 
 youd expect? The control scheme mimics things perfectly. When you have to tweeze glass shards 
 out of someones intestines, its not just you pressing a button or dragging a stylus across the 
 screen. No, you have to press two buttons at the same time, in a manner that really feels like 
 youre part of the action. It may sound like a pointless distinction, but it really isnt. You 
 have to keep your grip steady as you move the object over fragile territory to the tray the nurse 
 has extended toward you. You might panic as you make each move, enough that you see the Game Over 
 screen more than a few times, but youll keep at it because every time you fail, youll know that 
 one more attempt might be the one that allows you to succeed.
  
  More than just the control scheme has been altered in the move from the DS to the Wii, too. Some 
 additional operations have been added, like when you have to hold both the nunchuk and the Wii 
 remote forward to send an electrical charge into the body of a flat-lining patient. Youll have 
 to twist your arm slightly as you rotate bone fragments and work to reassemble a shattered joint. 
 Stuff like that never happened before. The stylus was fine for incisionsand may still be the better 
 control method for that part of a given surgerybut the remote is better everywhere else. Its 
 fun to go back through the familiar game and feel a whole new level of immersion. There are completely 
 new surgeries, too, performed by a mysterious (and sexy) new character.
  
  In the end, then, Trauma Center: Second Opinion has barely changed at all. It has the same main 
 plot the original featured and the graphics have improved slightly but still dont look like theyd 
 be terribly out of place on a handheld when it comes to those moments in the operating room. There 
 are multiple difficulty levels, but youll still face a challenge even early on, well before you 
 get to those brutal moments near the end of the game. The only change you should be worried about 
 is the control setup. Its leaps and bounds ahead of the intuitive interface pioneered by its predecessor. 
 If you thought Trauma Center had seen its best days on the DS (as I did) , consider giving it another 
 chance. If, on the other hand, you liked it before prepare to love it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Atlus Co.'s Trauma Center was originally developed for the Nintendo DS a few years ago. It received 
 many positive reactions, and although it did not receive as much attention as it should have, there 
 were still plenty of fans. The Nintendo Wii's Trauma Center: Second Opinion continues the series, 
 while still maintaining a grasp on the core elements we enjoyed on the DS. With heart-pounding 
 episodes, as well as a strange, but creative storyline, Trauma Center will keep you in the Operating 
 Room for hours.
  
  Second Opinion's story outlines the life of a 26 year old rookie doctor named Derek Stiles. To 
 start the game off, players are faced with simple missions, which serve as guides to help you get 
 used to the basic controls. But don't get used to these simple missions; their difficulty will 
 increase rapidly throughout the course of the game. Your basic surgical tools include the scalpel, 
 forceps, suture kit, disinfectant, and many other well-known instruments. As the missions become 
 more intricate, you will begin to incorporate the ultrasound, magnifier, and even the laser to 
 your repertoire of devices. Each mission utilizes the tools in its own unique way, and most of 
 them are a lot of fun to use.
  
  At first glance, this game might seem too easy for some people. After all, they do tell you everything 
 you have to do in each mission. But as you complete the levels, you will have to rely on yourself 
 more than your tutorial doctors for advice and instruction. Basically, the beginning missions familiarize 
 players with the uses of each tool, and after, the game will expect you to figure out some of the 
 uses for yourself. So if you are worried about the difficulty level, just remember that the game 
 gets much harder as you progress from rookie doctor to senior surgeon.
  
  Although Trauma Center's graphics aren't exactly stunning, they do have their own unique style. 
 The cutscenes are basically anime-drawn, and there is little action among the characters. They 
 are almost like comic book style cutscenes, where still frames are racked on to show progression 
 in the story. The in-game graphics seem rather basic at times, but then again, they serve the game 
 well for the most part. Second Opinion wasn't really going for a realistic look, so don't expect 
 to see anything identical to those medical shows on TV.
  
  The sound is ok, but they could have had some voice acting in the cutscenes, instead of just plain 
 text. I feel that it would have instilled a bit more life into the characters. Without good voice 
 acting, it is kind of hard to pay attention to the storyline. Now you might say, Hey, if you're 
 too lazy to read, then why even play th game? The truth is, I don't think anyone really wants to 
 read that much text between chapters. As for the in-game sound, its a whole different story. The 
 music is perfect for the gameplay, and players will often hear some very suspenseful music, as 
 well as the heart-beat sound effect when things are really getting bad. The other doctors do occasionally 
 talk, but they usually just scream your name when you do something wrong, or give you a helpful 
 hint if your in a jam. So although the cutscene sound is hardly existant, the in-game music is 
 actually quite good.
  
  As for the gameplay, you basically do most of the things you'd expect to do as a surgeon, as well 
 as some cool, unorthodox missions. The first mission makes you feel like just a regular surgeon, 
 but then Dr. Stiles will begin having headaches and strange visions; that's where the game begins 
 to get interesting. Dr. Stiles eventually discovers that he is not like the other doctor; he has 
 supernatural powers! He can use these powers to help him in even the toughest situations. To use 
 this power, you must hold Z and B, and then draw a star on the screen. It takes some getting used 
 to, but once you get the hang of it it can really come in handy. Its basic function is to slow 
 down time, allowing you to do some quick fixes to get your patient stable again. But even with 
 this awesome ability, the missions are still very challenging.
  
  The Wii-mote works surprisingly well with almost every single function that players must carry 
 out. Most of the tools require drawing lines on the screen with the Wii-mote, which allows this 
 game to maintain its original feel from the DS. Every single tool seems to work in a logical way, 
 and even if you don't know exactly what you are doing, you can still figure it out because of this 
 logical control scheme. The only tools that I had trouble with were the heart paddles, but even 
 they were easy once I learned what to do with them. Throughout the game, you will scalpel, laser, 
 and suture you way through some very exciting missions, some of which even have bosses per say.
 
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a great addition to the Nintendo Wii. I think that we can most 
 definitely recognize it as one of the better launch titles we have seen over the years. I wouldn't 
 recommend this game for younger children though, because they might have a little trouble following 
 directions and keeping up with the fast-paced missions. If you enjoyed the original Trauma Center 
 on the Nintendo DS, you will most likely find some fun and replay value in Second Opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center for the Nintendo Wii is truly a great game. A sequel of the original Trauma Center 
 for the Nintendo DS, Trauma Center: Second Opinion, takes every thing that was good about the first 
 game and brings them to the new -gen Wii. The controls are extremely easy to find out, just point 
 the Wii remote at the screen and press A, B or A+B to use a specific surgical tool. The game has 
 very simplistic controls, but the actual missions themselves can be quite difficult. The addition 
 of a difficulty setting allows for multiple play throughs without getting bored. Also, the music 
 that plays while in surgery is quite good, making you tense as if you were in actual surgery. All 
 in all, Trama Center is a very good game and i would most definitely recommend it to any who has 
 played the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saluu
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  it's fun to use the wii-mote, seems like youre actually doing the procedure (kinda) . that's about 
 it though for excitement, imo. i dont like all the dialoge. and the characters that pop into the 
 screen like it's a comic book or something. it was MADE like that but i got tired pretty quickly. 
 not that i dont mind reading but, it's like.... all there is is background images and characters, 
 dialoge and procedures. when you leave the hospital (in the story) it's just a map with like a 
 dotted line meaning he traveled to the city or whatever. it's totally boring after awhile. then 
 there's more patients and more dialoge how to do this and that. i failed a couple operations and 
 some of the sounds characters make really started to get on my nerves. ( DOCTOR! w-w-what?! im 
 pretty flexible and dont mind dialoge but there has to be more to it. not like im expecting to 
 drive a car around in the city...? i dont know.... or maybe take 2 Wii-motes and do surgery with 
 your friend? (there's like 5 people or more in an O. R.!) there should have been a little bit more. 
 i wouldnt give this game an 8 cuz it could have been made for the SNES or maybe the N64. its got 
 a boring feel to me after a few procedures. it's kinda the only other game to try out though. so 
 i got it, tried it and don't like it. after like 7 operations or less i was bored. i now just keep 
 playing hoping to see 'something' different. oh, it's good for memory though. you have to remember 
 how to actually DO the procedure, that's a fun challenge when going against the clock. but like 
 i said, the game just doesnt have much to it. he talks, she talks, he talks, she talks, something 
 happens (car accident; 'omg you'll never believe what i just saw.') more talking, switch backgrounds... MORE 
 talking (reading) procedure (ok, finally!) then it's a bunch of annoying comments like DOCTOR! or 
 W-w-WHAT?! they could have done something new with it, instead of making like nearly the exact 
 same thing. voices maybe, c'mon Wii is STILL considered 'next gen'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonFuri
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center was first released for the DS as Trauma Center: Under The Knife . It was an instant 
 classic and made good use of the DS' touch screen. It was a pretty hard game, and one that was 
 hard to find. Now, Trauma Center is on the Wii know as Second Opinion . It is a remake of the DS 
 version and it is seriously, the best in the series.
  
  You are a young rookie doctor named, Derek Stiles. After the first few operations which can be 
 roughly called tutorials, your assistant nurse gets transfered to another hospital and you're new 
 assistant is a spunky blonde girl named Angie Thompson. Shes basically is with you the whole way. 
 After a few operations after that, you are smack-dab in the middle of a medical crisis, an outbreak 
 of viruses known as GUILT, which can be the most challenging part of the game.
  
  Difficulty wise, the game can be tough. There will be a lot of times where you will have to restart 
 or have trial-and-error. In some missions, timing is everything, and if you use your Healing Touch 
 too early, it might come back and bite you in the rear later on.
  Graphics look good, the character models have been updated and the backgrounds look crisp and clean 
 even on a Standard TV.
  Controls i would say are drastically better than the DS'. They make a nice use of the Nunchuck 
 controller to select your instrument, which can be a Scapel, La-zer , Drain, Jelly, Stitches, etc.
 
  The music in the game excels in the biggest way, its dramatic, it gets your heart pumping, and 
 i love that.
  The value of the game is big, this might be a hard to get game later on, and it is worth getting 
 at current price. You will also come back to this game and take on the greater difficulties aswell. 
 Story is a bit too short, and youll be itching for more in no time, so the difficulty setting might 
 help you out there.
  
  Overall it is a great game, and a highly recommended one to boot. Guess you might even say, Its 
 a GUILT-y pleasure! (HAHA! A JOKE!... *sigh*... anyway... god im hopeless)
  Go get this game now, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboyx225x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center for the Wii is a great game to have. It boast a great game-play that will leave your 
 hands shaking from being so nervous when completed a tough operation. The game is fun to tell friends 
 and family about because an operation video game where you play as a doctor is almost unheard of. 
 When i tell my friends about it I say '' While American kids are playing sponge bob, Japanese kids 
 are playing doctor games learning how to become doctors. its a funny concept and again that brings 
 the joy to the game.
  
  Story Line- Good story line about a young doctor who learns he has a special gift at surgery. His 
 nurses give him a hard time and keep him on track about his responsibilities. The dialogue is all 
 text with still images of the characters with some vocals of them saying the doctors name or something 
 along those lines. Not the deepest of story lines but it helps keep the game going and fun rather 
 than just doing surgery all day. The jumping from story mode to going to the next level seems to 
 happen too much. You may talk with a nurse with no game-play and it will go leave the dialogue 
 and bring you out to choose the next stage and save the game. I would have rather just moved on 
 to the next stage and have an auto-save while going to the next part without me having to start 
 it up. But you get use to it.
  
  Graphics- For the type of game that Trauma Center is, the graphics are okay. The organs and blood 
 are not life like and therefore are good for children to play. I do not think the fun factor would 
 have been so great if it were realistic. The anime characters really bring out the fun in the game 
 and though their reactions do not range too much, it still gives emphasis on the point the character 
 is trying to make. Sound- The sound effects during surgery are good. You know when you make a mistake. 
 The dialogue is text which gives the game a RPG feeling. Overall, the sound is good and music plays 
 to emphasis the mood of the story.
  
  The wii remote really brings the game out. I did not play the version on the DS but i can tell 
 it is probably fun to control too. Speed sometimes plays a roll and a normal remote would probably 
 not have cut it.
  
  You are rated as a doctor by A-D grade scale. And there is an easy and hard mode while gives the 
 game a replay value on trying to be the best doctor you can be. After finishing the game, i will 
 go back and play it over to try and get A's on all my surgery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3r02007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  A year after the release of Trauma Center: Under the Knife for the DS, comes Trauma Center: Second 
 Opinion. This self-dubbed Wii-make of the sleeper hit is much more than a cheap cash in. Trauma 
 Center: Second Opinion manages to not only improve the gameplay, but manages to show what the Wii 
 is capable of.
  
  The game revolves around Dr. Derek Stiles, an up-and-coming surgeon who just completed his residency 
 at Hope Hospital. He didnt get the best grades in med school, but he does have one amazing ability: 
 the Healing Touch. Derek must learn to control this ability, so that he can fight the GUILT, a 
 virus that threatens to wipe out humanity. I wont go into any spoiler details, but the game features 
 an excellent storyline with plenty of interesting characters and plot twists. The story is presented 
 by only still images of characters, often only having a handful of poses, and there is little voice 
 acting, but the artistic style and excellent musical score give the game a simple, yet fantastic 
 presentation. Under the Knifes art style was a tad silly, and hurt the games intense message. 
 But with the new art style, designed by the same art team behind the Shin Megami Tensei series; 
 Second Opinion can carry an intense message as effectively as great medical dramas like ER and 
 House MD. Voice acting, despite that there are only a few lines of it, is very solid and beat 
 the clich&eacute; of annoying anime voices. If anything, Second Opinion shows that a story doesnt 
 need flashy graphics or hours of voice acting to tell an excellent story.
  
  This would all be meaningless, however, if there wasnt gameplay. Have no fear, because the gameplay 
 is fantastic. Using the Wiis remote and joystick attachment, you will be able to switch to your 
 different tools on the fly, making the gameplay very fast and smooth. The graphics, once inside 
 the human anatomy, convey the right amount of detail, without grossing you out. Inside, you will 
 be dealing with lacerations, tumors, hemorrhages, and other medical conditions that demand your 
 care. It will be no easy task, since you will often have to deal with multiple symptoms while keeping 
 the patient alive. Youll need to know how to use your tools and listen to your assistants advice 
 if you want to succeed. The game can be punishing, even on the easy difficulty setting. But, when 
 you do complete a mission, there is an immense amount of satisfaction, the same satisfaction a 
 doctor must get out of saving people. The games highly rewarding gameplay is what makes the game 
 so addictive. Unfortunately, the game may come to an end quickly or some gamers, since the story 
 takes only seven hours to complete. But the game still has some nice replay value, since it is 
 always fun to go back and replay surgeries to earn higher ranks and scores. And the three difficulty 
 settings will defiantly keep you busy. However, even if you dont replay the game, it will still 
 give you a very satisfying experience.
  
  Trauma Center: Second Opinion will defiantly be overlooked as a launch title, with Twilight Princess 
 really taking the glory. But if youre looking for a game with challenging and addicting gameplay, 
 and want to see what the Wii really can do, than look no further. Trauma Center: Second Opinion 
 is just what the doctor ordered.
  
  Pros: Great presentation; Fast, fun, and rewarding gameplay; Excellent plot
  Cons: Sometimes 
 frustrating; Short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_Snake
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Picked this one up at launch and loving it. Right away you'll notice the games presentation as 
 a bit lacking (not nearly enough voice work and anime style graphics are preety but simple) , but 
 you just cant deny how well it plays with the wiimote. You use the nunchuck to selcet from your 
 various assortment of tools, and the wii mote to point and use the items (the pointer is also best 
 ive seen so far, better than the one in zelda and wii sports) . havent finished so cant say much 
 about the value, but i have retried some stages i found very fun just to see if i could beat my 
 score. The game is hard, i dont get many grades better than C, but its certainly fun. If you have 
 any interest whatsoever in this sort of game, try it out, very good launch tittle for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolio1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  It has been such a long time since I first got my hands on the funny little operating game on the 
 DS known as Trauma Center. After just a bit of time with it I was already hooked -- from the interesting 
 premise to the awesome touch screen controls. As soon as I found out the Wii version was in the 
 works I knew I had to get it. I looked forward to the potential the new controller offered with 
 excitement. Never has a game about surgery been this fun since Operation!
  
  Honestly though, how many video games out there let you play a doctor and perform surgery on patients? 
 This was one of the things that helped draw me into the game initially. If you love the off-beat 
 you're in the right place. The story for the game is actually very good. You play as Derek Stiles, 
 who at the beginning of the game is a rookie surgeon. After a few blunders he almost quits the 
 profession for good, but after a chance happening where he was the only doctor available to save 
 some car-wreck victims. After he decides to dedicate himself even more to medicine and become a 
 master surgeon.
  
  Little does Derek know he'll be the only one able to stop multiple strains of a horrible engineered 
 sickness known as GUILT. With Derek's special ability he later discovers known as the Healing Touch, 
 which allows him to work at amazing speed, he is the only one able to save the victims of GUILT 
 and stop this medical terrorism.
  
  In the DS and Wii versions you get a variety of tools from your basic scalpel to even a surgical 
 laser. In the DS version you would have to select your tools by tapping icons on either side of 
 the screen. Believe it or not but this would actually waste precious time, which too often there 
 is not enough of. In Trauma Center you have to work very fast. With the Wii you can switch tools 
 almost instantly by simply hitting one of eight directions on the nunchuck attachment. Anyone who 
 has played the DS version will see this a huge improvement.
  
  All of the tools are controlled via the Wii remote. With the pointer you can work just as fast, 
 if not faster, than you can on the DS version. With the Wii version I was worried that the tangibility 
 of touching the screen would be lost on the Wii, but the ever-present cursor makes working a breeze 
 since you can always keep track of where you are. Some of the tools have also had a bit of tweaking. 
 The defibrillator is much more fun to use on the Wii. You must push both the nunchuck and remote 
 towards the screen to apply the paddles and when the charge is ready you have to pull the B and 
 Z triggers to use it, which is very cool. The Wii also has much better hit detection than on the 
 DS, which can also help you work faster.
  
  Graphics aren't really anything special. Obviously they are a step-up from the DS version. Virtually 
 all of the game is fully 3D now, but also still retains the same sort of look. Colors are brighter 
 and things are often easier to distinguish when performing an operation. All of the excellent character 
 art has also been carried over and updated, which still looks really fantastic. This game will 
 not blow you away with its visuals, but actually playing the game is so fun you'll hardly notice.
 
  
  Sound has has also had a great improvement because the Wii isn't restricted on the hardware end 
 like the DS was. Many of the same music tracks carry over to the Wii version and sound great. The 
 tone switches perfectly from one situation to the next and is often times dramatic keeping the 
 proper tone for those tricky operations. Unfortunately this game also does not feature any voice 
 acting. Again, it was understandable on the DS because of the hardware. However on the Wii there 
 isn't really any excuse for it being missing. There are a few sound-bytes here and there that do 
 sound really good, but it would have been nice to actually hear the actors for those parts voice 
 the entire role of the characters.
  
  Second Opinion is essentially a port of the DS version, so with that in mind there are some things 
 to consider. As previously mentioned the sound and graphics have improved along with the gameplay 
 that far surpasses the DS version. Second Opinion also adds a new doctor you'll have the opportunity 
 to play as by the name of Naomi Kimishima. She has several chapters that take place alongside the 
 main storyline and helps flesh out the main plot as well. Some of the operations from the DS version 
 have also had some tweaking and other parts of the game have been remixed a little. In the end 
 this game will still be great for those new to it, or for real fans of the original. If you played 
 the first, but didn't get so into it, Second Opinion would at least be worth a rental. Overall 
 the game is just as addictive and challenging as the DS version. You can change the difficulty 
 before any operation, which is a nice added feature, it still poses an excellent challenge. Trauma 
 Center: Second Opinion is, in my opinion (sorry for the bad pun) , one of the best launch titles 
 the Wii has to offer. Just as the first showed potential for the DS, Second Opinion does the same 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asian_Country
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is relaly great because you getta to be a surgeon, and you operate on people, and help 
 takew out their diseases and stuff, an example is SPOILERS
  
  
  
  
  
  
  When tkaing out a tumour, you have to make a cut in the guy to go into him, then use the super 
 sonic sound thing to find it, then drain the cytoplasm from the tumour, then take it out, then 
 bandage it, then put anti-biotic gel on it, then stitch it, then dis infect it, and finally put 
 bandages on it. END SPOILERS And that is only if oyu are dealing wiht one tumour! Thisgame will 
 keep you busy, and you will have a blast! At times you have to be very precise with the game, which 
 makes it all the more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevedog07
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: SO is a fun game. I havent played its DS predecessor myself, so I cant compare 
 the two, but looking at it on its own, its solid. It is something of a puzzle game, I suppose, 
 although in another sense its almost a strategy game. Basically, you have to do things carefully 
 yet quickly, but sometimes you dont know what to do: the game will give you hints sometimes, but 
 sometimes it leaves you without any clear direction. This isnt a negative, though: it just means 
 you have to be creative about it. One thing thats a little unfortunate is that, at least as far 
 as Ive gotten, it doesnt seem like there are many situations where you can really take multiple 
 valid approaches to a problem. You might be able to do 3 things in a different order, but you dont 
 have different options on how to respond to any one problem. This may change in later episodes, 
 but it doesnt get in the way of this being a solid, very enjoyable game, especially for those 
 who are medically inclined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Second Opinion is a great launch title that shows us what the Wii can really do 
 with innovation and creative gameplay. I have never played the previous Trauma Center game, so 
 I can't say that this one is much better, but from what I've heard... it is. The story is suprisingly 
 engaging, and the dialogue isn't poor like all the other no-voice-acting games. (I don't know what 
 they are called) The control scheme is basically flawless, and very creative. My favorite thing 
 to do is use the defribilator, and get their heart rate back to a normal pace. I say to anyone 
 that has or hasn't played the previous Trauma Center game, to definetely buy it. It's the perfect 
 launch game, and is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Well this game isnt a 9 or a 10 but its still fun.
  
  Graphics: Well there isnt much to look at here. Cartoonish look that looks identical to the DS 
 game.
  
  Sound: What do you expect to hear while doing surgery?
  
  Value: The game definately keeps you wanting more and it definately gets challenging. Hope you 
 got a stead hand.
  
  Overall the game is decent but if you have a DS then you really dont need to spend $50 on a game 
 that you can get for $30 on the DS. But if you havent played the DS version then this will be a 
 nice game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfaucet
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  And I thought the DS game was fun... this game blows me away. Incredibly fun and hilarious, one 
 of my favortie Wii launch titles by far. If you're into this sort of game, I highly recommend it. 
 Maintains a great amount of challenge while still being fun. The graphics could have stood a bit 
 more polish, but very visually appealing nontheless.
  
  The creativity that goes into a surgery game is really what would make or break such an idea. Atlus 
 continues to impress me with their very odd, yet hilarious titles that keep me playing for months 
 and months. I look forward to playing this... right now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
