-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trauma Center: New Blood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/traumacenternewblood/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Awesome control scheme.
 Gruesome injuries will tickle your fancy without grossing you out.
 Challenging, priority-based puzzles.
 Bring a friend to the operating table.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Instructions not as clear as they could be.
 The dialogue will put you under.
 No amount of surgery can save the overall plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 500 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This operation has its share of complications, but most of them are good ones. 

  A trauma center is a major league hospital, equipped with around-the-clock surgical staff, state-of-the-art 
 equipment, and as much pain and carnage as a  Texas Chain Saw  family reunion. Normally you'd want 
 to spend as much time in one as you'd want to spend covered in rats, so you wouldn't think the 
 concept would make for a nice, leisurely video game. Yet Atlus has already turned it into three, 
 and its latest, Trauma Center: New Blood, is the best of the bunch.  

  Just like the other operations in the series, New Blood is a surgery simulation that has you slicing 
 into patients, excising their tumors, removing bullets, draining blood, and sowing them back up 
 again, all with healthy doses of antibiotics and, most importantly, fun. But despite its presence 
 on the family-friendly Wii, this is not an easy game.  

           This is your brain surgeon. This is your brain surgeon on drugs. Any questions?      

 
  But before we get to the shattered arms, impaled hearts, and shot dogs, you should know that the 
 game is about the surgical exploits of Valerie Blaylock and Markus Vaughn. The curtains rise in 
 "Alaska -- the frigid northern extremity of America." That is literally the first line in the entire 
 game. Makes you wonder what they would've said if it began in Florida ("the long, hot leg of America"?) 
 or Texas ("the giant bottom"?) . After that, there are only a few plot points worth paying attention 
 to.  

  In one, a rich patient complains that his appendectomy isn't costing enough, while across the hospital, 
 a poor child without insurance needs the same operation but can't pay for it. So you bill the rich 
 kid for two appendectomies, because, as Markus says, "Rich or poor, we're all the same under the 
 knife." And you thought  your  HMO was crazy. At least Markus can back up his god complex with 
 supernatural powers -- he and Valerie wield the medical equivalent of bullet time, known as the "Healing 
 Touch." It's all part of a wacky spiritual hoodoo both doctors buy into that has them saying things 
 like, "As the stars have taught me... I am one with life... I am one with now..."  

  The rest of the dialogue and plot details that unfold between surgeries are as dull as local anesthetic. 
 Sure, there's a game show that's a cross between  Iron Chef  and, well, surgery, plus a talking 
 surgery dog, but these are things you can enjoy all while quickly tapping the A button on the remote 
 to skip ahead. In fact, seeing the dog chime in between conversations is actually more entertaining 
 if you don't stop to read what's actually being said.  

  Besides, the gameplay is so good you'll want to skip straight to it. While the Wii is chock-full 
 of minigame collections trying to cash in on the system's expiring novelty, the Trauma Center series 
 has developed an elegant, complex control scheme that believably and thoroughly adapts the system's 
 capabilities to surgery. After hours and hours of play, you'll excise tumors with deft speed and 
 precision. You'll quickly pluck bullets, drain the blood, use forceps to pinch the wound shut, 
 and suture it like it's second nature before moving on to the next life-threatening injury.  

 
           This splinter is going to require more than a pocket knife and some Jack Daniels.    
   

  The only downside to all of this is that some of the surgeries are extremely long and sensitive. 
 If you make a mistake five minutes in, for instance, your patient dies and you are told that, unable 
 to overcome the shame, Markus and Valerie leave the surgery world forever. Quitters. This is exacerbated 
 by two factors: (1) The game doesn't always tell you things you need to know, and (2) Mistakes 
 that shouldn't remotely affect the health of the patient will make them die, such as trying to 
 pick up a pacemaker with a blood drainer.  

  Those issues aside, it's fun and rewarding to figure out things for yourself. For instance, an 
 operation on a burn victim is horribly frustrating at first, but becomes rewarding once you figure 
 out how to grow skin grafts, place them in the right spots, drain the blood, and boost the patient's 
 vitals in the right order.  

  Aside from fixing normal injuries and ailments, you'll also do battle with the Stigma virus -- an 
 evolving and malignant malady that really lets the game designers get creative with their procedures. 
 For instance, the first Stigma you encounter is like a razor strapped to a micromachine that races 
 around and lacerates your patient's organs. Later versions hide in the flesh, float around and 
 fart tumors, or grow tentacles that must be pinched and severed.  

  About seven hours in, even on the easiest difficulty level, the game becomes obscenely difficult. 
 You'll battle multiple, consecutive stigmas, treat a shotgun-blasted dog, and face more blood and 
 carnage than you can shake a scalpel at. With the right priorities, you can pass these challenges, 
 or you can pull in a friend for some cooperative slicing and dicing. That's right, two players 
 can operate on the same patient, each with a full suite of tools at their disposal. The early missions 
 provide good opportunities to acquaint novice partners with the controls and concepts, and the 
 later missions are difficult even for two skilled surgeons, especially when facing two different 
 kinds of stigma at the same time. New Blood's cooperative play is fun, easy on beginners, and definitely 
 extends its life span.  

           One surgeon attaches the modules, while the other brandishes a scalpel.      

  When 
 rendering wounds and body parts, New Blood doesn't go for brutal realism, but rather clarity and 
 simplicity. For instance, the vessels you need to work on during the appendectomy are color-coded 
 for your convenience, not your sense of anatomical correctness. Such an approach might've sterilized 
 the game's injuries, if New Blood didn't go so over the top with some of them. In one operation, 
 your patient's rib cage has shattered, and all the shards have embedded themselves in a major internal 
 organ, which now looks like a frightened puffer fish, or a fully loaded voodoo doll. It's super 
 nasty, even without realistic flesh textures or blood shooting across the screen and sticking to 
 the camera. Besides, they have to leave something for the sequel.  

  New Blood sounds fine, though the solid voice acting is wasted on the boring dialogue. The music 
 is entirely forgettable and the surgery sound effects are passable, though the only one that will 
 really stick in your memory occurs when you "accidentally" push one of the aforementioned bone 
 shards deeper into the organ, rather than pulling it free.  

  Trauma Center: New Blood is a successful operation. Even though the dialogue is insipid and some 
 of the procedures are frustrating, this game combines signature surgical gameplay with a double 
 dose of challenge and great cooperative play for a trip to the hospital you won't require painkillers 
 to enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  The Good : Performing operations is surprisingly fun and rewarding. Surgical procedures aren't 
 as graphic and discomforting as you may be led to believe. Support for two players. Three difficulty 
 modes.
  
  The Bad : Ridiculously difficult at times, even under the easiest setting. Awful dialogue and cue-card 
 voice acting. Cut scenes are comprised entirely of static images. Wi-Fi only allows one score submission 
 every few minutes. Rather than focusing on real diseases, much of the game focuses on the eradication 
 of a fictional virus.
  
  --
  
  I've held it off time and time again, but New Blood was my first exposure to the much acclaimed 
 Trauma Center series, and I quite enjoyed the experience. While the gameplay as a whole is restricted 
 entirely to surgical procedures, this isn't necessarily a bad thing for those who wish to wield 
 that virtual knife and dig into a variety of different patients with different illnesses. Unfortunately 
 though, much of the game focuses on a fictional virus, Stigma (and its various strains) , and this 
 aspect of the storyline may be disappointing for those who simply want to remove tumours, treat 
 cancer or other real life diseases.
  
  There are various tools at your disposal, all of which can be accessed via pointing at a specific 
 direction via the nunchuck attachment. Use of the nunchuck however, is optional, and you may vouch 
 for using the arrow keys on the Wii remote to access all the tools, however, given the time restrictions 
 imposed upon the player, use of the nunchuck attachment would be wise as some of the levels require 
 frequent switching of the in-game tools. You'll be required to inject various fluids into patients, 
 remove and drag things using the forceps, drain blood, slice open and stitch back patients, massage 
 hearts and so on. Use of the tools can be quite fun and simply once you memorize all 8 of the default 
 tools.
  
  The difficulty rises exponentially later into the game as you'll be required to perform certain 
 actions in a very specific order (for example, the eradication of certain strains of Stigma should 
 be priortized over the other, and so on) , and will require a strict allocation of your valuable 
 time (as the levels vary between 5 and 10 minutes in length) . There is quite a lot of trial-and-error 
 involved, and you'll find yourself failing quite a number of missions repeatedly (I've failed quite 
 a few of the missions JUST as I was about to complete them) . While this may become frustrating, 
 don't fret, because all the missions are in fact possible within the time constraints. You'll just 
 need practice in ensuring that you use the healing touch at the right moment, and that you eradicate 
 certain hazards before they cause any critical damage.
  
  Graphically, Trauma Center looks a touch unrealistic for the purposes of making the game more accessible 
 for a non-medically inclined audience. It is clear that the hazards and organs have been designed 
 in a stylistic fashion so that the player can easily recognize them at a glance. It's a nice looking 
 game, but one that doesn't particularly push the Wii in any significant way. 
  
  The music is fast paced and matches the hectic nature of the operations where appropriate. The 
 dialogue sounds good from a technical standpoint, however it has been so blandly written and acted 
 that it's hardly worthy of praise. You'll find yourself cringing a number of times at some of the 
 utterly lame dialogue.
  
  The level selection screen appears as a "tree" of sorts, so you can scroll up or down to any of 
 the previous missions or cut scenes at your leisure. Another bonus is that you're free to change 
 the difficulty mode at any time (where applicable) . It's just a shame that multiplayer was limited 
 to local co-op as it would have been nice to implement some sort of competitive Wi-Fi option. Sure, 
 you can upload your scores over to Wi-Fi, however it restricts score submissions to one every few 
 minues, and I found myself so annoyed by this that I only bothered to submit around 2-3 scores. 
 Furthermore, Wi-Fi only shows you your own rank (and your immediate rankees) as well as the top 
 10 or so. Unfortunately, the option to see the remainder of the ranks has been denied. Furthermore, 
 the charts are highly impersonal (as it only displays your nickname and score) , and I was extremely 
 annoyed that I was listed as an "EU" gamer, even though I have an Australian copy of the game.
 
  
  Trauma Center is a fun surgical simulator (i. e. when it's not punishing you with its occasionally 
 torturous difficulty) which has its share of strengths and weaknesses. Some of the diseases are 
 far too contrived to make TC a believable medical sim, but for those seeking a very unique take 
 on the puzzle genre, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_bobjimbobjim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: New Blood is the long awaited 5th game in the Zero Wing series. The 1st was Zero 
 Wing, then Big Rigs, then Superman 64, then Vegeta's Egg Scramble, ( My eggshell levels are OVER 
 9000!!!!) and now this. In this game the goal is to save the princess from scalpel wielding bear-sized 
 frogs, who work for the main villian, Mama Luigi. You play as Morshu, the main protagonist who 
 wants to rescue the princess because he has nothing better to do. This is brilliant 3-D platformer 
 gameplay. You will be in many levels from Rio de Janiero, where you fight an evil rodent known 
 as Marcel Toing, to Ancient Antartica, to the Mushroom Kingdom. The cut scenes are beautifully 
 rendered 8-bit slideshows that tell a heartwrenching story about everyone's favorite lamp oil vender. 
 The only thing wrong with the voiceacting is that someone must have accidentally put in the sound 
 files from Zero Wing, so this is what it sounds like.
  
  Dialogue: Morshu: You want it? It's yours my friend.
  Voiceacting: Morshu: Take off every Zig
 
  
  If it weren't for this flaw, I would've given this game an OVER 9000!!!! out of 10. But all in 
 all this is a good game despite that glaring flaw.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blobman000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center New Blood is a great game all around, and I was happy to hear that the game had an 
 entirely new plot with two new surgeons, new surgeries, and a new coop mode.
  
  The game is not all fun though, because the game starts out right away with an high difficulty 
 level, including a someone who has been shot in the chest on just the 3rd level. Also if you're 
 hands are shaky, good luck getting anywhere in the game. If you've played previous games in the 
 series, you'll see how much the game has been improved both graphics- wise and story- wise. All 
 of the dialog in the game uses voice acting, which is a big help while surgery. This also great 
 for the story, because without it, I would never of listened to or even cared about.
  
  Whether you're a fan of the series or you just want a fun game, New Blood is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  If there's something we've learned about Jack Thompson os that videogames are nothing but brutal 
 killing simulators. If he played any of the Truma Center games, he'd go crazy. Trauma Center: New 
 Blood is the latest installment in the surgery simulation franchise and by far the best. The game 
 takes place about ten years after the events of Second Opinion. Drs. Markus Vaughn and Valerie 
 Blaylock are your protagonists. They are located in Alaska, where they are perfecting their Healing 
 Touch, a bullet-time type of power that helps them save lifes when the getting gets tough. Soon, 
 their powers call the attention of Caduceus, the famous worldwide company focusing on research 
 of deadly diseases and biological warfare (sometimes) and they are called in to use their abilities, 
 along with their beautiful assistant Elena Salazar, to help them fight Stigma, a deadly virus which 
 is the equivalent of GUILT from the last game. Of course, it comes in different shapes, sizes, 
 types and effects on their victims. The gameplay is mostly unchanged, which is good. The controls 
 work just as good as in SO. Point the remote at the screen to use your tools and select them with 
 the nunchuck. The visuals still look a bit quirky. For instance, in order to know what you need 
 to do, some parts of the anatomy will come in different colors to point you in the right direction. 
 Also, seeing bone fragments puncture a spleen and watch the blood spill isn't as gorey as say Gears 
 of War, but you'll still be grossed out and satisfied all at once. My personal favorite gruesome 
 moment is when you massage a human heart by hand. I don't know whether that's sweet or gruesome 
 or both. The first missions really let you get a feel of what's it like to treat patients under 
 the table. Basically, you'll learn to eliminate tumors, repair broken bones, and retrieve rifle 
 bullets from a heart. Later on, the game gets more complicated, which brings the same problem from 
 the first installment: it's very unforgiving. Say that you're five minutes in an operation and 
 one fatal mistake results in the patient dying and your eloved doctors quitting the medical business. 
 **** This is not an easy game. Even in the easiest setting, there's still a steep learning curve 
 to master. The biggest addition to he franchise is the multiplayer. You can bring a friend onto 
 the operating table and help you out. You can use the first missions as a basis on learning how 
 to work together. This is very handy when you have to fight to Stigmas at once. You can also check 
 out online leaderboards to see how you stack up against the competition. Another big addition is 
 voice acting, which is pretty solid, but delivered in the over-dramatic, soap opera dialogue from 
 previous games, which kinda spolis it if you're not into drama. Personally, I did enjoy the plot 
 from time to time but seriously, some story elements, such as picking a toy lock to escape a pit 
 filling up with water, are ideas that could've been done better . But overall, there were a lot 
 of moments where I felt my heart heavily pound against my chest in excitement. The game sucked 
 me in and I was satisfied by the end of the tale, although it would have been nice if we had seen 
 some action among the doctors. This was a big letdown I felt at the end of SO. Speaking of that, 
 the game offers fan service with cameos of Dr. Styles and Angie Thompson, who I believe are hooked 
 up by now even if they don't say anything. A special bonus is when they introduce Valerie and Markus 
 a simulation where they can fight against GUILT. Other bonus missions are similar to the previous 
 game, which are highly difficult procedures fighting deadly viruses. Before I continue rambling 
 on, I just want to say I really had a good time with the game and I highly recommend it despite 
 some of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocolith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  After getting a wii, and wanting one of the Trauma Center games, I went to my local Gamestop and 
 got New Blood, because I played Under the Knife before. Reading very mixed reviews, I found that 
 the game is extremely satisfying, but more or less was my same expierence with Under the Knife. 
 Some levels (like 4 or 5) are outright evil and perhaps conjured from the bowels of Hell, while 
 the rest offer a good chalange or are so easy I complete em in 2 min. Also, I find New Bllod has 
 increased my "Wiimote" skills in a sense, just how Under the Knife increased my "stylus" skills. 
 I also found Co-Op extremely fun, as I really wanted this in Under the Knife (although I knew it 
 would be kinda shakey) So all in all, is a great game, I definitely recommend it.
  
  Gameplay: if you played any of these games before, expect nothing less. it has some great level 
 designs and keeps you entertained on hours on hand, and the fact that u can compete for a high 
 score online, increase difficulty, and has a Co-Op option makes it extremely replayable.
  
  Graphics: very reminiscent of Second Opinion, but thats always good. There's nothing I can complain 
 about it, but I liked the more realistic textures of Under the Knife, now everything is neon purples 
 and blues, kind of takes you out of the realism.
  
  Story/Dialogue: the fact that all the people now have full dialogue is nice, and the voice work 
 is pretty descent, I can't complain or praise anything about it. The story is abit lacking, but 
 then again I'm just here for the surgery, not the mello-drama in it :)
  
  Difficulty: This is a very touchy subject for people. For some, its extremely hard and it takes 
 them four tries to get past every level and gives them wrist cramps. for others, it's extremely 
 easy and they just go straight through the game with no trouble (Although some who claim this might 
 actually be lying) But for me, I find a very middle ground expierence, where the difficulty is 
 high enough to give me a chalenge, but I'm able to do it first or second try. I will admit though, 
 some levels are dastardly.
  
  All in all, I see this game, as like the other Trauma Center games, as probably a training game 
 for your skills in dexterity. If you can complete this game, you should be able to kick the ass 
 out of Metroid Prime 3, Resident Evil 4, or any other shooter like game where your pointing a dot 
 at a screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: New Blood is an extremely unbalanced experience. Though it's undoubtedly one of 
 the most effective uses of the Wii's control system and presents content that virtually no other 
 console developer has attempted, the designers have turned something that should have been a sure 
 thing into a difficult recommend due to an unacceptable level of difficulty. The first Trauma Center 
 on the DS was excruciatingly hard, but the Wii's remake (Second Opinion) hit it just right. I was 
 hoping that New Blood would continue the trend, but faithful upholders of the Hippocratic oath 
 will find it either slightly challenging when playing with a partner, or absolutely impossible 
 when going it alone.
  
  Starring two new surgeons, Dr. Markus Vaughn and Dr. Valerie Blaylock, Trauma Center: New Blood 
 tells a fairly engaging tale; things start quietly with small-scale operations in remote Alaskan 
 medical facilities, and as players grow accustomed to performing procedures, events take on a bit 
 of sci-fi as broken bones and heart conditions give way to full-scale medical warfare against alien-like 
 internal invaders called Stigma.
  
  If you think that narrative progression sounds similar to the last two Trauma Center games, you're 
 exactly right. In fact, much of New Blood is practically identical to its predecessors besides 
 the storyline. (And disappointingly, there still aren't any story branches, player choices or RPG 
 elements.)
  
  For example, the visuals and presentation are comprised of the same still-frame cut-scenes and 
 mid-90's static backgrounds. Although upgrading to actual animation or higher-end effects would 
 be appreciated, nothing here is ugly or unappealing... just incredibly outdated. The Wii is without 
 question the weakest of the three current-gen consoles in terms of raw horsepower, but it's capable 
 of much more than this.
  
  The gameplay is also unchanged, though since it was so good to start with, this was a wise decision. 
 The Wiimote functions as a substitute for a range of medical implements while the nunchuk attachment 
 changes the selection depending on the situation. With a quick flick of the thumb, the on-screen 
 cursor can become a scalpel, forceps, a syringe, needle and thread, a roll of gauze, and a few 
 other things as well. It's a clever and elegant system, and probably the most satisfying implementation 
 of Nintendo's technology including their own first-party efforts.
  
  So if everything is essentially the same, what's different? Unlike the last two Trauma Center games, 
 New Blood seems created from the ground up as a multiplayer experience. This is both its strength 
 as well as its fatal flaw.
  
  I count myself as one of the luckiest gamers alive since I'm married to a wife who is just as keen 
 about playing as I am. With a second player always at hand, I was able to tackle the entire game 
 cooperatively and enjoyed doing so. There were a few procedures which tested our teamwork and skills, 
 but with one of us handling drainage and stabilizing procedures while the other took on excision 
 and suturing, our patients were in good hands.
  
  However, I went back on my own to see how different the experience would be without my co-surgeon 
 and found that the game was nearly impossible, even on the easiest setting. There are simply too 
 many things happening at the same time for one person to manage by themselves. Judicious use of 
 the game's "Healing Touch" time-stopping maneuver amounted to little more than a temporary band-aid, 
 and wasn't nearly enough to prevent most patients from dying on the table. If a real doctor lost 
 as many patients as I did, he'd be banned from medicine and brought up on charges for wholesale 
 slaughter. Although any quality co-op opportunities are always appreciated, New Blood commits the 
 saddest form of suicide by being too difficult for anyone who won't be able to play with a real-time 
 partner.
  
  I was lucky that I enjoyed the game thanks to my own personal circumstances and tastes being a 
 perfect match for what New Blood had to offer, but I imagine that I'm in the minority of the minority 
 of gamers who will give New Blood the time of day when there are so many big-budget blockbusters 
 on shelves competing for the same dollars. Going niche is a valid strategy for success in such 
 an environment, but the insane difficulty will only serve to alienate the few people who would 
 have been attracted to the game in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game teaches you wat to do in a real emergency it inspires you i really liked the game i have 
 both ones and i beat them on easy, normal and hard.
  I actually recommend this game to everybody it is pretty long and full of suprises well the remote 
 scheme isnt as i would think it would be be altogether the game is good
  
  Also this game you would enconter something that you wouldn't imagine and some of them are hard 
 and you keep on trying and trying you will never stop playing i never put the remote down when 
 i was playing it till i finished it 100%.
  
  About this is this is a kind of game that you can play any time even if you beat it you play all 
 the chapters and levels over and over and you will never get bored of them you can play the same 
 level for hours and still keep on going on and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  The Trauma Center Series is one of a kind and could only be made on Nintendo's systems. Here are 
 some of the goods and bads to it
  The Goods: sharp control, realistic bodies/organs, great voice acting, great plot (if you take 
 the time to read it) , suspenseful music, Co-Op, challenging and fun puzzles
  The Bads: Excruciatingly difficult, Boring text.
  
  GAME PLAY 9.5/10
  The game play is some 
 of the best and most original gameplay ever developed. When companies think of games, they think 
 "where will this shooter take place?" But Atlas has gone above and beyond the FPS age, and made 
 a surgery game. The game has many operations that have you slicing open a mans stomach, repairing 
 rib cages, removing several tumors, controlling aneurysms, and removing foreign objects, such as 
 bullets or glass. It is by far the funnest game I have ever played.
  
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  The game, when in a person, has realistic graphics without making you hurl, which is good, you 
 still see the pumping of the organs and the moving of the fluids within the veins, so its realistic 
 without prodding at your courage ball (dangely thing in your mouth) as for the plot, Its all picture 
 scenes, but the pictures are sharp and have lots of details to them. Its a boring but still very 
 interesting way to portray the plot.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  The sound is more made up of multiple repeating jingles that play based on whats happening. When 
 there is an emergency, there is a horror-like jingle playing, and elevator like music when in your 
 office. They aren't the best, but it works. As for the sound effects, you never get the ripping-like 
 noise that occurs when you make a mistake out of your mind.
  
  CONTROLS 10/10
  The controls are by far the greatest controls I have ever seen or played with. To access the tools, 
 you just press in the direction of the tool with the analog stick, you hold down the A button and 
 move the wii-mote to do an action, and thats pretty much it. If it was a different control scheme, 
 the game would have failed miserably.
  
  PLOT 9.5/10
  Like I said above, the plot is amazing, if you take the time to read and listen to it. The plot 
 focuses on Markus Vaughn and Valerie Blaylock, two accomplished doctors equipped with a magical 
 tool called the "Healing Touch". It helps with operations but I'm often too occupied with the operation 
 to use it. The team starts in Alaska, titled "The frigid Northern Extremity of America" and soon 
 become acquainted with your nurse and soon start researching a super virus called STIGMA. Stigma 
 is a super evolving virus that has multiple forms and causes things such as gashes and tumors in 
 the infected individuals system. You soon become the STIGMA research team and try to stop the growth 
 of it around the world. But theres a catch...
  
  Overall this is one of the greatest games I have played in a while and most likely my favorite 
 Wii game. I would definitely look into this if you own a Wii as this game would not have been possible 
 without the wii's control scheme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  When the first Trauma Center, Under the Knife, was released for the Nintendo DS all those years 
 ago, it was a cult hit: removing tumors with the stylus was an amazing experience that anyone without 
 a weak stomach could get into. When the game was re-released for the Wii at launch, Second Opinion 
 became more refined and even more entertaining. Now, a completely original title has been released 
 for the Wii, and it's just as good as the last, if not more so.
  
  It's been ten years since the outbreak of GUILT left it's scar on humanity, and for doctors Markus 
 Vaughn, a serious surgeon with a past of fame and horror, and Valerie Blaylock, up-and-comer with 
 a strong spirit and steady hand, the field of medicine is about to become a lot more interesting. 
 In Alaska, there is not much going on, but soon, Dr. Vaughn's past catches up with him and Valerie 
 discovers latent abilities that will make the two of them the foremost in the study of human health.
 
  
  This time around, the story is embezzled with a wide array of multicultural and diverse characters, 
 each one having their own tale to weave and personality to assert. The events are also much different 
 as well, including research, terrorism, and even guerilla warfare in many different locals. While 
 not utterly fantastic or epic, the story is crafted with detail and will be a driving force in 
 the gameplay, making you want to carve up each patient now with remorse or sweet irony.
  
  Visuals are still very unique and stylized, with character cutouts being detailed and the backdrops, 
 lively. Human anatomy still retains a level of unrealism, but the creative colorization of vital 
 organs makes them look real without being sickening. Blood is well placed and fluid, the various 
 wounds and instruments look almost identical to their real counterparts, and the whole design allows 
 you to differentiate between anomalies, something the DS original did not have enough of.
  
  And, as always, the music of the series remains surprisingly good, with conference room tracks 
 being uplifting, operation themes atmospheric and adrenaline-laced, and sound effects retaining 
 a thankful level of realism. All of the music is very well done and placed, further enhancing the 
 sort of mood that each situation wishes to convey.
  
  Story is also further conveyed with full voice acting. Every part, large or small, has a person 
 to voice it  even the dog or military grunt. The voices of Markus, Valerie and Elena are great, 
 with the others being correctly matched to the characters and personalities of each, something 
 very well appreciated when compared to walls of text. There are no voices in recent memory that 
 were ever bad, something wonderful after the always hilarious Resident Evil.
  
  Even so, you did not pick up a surgery game to listen to the next great hit or look at pretty pictures, 
 you are here to cut up some fools, and maybe save a person here and there if you are so inclined. 
 Well, I am happy to inform that the stellar gameplay is just as good as Second Opinion, if not 
 better.
  
  Operations are performed by pointing the cursor at the screen, then pressing the A or B button 
 to perform the task relevant to the tool you are holding. The scalpel cuts, the sutures stitch, 
 the syringe pokes, the laser burns and so on. All in all, you have eight tools of the trade, each 
 one having surprising uses when the situation calls for it. You can never know until you have entered 
 the person whether the forces will be used to pull out rifle rounds, shards of glass, or even turn 
 tiles in the deadliest toy puzzle of your life.
  
  Mission types are thankfully varied this go around; the previous game was an onslaught of surgical 
 battles with GUILT, while the new pathogen of Stigma shows up for the occasional bought. Other 
 operations will include the removal of tumors or appendixes, a kidney transplant or a Pacemaker 
 instillation  there are no two missions that are exactly the same. Removing tumors is easy and 
 rewarding, and the fights with aforementioned Stigma are challenging and entertaining.
  
  One of the more interesting additions to the gameplay, other than the wide assortment of new medical 
 problems, is the ability to move around inside the person's body. It used to be that you were stationed 
 with one view of the heart or lungs, but now, you can used the magnification tool to move your 
 view to other parts of the organ, usually revealing additional wounds. While it isn't much, it 
 is nice to see that the whole of the battlefield is being used, rather than just a little square.
 
  
  When the game hits the point of now return, when the patient is in cardiac arrest with seventeen 
 lacerations and a shell in his heart, each doctor can perform the Healing Touch, a maneuver that 
 enters the doctor into a state of hyper-focus. Vaughn slows down the very passage of time, while 
 Blaylock can suspend the target with a heart rate of one until the move runs out of mojo. The Healing 
 Touch is very nice and even required in some states. It's nice to know that I won't die because 
 my doctor practices witchcraft.
  
  Controlling the scalpel and sutures was intuitive in the first game, but with advent of the Nintendo 
 Wii, they are even more fluid and unique. The pointer moves just the right speed, meaning that 
 you won't fly to the wrong area or get arthritis trying to get to the next laceration, with the 
 Nunchuck being used to select the tool you use. It looks great when you're watching someone, but 
 you may oftentimes find yourself trying to drain a tumor with the sutures or burn an infection 
 with the drain. While it only takes a moment to switch back, it's something that happens many times 
 over the course of your career.
  
  Perhaps my greatest issue with the game, other than the following problem, is the cruel lack of 
 instruction for some operations. While the first few are walks in the park with the senior surgeon 
 holding your hand, others are infuriating due to the lack of direction to move in. Sometimes, the 
 instructions are just vague to start with, and you sort of have to play etch-a-sketch with the 
 laser, while others, your guide is drowned out by other messages telling you to what you already 
 know, leaving you wondering why the person suddenly kicked the bucket.
  
  Secondly, the difficulty of the game is surprising, even to a fan of the series. While Easy is 
 basically a training course, Normal difficulty requires a very steady hand, some concentration, 
 and a very astute understanding of what is going on and what to do, not always possible to the 
 influx of messages during operations. Hard mode is incredibly difficult, and the extra stages unlocked 
 midgame, as well as after the Epilogue are enough to make any person though things though the television. 
 Yes, this applies mostly to the endgame and Hard mode, it's still somewhat confusing to see how 
 anyone can complete the X-Missions with even an "A" rank.
  
  In the end, this game is absolutely brilliant. While it may not sound like fun to sew up cuts and 
 remove gall stones, once you start getting into the more advanced works of skin grafts and even 
 brain surgery, the game becomes addictive. Great visual design, surprisingly good music and sounds 
 and refined gameplay make this one of the better Wii games on the market. The only problems, albeit 
 minor, are the lack of directions when you really need them and the great difficulty you will experience. 
 In the end, this is a game I would heartily recommend to anyone.
  
  Stilldon't try and cure aneurisms in the brain in real life. That's why we have real doctors with 
 real licenses and real hobos with real cardboard saying "MEDECAL LISENSE." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  If its predecessor, Second Opinion, was a great albeit graphically deficient translation of the 
 surprise DS hit Trauma Center: Under the Knife, then New Blood, which literally has new blood for 
 its newest cover stars and characters, is better than great.
  
  This time, precisely 10 years after the GUILT outbreak, a new virus has arrived, and this one is 
 called Stigma. No acronyms, no brouhaha, just Stigma. But still, alleviating it is more or less 
 the same as killing GUILT, at least at first (via laser) , but when it gets worse, hell breaks loose. 
 No really, it's very hard. Even in the cases that don't involve the virus such as making skin grafts 
 to cover burns. It's already mind-racking, and that's just in "Easy" mode. Then again, it's a quality 
 that it (Atlus) didn't correct from its predecessors (even in the first DS version) and has probably 
 become notorious for it. Despite that, everything that has changed is for the better.
  
  For one, the presentation, which was lackluster in Second Opinion, gets a boost. Yes, the dialogue 
 is still presented in non-motile, occasionally expressive anime/manga drawings but the backdrops 
 have become more detailed and not to mention more. The 3D renderings of the human body have also 
 improved as well, as they are smoother and more detailed as well.
  
  Nothing has changed with the gameplay, which is good. And though there is a bit of medical drama 
 that occurs between operations, you'll probably want to skip them anyway, as you'll want to proceed 
 with the operation instantly. It will be hard to get a high rating though, so don't be surprised 
 if you get constant C's. One new mode is the challenge mode wherein the game challenges you to 
 treat as many patients as you can in 5 minutes without the nurse guiding you. Plus. the game also 
 benefits and gets easier from its new Multiplayer mode which lets another doctor helm the Wiimote 
 for guidance. And hopefully your friend won't be afraid of virtual blood. If he is, there's not 
 much of the red stuff anyway which makes this a more accessible and social game.
  
  There are still some sound effects and background music retained or remixed from its predecessors 
 and they will sound familiar when they're blared. Other than that, there is also some forgettable 
 new tunes. Another major improvement is the inclusion of solid voiceovers which helps enliven the 
 text-based dialogue, and I mean every word of it. Unfortunately, the talent is wasted on a generic 
 script, but it's not actually bad.
  
  Now for the first time in the series do I see a lot of replay value especially due to its fun co-op. 
 If you've been withholding the purchase of the franchise, get an appointment and release your inner 
 surgeon. In fact, this is probably the best original effort from third-party publishers (in the 
 Wii or DS) ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, I played the first trauma center on the WII, and ill admit it was a good game. It gave you 
 a good virtual representation of how to fight certain injuries, diseases, and biological weapons 
 that can harm a patient's health. It also mixed it up with a puzzle or two, so it wasn't always 
 surgery. TC: New Blood isn't any different, but with a whole new story, and 2 player co-op mode, 
 its twice the fun. I only say this game was hard if i played through the whole story mode by myself. 
 I find myself struggling and end up killing my patients over and over again. However, finding a 
 friend, whether veteran or noob, can help make the game more fun. Especially in the later chapters, 
 it gets to be very challenging, that there really is no dull moments, especially fighting multiple 
 "enemies" at once. The boss battle at the end is disappointingly easy, and we went though the whole 
 game without using Healing Touch, which is the special power we have, which slows down time, for 
 a limited amount of time, in order to deal with multiple complications. The missions themselves 
 are pretty diverse, but it seems like everybody's been hit with a shotgun bullet!! Don't anybody 
 own a handgun anymore? Kidding, anyways, this game is definitely worth a rental, but hey i buy 
 all my games. If you're looking for a 2 player game, then this is it. Don't get too intimidated 
 by all the challenges, as it starts off easy. You might need the manual first, because they assume 
 you know the basics of the game, but after a few surgeries, you will get the hang of it. So sharpen 
 your scalpels, put on your gloves, and make way, the doctors are in the house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Two short years ago, I was blessed with a very entertaining, challengeing, and interesting sleeper 
 hit, called "Trauma Center: Under the Knife". It provided a great difficulty level, fun characters, 
 and just a hell of a lot of fun. Even though I got scared of the bomb and dragged out my adventure, 
 the game was well work playing.
  The breakthrough game was preceeded by Trauma Center: Second Opinion. In this game, we got a new 
 6th chapter, a new character, improved controls and graphics, and we learned our hero, Derek Stiles, 
 could talk. Even though it was the same game, it was just as entertaining, if not more, pushing 
 the Wii to it's capabilities.
  Now, we have Trauma Center: New Blood we follow the story of two new doctors, Markus Vaugh and 
 Valerie Blaylock. Markus and Val are already accomplished surgeons who are just striving to reach 
 the top of their career. But, there are some road bumps along their career. The game starts out 
 fairly simple. You start by reconstructing bones, extracting tumors, and saving nuns who were crushed 
 by collapsing churches. However, each doctor has the "Healing Touch" which helps them overcome 
 some difficulties in surgeries. Mark's Healing Touch slows down time, while Val's prevents the 
 patient's vitals from falling. Early on in the game, you encoutner a new disease called Stigma, 
 like the previous installments' GUILT. There are numerous strains that require different treamtments. 
 This disease takes you to many locations and hospitals in order to knock it out once and for all.
 
  That's all I'll say about the story. I really don't want to spoil much more, especially one huge 
 secret that players of the previous installemnts will be very happy about.
  The game plays very well. There are a vast array of surgeries to go through. Unlike the previous 
 installments, there are many more life like surgeries instead of focusing all of out energy on 
 the terrorist disease. You are doing skin grafts in one operation, and appendectomies in another. 
 There is just a great variety this time around. The controls are tight as they've always been and 
 the surgeries are just tons of fun to perform. And the directions from the nurse/s are fine. The 
 reason why the big time reviewers can't get their way through an operation is because they're too 
 good for text and hit the skip button. I'll grant that there are one or two operations with rough 
 directions. Other than that, the instructions are fine, and the game is just loads of fun. I can't 
 judge co-op, because I haven't done it, and I'm the only one who's halfway decent at video games 
 in my house. But it does seem entertaining. Occasionally the game mixes it up by making you unlock 
 a toy lock so that you don't drown. Whoops. I didn't say that. wink The game plays just as well 
 if not better than under the knife and second opinion.
  The sound and graphics are nice too. They're not stunning, but they're good. The best graphics 
 are during the cut scenes where the characters and backgrounds have beautiful detail and texturing. 
 More motion from the characters would be nice, and maybe a few organs could be more realistic. 
 There is an interesting soundtrack with some remixed tunes from UtK and SO and it's own new operation 
 songs and cut scene tunes. Also, there is some nice voice over work. Your nurse's voice makes you 
 want to slap her across the face at times, and sometimes characters are emotionless, but for the 
 most part, there is some nice voice over. The graphics and sounds are overall successful.
  Presentation is crisp and clean. The open cinematic has the feel of House, and that whole thing 
 just made me laugh because the relevance is just so strong. Other than that, there are simple menus 
 with a nice look and feel. With the occasional glitch where the A button doesn't respond, the presentation 
 is very nice. Oh. The box art just flat out sucks. Sorry Atlus. You can do better, and you have 
 done better. Lastly, replay value. There are three levels of difficulty. Hard, Super Hard, Incredibly 
 Hard, and you've gotta be kidding me. Oh. Sorry. I mean easy, hard, and medium. The difficulty 
 drives you to keep playing and it's so much fun, you'll want to go through the game numerous times. 
 There are also challenge missions which are extremely tough and intense, that any player will get 
 a kick out of.
  Overall, this game is amazing, no surprise to me. I had palpatations when this game was announced, 
 out of excitement. I'm pleased to say that the game delivers in every aspect. The WFC ranking are 
 an interesting addition too, to keep you pulling for the top spot. This game is not gross, so don't 
 worry. An absolute must buy for any Wii owner. Don't wait for Christmas, or whatever you celebrate. 
 Get it now, love it, hug it, use it as a teddy bear when you go to sleep. Easily one of the top 
 three Wii games so far. An absolutely incredible achievement. Fantastic job Atlus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love the Trauma Center series. The original for the DS was perfect to demonstrate 
 the capabilities of the DS when it first came out, and the series has translated almost perfectly 
 to the Wii. Playing this game though, it just felt a bit too familiar. 
  
  The problematic familiar aspects to the game are that a lot of the surgeries are very similar to 
 the previous game. I'm pretty sure that the first putting the bones back together was exactly from 
 the surgery like that in Second Opinion. Also, there are no new tools to use on your surgeries. 
 There are a few new mechanics during special situations, but your core tools stay the same. It's 
 safe to say that the surgeries and tools could be varied up a little bit.
  
  Moving on past the bad, the good is what fans of the series love. First of all, it's challenging. 
 There are multiple difficulty levels, but even on normal towards the end of the game, you'll be 
 stressing. 
  
  The visuals are as ever highly stylized. Not so much the surgeries themselves, but in between. 
 The character models once again are anime esque, but are quite possibly better looking than the 
 original. 
  
  Going along with the presentation, the sound quality in the game has been improved greatly. It 
 has a great soundtrack and VOICE ACTING! Thank god for that, because if you know Trauma Center, 
 you know it's a dramatic, wordy game and reading everything gets to be a chore. Voice acting in 
 this series is a godsend, and the good thing is, none of the voices are particularly bad.
  
  A new edition to the series is co-op mode. This makes things easier in a sense, but at the 
 same time if you're not in sync with your buddy, well things can get to be a mess and then your 
 patient just gets on the four o'clock train to six feet under FAST.
  
  Over all, Trauma Center is a great sequel, it just could stand to see some new variations to the 
 series. If you're a fan of the series, buy it, if not, its a great time to become one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan659
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most intesting games on the wii. The game is as you most know a surgeon 
 game and its a blast. So if you played the last two games you will feel a little disapointment 
 because of the lack of new gameplay. The story is that you cut people up and mess with there insides 
 which is alway fun. So two new doctors Dr. vaun (male) and dr. Baylock (female) . The diffculty is 
 easy at the begining but amped up to hard sometimes annoying. the oporations are not very realalistic 
 but very funny at the same time. So if you got 50$ bucks and want a fun time and a good laugh then 
 pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: New Blood is a fantastic puzzle/ simulation game about... surgery... It is more 
 fun than it sounds, REALLY! This is the sequel to my favorite game of all time, Trauma Center: 
 Second Opinion.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same. They put a little bit of polish on all of the graphics, 
 characters, menus, and Icons. There are also some full-pictures during the dialouge, for example 
 when there is a fire is shows a full picture of the man burning, and when Elaina arrives a shot 
 of her getting the patient out of the van Other than that it looks pretty much the same.
  
  The gameplay... is the same... it is played the same way, however it is still fun. They have added 
 new elements here and there including massaging the heart, and co-op. The co-op is great. A smart, 
 and fun addition to the series.
  
  The sound is new. The music, sfx, clinks, clanks, and beeps are new. Most things and elements of 
 sound are new for the most part. One dramatic change is the voice acting. It is actually there 
 now. It is mostly dry acting. It is kinda borings, but when they yell they actually yell. Other 
 than that voice acting is not all that special.
  
  
  
  there are a lot of new operations such as pulling 
 things out of a muscle, fixing rib cages, and putting in a pace-maker. The operations are, like 
 Games Spot said, gruesome, but not gross.
  
  Overall this is a worthy addition to the Trauma Center Universe. And defiantly a game you should 
 add to your game collection. However voice acting could have been better, and there could have 
 been a tad bit Newer. Oh and about the difficulty, it really is not that hard, to me, im a master 
 at puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorthax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is my first venture into the Trauma Center series as well as my first review of a Trauma Center 
 game, so my points for creativity and originality are going to weigh heavily into this one.
  
  Ill start by saying that I LOVE this game. I have been playing it with my girlfriend on co-operative 
 mode and we have been having a blast with it. You start the game by being introduced to the two 
 main characters (played by both you and your partner) and after a little story and introduction, 
 I was thrown right into surgery. Before each surgery there is a bit of dialogue told through still 
 drawings of the characters. Thankfully, all of the dialogue is very nicely voice-acted, however, 
 some of it is a bit silly and could have been cut-but its all easily fast-forwarded if you read 
 faster than they talk. 
  
  Next, you are sent to a briefing room in which a nurse will give you the low-down on the surgery 
 you are about to perform. Here is where the nurse will tell you the goals of the surgery, special 
 conditions, and what complications to look out for. Now your ready to slice open your patient and 
 begin! 
  
  The graphics during the surgeries are not grotesque or very realistic looking. Instead, the artists 
 went for a clear and simple presentation-a relief to me personally. I think they could have upped 
 the graphical presentation of the bones/muscles etc a little more than they did. The graphics work 
 well for the game, though. Ok so the surgeries themselves are a blast! You have the use of your 
 left hand (nun-chuck controller) and right hand (Wiimote) as a surgeon. The nun-chuck serves as 
 a selector to choose which tool you will use (forceps, scalpel, needle etc) . The wiimote is where 
 the action is, you slice/suture/drain/reconstruct bones etc with the wiimote. It takes a steady 
 hand but it works very well. 
  
  During surgeries you are tasked to perform everything from reconstructing broken bones (placing 
 them back together in a puzzle fashion) to replacing a pace-maker (disconnecting and removing the 
 old one and installing the new one) . These surgeries vary in their difficulty, some of them I found 
 to be extremely difficult while others posed no problems for me at all. The difficulty settings 
 help if you are stuck on a certain surgery, just knock down the difficulty down a bit. There are 
 a lot of factors which contribute to the challenging nature of this game, one is a steady hand 
 (it's a must) two is there are often time limits on the surgeries (if you don't finish in a certain 
 amount of time your patient dies) three there is little room for mistakes (a few mistakes and you've 
 killed your patient) and four you must learn the steps involved in performing each process (you 
 cant just jump in and take out a tumor, you have to follow the Powell Procedure in order to complete 
 the task) . 
  
  So, naturally, its very rewarding when you do complete the surgery. During the surgery you are 
 graded on each action you perform (a Good or Cool or Bad will pop up) to let you know how you are 
 doing at performing the necessary tasks. At the end of the surgery (once completed) you will be 
 graded based on your performance (A Specialist, B Senior Surgeon, C Resident or something like 
 that) . 
  
  The coolest part of Trauma Center though, and the part which has me coming back for more is how 
 unique and creative this game is. It is such a perfect use of the motion sensing technology on 
 the Wii. It just makes me hope that more games as original and fun as this one is are on the horizon. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought it would be a lot of fun and anyone could play it, turns out slipping 
 your hand to even the slightest amount drops the patients vitals down really fast. And considering 
 I'm not that coordinated, many failures happened. But if you do have a good steady hand and enjoy 
 the surgery genre of games, then this is by all means a great game. To anyone else, good luck \ 
 When I got this game I thought it would be a lot of fun and anyone could play it, turns out slipping 
 your hand to even the slightest amount drops the patients vitals down really fast. And considering 
 I'm not that coordinated, many failures happened. But if you do have a good steady hand and enjoy 
 the surgery genre of games, then this is by all means a great game. To anyone else, good luck/
 
  When I got this game I thought it would be a lot of fun and anyone could play it, turns out slipping 
 your hand to even the slightest amount drops the patients vitals down really fast. And considering 
 I'm not that coordinated, many failures happened. But if you do have a good steady hand and enjoy 
 the surgery genre of games, then this is by all means a great game. To anyone else, good luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voxana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for the Wii. 
  
  I must say I was very skeptical at first. I read the review on it first, which was good, but was 
 not really impressed with the graphics on the back of the case but went ahead with my purchase.
 
  
  The controls are great, I never thought attempting surgeries would be so fun!! While single player 
 is fun, multi-player is even better. The thing I like most about co-op mode what the fact the other 
 person playing has the exact same abilities and controls as player 1. At the store the kid told 
 me one person is the doctor and the other is the nurse but that was wrong. Both players are doctors. 
 It takes practice to work in tandem but very soon you realize that you might be better at some 
 things and your partner playing might be better at others so you split things and try to work fast 
 to save the patient.
  
  I also like how quick it is to pick up and play. A few practice tutorials and your ready for some 
 major surgery. While it is easy to pick up and play the game gets very challenging and you really 
 have to be on the ball to progress. Someone on here in a review said the game was hard because 
 it does not tell you anything but that is wrong. The game starts slow and they show you exactly 
 what you need to do. It is up to you to remember some things on your own about what you have learned 
 in previous surgeries that the game does not remind you of. This makes the game better in my opinion. 
 If it tells you everything whats the fun in that??
  
  Good game all around, single and multi-player alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwiiman223
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I really didn't expect it to be this fun! When I got home I popped 
 this little gem into the wii, not sure what to expect., I began the first surgery and by the time 
 I finished, I was completely hooked. It surprised me how fun a surgery simulator can actually be. 
 I never played a trauma center game before this but I am glad I tried New Blood.
  
  Gameplay: I was pleasantly surprised when I found out how responsive the controls are. Switching 
 tools with the nunchuck felt really good and the point and click interface with the wiimote felt 
 even better. After a while I was pulling out shards of glass with the forceps then quickly switching 
 to the suteres to stitch up a wound. Also included is a new co-op mode which is also very cool 
 and addicting. Although from what I've heard, it isn't much different from the past games in the 
 series.
  
  Story: The game starts out in Alaska, at Montgomery memorial hospital. The two main doctors are 
 Doctor Vaughn and Doctor Blaylock. Before each operation, you choose one to play as. As the game 
 progresses you get recruited by Caduceus (a major medical organization) and you find out about 
 a dangerous disease called Stigma. I am not going to spoil the games full story though. All throughout 
 the game, the dialog is fully voiced, bringing the characters (and story) to life. All and all 
 its one of my absolute favorite wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is indeed one innovative franchise. Who would have imagined twenty years ago that 
 we would currently be playing a game that simulates surgeries? Most people would think, and with 
 some reason, that such a formula would never work because it has a need for extremely responsive 
 and precise controls, and even short five years ago, having such controls seemed unlikely.
  
  But Nintendo is an innovative company itself, and the creation of the Nintendo DS gave developers 
 a massive amount of opportunities to build new games that wouldn't be so fun if they were played 
 using a regular control scheme, and Trauma Center was one of the best games created because of 
 this gameplay revolution.
  
  The series was born on the Nintendo DS and it made full use of the Stylus during a huge variety 
 of surgeries, when the Wii was announced it was obvious that a sequel for the DS titles would be 
 only a matter of time, and as soon as Nintendo's new system was out so was the sequel, Second Opinion.
 
  
  If you are not familiar with the gameplay then allow me to explain it to you. In Trauma Center 
 you will control a doctor that constantly has to perform surgeries, during them you will have to 
 use a set of tools to save your patient from an impending death. As I have previously mentioned, 
 having a responsive control scheme is necessary on a game like this and Trauma Center New Blood 
 is a complete success regarding this specific area.
  
  There are six different tools to use during the surgery, each one corresponds to a certain direction 
 of the analog stick, to use them all you have to do is to push the stick into the desired direction 
 and use the tool by pressing the A-Button. This quick access may seem a tad complicated once you 
 start the game, but when you get to more critical missions you will be thanking the producers for 
 allowing you to continue the procedure while switching from one object to another.
  
  Speaking of critical missions, the game's difficulty can be set by the player before all the missions 
  the only exceptions being the Challenge Missions where you can't change the difficulty  so anybody 
 must be able to enjoy the game. If you are too lazy and just want to finish the game just play 
 it on the easiest difficulty and cruise through most missions, if you are the kind of player who 
 has been looking for a real challenge and thinks that games are getting way too easy then the Extreme 
 Mode will probably change your mind.
  
  The missions are increasingly difficult which helps the learning curve and more unskilled players. 
 By the end of each mission you will be awarded a number of points based on your actions during 
 the full procedure and also a rank that varies from C to S. The scores can be sent to Nintendo 
 via Wi-Fi, so that if you are a competitive player you will always have a good reason to come back 
 and play some more.
  
  New Blood doesn't bring too many novelties when compared to its predecessor, it is basically the 
 same game but with a bunch of new missions to be completed. This time around the characters start 
 their careers on a small hospital located somewhere in Alaska, but as the storyline unfolds you 
 will end up having to save the world from a dreadful disease called Stigma. The story involves 
 so much drama, that you will feel like you are watching a medical series on TV.
  
  This feeling is also perfectly captured by the game's soundtrack. During bad moments of the procedure, 
 such as when an unexpected illness is discovered during what seemed to be like a routine surgery 
 the music automatically changes, setting a mood of urgency, it is up to you  as a doctor  to 
 stay calm and keep focused on your ultimate goal.
  
  Before each surgery you will have to watch scenes where the characters talk to each other and deal 
 with their daily problems, although these scenes are interesting their presentation is lacking. 
 All you will see are motionless character models appearing on the screen and saying something in 
 front of a scenario that is also still. Despite the nice voice acting I can't help thinking how 
 it would be better had they produced some actual cutscenes. 
  
  Maybe the developers wouldn't be able to put so much talking into one DVD had they made the cutscenes 
 given the huge quantity of dialogues, but since the story isn't the main factor of the game most 
 people won't feel too bothered by it. In fact, for some people this presentation may give the game 
 a unique feel.
  
  One of the best aspects of this game is that, despite the looming threat of this extremely harmful 
 and crazy disease, you will also be performing a lot of surgeries on which you will have to deal 
 with tumors, massive internal bleedings, organs transplants and other procedures that often happen 
 in real life, but according to the producers despite the real diseases, the procedures that are 
 present in the game are not based on the actual procedure used by a true doctor, however the game 
 doesn't lose its charm.
  
  The graphics aren't very detailed because there isn't actually much to be shown. Since all you 
 will be performing throughout the game are surgeries, all you will see is the patient's body that 
 obviously has a cartoony look since there aren't many people who would buy a surgery game that 
 has realistic graphics. The colors are well used and the organs can be quickly identified by most 
 gamers.
  
  The game also features a very nice Cooperative mode where you and a friend will be performing a 
 surgery at the same time. During some surgeries you will clearly notice that the producers tried 
 to make the Cooperative mode as enjoyable as possible, because from time to time you will come 
 across a mission where you will need to perform two actions simultaneously, and with the assistance 
 of a good friend they will seem less impossible. The Cooperative Mode is very nice especially when 
 it is played on the harder difficulties, for some missions are way too easy when they are done 
 by tow surgeons. 
  
  Finally, Trauma Center New Blood is not a franchise-changing game, it is pretty much the same as 
 its predecessors. However, if you are a big fan of the series or if you have never played any of 
 the previous titles it is definitely a must-have game. The most alluring factor is that, differently 
 from a ton of other Wii games, Trauma Center is designed specifically for the system, it is one 
 of the few true creative titles produced by third-parties, without a Wiimote and a Nunchuck, this 
 game would be a major flop.
  
  Actual Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center has had to struggle through plenty of gaming prejudice since it first was released 
 on the DS. Fortunately, this generation has been the time for some completely out of the box games 
 and in that regard, Trauma Center was right at home. While surgery may not be the most popular 
 topic for a video game, it certainly is entertaining in play and it's uniqueness just makes it 
 stand out all the more.
  The storyline takes place a few years after the first game ended and you are thrown into the far 
 reaches of Alaska in a remote town with two extremely gifted doctors: Dr. Markus Vaughn, and Dr. 
 Valerie Blaylock. Apparently, the Healing Touch, a unique power that certain doctors are gifted 
 with, has become more widespread as it is the topic of much discussion between the two doctors, 
 Markus being the expert and Valerie wanting very much to learn the technique. After being treated 
 to a few tutorial-style missions that really help you learn or re-learn how everything works while 
 still being interesting, you will be thrust back to Caduceus and recruited to fight against a new 
 parasite known as Stigma. Stigma pretty much is the same thing as GUILT from the first game, just 
 with a different name and purpose. Honestly, if you played the first game, the storyline really 
 isn't all that different and even has an extremely similar ending. Fortunately though, the storyline 
 isn't the focal point of this game. That happens to be the amazing gameplay.
  You don't have to know how to be a doctor to understand how the surgery's work, you just have to 
 have a steady hand! Trauma Center does a great job of walking you through each individual step, 
 essentially telling you exactly what to do. The challenge lies in the mass amounts of tasks to 
 do at once. In one particular mission, you have to use the laser to fight some strains of stigma, 
 extract tumors, suture (sew up) lacerations, drain another form of Stigma, drain the tumors that 
 stigma leaves behind, laser some more tumors, and keep the patients vitals up... ALL AT THE SAME 
 TIME! If that doesn't sound difficult enough, you generally have a 5 minute time limit for each 
 mission! All this packed together can really make each mission pretty nerve-wracking which doesn't 
 help at all when you need to keep your hands as steady as possible! All in all, the game has plenty 
 of challenge for even the most extreme gamers but is extremely fun for everyone!
  The graphics haven't really changed much from the first game. Other than different characters and 
 backgrounds, everything's the same. All dialogue is still passed through static character shots 
 set up against different backgrounds. This system would be extremely boring if it weren't for the 
 pretty great voice overs. Most of the voiceovers really fit their characters and the three main 
 characters both do great jobs. Even most of the small, one-line characters do pretty decent jobs. 
 Overall, it's one of the few anime games where the VO's are worth listening to. You'll even find 
 yourself waiting for them to finish their lines even if you've already read the subtitled text, 
 they're that good. The only real downside about Trauma Center is that it has very little replay 
 value. A nice addition to New Blood is the ability to post your scores online through Nintendo 
 Wifi and compare them to others around the world. It's not groundbreaking by any means but it is 
 a nice feature that adds a little competitivity to the game. Once you beat the game, you have the 
 X missions to deal with which are challenging missions that involve taking out each individual 
 strain of Stigma in it's hardest mode possible. Unfortunately, they stripped this mode of it's 
 storyline so it ends up being a lot less entertaining than before. Finally, the co-op mode has 
 a lot of problems with it. When you do co-op, the game really doesn't change at all from it's single 
 player counterpart. What this essentially means is that the missions are all far too easy with 
 2 players. There are a few missions that are still challenging in co-op but they are few and far 
 between. Maybe enough to entertain you for an hour but not much more than that.
  Trauma Center: New Blood doesn't really offer you anything that the first one hadn't already but 
 if you enjoyed the first, you'll definitely find plenty to love in this one.
  
  SUMMARY:
  Pros:
  *Challenging single player campaign
  *Great voice-overs
  *More of the same surgical 
 awesomeness!
  *Controls handle perfectly (which, if you have an unsteady hand, could be a good or bad thing ;) 
 )
  *Interesting characters make up for slightly weak story
  Cons:
  *More of the same...
  *Little to no replay value
  *Co-op is severely lacking in challenge
 
  
  Actual Score: 8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: New Blood is one of those games that some hardcore gamers won't try, because of 
 the fact that it just has you doing surgery. However, this game is a lot funner than some may think, 
 and offers a good challenge for the best of gamers. With great controls, doing surgery makes feels 
 very natural with the Wii remote. The graphics aren't they greatest but for a game like this, they 
 don't need to be. The addition of voice acting in thise game makes it more interesting, and allows 
 for a betetr experience. The story is suprisingly deep and has you fighting off a parasite that 
 is the result of a medical terrorism organization that is trying to kill people. The game conists 
 of different missions, which are usually doing different surgery on people, but in some cases offers 
 alternative goals. New to the series is the ability to play co-op, which makes for a funner time,. 
 if you want a friend to join in. Over-all, everyone should definitly give this game a try, and 
 most people won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Updated game play, better voice acting, deeper story, same fun game play
  
  The Bad: Too similar to other games, some operations are extremely frustrating, starts to get boring 
 about two-thirds through
  
  I was really hoping New Blood was more than what it is. I expected a full on sequel but instead 
 it's like Trauma Center 1.5 instead of 2. While Second Opinion was just an update of the DS game 
 New Blood is supposed to be what happened ten years after that. You play two surgeons named Markus 
 Vaughn and Valerie Blaylock. It is ten years after the GUILT incident and a new disease arises 
 known as Stigma. This is where NB disappointed me. It felt way too much like the other games in 
 all aspects. After about half way through treating regular injuries you have to start battling 
 Stigma and the game just starts to get boring after awhile. While there is a slight graphical update, 
 better voice acting, and a deeper story it doesn't help much. The game still has such difficult 
 operations that it makes you want to stop playing the game. It feels like Atlus never play tests 
 these games since they feel almost impossible to finish right. I'm hoping Atlus comes out with 
 a mature rated sequel that is more realistic. I want to see real gore and REALLY feel like I'm 
 performing on a human and not an anime character. If you like the other games you can pass if you 
 want but you should pick this version up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipky
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  New Blood is basically Second Opinion with a few added features, features that dont improve the 
 game whatsoever. After paying $50 for new blood, I wished I had saved 20 and bought Second Opinion.
 
  
  First off-
  The surgeries are fun. I'll put them into 4 categories.
  
  1. Normal Surgeries
  These are fun surgeries that a beginner can probably beat on Normal-sometimes 
 Easy. Many of these are different from Second Opinion, an are fun and new. Ex. Removing Appendix
 
  
  2. Two player only/ Extreme Difficulty Surgeries
  Some surgeries in this game are only meant for two people. It impossible to beat it on Hard by 
 yourself. It is very hard to beat on Normal. (I can beat most Normal and Stigma Surgeries on Hard) Sometimes 
 there is not enough time to finish the surgery alone. These will have you frustrated. Ex. Covering 
 severe Burns in 5 minutes.
  
  3. Stigma
  Stigma is the new GUILT. Stigma is exactly the same as GUILT. Every single Stigma Surgery will 
 be reminding you of GUILT. You'll be using the Laser A LOT, You'll use the Drain. And dont forget 
 ultrasound/cutting people open to reveal GUILT/Stigma, and Using Serums. The boss Stigma is disappointing. 
 IT is 10 times easier than Savato, and 10 times shorter and not as fun. 
  
  4. Challenge series/xtreme/3 people in one surgery.
  The new Challenge series is 3 people in 
 one surgery. It is challenging. It is fun. (Spoil) In one challenge series you tackle guilt. Xtreme 
 difficulty is Very Challenging. Surgeries where you have to operate on person after person are 
 very frustrating, especially when you mess up and you have to do it all again.
  
  Features-
  The voice acting and multiplayer are convenient, but nothing more. At many times in 
 the game, the voice acting can get really annoying. Especially when the patient is at less than 
 10 vitals and the nurses are screaming things you already know. As for multiplayer, If youre a 
 hardcore surgeon (lol) like me, youll probably find it easier playing by yourself. You wont have 
 to worry about the other player messing up. The music is also Very disappointing, and the plot 
 is Exact to second opinion. Wifi Rankings is a cool feature.
  
  Misc. Doctors have 2 different healing touches.
  If you've never played Trauma Center before, 
 Second Opinion is for you. If you want a sequel and new surgeries, New Blood does a good job at 
 replicating Second Opinion.
  
  New Blood would be a TREMENDOUSLY GOOD game by itself, but Second Opinion was more new, exciting, 
 inovative, when it came out, so new blood is nothing more than a sequel.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center New Blood for the Wii
  
  The Good- Nice Controls, Interesting gameplay, keeps you on your feet
  
  The Bad- Weaker story 
 then the last game, Not many improvements from the last game
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 The gameplay is the exact same preety much compaired to the last trauma center game 
 and therefore if you played Trauma Center Second Opinion you have played new blood. The gameplay 
 is still solid and fun to play, but it could of used some new features besides the new 2P Co-op 
 option. 
  
  Graphics- 7/10 the games graphics are ok and all, but there not very realistic at all, which maybe 
 is for the best considering the topic, but a little more detail could of been nice. Also the solid 
 pics of each character was old school, but they did add a few pics outside the normal box so to 
 speak, but still for this generation I expected a bit more from a sequel.
  
  Sound- 8/10 The sound is quiet good in this one and maybe even better then the last game. All the 
 sounds fit perfectly with whats going on. The new added voices are preety solid overall and is 
 used through the whole game which is a nice improvement from almost no voices from the last game.
 
  
  Storyline- 7/10 this games storyline is like a waterdown version of the last one and is not very 
 amusing considering its another virus thats used to kill people on purpose, sound familar? 
  
  Extra material and Replay Value 6/10 3 modes to choose from not counting the X missions and 
 some added stuff. The X missions have no quotes, storyline zip so it made it feel I don't know POINTLESS? 
 Operating on a twisted guy who was infecting with everything and had evil music and everything 
 was fun and challanging this is just challange and thats not fun. 
  Gameplay x3 
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  
  Overall- 77 out of 100 for 
 a total of 7.5 out of 10
  This game is awesome in its own right, but since its a sequel it shows nothing new to the formula, 
 no cool extra's and a watered down story from the first game. For a sequel this could of been so 
 much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidxaznxboi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying that I've played all of the Trauma Center games. I own the DS version 
 and the other Trauma Center: Second Opinion for the Wii. This game, Trauma Center: New Blood, connects 
 to the story with Second Opinion. It's basically about a new virus, Stigma (Much like Second Opinion's 
 GUILT) , being released and everyone is suddenly dying from it. But guess what? You're the only 
 one that can help them and you have to find a cure and a way to defeat all the versions of the 
 virus. This game does have an extraneous amount of story plot in it and it is not surprising if 
 you use the "skip" button to pass through parts of the story. 
  
  Stigma is a very familiar virus, as you'll notice, but it has many twists. When I first started 
 this game and saw the first Stigma, I went, "Oh great.. I think I just bought the same game," because 
 the beginning was all too familiar. BUT, it wasn't the same. I went through the first strand and 
 found out that the little twist is that the virus could combine with each other and make 6x as 
 many cuts as it would've done if it were by itself. Being cocky, I accidentally killed the patient 
 the first time I was doing this stage since I thought I already knew what was going to happen. 
 
  
  New Blood offers new surgeries such as Brain Surgery and 3rd degree burned patients and it gets 
 you back to the days of learning on what to do (If you've played previous Trauma Centers) If you 
 haven't played any previous Trauma Centers, then this game will be a great puzzle to you, but in 
 the good way. Sure, you will probably kill a couple people, but, in a weird maniacal way, it's 
 fun! You learn new things every surgery and you progress more dexterity and accuracy as you improve 
 your skills through the game, just like a real doctor! (Kind of)
  
  Graphics in this game are great, exactly like the Second Opinion. 
  
  Music is great too, much 
 like Second Opinion, but it has a good twist in the sounds that keep it fresh. 
  
  Difficulty shouldn't be too much of an issue in this game because you can change difficulty at 
 any time. But otherwise, it's pretty hard mainly because it's aimed towards people at least 13 
 years of age. It would be really hard to play this game if you were a toddler or child and I wouldn't 
 recommend it for them because they probably wouldn't like it anyways. 
  
  To justify why I didn't give it a 10 was because of it's extremely long story line. I seriously 
 think that anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 of your game time would be from reading/listening to the story 
 line if you didn't skip it. I also didn't like the familiar beginning. It actually bored me since 
 I've done those procedures so many times. 
  
  Oh, the Co-Op. The Co-Op in this game is great! I have not been able to experiment much with Co-Op, 
 but I did one surgery with it and it makes the game much more fun. Having a friend beside you playing 
 doctor makes the purchase of this game worthwhile.. unless you have horrible friends where all 
 they would do is get the scalpel and just kill the guy. That would suck. 
  
  Overall, this is a great game and I think you should definitely go buy it. However, if you aren't 
 into puzzles and don't have patience, then this might not be the game for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdBeer69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: New Blood takes place about 10 years after Second Opinion. You choose to play between 
 two doctors through-out the game, one of which has some history with the events that happen in 
 the game. It has a similar pace and storyline as the previous installment, and players will soon 
 find themselves in familiar surroundings. You end up combating a new pathogen known as Stigma, 
 which feels like fighting GUILT all over again. Each strain of Stigma is different then GUILT, 
 but still relatively easy to get rid of. Also, the Healing Touch doesn't seem to play as big of 
 a part in this one as it did before. If you know what you're doing, you can make it though the 
 game and only use it a few times, even though the last operation will require you to use it and 
 time it perfectly.
  
  Through-out most of the game, you will be doing procedures that relate closely to those in Second 
 Opinion, however they did add some new elements to the game, such as kidney transplants and brain 
 surgery. Either way, Atlus kept it just as fun and addicting as before, and a few parts do get 
 quite intense. It's also nice that every bit of the dialog in the game is voiced, which helps for 
 those who don't like to read. Some of the dialog seems a bit pointless and it does get very repetitive 
 (i. e. when they tell you how to do something a million times) and a couple characters in the game 
 have a dull voices.
  
  Overall, I don't think the storyline or the characters were as good as they were in Second Opinion, 
 but don't let that hold you back. The co-op introduced in the game makes it well worth playing, 
 especially since each operation raises the difficulty for co-op. That alone adds a good deal of 
 replay value, as well as the wi-fi option, where you can upload your scores for each individual 
 operation to the internet for rankings.
  
  It may not be quite as good as it's predecessor, but it's still definitely worth playing, rather 
 you're playing solo or have a friend to co-op with. Oh, and for those of you who miss Dr. Stiles, 
 he does make an appearance towards the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I was studying to be in the medical profession then switched to computer tech (yep big leap) . So 
 when I seen this game I thought this would be an awesome concept on something like the Wii. I heard 
 the first game was hard and very fun and got a decent rating. Sounded perfect for me. So i rented 
 expecting something to finally make my Wii purchase not seem wasted. Wow what a crappy game.
  
  I don't know if its beacuse I don't have a manual or because I didn't play the first one but 
 this game is HARD. Simply because you really have no idea what to do. You got some easy tutorials 
 you can choose to take and what not but when you actually working on "people" in some cases your 
 stuck on what to do. In one case I had mere seconds right after it started and the patient kept 
 dying. I did it right but no matter what I did or how fast I was I lost.
  
  Does it require two players? I hope not because that would be a pain since I can't pull friends 
 out of my back pocket. Even when switching to easy it doesn't change much. Your instructions are 
 "Ok do this" and then you still end of losing because you are stuck after doing that and then doing 
 something else. Lets face it maybe its meant to be real so you can think quick like a real doctor 
 but WERE not really doctors and the game will only work if you do it the correct way and when you 
 got a ton of items on screen and 20 things going on at once you don't want to do the same thing 
 a million times.
  
  Now for the game review itsself.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple depending on difficulty and all that. You point to an object you 
 want and from there its varies. Kind of like Wario Smooth Moves. If you use the tweezer things 
 you press two buttons and pull out glass carefully then point and click something else and click 
 again to clean up any blood then click the tweezers to grab some gauze to put over the wound and 
 so on and so forth. Really the game gets repetitive in that nature which really killed it for me 
 after awhile too. It does have other things something but mostly its the same thing over and over 
 and over. Later they add things like drawing a perfect star on screen to get in basically a "Zen 
 Mode". Silly. 
  
  As I said some things are really easy to do while others are amazingly hard. You'll kill the same 
 game 1000 times before you break the rule of "No Guides" and look it up and wonder why it didn't 
 say that instead of making you do something the opposite way.
  
  The graphics are nothing amazing. Alot of the time its really the same thing but just with moved 
 cuts, breaks and what not in diffrent spots. But I guess you can't expect much since this is a 
 game about being a doctor. Sometimes you get sick of it though. When you not fixing people there 
 are cutscenes..... LOTS OF THEM. So many that once again it was another thing that killed the game 
 for me. I don't mind a story but man 9/10 of the game is custscenes. I just want to play and since 
 the scenes get boring after awhile you learn to use the skip button alot.
  
  The controls are easy, almost to easy. Although if you have a shaky hand it might be a little challenging. 
 Since I am disabled my hands are always shaking, nothing major but enough that if I were really 
 cutting open someone it would be a nasty looking scar. This game requires speed but at the same 
 time accuracy. 
  
  The music and sound are pretty good. Well ok theres really not much in the way of sound. If anything 
 the most common sound you'll hear is some almost flat lining all the time. Keep the BP high! The 
 music is nice, nothing that drives you nuts.
  
  Overall I'd rent this first. This is defiantly a game that you would REALLY have be into to like. 
 I don't see everyone liking something like this. If you can deal with no real instructions, fast 
 paced gameplay but precision moving.... then this if for you. If not don't even try it. And if you 
 can get by the rambling for hours to this is also for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuna7780
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Quick Plot:
  After fighting the life threatening GUILT in previous Trauma Center games, what else would we have 
 to worry about? In TC: New Blood we have two main protagonists, Markus Vaun and Valerie Blaylock. 
 Starting off in the chilling lands of Alaska in year 1928 they are transferred to California to 
 operate on a doctor researching Stigma. who eventually got it in research. After the doctor being 
 kidnapped, Vaun and Blaylock are transferred to Caduceus, a medical research lab to prevent existing 
 and new diseases, to do more research on Stigma. Trying not to spoil the plot and fun, lets leave 
 it at that.
  
  Graphics and Designs:
  The graphics of TC: NB are much better than the previous game on the Wii. Lines seem to be smoother 
 and the menus and briefing more intricate in designs. Atlus also took out the time to create more 
 backgrounds and create more not-so-important character pictures go on screen. The thing that bothers 
 me most is that Markus looks strikingly similar to Dr. McDreamy from Grey's Anatomy. Honestly, 
 look it up on Google and compare.
  
  Music and Voices:
  Having full voiceovers helps create more of an atmosphere and build more character. To me, it helps 
 give more of an impression of what they want to say. I know most of you haven't brushed up on your 
 Latin. All of these medical terms are just hard to pronounce. In a way, it's also an edumakashunal 
 experience to actually KNOW how to say some of these terms. Also, am I the only person here who 
 thought "Caduceus" was pronounced "Kah-Day-Shus"?
  
  Game Play and Challenge Levels:
  As for myself being a TC vet, I have different ideas upon the difficulty levels. When I play on 
 single player, I just get frustrated. When I play on Normal, the game is WAY too easy. When I play 
 on Hard, the game is way too hard. Can't they make a difficultly level called Nord- a mixture between 
 Normal and Hard?
  Anyway, to make the game a bit harder, you can move the screen's position because there may be 
 multiple problems going on at once. You may be operating on a lung, for example., and the upper 
 part of the lung has glass lodged into it and is hemorrhaging. Below, off-screen, you can have 
 cuts you need to suture and creating mass amounts of blood.
  There is also more operation variety. The different scenarios make you keep interest in playing. 
 One cool operation I encountered involved third degree burns and replacing skin! Your tools are 
 the same as the previous games. Not to worry! Using these same tools there are different things 
 you can do with them! 
  A large problem that serves in TC: NB is that it's harder to create the stars for the Healing Touch. 
 The lines have to be much neater and a faster. Another little bugger is when you cut open or suture 
 your patients, regardless of how messy you are, you still get a "Cool" too easily. You also have 
 to be more careful when you place or remove an object as for if you don't get it placed right, 
 you have a large risk of killing your patient. Some of us may not have this much accuracy, but 
 we must deal with it.
  
  Multiplayer:
  In my opinion, multiplayer is awesome. It makes the game more difficult, but you also need to cooperate 
 with the person you're playing with! I've experience multiple problems with my partners during 
 surgery. You must communicate and strategize when your patient dies. You can also distinguish who 
 you're playing as, so there shouldn't be much confusion. A cool feature is that you can use each 
 doctor's Healing Touch in one operation if you feel that you're really screwed. Beware of n00b 
 TC players. Much harder to play with.
  
  WiFi:
  Not much here. You can just check you're ranking online for the operations you've done.
  
  
 I hope you found my review helpful for Trauma Center: New Blood. Now all of you aspiring doctors -- 
 Find out how to cure the many forms of Stigma! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
