-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultimate Band
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/ultimateband/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Changing the voice of the frontman is a nice touch.
 The drum controls almost feel like playing the drums.
 Charming characters and family-friendly presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The bass controls are too finicky.
 Playing as the frontman is lame and tiring.
 Unreliable gesture recognition.
 Being forced to replay songs isn't fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Control and design issues break up the band. 

  Before you think about picking up Ultimate Band, there are two things you should know. First: theres 
 no need to purchase expensive plastic instruments, instead youll use your Wii Remote, Nunchuk, 
 and imagination to mimic the instruments on screen. Second: although other full band rhythm games 
 create the illusion of playing a song by tying notes to your button presses, Ultimate Band does 
 not. So while you'll wave or wiggle your remote in time with a song, making a mistake will not 
 affect the music. These two differences are what will make or break the game for many. This isnt 
 Rock Band or Guitar Herobut youll still have a moderately good time as long as you overlook a 
 few control issues  

           You'll come closer to feeling as if you're playing the instrument if you switch the game 
 to its hardest difficulty.      

  The story follows a band of your creation as it works its way through the Rock Dome tournament 
 to become the best band around. Because this is a Disney Interactive game for the Wii, the cutscenes 
 and dialogue have a wholesome and cheerful vibe. It may only serve as a means to usher you to your 
 next set list, but the story's Hannah Montana-type enthusiasm is enjoyable and should please younger 
 fans and families.  

  The Career mode is structured in rounds of three songs per venue. You'll have to achieve a set 
 number of awards before moving on to the next venue and eventually to a round-ending band battle. 
 Performing well will sometimes earn you extra awards, but because you are forced to replay songs 
 with different instruments it's a tedious system and hurts the pace of the game. Playing songs 
 involves waving the remote and/or Nunchuk, strumming the remote like a guitar pick, or swinging 
 it like a drumstick in time with the music. The margin of error is wide and the default difficulty 
 is easy, so as long as your remote is moving, youll usually hit the notes correctly. On the hardest 
 difficulty, the game adds in the C and Z buttons on guitars and asks for more complex maneuvers 
 from the other instruments.  

  Your band is made up of four players: the lead guitar, the bass guitar, drums, and the frontman. 
 Each position uses the remote and the Nunchuk to replicate the feeling of playing the instrument, 
 though some are more satisfying than others. All of the instruments have a number of arbitrary 
 remote twirls and clapping gestures that are distracting and out of place, but the lead guitar 
 and drums come the closest to making you feel like you're playing an instrument, especially on 
 the hardest difficulty. The bass guitar controls are similar to those of the guitar, but instead 
 of using the C and Z buttons to switch between frets, you have to tilt the Nunchuk, which doesn't 
 work correctly most of the time. As for the frontman, since you'll get no points for singing into 
 the remote, your job is to hype the crowd by performing a number of ridiculous moves. You'll punch 
 your fists, wave your arms, and clap your hands, all in time to the music. Not only will you look 
 silly doing this, but you'll also feel completely disconnected from the songs because many of the 
 gestures don't fit with the music. Unfortunately, since the Career mode forces you to replay many 
 of the songs before moving on, you'll end up playing the frustrating bass or frontman parts at 
 least a few times.  

  Ultimate Band includes a couple of twists on the scoring formula of other full-band rhythm games, 
 and for the most part, they help keep you alert while involving you in the scoring process. Anytime 
 you find yourself with a down moment during a song, you can sneak in a flourish move by holding 
 a directional button and flicking the remote or Nunchuk. The flourish moves are outlandish and 
 fun, ranging from a guitar smash to a backflip off the drum set. Stacking flourishes is a great 
 way to multiply your score and keep your hands busy when your instrument isn't featured. If you 
 can wiggle the remote and Nunchuk in time with the music, you'll unlock the ability to perform 
 a grandstand. During a grandstand, the notes are hit automatically while you try to quickly match 
 a number of onscreen gestures to score extra points. It's an interesting mechanic that has the 
 potential to help you achieve huge scores, but the game has a difficult time recognizing some of 
 the gestures. The unreliable gesture recognition is frustrating when your score determines whether 
 you'll have to replay the song for more awards.  

  Ultimate Band has just under 40 songs, all of which are covers sung by the same two people. You'll 
 need to progress through the Career mode to unlock all the songs to play in the Jam, Battle, and 
 Practice modes. The music selection features a few well-known songs by bands like Weezer and The 
 Killers, as well as a bunch of lesser-known acts and oldies, and a few stinkers. Instead of trying 
 to hide covers with soundalikes, Ultimate Band embraces them, and it does so in an interesting 
 way. Changing the gender of your frontman will change the voice singing your songs, which can lead 
 to some entertaining remixes. For example, hearing your male frontman screech his way through Avril 
 Lavigne's "Complicated" is painful, yet hilarious, while listening to a female rendition of Maroon 
 Five's "Won't Go Home Without You" isn't so bad, given Adam Lavigne's already high voice. In keeping 
 with the family-friendly theme, any objectionable lyrics have been carefully edited out, and gender-specific 
 songs, such as "Fell in Love With a Girl," are tweaked to fit the gender of your frontman. The 
 blasphemous lyric tweaks and censoring spit in the face of music purists, though parents mindful 
 of what their children are playing may appreciate what Disney has done here. The covers have a 
 nice polish to them and usually do an adequate job of re-creating the original sounds. A variety 
 of chimes, claps, and rings emitted from your remote accompany your onscreen progress, but the 
 tinny speaker doesn't sound good against the music, and the clap sounds are often out of sync. 

           Not even the frontman enjoys being the frontman.      

  The presentation in Ultimate Band is great, with scrawny characters that wouldn't be out of place 
 in a Disney cartoon movie. You can purchase new hairstyles and clothes from the store and deck 
 out your band members in all kinds of cool rock apparel. The band members animate fluidly during 
 performances and closely mimic playing along with the music being played. The attractive venues 
 range from skate parks with skateboarding fans jumping across the stage, to the rock dome perched 
 high above the city. The shiny fret boards and meters that populate the screen during gameplay 
 obscure most of this of course, unless you're playing solo.  

  Ultimate Rock Band's finicky controls, easy difficulty, and lack of connection will likely turn 
 away Rock Band and Guitar Hero veterans, but families just entering the rhythm genre will find 
 this a sufficient introductory experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
