-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Victorious Boxers: Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/hajimenoipporevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Closely matches the style of the anime on which it's based.
 Story mode is a unique way of progressing through a career.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 None of the motion-based control schemes are very good.
 Terrible voice acting.
 Actions in the ring don't seem to have any effect on the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xseed Games
Developer: Cavia Inc.
Genre: Boxing
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Victorious Boxers: Revolution is an otherwise decent boxing game that gets knocked out by clunky 
 controls. 

  Almost immediately after the Wii's unique control scheme was first shown, people began imagining 
 what a boxing game would be like on the system. Thanks to Wii Sports Boxing, they didn't have to 
 wait long to find out. But the game was shallow and felt more like a tech demo than a fully fleshed-out 
 boxing experience. Enter Victorious Boxers: Revolution, a sequel to 2001's Victorious Boxers on 
 the PlayStation 2. With 25 fighters and a story mode, there's certainly a full game here. Unfortunately, 
 the actual boxing isn't that great, no matter which control scheme you choose.  

           Hey! That guy's not wearing the wrist strap!      

  Victorious Boxers is based on 
  Fighting Spirit , an anime series known in Japan as  Hajime no Ippo , so it's not surprising that 
 it has a story mode that follows characters from the show. You play as Ippo Makunouchi, an awkward 
 student who routinely gets bullied at school. Long story short, he's befriended by someone from 
 a boxing gym, learns to fight, and decides that he will one day become the featherweight champion 
 of the world. The story is told before and after fights via anime-style cutscenes. You'll make 
 friends, enemies, friends who are enemies, and enemies who are friends on the road to the top. 

  The story can be difficult to follow because many of the fighters look the same, don't move their 
 mouths when they talk, and come and go from the storyline in the blink of an eye. Even if you do 
 get into the story, you'll likely be frustrated that it plows ahead on a predetermined path regardless 
 of what happens in the ring. You can win a fight in 60 seconds, during which time you only get 
 hit a handful of times, yet you find yourself in the hospital when the story resumes. Worse yet, 
 you can be winning a fight but the story dictates that you're supposed to lose. So even though 
 you're declared the winner in the post-fight stats screen, the game says you lost. If you don't 
 want to play the story mode, you can spar against unlocked opponents or even take on a friend in 
 a split-screen, head-to-head mode.  

  Although the story itself isn't reason enough to play, a boxing game doesn't need a story if the 
 actual boxing is good. Unfortunately, that's not the case here. There are several control schemes 
 to choose from. The primary option has you hold the Nunchuk in your left hand and the Wii Remote 
 in your right. Punching straight with either controller will make your fighter throw a jab. Throwing 
 a hook or an uppercut will result in your fighter doing the same onscreen. When you fill your meter 
 in the corner of the screen, you can hold a button down and then throw a punch, which results in 
 your fighter throwing a special punch. The punching mechanic works reasonably well on its own, 
 but it falters when combined with movement and defense, both of which are done by either tilting 
 the controllers or holding down buttons while tilting the controllers. Unless you have the controllers 
 in a perfectly neutral position, your fighter will constantly duck, bob, and weave.  

  The end result is that you feel as if you have very little control over your boxer's movements, 
 so you just swing wildly and hope for a knockout. It feels as if the developer recognized this 
 because on the easy and normal settings all you have to do to win -- at least for most of the story 
 mode -- is punch. Even when you do have more control over your movements, such as when you use the 
 classic or GameCube controllers, it's tough to use any real strategy because it's hard to tell 
 when you're hitting your opponent and when you're getting hit. A third control scheme that has 
 you trace lines on the screen to throw punches is even more unwieldy -- the Wii just doesn't seem 
 to be able recognize movements accurately enough to make this option playable.  

           This guy's nothing. Your biggest opponent will be the controls.      

  Like the controls, 
 Victorious Boxers' visual style is unique but not necessarily good. It's not the developer's fault 
 that the art style is rather ugly, considering that it's based on the anime series, but it won't 
 be long before you've had your fill of funky-nosed, dark-haired characters that are mostly indistinguishable 
 from one another. The cutscenes aren't in widescreen (the game doesn't even support 480p) and what's 
 worse, they're letterboxed, so they must be viewed in a small box in the center of the screen like 
 an early CD-based game. At least the in-ring action looks decent; everything is crisp, colorful, 
 and cartoonlike. It's tough to say why the visuals work so well when you're fighting and not when 
 in the story mode -- they just do. One thing that doesn't work, whether you're watching the story 
 or boxing, is the voice acting. It's downright awful. Think of actors whose first language may 
 or may not be English, and who may or may not have seen the script before the record button was 
 pushed, and you'll get the picture.  

  If you enjoy the anime, then you'll probably appreciate the game's adherence to the show's story 
 and characters, but it's most likely too quirky for the average person looking for some straightforward 
 boxing on the Wii. Victorious Boxers isn't awful, but it's hampered by a lousy control scheme. 
 Sure, you can play it with a standard controller to make the action a little smoother, but even 
 then it's just an average experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gdyme4krumpany
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Alright so Victorious boxer comes off the Anime Hajime no Ippo (fighting Spirit) ... The punching 
 response is a lot better than Wii sports boxing.. the down side to Vic. boxer is that it needs 
 mini games! add some training mini games or something to make the user play longer.. also make 
 it avalible to change camera views on your boxer... overall its an okay game but it could be a 
 lot better! if the Wii Takes this game and tweaks it out they can have a great boxing game soon! 
 The main thing for a boxing game is to be able to follow the exact movements of the individual 
 with the wii remote. vic. boxer is a pretty good game but can be a lot better and have a lot more 
 things added along with better graphics maybe. Im looking forward to how the Wii is going to upgrade 
 their boxing games... because the boxing games can be really big for the wii they better find a 
 way to perfect it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  For those of us who ponder about the good ol days of super punch out and wish nintendo would follow 
 up on the awesome game, this is not the game we were waiting for. 
  
  The story is not about one person, but an entire gym located in Japan. You go throgh the story 
 by starting out as a rookie. You would thing you would stay with this character and watch him advance 
 through the ranks and learn more about him, but as soon as you win a couple of tournament titles 
 you are thrown into of flurry of boxers who don't give you enough time to care wether they win 
 or lose. The cutscenes are way to long and not eventful. Half of the time dialogue does not include 
 the moving of someones mouth.
  
  Graphically it is not very pleasing at all. All of the character look like there on steroids and 
 it is done in traditional anime style. The downfall to this is all of the characters look the same. 
 The only way you can tell is by their face and after that you don't know who is fighting.
  
  Sound wise, The sounds sometime don't even match up with the blows. The music is okay though.
 
  
  The gameplay does let you do more than wii boxing, but you won't know what you are doing. You can 
 press a putting while flailing your arms to do a special punch, but that is as in depth as it goes. 
 You can't plan your punches you just flail your arms an occasionally block. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowowii
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  Story:
  The story of the game is about a boxer named Ippo who wants to be the best fighter in japan. The 
 story isn't that bad. But it can be a little boring. But you can always skip it. 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is ok. It can sometimes be unresponsive. But it is still 
 a lot of fun. The controls in the beginning may seem hard but you will get used to it. But matches 
 only last about 20 seconds it is too easy to give people K. OS! 8/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are manga like, which isn't that bad. But when the boxer bleeds, It just shows red 
 on their face, which doesn't look realistic. 7/10
  
  Sound: 
  The sound in the game isn' t really that good. Like when the announcers are talking they can sometimes 
 get very annoying. The fighters also don't make much sound except when they get hit, which doesn't 
 sound realistic either.
  7/10
  
  Value: 
  This game has a lot of replay value, which is funny watching friends try to beat each other up. 
 9/10
  
  Overall:
  Overall I give this game a 8/10 for It's fun to watch how fast you can knock your friends out in 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prez_Pikle_24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Although this game is overall a god series the graphics havent improved much sense the last one 
 and could realy probabbly be better than they are this game has diffrent difficulty and on hard 
 this game is real difficult to beat some times the controls dont get through most he wii boxing 
 games are like this you go to throw one punch and you throw another this game is real fun and entertainning 
 i would have to say the bet thing about it is probabbly the story line there is no story line better 
 than the one for the Victorious Boxers series although most of them are the same it has little 
 changes which make this story line better and still intresting to whatch in this game you mostly 
 fight as a character called Ippo which is the same in the other games butit's like a fresh start 
 and in this version of the game Ippo is being bullied and a middleweight fighter from a gym he 
 takes Ippo thera and Ippo there joins a boxing leauge and trains to fight and he very soon after 
 a few fights wins his featherweight division belt in the amateur league not long after the man 
 who first brought Ippo into the gym wins his middle weight belt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaanic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Victorious Boxers: Revolution is an anime-based boxing game. Taking Wii Sports simplistic boxing 
 mode and building on top of that with some solid depth, the Wii finally has a full-out boxing title. 
 Developed in Japan by Grand Prix and Cavia, the game has a very distinct Japanese flair thats 
 impossible to deny. However, does it pull a knockout, or should it simply throw in the towel?
 
  
  The game has basically two modes of play. These include the single player Story mode, and the multiplayer 
 Sparring mode. The story is entirely based off of the Japanese anime, Hajime no Ippo, but is known 
 in North America as Fighting Spirit. Victorious Boxers: Revolution revolves around the journey 
 of Ippo Makunouchi, a high school student whos been excessively bullied until Mamoru Takamura, 
 a boxing champion, rescues him from some thugs, and inspires him to become a boxer himself. Long 
 story short, Ippo makes new friends and enemies, trains harder, and suffers through victories and 
 defeats, all in his quest to become the featherweight champion. The concept itself is fairly decent 
 and simplistic. But unfortunately, the anime-styled cutscenes which tell the story are absolutely, 
 painfully monotonous. This is an absolute shame because the anime itself is pretty good. There 
 are compelling, developed characters, the story is well paced, and you can really care about what 
 youre watching. Here, however, the gist of nearly every cutscene is Ippo saying I need to win! 
 I need to be the best! or someone else saying You cant beat that guy! You need the heart of 
 a fighter! Not only that, but none of the humour and charm is retained from the series. Fans of 
 the franchise might find some enjoyment in this, but for everyone else, these cutscenes seem like 
 nothing more than a terribly over-dramatic soap opera. Trust me, youll be glad that you can just 
 press the A-button to skip them.
  
  Thankfully, the gameplay is most definitely the saving grace here. There are six modes of control 
 here. The first two are Swing Mode 1 and 2. These are both really based off of Wii Sports boxing 
 mode. Swing Mode 1 requires you to utilize the controls almost exactly like Wii Sports, punching 
 with the Wii remote and nunchuk, and tilting them to move around. Wii Sports boxing fans may find 
 this mode to be a bit more natural, but even then, it becomes far too finicky, and some motions 
 end up getting confused with others far too often. Swing Mode 2 allows you to move with the control 
 stick, dodge around by holding the Z-button, punch with the controllers, and block with the B and 
 Z-triggers. For people who want to actually punch with the controllers, this is definitely the 
 most fun and solid control method. There are also two Point Modes which are absolutely rediculous. 
 You throw punches by swing the Wii-remote in specific slashes as if you were swinging the sword. 
 Theres also the ability to use the Classic Controller and Gamecube Controller, but quite honestly, 
 whats the point? But for people who feel like being a little lazy, these methods work fine. But 
 while using the Wii-remote and nunchuk is my preferred method, there are minor gripes. Its still 
 a little wonky, throwing hooks when I mean to uppercut etc. But this isnt too bad though, if youre 
 a solid fighter hooray for self-esteem!
  
  The title does include a Tutorial mode so that you can learn how to master whatever control-scheme 
 youve selected, as well as the special moves that you will continue to unlock throughout the game.
 
  
  The fighting itself isnt too bad. Considering this is an anime-styled game, one cant expect it 
 to really mimic real boxing. But it does manage to create a solid fighting experience. In the single 
 player mode, the enemy AI doesnt prove to be too challenging. At all actually. Even on the higher 
 difficulty, as long as you know how to fight smart, youll be fine for a good chunk of the time. 
 On rare occasion, your opponent may use a unique special move, but it is quite rare. Otherwise, 
 almost all the enemies youll face will fall as long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Bird
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  If you, like me, have been waiting since you first played Wii Sports Boxing for a game that improved 
 on the promising boxing formula found there then Victorious Boxers should provide an intriguing 
 yet mildly disappointing experience.
  
  1 The Good: Victorious Boxers contains a number of welcome elements that serve to further the development 
 of the motion sensitive boxing genre. (a) The first added wrinkle is that of in ring movement which 
 adds an extra level of available strategy. Despite complaints about the control system Swing Mode 
 2 provides a serviceable control scheme which allows for the rather smooth incorporation of in 
 ring movement. By combining the familiar analog stick based movement with motion sensitive punch 
 controls this particular control option provides smooth transitions from attack to defense to evasion 
 which are a welcome change from relative immobility of Wii Boxing. The punch recognition is also 
 somewhat improved and is much more reliable when it comes to consistently throwing power shots. 
 (b) The graphical presentation provides a quality visual experience which compares favourably to 
 the anime series on which it is based, right down to the hyperbolic muscle definition.
  
  2. The Hmm: (a) The story mode in this game will be immediately recognizable to anyone familiar 
 with Hajime No Ippo or its English language counterpart Fighting Spirit. If you are a fan of the 
 series you will probably get some level of enjoyment from the story as I certainly did. If you 
 havent watched the show, however, the bits and pieces picked from the anime will likely seem very 
 shallow. Add that to the fact that the graphical quality of the cut scenes is inexplicably worse 
 than the actual matches and that the voice acting is laughable and the story becomes less than 
 compelling. Essentially it will serve only to string the player along from one fight to the next 
 providing a minimal amount of melodrama. (b) If youre looking for a boxing simulation you wont 
 find it here. Things like establishing the jab and wearing down an opponent before going in for 
 the kill will likely result in more losses that wins. If you want an arcade style brawler youll 
 get exactly what you want. The action is fast paced and hard hitting with very few dull in ring 
 moments. On the flip side it is also somewhat oversimplified. Youll likely spend most of your 
 initial time playing through the story mode as Ippo and Ippo is known for having a big right hand. 
 Establish that big right early in the fight and you are basically going to bomb your way through 
 most opponents. A few will be more evasive than others or have more powerful special moves but 
 if you rock your opponent with a few big rights early on you will undoubtedly come out on top. 
 3. The Bad: (a) When designing Victorious Boxers the developers apparently forgot to include even 
 the most basic sort of health system. There is a spirit meter which is based on a system of increasing 
 or diminishing flames which governs your ability to throw haymakers but even that doesnt always 
 work logically and usually your opponent will have a full spirit meter despite the punishment you 
 lay on him or how many times he uses his special. As a result of this absent health system knockdowns 
 come out of nowhere. Usually a haymaker is a sure bet for getting the knockdown but otherwise there 
 is little rhyme or reason as to why a fighter goes down and if hell get up. It is also next to 
 impossible to actually knock your opponent out. Youll get plenty of TKOs by knocking your opponent 
 down multiple times in the same round but in an experiment I conducted with the knockdown limit 
 turned off it took 12 knockdowns to put one of the weakest boxers down for the count. (b) In terms 
 of controls the actual punch recognition is still far from perfect and it is necessary to adapt 
 to the style of hand movements that will get the desired result instead of throwing jabs, crosses, 
 hooks, etc. in a natural manner.
  (c) The game basically has two game modes Story and Sparring. A more fleshed out multiplayer mode 
 is desperately needed here to keep the game compelling after completing the story mode.
  
  4. The Ugly: If there is one place where this game fails miserably it is in the area of camera 
 positioning. The camera angle employed is the over the shoulder camera used in boxing games since 
 time immemorial. However, unlike classics such as Super Punch Out it is next to impossible to keep 
 your opponent in front of if he doesnt want to be there. As a result most of the time you knock 
 your opponent down you wont even see the punch that did it until the replay. There are also some 
 depth issues that make it difficult to tell if your punches are actually landing or if they are 
 falling short. Since this is the only angle available in the game it takes almost all the satisfaction 
 out of laying a beating on someone since you cant actually see what youre doing.
  
  5. The Verdict: To sum up, if you want to play a boxing sim that will allow you to experience what 
 its like to actually be in the ring this game will disappoint. On the other hand if you just want 
 to be able to jump into the ring and throw hands and let the chips fall where they may Victorious 
 Boxers has what youre looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Get up. Come on, this isnt the time to be lazy. You think mastering the Boxing game on Wii Sports 
 gives you the right to start slacking off? You think youre ready for this fight, dont you? See 
 that guy across the ring? Thats no Mii character. Thats Ichiro Miyata, and he will crush your 
 face in if you dont defend yourself. There are even stronger opponents waiting for their chance 
 as well. You nervous? You should be. To be honest, you dont have much of a chance here. Maybe 
 your face will last a few minutes before it gets punched into raw hamburger. Or maybe you think 
 your skills are actually good enough to earn you a victory. Ha. Good luck with that, kid. Youre 
 not playing Wii Sports anymore. This is a Victorious Boxers game.
  
  Wait, whats that? Youve never heard of the Victorious Boxers series?! Unfortunately, thats not 
 surprising. Considering the popularity of Fight Night and other mainstream boxing game titles, 
 its little wonder that Victorious Boxers is utterly obscure. If anything, theyre better known 
 as the video game adaptations of Fighting Spirit (thats Hajime no Ippo to the Japanese) , a popular 
 anime and manga. Dont worry about trying to memorize all the characters names and histories; 
 Victorious Boxers: Revolution explains the basic story via cutscenes (which are thankfully skippable 
 and feature voice acting, for once!) between each match. All you need to know is that youre playing 
 as Ippo Makunouchi, a teenaged boxing prodigy that has to work his way up through the ranks to 
 earn as much fame and glory as possible. With tons of other boxers itching for their shot at greatness, 
 Ippos got some work to do.
  
  So do you, for that matter. If you think you can beat this game as easily as the Wii Sports version 
 of boxing, youre going to get your ass kicked when you get past the first few matches. These opponents 
 are quick. They dont just stand around and leave themselves open to your attacks (unless youve 
 put the difficulty level on Easy) , nor are they forgiving of any blunders that you might make. 
 Missing a punch can leave you wide open for an onslaught of jabs, hooks, uppercuts, and whatever 
 other combos our opponents can dish out. If you actually want to beat your opponent, youll have 
 to spend time learning how to sway and duck to avoid attacks. There are subtler things to look 
 for, like your foes body movements and his attack range. Dont count yourself out, though; with 
 each successful blow you land, your boxers energy gauge will fill up. Get it maxed out, and you 
 can perform an assortment of match-ending supermoves. The trick is balancing out your offensive 
 and defensive tactics; once youve gotten the basics down, all youll need to do use them to exploit 
 your opponents weaknesses.
  
  Your most dangerous adversary, however, isnt even a character. Its the controls. Victorious Boxers: 
 Revolution offers six controls schemes, and none of them are particularly impressive. Wii Sports 
 veterans will likely choose the default Swing (WiiMote + Nunchuck) option, only to find that it 
 leaves them with virtually no control over your characters movements. Instead of allowing you 
 to duck and sway, it basically turns your fighter into a target; all you can do is frantically 
 punch and hope you get a knockout before your opponent does. The secondary Swing option rectifies 
 this by allowing you control your characters movements via the Control Stick on the Nunchuck, 
 but that can be tricky when youre trying use the attachment to throw jabs. Even if you somehow 
 get used to the basics, youll find that the game has difficulty reading your movements. Crosses 
 are fine, but the uppercuts, hooks, and even regular jabs can prove unwieldy. Finding your characters 
 range can be difficult as well; despite him turning translucent at the beginning of the fight, 
 the occasionally jerky camera angles can make hitting your opponent awkward.
  
  The Pointer control schemes eliminate the movement-based combat mechanics (arguably the biggest 
 selling point of the game) entirely by making you trace lines across the screen for your punches 
 to follow Yeah, that plays about as ridiculously as it sounds. You know what? Just forget about 
 the motion controls. If youve got a Gamecube controller stashed away, this is a good excuse to 
 dig it out. The button layout can be a pain, but its a lot better than wildly swinging your WiiMote 
 to no avail. But if you want something a bit more practical, you might want to invest in a Classic 
 Controller. Since it uses the Control Stick and buttons for defending and attacking respectively, 
 youll find that the attachment offers the most reliable controls available. Too bad you cant 
 alter the button mapping, though; that would have made things so much easier.
  
  Speaking of missed chances, Victorious Boxers: Revolution doesnt have much in the way of extras. 
 Sure, youve got the Story Mode, but youll unlock every character and his special moves with only 
 one playthrough. After that, youll likely spend the rest of your time in Sparring Mode, where 
 you can alter the match length, the amount of allowed knockouts, and other minor details before 
 letting the characters clash. You can further customize your character by tweaking his abilities; 
 for example, increasing his attack power will reduce his speed and stamina. But if youre really 
 obsessive over your performance in the ring, you can view your stats in the Data Book. That little 
 feature shows off graphs of minor details, like the amount of punches youve thrown or the percentage 
 of matches youve won via knockout.
  
  Ooh. Fascinating.
  
  Wheres the replay incentive? Where are all the extra features? Couldnt there have been at least 
 a punching bag mini-game? How about unlockable artwork? Or how about (dare I even dream it) online 
 multiplayer? Its not like the extra stages and music tracks are worth looking into. The soundtrack 
 is forgettable; the only emotionally stirring part of them matches is the utterly annoying commentator 
 and their pre-recorded lines. Youll can only take MAKUNOUCHI! and Will he get up? Can he get 
 up?! so many times before you delve into the Options Menu and finally shut the guy up. The stages 
 are just as bad. Some of them feature little details, like having the characters reflections show 
 up in the wall-mounted mirrors or having training equipment stowed in the corners. The majority 
 of them, however, are far below the standards of what youd expect from the Wii. The rings themselves 
 are fine, but the crowds are little more than cardboard cutouts with two frames of animation. The 
 fighters end up stealing the show; all 25 characters are portrayed true to their manga counterparts, 
 right down to their heavily outlined muscles, fluid movements, and the blood pouring out of their 
 cel-shaded noses.
  
  Sorry, boxing fans. This isnt the follow-up to Wii Sports youve been waiting for. Sorry, Victorious 
 Boxers veterans. This game is a step back from the titles you know and love. This was the series 
 chance to shine, and its been doomed to obscurity yet again. The roster is impressive, and the 
 story can be interesting. The combat is intense, fast-paced, and far more involved than any other 
 boxing game on the system. The controls are just too unpolished; unless youve got a lot of patience 
 or a Classic Controller handy, this game will get old quickly. The utter lack of extra content 
 and bland graphics dont help much either. Poor Ippo. The Victorious Boxers lost this round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspark809
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  swing mode 1 doesn't work that well. swing mode 2 works okay!!!! it's just little better than wii 
 boxing.
  gameplay:
  The reviews on gamespot is pretty much currect. The game pace is so fast that more likely you'll 
 swing your arms like mad man. But this game is not all about being lucky most of time, still need 
 some strategy such as ducking, or moving to the side ( then you'll swing your arms crazy -_-;;;;) . 
 it's all about timing. and all those punches you throw it reads about 45% currect . Not bad for 
 250 dollar machine and I pretty much guarantee, no other boxing game will do better in feature 
 releases for wii. It does do some excercise especially, people who hardly excercise over the years 
 ^^ well better than jus seating on couch all day. graphics:
  its okay
  stories:
  pretty decent, exactly same as anime
  sound:
  what sound? I hardly notice any music hmmm..
 
  
  overall:
  decent game for wii (250 dollar machine) pretty exciting game pretty decent controls so I score 
 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smzee27
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting one thing, but got something else here. I knew the game would be good, and it is, 
 but in a different way.
  
  The controls are a bit tricky on Swing Mode 1 but Swing Mode 2 is great. Feels pretty natural. 
 I didn't try the other control schemes because I was looking to have a more natural experience. 
 The American voice acting is actually pretty suitable, not too bad, though it isn't on the caliber 
 of the Japanese voice acting. Some characters are pretty well done such as Kamogawa Gengi (the 
 Coach) and Makunouchi Ippo. But others like Takamura Mamoru aren't that great.
  
  Graphics: Great, but the manga and anime art is far superior. There's a bit too much shading and 
 the lines are a bit too thick. Still good though. Also, your boxer should have been more transparent, 
 it gets hard to see the opponent's punches and openings sometimes.
  
  Right, so main point is about the "workout." I practice Martial Arts and Boxing regularly so I 
 was hoping this would be a fun way to burn off some extra calories. Unfortunately, in my 2.5 hours 
 of playing, I barely broke a sweat. That's despite the fact that I don't have good stamina: my 
 mile time is about 8 mins, which for an athlete is terrible. Pretty disappointing, but atleast 
 it's better than playing something while lying on the couch. I wanted to point out this part for 
 other people who were expecting what I was.
  
  Comparison with Wii Sports' Boxing:
  
  It's important to understand that this game is played more like an Arcade game, rather than a Simulation 
 game. So some things here are almost "unfair." Some characters are overpowered, such as Ricardo 
 Martinez and Takamura. But that's because this game is based on an anime / manga series. For the 
 same reason there are some stylized techniques such as slow down technique which makes the opponent 
 look like they're moving in slow motion. It's all done on purpose.
  
  Wii Boxing on the other hand is a different type of game. The punches aren't as sharp or precise 
 and there is no footwork involved. However, in Wii Boxing the swaying, and leaning (to dodge) are 
 excellent. And the blocking is done with your hands. In fact, you can pretty much do whatever you 
 want with your hands (make poses, etc.) once you get used to the controls. Except punch properly. 
 And if you want to sweat, Wii Boxing is what you're looking for.
  
  Both games are different. VB Rev. is more fun in terms of gameplay and stylized boxing. Wii Boxing 
 is a good way to burn some extra calories and to practice swaying and leaning. But this review 
 is about Victorious Boxers: Revolution; which all in all, is a really good game that will hopefully 
 get even better in its next installment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
