-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WarioWare: Smooth Moves
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/wariowaresmoothmoves/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Terrific use of the Wii Remote.
 fantastic visual style.
 plenty of variety.
 smart multiplayer modes that make good use of the Mii Channel.
 great unlockables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story mode is over too soon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 5,450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Party
Date: Jan 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Wii and WarioWare are a perfect match. 

  Games this crazy shouldn't be this popular, should they? Video games that have you carefully guiding 
 fingers into giant polygonal nostrils, slapping sleeping people until they wake up, or grating 
 cell phones to bits with a cheese grater are meant to be niche games for weird kids, aren't they? 
 Whatever... there's no sense in overthinking it because WarioWare is a fantastic series that gets 
 even better on the Wii with Smooth Moves. As you might expect, this game is totally built around 
 the Wii Remote and maintains, if not surpasses, the level of absolute random insanity that has 
 made the whole series so appealing. It's a terrific use of the Wii's unique control features, it 
 looks amazing, and in short, it should be a part of your library.  

          Wario is an absolute nutcase. When he isn't splitting into a billion little pieces and 
 trying to steal strawberries, he's busy hatching another cockamamy get-rich-quick scheme.     

 
  The game opens with Wario stumbling upon a temple that contains a mystical, suspiciously Wii Remote-shaped 
 item known as the form baton. From there, the game progresses as the series has always progressed. 
 You select one of the residents of Wario's fair city, and a brief, nonsensically charming intro 
 animation plays. These animations are great, are occasionally funny, and look really fantastic. 
 The smooth edges on the characters really stand out and give the whole presentation a very cartoonlike 
 vibe. These intro sequences also set up the action a bit, but there's no way of preparing for what 
 happens next.  

  The game comprises more than 200 "microgames." Yes, these are smaller than minigames, and you usually 
 perform one quick, decisive action, such as sawing through a log, twisting a maze so that a ball 
 drops out, making Mario jump up and get coins, and so on. So each game lasts only about five seconds 
 or so. The catch is that you don't know in what order the games are going to come at you, and as 
 you play, the whole game speeds up. So it starts out nice and easy, but gets progressively more 
 difficult until you finally snap, run out of lives, and run away from the Wii, frothing at the 
 mouth. Each game uses the Wii Remote in a specific way and requires you to hold the Wii Remote 
 differently. These holds, called forms, are displayed for a second or so before each game starts, 
 giving you time to orient yourself properly for the upcoming game. The forms themselves can be 
 pretty funny. You start out with the most common form, the remote control, where you hold the Wii 
 Remote normally. But you'll also hold it sideways for tilting in a driving-like motion, or with 
 both hands on it like bike handlebars, or up to your nose for the elephant form, or even on top 
 of your head for the mohawk. One form even asks you to put the controller down for a few games, 
 like one that has you answering a phone. The forms are a big part of what makes the game so cool, 
 and it's nice that there are a lot of them. After playing through the main game, you'll unlock 
 a form called the diner, which also requires you to use the Nunchuk attachment.  

  It's the variety in the microgames that keeps the game feeling fresh. Like in previous WarioWare 
 games, one section of the game is largely based around microgame versions of classic Nintendo titles. 
 But because this is a Wii, and not a DS, the range of these games has greatly expanded. Many of 
 the old games you'll encounter here are GameCube games. So you'll get a quick burst of Animal Crossing, 
 which is a fishing game. Or you'll tilt the controller to make Samus roll around and knock over 
 a barrel in a Metroid Prime-themed game. There's even a Wind Waker game. But there are also plenty 
 of games from earlier eras, including Punch-Out!!, Star Fox, and Super Mario Bros. While the nostalgia 
 is nice, the rest of the game also has plenty to offer. Have you ever wanted to shake bugs off 
 of a banana? Hey, who hasn't?  

  Playing through the main game and seeing the story sequences is a pretty easy task, especially 
 if you're familiar with the series and how it plays out. You can easily blast through it in a couple 
 of hours. Of course, seeing the credits isn't really the end of the game because you'll have seen 
 only a fraction of the available microgames. Once you've beaten an area, going back to it puts 
 it into an endless mode where you see how long you can play before running out of lives. You'll 
 also unlock modes that throw together all of the different games into one big jumble, as well as 
 more dedicated games, such as a behind-the-back, polygonal rendition of Balloon Fight's balloon 
 trip mode. The game also has four multiplayer modes, which serve up the different microgames in 
 different ways. All of the multiplayer modes are pass-and-play, using only one Wii Remote. This 
 allows you to have up to 12 players in some cases, but because you'll be frantically passing the 
 controller around, Nintendo's constant dedication to making sure that you're wearing that wrist 
 strap just seems impractical here, if not entirely impossible. There's just not enough time to 
 take off the wrist strap and pass the remote to another player, who then has to put the wrist strap 
 back on, all before the next game begins.  

          There are plenty of Nintendo classics to see in one of the game's levels.     

  In 
 a technical sense, some of WarioWare looks like absolute garbage. But that's only because there's 
 such a huge variety of very deliberate visual styles in the game. You never know what sort of look 
 you're going to get when the microgame appears. Will it be an 8-bit game from years past? Some 
 kind of crude polygonal rendering of a pencil being sharpened? Clip-art-like monkeys that dance 
 when you shake the controller? Combined with the amazingly sharp 2D graphics of the intro sequences, 
 this is a fantastic-looking game, especially in 480p, which makes the look quite crisp. The audio 
 in WarioWare is just as manic and varied as the rest of the package. Each game will have some of 
 its own music and sound effects, ranging from simple blips and bleeps to the sound of a stick hitting 
 a guy who's trying to steal some food.  

  The WarioWare series has never come at a more perfect time. With the Wii just getting established, 
 a game that shows off the range of motions you can accomplish with the Wii Remote is a perfect 
 companion. But it's more than just a demonstration of the Wii's technology; it's also a terrifically 
 charming, funny, and nefariously addictive game that you can play alone. But it gets even better 
 when you have a crowd on hand to witness the weirdness with you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (522 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tarbun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I played for the Wii! Thats probably how I would recommend people 
 play it as it shows off what the Wii can do very well.
  The mini games are great but slightly repetitive. A lot of them involve moving the remote just 
 slightly and you start to wonder if you are actually doing anything at all. Others make you wonder 
 what the hell you meant to be doing! But the majority make you laugh or whoop in the joy that you 
 have succeeded in your 5 second task.
  
  Now the issue I have with this game which stops it getting a higher score is that I finished it 
 with decent scores in 3 hours. To me that is a little short. Unless you are desperate to get some 
 high scores then this game will seem pretty limiting to you.
  
  Overall worth a play if you get this with your Wii but otherwise stick to the longer more impressive 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious_Joker
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  at first i hated this game because i had other games that were more interesting but i got to a 
 point where i decided it was awesome because it has such fun minigames. the controls are cool, 
 using the wii remote seems so natural. the graphics... hmm hard one at first i hated them, they 
 seem so in-your-face, but it eventually started to feel right. the storyline is short, but it wouldent 
 work if it was longer or shorter, it would just be wrong. the multi player rules. It is just so 
 fun, especially on survival with about 15 people or darts. some parts of the game are random but 
 because of this, it will appeal to people of all ages. in the story you go around as random people 
 from diamond city, doing random things (random seems to be coming up allot ) . the music can get 
 on your nerves and i eventually got a headache. but if you turn it of its fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  There are two kinds of cool in life. Things that try to be cool and things which are cool by complete 
 accident. The rubix cube is a great example if this, taking the 80s by storm by moving a box around 
 to make colours match up. And this is exactly what wario ware is. Let's face it, anyone who says 
 lets play a game where you have to play a series of mini games in order to win isn't sounding great, 
 but as soon as you start playing wario ware with mates, an unwritten guarantee kicks in, where 
 your social life will skyrocket you to the top of the chain, making this very unintentionally cool.
 
  
  Wario ware has several types of ways of holding a remote. There's a remote control, an umbrealla, 
 a d! ld0 big cheese, boxer, tug of war, d! ld0 elephant, beer and a d! ld0 which are all featured 
 at some point in the game, except for the d! ld0 along with many others, which all sounds well and 
 good. The game will tell you how to hold the Wii Mote and then you do an appropriate gesture, like 
 drinking a glass of water, guarding a woman from sun burn, cooking some meat, or watering out a 
 fire all at a timed speed all at random, which sound boring in concept, but ends up being hilarious 
 and fun. Annoyingly however, to get to superstar friend fun zone, you have to complete single player 
 mode. Actually this isn't too big an annoyance, single player is really fun and so long as you 
 ignore health and safety and DON'T attach a wrist strap, you can leasurly pass the mote between 
 friends as you are attacked by a multitude of mini games, with varying levels of cringing and funny 
 cut scenes. The single player lasts about 3 hours, 5 if you want everything un locked and you are 
 then rewarded with multiplayer mode.
  
  However like single player everyhing here needs unlocking too. All the levels are good fun and 
 can have up to 12 poeple playing at any pne time on them and believe me there is nothing more funny 
 than watching the hardest of all your mates flapping their arms around trying to fly. The multiplayer 
 modes include a sudden death rope level, where after 4 or 5 mini games, everyone is held over a 
 river and their ropes are individually cut by the surviving members, a level where you pass a bomb 
 between people and the loser of 1 level loses overall, a level involvong timing on an exploding 
 bolloon and survival. All of these are great, because it means the best person in the room doesn't 
 and in fact rarely wins, giving everyone an equal sense of satisfication. For instance on the rope 
 cutting level, you may get 0 points in the mini games, but so long as you one rope survives, you 
 can still win.
  
  Other games to play depend on everyone's imagination as the game is really open. One idea my friends 
 had was a drinking version, which ended up in several fall overs and a good night in. Another is 
 consequences, where if one person loses a life or a game he or she has to do an appropriate dare. 
 Normally involving alchol. As a rule, if you are a teenager and looking for somehting funny and 
 a bit crazy, this will fit in. If you're a uni student you'll love this as it's essentially uni 
 humour. This game is cooller than anything out there. Much cooler than metal gear solid 4 or halo 
 3 say, simply because it just is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circile
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Once I bought this game from Gamestop I liked it somewhat. then, I played it and it was fun and 
 all but, after the day I finished it. there was no plot to the game and when i tried to restart 
 it, it didn't have the fun that it had earlier. So, I decided to return it and with that money 
 i bought a new Nintendo DS. if you would get one thing out of this review it should be that: use 
 caution when buying this game! Personally, I would much rather prefer to get the DS version called 
 Warioware Touched because it is actually funny with a weird but cool plot twisted in there. anyway, if 
 you really want this game and you are a little obsessed with it, (there is nothing wrong with that) 
 give it a try! you have nothing to lose. worst case scenario: you don't like it at all and it is 
 horrible, just return it! And for all of you that bought it with gift cards, I feel your pity. 
 (you can still return it and get the balance on your gift card) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is a great game, thought it could be a bit longer. I found that Wario Ware 
 Smooth Moves is better that the previous Wario Ware games. It takes advantage of the wii with unique 
 moves and it's very fun the first and sometimes second time you play it. The story of the game 
 is pretty random (in a good way) and original. Sometimes the story doen't make alot of sense. The 
 downside is you can beat the game the fist day you play it quite easily. The Minigames you unlock 
 are interesting but can get boring after a while. A thing I thought was a bad idea was that you 
 had to unlock multiplayer mode. But don't get me wrong, all the different types of techniques you 
 use are extremely fun and make for most of the downsides in the game. It's a great game recomended 
 to all, espeicially people who love the previous Wario Ware games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Wario has returned to do some more minigames. Now if you played the WarioWare games on Game Boy 
 Advance, GameCube or Nintendo DS than this game will be very familar to you. WarioWare Smooth Moves 
 is now on the Nintendo Wii and let me say. This game is really funny! It starts off with Wario relaxing 
 and eating when a little yellow midget comes in and steals Wario's food. Wario gets mad chases the 
 little creature into a temple. But then he finds the Form Batton also known as the Wii Remote. Wario 
 picks it up but then a huge bolder comes into the temple and then Wario has to escape Indiana Jones 
 style and he's free. Now the minigames are really weird. From Tapping an alarm clock, doing squats, shaving 
 a mustache and even being in a dance group. But some minigames also bring back some classic Nintendo 
 Nostalgia like a StarFox stage where you shoot down R. O. B the robot, Collect coins in a Super Mario 
 Bros setting and even siff out sand where you could find a Game Boy or even a Virtual Boy! Wow Nintendo 
 you sure know how to bring back classics and failuers. But anyway WarioWare Smooth Moves is great 
 addtion to your Nintendo Wii collection and I totaly reccomend playing it. You will be hooked on 
 it. The only complaint for the game is that it's too short and more MiniGames should have been used. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Not much to say about it. Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is great! It's completely insane, the microgames 
 are cool and you may play it any time you want, you'll enjoy it.
  
  Some microgames will make you do pathetic things, but it's OK. The game itself is great and I'm 
 sure you'll enjoy it.
  
  This is shortest review I've written, but that's because you can't describe WW: SM perfectly. No 
 one can. It's amazing, and only ones who've played it know what I am talking about.
  
  GameSpot's reviews can't have less than 100 words, but what do you expect of the review of a game 
 which has some microgames that last 3 seconds?
  
  And I have to keep writing 'cause they want a minimum of 800 characters and the question mark was 
 616th.... I mean, man, they should have an exception for WarioWare, the game is nuts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abodow
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  very good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddvervvery good 
 very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery 
 goodery goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery 
 goodvery govery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy 
 goody goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goovery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy 
 goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery gooddververy goodyvery good very good very gververy goody 
 goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddvervvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery 
 very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goodery goody goodvery goodvery good very 
 good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery govery good very good very gververy 
 goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery goododdververy goody goodvery 
 goodvery good very good very gververy goody goodooddvery very goovery good very good very gververy 
 goody goodooddvery very goodgoovery goodvery gooddververy goody goodvery gooddgoovery goodvery 
 gooddververy goody goodvery good goodvery good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emogun
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited getting this game getting it one of the first days it came out a couple years 
 ago. I really loved all the other warioware espicially warioware twisted. But this game really 
 dissapointed me. I played with my cousins when I got it and we all beat it easily in 5 hours but 
 I spent a bit more (5-10 hours) just playing multiplayer with my cousins. It has alot of the mini 
 games as previous game with a couple of its own like the one boss one when you sowrdfight with 
 a ninja of the fruit. (My favorite mini-game) . It has a pretty cool excerzise like mode that can 
 keep you going for a while. My favorite part of this game, though is the multiplayer were you share 
 the same wiimote + nunchuck with some one else and there is different stuff like having to runn 
 and jump avvoiding objects and it is really a team work activity. But overall I mean buy it if you 
 have a huge load of cash but otherwise I would suggest you to invest your money on a better multiplayer 
 game since the wii does have alot of those such as Mario Kart or SSBB (super smash brothers brawl) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganga_
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I'm not one of those Nintendo longtime fans, the Wii is my first consolse, so I'm not that familiar 
 with all the Nintendo characters. I had a lot of fun with SMG and as I didnt have any party game 
 except Wii Sports, I decided to pick up Smooth Moves.
  
  The singleplayer mode is quite amusing, the story and characters are all very crazy, but some of 
 the stories are even boring. The quick tutorials for the poses are fine and somehow funny. There 
 is a lot of variety in the poses, but a lot of them are quite similar. To sum it up, the singleplayer 
 mode was short but solid.
  
  Something about the mini-games in general: They tend to vary a lot in there difficulty. Some of 
 them are an easy win on your first try and some of them are hard to figure out.
  
  The multiplayer mode was really disappointing. You have to play with one remote, which doesnt make 
 any sense for me. There are different modes aswell, but most of them are only worth playing for 
 one time and the other ones (where you basically do one mini-game after another and switch the 
 remote) are quite similar. In most mini-games you don't play at the same time which simply isn't 
 as entertaining as playing simultaneously.
  
  I'd suggest you to rent the game first, because this isn't everyones taste.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is a little overrated. This is one of the first games i purchased when i bought 
 the Wii. While it definitely holds true to its Nintendo simplicity roots, I think there is little 
 addiction. 
  
  As for the bad things: The graphics are okay. The music is fine. The controls can be a tad confusing. 
 The single-player story is way too short. 
  
  Biggest Complaint: For a party game, there is no way to all play at the same time. The most successful 
 Wii games are games that utilize all the remotes (Mario Kart Wii or Super Smash Bros) . Each mode 
 starts a little too slowly... it would be nice to have a speed adjustment setting. That would help 
 speed up each person's turn, making it more interesting to play.
  
  As for the positive things: It is a decent party game in that it is fun to watch someone make a 
 fool of themself doing silly poses and move around. There is a little competition and drive to 
 complete more phases than someone else. The poses are pretty fun and it does use the remote in 
 fun, interesting ways. And finally the mini-games themselves are weird and goofy, which does add 
 to some of the charm of the game. 
  
  All in all, I would rent this game first before purchasing. If you are looking for a single-player 
 game, this is NOT it. This is only a reasonable party game, and i would rather have other games 
 first like Wii Sports, Smash Bros, and Mario Kart Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is the first Wario game like this I have played, this games forms are very fun and for 
 the most part go with the Wii controller very well, read the review to learn more.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 The Graphics are what you'd expect from a Warioware game all the random cat pictures 
 and random hair growing out of a guys nose and ears from drinking a glass of water ohhhhhhh the 
 originality.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 the gameplay goes well with the wii for the most part the only forms I had some 
 problems with was the mortar pastel or w/e and sometimes the controller form or whatever, the story 
 is only worth going through once and maybe even twice, but the multiplayer is what makes this game 
 worth buying, me and my girlfriend play this a lot together.
  
  Sound: 7.5/10 sound is the usual wacky music and of course theres really no voice overs lolz.
 
  
  Replay Value: 8.5/10 the replay value is higher then what I scored it if you have a few friends 
 that want to play with you.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 this game is a great game for the most part, it is definitely worth picking up 
 and it is a great game to add to your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Wacky game for what I think is meant for people mentally unstable or just plain crazy.
  
  The humor is just incredible and I gotta raise a hat for the people behind it all. It's perfect.
 
  
  Gameplay is also pretty sweet too. The controls are great and playing the game is just pretty sweet. 
 Well there's couple of forms and microgames that are pretty hard to master, BUT very few. 95% works 
 like a dream.
  
  There's not much of a story. Couple of funny cutscenes and that's all. The game is a bit too short-lived 
 and that's the biggest downfall. There's also not much multiplayer fun. But it has some funny minigames 
 besides of the microgames that are great.
  
  It's definitely worth a try and if you have at least a little wicked person inside you then it'll 
 make you laugh. It's a great party game if you're looking for one even though there's not much 
 to do multiplayer. You play it and friends are watching, they will laugh at you.
  
  Overall: Great, but a little short-lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butters0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  It's a kinda fun game but rent it first, with all the mini-games it gets pretty boring fast, it's 
 only fun if your with a friend, the game is 2 short. but there is a lot that you still can play 
 after the game so it's kinda good. 
  
  it's all about winning mini-games, drive cars, dance. you name it :)
  
  it's pretty fun. overall 
 i will give it 8,5 :)
  
  word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironraven24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare ---------Video Game Review
  
  WarioWare is a large collection of mini-games into one. Most of them are fairly fun and pretty 
 wacky. when you first start up the story mode you view Wario eating a large bowl of donuts and 
 watching T. V A little Creature steals one of these donuts, Wario being greedy, dumb, and fat, chased 
 after the creature. As he was chasing the creature he stumbled into a tomb and on to a rare ancient 
 artifact... THE FORM BATON!!! err... Wii remote. A boulder drop and Wario is running from it. Now, 
 the fun beings.
  
  As you progress throughout the story you unlock more and more many games. They each posses some 
 fun times, but eventually they become a bit repetitive & shallow. When i first started say on the 
 3rd level I found myself repeating the same mini-game over and over, losing, repeating.. not too 
 fun after that. as for the multi-player, its pretty great. whats better than playing a collection 
 of fun wacky mini-games by yourself, is play a bunch of fun wacky mini-games with your friends! 
 
  
  Multi-player offers 7 modes, 2 of them being co-op only. The most mentionable of these is Survival. 
 this pits you against up to 12 friends in one room, only needing 1 remote. As this game goes on 
 it gets faster and faster.. It gets very fun, and very intense, and amps up the fun. Overall, this 
 game is a great and fun experience with little flaws. I highly recommend this game to anyone. At 
 any age.. You should have a great amount of fun. With the mini-games, Story, Multi-player, and 
 the little goodies you unlock throughout the campaign the game should last you a while and create 
 good memories.
  
  PROS:
  + Variety
  + Great multi-player
  + Fun
  + Easy to pick-up and play
  + Can be a very intense and amped up.
  + Great Multi-player replay 
 value 
  
  CONS:
  - Story is often shallow if repeated too much Shallow
  - Can be repetitive 
  - Single-Player Replay value is pretty bad.
  - Can frustrating on Single-player 
 
  
  
  SCORE:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Control: 7.5/10
  Fun: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Replay value: 9/10 
  Cost: 8/10
  Variety: 10/10
  Innovation: 10/10
  Length: 
 8/10
  
  OVERALL SCORE. 85.5/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Wario ware is a great game for those new Wii owners wanting to see what their Wii can do. In the 
 beginning it is very fun because you will not be able to play all the mini-games right away so 
 their is some replay value because you will want to play it over and over until you got all the 
 games. Once you've earned all the games their isn't much else to go for. Like in the original wario 
 for the gameboy advance their are some small games you can play like pyoro where you use your tongue 
 to catch flies. The main game also feels kinda short and the posing can get annoying after awhile. 
 Other than that this game can be very fun, especially when you have friends watching as you stick 
 the wiimote on your nose to catch an apple. Just something interesting for other people to see. 
 And i did not copy this from another user, i used this review from my old account, alchemist19. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjlevesque
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure Gamespot rated this a 9.1 and gave it an editor's choice award because it was one 
 of the early Wii games and showed off what could be done with the Wiimote in terms of minigame 
 motion control. It does this well, but the cool factor wears off quickly. I played it for maybe 
 a week after I bought it and haven't touched it in over a year. I also tried it in a party setting, 
 but after explaining the positions element no one wanted to touch it. They're not hard to learn, 
 but not everyone wants to go through the effort to get them right and look ridiculous in the process. 
 A few of the minigames are extremely frustrating and seem impossible as well.
  
  I didn't hate the visuals like a lot of reviewers seemed to. The game has its own unique style 
 and sticks to it, and it is done well. The cut scenes were probably my favorite part and I'll admit 
 that I laughed at the dancing cats and whatnot.
  
  Rent it if it looks remotely interesting to you or you are under the age of 12, and only buy it 
 used. It is definitely not worth $50 in any way shape or form. I won't mind trading my copy in 
 or giving it to a friend to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melloshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is so wacky that it's entertaining. I first played it about a year after 
 release, and what did I think? I thought this game was crazy. I was laughing to myself because 
 it was so odd. 3 second mini games one after another, isn't that what any one would think? My favourite 
 game would be the boss stage where you were playing StarFox. I must have played it the most out 
 of all the games on WarioWare. There was also another one I thoroughly enjoyed. The boss stage 
 where you have to dance. There are different coloured stick kind of men and you are the one on 
 the end. You have to follow the men in front of you in order to pass the level. It's great. Wario 
 Ware: Smooth Moves takes advantage of the Wii Remote usage the most out of all the Wii games out 
 there. This game deserves 93% at the very least. It is one of my personal favourite games on the 
 Wii and I'm sure it is a lot of other peoples too. There really isn't much to explain about this 
 game, you just have to play it to understand it. If you haven't played it yet, get out there and 
 buy it! It's fantastic and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkbzodiac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is filled with a bunch of easy games but there's a catch; you have less than 5 seconds 
 to play it. Sometimes you will be confused as to what to do, but you will figure it out eventually. 
 This is an extremely short game and gets a good rating because of it's "arcade" feature where you 
 play all the games in a random order as they progressively get harder. Once you beat the game you 
 can do multiplayer which is pretty fun for a while, especially for people who haven't played the 
 game. A quick word, most people don't wear the wrist strap, including me before I got this game. 
 There is a game that you have to drop the controller so get over the discomfort and wear the wrist 
 strap. At a certain point you will unlock a feature that lets you use the nun-chuck so make sure 
 you have one. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play minigames as the story is all about minigames. You go from Wario to his other 
 friends. The minigames are amazing and some of them are from videogames and the others are made 
 up. In multiplayer you can play the minigames that you played on Single Player. Really there isn't 
 that much to explain about this game because most of it is about minigames.
  
  The good the gameplay and the minigames are amazing.
  
  The bad of this game is that there 
 isn't that much to do in it.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.0 outta 10. This game is a great game to  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinc55
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  five of 10... a short story mode. really, some mnigames are very good like the bosees, some just 
 suck! like the wight lifting or the pulling thing or the sweeping. this can go on and on and on. 
 if the game was a little less money, it would be a lot better. the focus is on purely minigames, 
 and only about half are good. all in all, not a classic at all. Some levels are like girly girl 
 levels uhh its gross. It's just another minigame collection. wario is dying, his games suck, and 
 i wasted 50 bucks. but hey, gamestop will have ANOTHER BAD USED GAME. WARIO WARE IS EVERY OTHER 
 MINIGAME COLLECTION. THEY ARE ALL PRETTY MUCH THE SAME!!!! GAME DEVELOPERS, END THE @#!%!^%#& CYCLE 
 ALREADY! GAME AFTER GAME, WARIO SUCKS. GET SOME NEW IDEAS ALREADY! FOR GOD'S SAKE! A game on wii-ware 
 might be a ok idea i guess but..... STOP MAKING WARIO  
 DO NOT BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasBlat
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  the game is so different, its not boring, its so funny, cool, and perfect to play with friends...
 
  
  this game knows how to use the wii mote, with nice moves, and funny goals..
  
  the story of wario fighting for a wiimote is so creative, and a niiice story..
  
  =DDD
  
 
  but the problem is that this game is so short, i mean, the story of the game, is so short... you 
 can finish this game in a day!
  
  i dont repent to have bought this game, because i had a lot of fun with my friends, playing this 
 game!
  
  i can say to, buy it, its a nice game, the story is short, but the minigames are soooooo cool!
 
  
  a nice game to play with friends, at home.... a nice party game!
  
  =DDD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh61
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  this game is fun for bit then it gets old if u r thinking of getting this game dont rent it there 
 are only 2 good things about this game the mulitiplayer and it fits in a toaster. the game has 
 no story line ur r just doing random stuff. this game is a waste of money a waste of a disk a waste 
 of space do not get this game it blows. if u want a party game get mario party not wario. i highly 
 reconmend that u do not buy this game or even rent it that is still a waste of 5 bucks. this game 
 does not deserve to be a 9.1 even my rating is too high for this peice of garbage. abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxy 
 now i no my abcs and i dont no what else to say because i need more letters so aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaahhhhh ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ahhhhhhhhhhh ahhhhhhhh this game sucks ahhhhhhh ahhhhhhhh 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiFan14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for my Wii, and I'm glad I bought it! It makes a great use of 
 the wii remote, and it's got hilarious micro games! To me, it's the best WarioWare game so far! 
 The only bad thing I could say about it is, the single player story mode ends a little quicker 
 than I thought it would. But it will take a while to unlock every micro game, which can keep you 
 glued to this game for a while. I suggest buying this game, especially if you like to play fun 
 party games with your friends!  
 Well what are you waitng for? Try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  There are many techniques and mini-games to play from which makes this game incredibly fun. Although 
 some mini-games are yet disturbing and somewhat dumb. The main thing about this game would be to 
 use your Wii remote to correspond to the mini-game. If you don't do that right technique then it 
 won't work against the game. If you play the game I'd tell you I enjoy the sword fighting mini-game 
 the best. It seems so real but yet it's fake. This game has so many reactions to it since there 
 are so many techniques to use during the game. Although the story mode is kind of pointless. BUT 
 that doesn't really affect this game. Even though the story mode stinks it has some hilarious scenes 
 which redeem itself from being bad. If you have a wii. GET THIS GAME. It's fun and hilarious at 
 the same time but please be noted that this has some crude humor and non-sense not recommended 
 for young children to play. But yet enjoyable and fun!!
  
  Mixed reactions= tons of fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better Wii games out there, easily. With all the different mini, oops excuse 
 me, microgames there are to play, with all of the different forms to take on, from holding the 
 wii remote, or form baton over you head, aka the Mohawk, to butting it on the side of waist facing 
 your TV, also known as the Big Cheese, this game screams strange wario experience in your ear . 
 Thi sounds and visuals are very well done, and someof the mircogames themselves will have you rolling 
 on the ground and hurting your sides. I hate to say it, but from time to time there are a couple 
 of wii remote game quirks, which are luckily mostly contained to the pushing the Form Baton forward. 
 Now for the official rating system, (ORS) .
  
  Graphics-9.4
  Sound-10
  Gameplay Mechinics-9.7
  Multiplayer-9.0
  
  All adding up to a very good score of 9.5 for 
 Wario Ware, Smooth Moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sporty108
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Good
  The game is very fun and a bit addictive. The crazy poises that they make you do are very fun. 
 And the varity of ways to use the wiimote is very impressive. This is also fun to play with others 
 and to watch them do all the crazy posies.
  
  Bad
  Way to short. If i wanted to i could be the game in a hour or so. Its very easy to cheat but there 
 is no reason to cheat just saying that it is. After you beat it n unlock all the poises it gets 
 a little boring because u done all of this already thats y it is fun to play 2 player. And you 
 have to beat the game to unlock 2 player.
  
  But over all its pretty decent game.
  
  But a little to pricey.
  
  and thats about it.
  
  excuse this random typing it has to be 
 800 characters so i have to add letters.
  
  asd fsdf ftyyuo dg ksjt ghty rrtyuy dfghj gd fgh trtuy tyu tyu ty u67 567 4 e fg bhv bn gh ujrt 
 67 eg j hjk jhk ugh j; lkj lkj iouyi hlk u 9087 897yjh f fh d fg fgh sd g ryu jh j sdfg ruy jh sd 
 a y fg bsa re 3 6 98 47 8 rt xc vd gh tdy sdrt ytd eyurt uyetye uy ety uet5 ut yu g av r j iu p 
 689 r th dty hd fgh fh asdf asd fasd fa sdf asdg 4e 5y6 fyu jkdgh ae r5 4 67 678 ef gh sfgth rt 
 sdf t rty uy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrenc95
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 8
  Tilt - 10
  
  The story in WarioWare: Smooth Moves involves Wario one day finding something known as a Form Baton 
 (the Wii Remote) , a tool that lets tasks be done by performing various forms (ways to hold the 
 Wii Remote) . There are plenty of forms in this game, one of which is unlocked when you complete 
 the story mode, which requires the Balance Stone (the Nunchuck) .
  
  You start out using the forms to save yourself from being ran over by a boulder, then you're using 
 it to help cheer on the football players during a game, learn spells, get some food, win a science 
 fair, drive a taxi, and save a bunch of mini Warios from the engine of a motorbike. Yes, this game 
 is anything but sane.
  
  And it's the fun of using the Wiimote - I mean, the Form Baton - to pick noses, shove in a lady's 
 dentures, shoo people away with a skunk, drive around and try not to hit monkeys, and answer a 
 telephone that makes WarioWare so enjoyable. It'll make you look like you need therapy and it's 
 definitely not hard, but if you're just looking for a good laugh with some friends on a Saturday 
 night, this is the game for you.
  
  In between helping the citizens of Diamond City with their dilemmas, you can play optional minigames, 
 such as climbing a tower and hitting a ball with a paddle. They're not very fun, but if you've 
 already beat the story mode a million times (which is very likely considering you could blow through 
 it in about 3 hours) , it's OK. When you're done, you can also play some minigames with friends 
 or burn some "Kelories" with Dr. Krygor's 20-game challenge.
  
  The graphics in WarioWare are great, and some of it looks bad, but that is completely on purpose. 
 The music is great, although some of the sound that comes out of the Wii remote is of low quality. 
 It's a bit of a disappointment that the story mode is short, but this is definitely one of the 
 most unique games you will ever play, and it's plenty of fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying that WarioWare: Smooth Moves is bad, because it isn't, I can tell you that. The 
 gameplay is fun and excitable and the characters are fresh and full of personality. The duration 
 of the storymode may not be very long but nevertheless is great to play, and you can play the cute, 
 humourous or sometimes a bit vulgar micro-games over and over again, if that's really what you 
 want to do.
  Now as much as I think this game is great, it's slightly repetitive and slightly repetitive and 
 slightly repetitive and a little cheesy. And no one really likes that. The cheesiness comes from 
 the characters and their stories - they're lovable but extremely tacky. And the repetitiveness 
 is the introduction's fault, because playing the games are very delicate and you have to start 
 all over again easily. 
  The micro-games are actually really good. Though cheesy and just that little bit repetitive too, 
 they are fun to play and best of all, completely random! No one would imagine that while trying 
 to save Wario from remaining as a thousand tiny Warios forever, you have to defeat them by busting 
 Wario-licious moves in time with some crazy, angry, hot-tempered mannequins! Ingenious, right?
 
  The style of the game is fantastic, as it is complete with "forms" you have to use with the Wii 
 Remote, like "The Chauffeur", "The Samurai" and "The Umbrella". These are how you hold the remote 
 in order to play the micro-games, which flash on your screen before you play. Each form is explained 
 by a droning, sad and lonely male voice, complete with handy illustrations and subtitles in case 
 you can't quite understand the sad voice. However, though these forms may sound like the best thing 
 ever, the Wii Remote will not always do what you want it to do, and even though you are doing the 
 right thing that is intructed by the Wii, the game isn't that sensitive and won't give you points 
 for it, which can be extremely frustrating.
  The story mode is great, but it's really short and you can finish it in probably two days, four 
 at the most. The things you can play afterwards are great but are tiresome, and after about two 
 weeks you will have finished everything and completely forgotten about it. It's not really worth 
 it if you feel like you're going to have to make an effort to play it.
  Overall, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is really good but if you find that you forget about your videogames 
 after about two weeks, you will have forgotten about this one in about two days. Nevertheless, 
 it's a fun, proffessional, clever game and anyone who is willing to play it should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff12134
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves for the Wii is a highly addictive game that is hard to stop playing once 
 youve started. It is addictive mainly because of the weird, quirky yet fun mini games. There is 
 a story mode in the game which is pretty good although it is pretty short probably 2-4 hours long. 
 After story mode is beaten multi player is unlocked which is a lot of fun if you have some friends 
 that would like to play. After story mode is beaten a bunch of other modes are unlocked as well 
 such as the block tower where you stack up blocks and the "kelorie burner" which measures how much 
 "kelories" you have burned. There is also a mini-game tower where you can play any mini-game on 
 any difficulty. You can also replay any stage in story mode except you keep on going till you lose 
 instead of when you beat the stage. Overall Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a highly addictive quirky 
 yet great game. Anyone with a Wii should get this game immediately!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemtum321
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  OK. First of all, the visuals aren't great. They are typically japanese and 2D. All it is is a 
 series of uninspiring minigames, each one lasting about 3 seconds. It is short, with no goals or 
 anything, no objectives, no nothing. The most fun bit of the game is on the main menu when you 
 get to tweak Wario's moustache. Even that gets boring after 4 or 5 tweaks. I strongly advise you 
 to buy it and smash it up while filming it and putting it on Youtube. The game developers must 
 have been had their heads stuck in the microwave while having extreme constipation, so they had 
 to use their feet to type the game code. Plus the graphics look like something out of a kids picture 
 book. I'm joking, I'm joking, it's worse than that. Sorry if I scared you. And it's very expensive 
 - costing around 40 - stupidly high for a game this bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonhMan
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who love micro-game games or have lots of game parties, this is a must have for 
 you! Otherwise it's a nice distraction that you may or may not enjoy. 
  
  First of all, this game is amazingly short. It takes less than 5 or 6 hours to run through the 
 main story and maybe double that if you want to completely unlock everything.
  
  It has an amazing variety of things to do, from being a part of a game show where you answer the 
 question by putting the Wiimote up to your nose and nod to say yes, or shake to say no, to vacuuming 
 the leaves off the floor. On the first play though, it does not get old at all because of all the 
 different mini-games that are offered. The Wiimote controls fit perfectly with the style of play 
 and rarely messes up. 
  
  Eventually though, it gets old playing it by yourself, especially when you're trying to unlock 
 the rest of the micro-games by replaying the older ones over and over again.
  
  As I've said, it only gets old for the single player. The multiplayer for this game is one of the 
 best out there. With many modes of play and even more micro-games unlocked from the single player, 
 this game provides an almost unlimited multiplayer gaming experience. 
  
  You will only love this game if you are a fan of micro/mini games, or if you have lots of friends 
 and family who can join you in playing this game. Otherwise it is a nice distraction from other 
 games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The WarioWare series has been one of the most unique series of games ever created. It is basically 
 an insane game that throws all these mini games at you that you must complete, and WarioWare: Smooth 
 Moves is no different.
  
  INTRODUCTION: 
  So what makes the WarioWare series so good? For starters, the game conatains a lot of variety, 
 over 200 mini games each with 3 difficulty levels, and while most of them are pretty easy, when 
 you combine all of them together, throw in a short time limit for each task, and increase the speed 
 of the game as it progresses, you get an insane game which is WarioWare.
  
  The most obvious change in WarioWare: Smooth Moves are the controls. Back then on the GBA, you'd 
 only used the D-pad and the A button. Later in Twisted you twist your GBA, Touch is using the touch 
 screen and now Smooth Moves, you need smooth moves with the Wii Remote.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If you've played some of the previous WarioWare games, you'd know what to expect. If you you didn't, 
 then let me explain it to you.
  
  In WarioWare, you have to play a variety of really short mini games. Yes, really short. And each 
 of these require you to do simple tasks such as trap a guy in a hole, shoot a giant monster, fly 
 Fox's spaceship and kill R. O. B, dance and of course, pick someone's nose.. Yep, that never gets 
 tiring. These mini games actually wouldn't be fun but WarioWare made them fun. How? Well first 
 of, you never know what mini game it throws at you because they are completely random. Usually 
 in the game they will just tell you how to hold the Wii Remote, give you a short message about 
 your task and now you have about 5 seconds to do your task before the time runs out. This sounds 
 confusing at first, but once you play it, you know this is cake.
  
  The level of the game also steadily climbs as you play and the speed just goes faster and faster 
 until the whole game becomes totally insane. You are given four lives for each task if you fail 
 4 tasks, it's game over and you will have to start over. Even after playing all of the mini games 
 they might become a little less exciting because you will know what to expect, however the way 
 at how the game throws all this games at you at an increasing difficulty stays fresh and therefore 
 adds a whole lot of replay value.
  
  Some of WarioWare levels even include minigames from previous Nintendo games. Such as Link from 
 the Wind Waker where you have to land him on the rise, knock down a barrel while Samus is in morph 
 ball mode, or even collect coins playing the original NES Super Mario Bros. The nostalgia adds 
 to game's fun and replay value (provided you played those games before) . 
  
  There's also a multiplayer unlocked after you beaten the story which is also great for parties 
 as it allows everyone to join in and play this insane game together.
  
  CONTROLS:
  The Wii Remote is the core of the game. Everything in this game is played using the remote except 
 a few such as dinner which also requires the Nunchuck. In the game, the Wii Remote is refered to 
 as, the "Form Baton". Every mini game has a different kind of forms and a message will display 
 what form to use before each mini game. You will first start out with the normal Remote which is 
 just holding the Wii Remote like an ordinary remote. Later you will unlock forms like Umbrella, 
 Boxer and many others.
  
  STORY:
  The story is WAY into the short side which is sort of disappointing. You can get from the beginning 
 to the end in a couple of hours. It starts where Wario was looking eating snacks lazily as he watched 
 TV and later he found the Form Baton strangely resembles the Wii Remote. There's nothing much to 
 the story because it is short but most of these cut scenes are really funny and really fun to watch 
 and you will have a fun time laughing.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  WarioWare graphics varies. Most of the cut scenes are done with beautiful colors and great animation. 
 Some of the graphics can be like the GameCube while others can be as bad as the SNES or NES. But 
 those are OK because the original Super Mario Bros. has NES graphics as well.
  
  SOUND:
  While there are no voice acting and all of the cut scenes are done in text, the game still provides 
 a really great music that makes the game feel exciting. Even the music increases speed as the levels 
 become faster and harder all together making you feel tense and very excited.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Overall, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a smooth game that keeps you coming back. It's 
 a perfect game for parties, playing with your family and though it is not really good for long 
 runs, playing this game little by little will keep WarioWare interesting makes you want to come 
 back.
  
  POSITIVE:
  -Family friendly fun.
  -Has over 200 mini games.
  -Insane yet exciting gameplay that keeps you coming back for more.
  -Large variety and great 
 gameplay gives it high replay value.
  
  NEGATIVE:
  -Story mode is on the short side 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  FUN!! Yes, when I say fun, I mean fun! Why?
  
  Cute characters, cute graphics, cute soundtracks, cute mini games that will GUARATNEE you and your 
 friends to have SHEER fun together! Heck, the whole game is made of cuteness! LOL!
  
  I've always loved WarioWare games, but thisuses Wii's motion sensor capability to its limits!! 
 It makes you jump, dance, do moves you've never thought like doing before, like holding the Wii 
 remote the same way a Samurai holds his sword : P Seriously, if you played WarioWare: Smooth Moves 
 multiplayer and never laughed, you're no human being! Hehe!
  
  Ooh and just like the other WarioWare games, you have like.. a little story to each character! Some 
 of them are returning characters like Mona, Ana and Kat, the others are new! And just as adorable! 
 ^___^
  
  It's a must-have! Especially if you love FUN! =D If you don't, thenthis game is not for you! =P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This was actually a pretty fun game to play, it was one of the first games to be released for the 
 system and my wife and I had a great time playing it, but then again it is another repetitive minigame 
 one after another!
  
  I understand the idea of showing off how cool the Wii is with it's motion sensing, but no more 
 minigames, PLEASE make it stop! However since this was the first real minigame game for the system 
 I guess it can pass, but from here on out they need to put an end to these minigames!
  
  Wario has always been my favorite Mario character and it has been a lot of fun playing games with 
 him as a character and this game was actually exciting yet very challenging! My wife played it 
 more than I did and had a great time but some of the minigames were a bit hard and seemed to drag 
 on and on and on before the section would end! Only to get faster and faster as they went along! 
 If you are fast with the Wiimote you should do well!
  
  This would ba a good quick borrow from a friend or a rental game as it can be completely shortly 
 and does not have much replay value, it is more of a party game to play with friends and isn't 
 as much fun by yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it came out because of the excellent reviews. I was completely let down 
 when it came to my attention that it was a game that wasn't very entertaining alone. I had a few 
 friends over and althou it was fun for a few laughs and rather entertaining micro games. The game 
 didn't impress me very much and I sold it to buy galaxy, which was a much better choice for the 
 wii console. The game almost turned me off to the entire wii console, luckily for games like brawl, 
 resident evil and a few select others, I would of gotten rid of the console completly. I just wasn't 
 impressed with the game and I played it till I completly beat it in under 8 hours. They need to 
 add some good mulitplayer and a better story mode maybe, also a little bit longer would make the 
 game alot better. I would suggest renting it and playing it for a night 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NsNsis
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves was one of the first games to tag along with his WII buddy on his first 
 days. There wasn't much hype about it, but many fans of this fast-mini game-puzzle genre waited 
 for the game to come. On the GC, even without special motion controls, the game was a hit. So how 
 is it on the WII?
  
  The main purpose of the game was to show how much things you can do with the WiiMote, the game 
 include more then 250 mini-games all use the WiiMote in different & new ways. Thu, its kind of 
 sad that this is as best as it gets, as there is nothing special to see in WW: SM further then 
 the gameplay.
  
  ------------
  Storyline |
  ------------ Well, nothing special really. You play Wario, you find a special strange remote, and 
 you use its special powers to help other people. How do you help those people? You play mini-games 
 for them, yes, thats right. If you want to help the ninjas to save their school, why wont you play 
 a mini-game? That will help them for sure. Anyway, its forgiven, as this is just a party game.
 
  
  --------------
  Gameplay |
  --------------
  The strongest part of the game. You just play a lot of fast mini-games\ puzzels, each is usually 
 less then 4-10 seconds. You need to think fast and act fast. Thats fun, all the game use the WiiMote 
 pretty good, demonstrating a glass of water [and you need to drink it slowly] , or a paper plain 
 that needs to fly and avoid the obsticalse. There is a multilplayer option [which will unlock its 
 self, strangely, when you finish the single player] , a single player mode, and a "just play" mode.
 
  In the single player mode, you will find stages, each stage have like 10 - 20 mini-games in it 
 [about 10-20] , and special stages that have a long interesting puzzle. You can cross between the 
 world to the stage you want\ puzzle you want anytime, and you unlock new stages by beating old 
 ones [you finish one ~ you get anther] .
  
  On top of that, all of them are funny. There are also funny cut-sense when each holding position 
 of the WiiMore is intredust. The multi player is also fun, you can play it with a friend, he will 
 hold the nunchuck and you the WiiMote. Sadly, there is no online play.
  
  -------------
  Graphics |
  -------------
  Remains as it was on the GC. Nothing special, like Maple on the 
 PC.
  Sure, it do 420P and Wide screen, but it still very primitive. The design is nice, but thats still 
 not enough. Tecnicly, its very weak. You can even notice AA problems in many cases. ----------
 
  Sound |
  ----------
  Its what you would expect from this kind of game. All the music are fun and nice to hear while 
 playing the mini-games\ puzzles, the effects sounds pretty solid and there is a nice use of the 
 WiiMote sound option. The best aspect, however, is the funny cut-scene of new WiiMote hole position, 
 good voice acting and funny too.
  
  ------------
  Lifespan |
  ------------
  The single player is not that long but there are plenty of mini-games to keep you busy and puzzles. 
 Thu the multiplaye unlocks it self pretty late, its also nicely done. There isn't much of content 
 here, but what there is, is more then enough for a party game.
  
  ****************
  Overall: 8.5/10*
  ****************
  Its a nice and fun games. It shows cool ways to use the 
 WiiMote and offers a solid multiplayer game. Its fun as any party game should be, and if you like 
 those kind of games, you should really get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sailowfr
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Wot a load of crap - fun crap! I never could have thought a successful video game could be made 
 from bundling together such a pile of nonsense! Lets see, no real storyline and no cohesive pattern 
 to what goes on, what the player does and no real goal to aim for other than unlocking all the 
 different styles & games. In other words, this game is completely meaningless.....
  
  But for some reason, it clicks. what stands out the most are the controls. They are precise & reactive 
 and tailor-made for the Wii. I can't imagine such a game working on another console. The sound 
 is also pretty decent and matches the visuals in variety and quirkiness.
  
  Improvements! several but I think a competition based on knockout style compilation of mini-games 
 would make this a real party game.
  
  Otherwise, Warioware Smooth Moves would still make a fun party game. first timers will be bowled 
 over by its utter daftness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  You can pick your nose. You can maybe pick your friends nose. But in Nintendo's WarioWare: Smooth 
 Moves for the Wii, you can sure pick some random stranger's nose! This bizarre assortment of micro 
 games, which range from 5-15 seconds each that eventually speed up, are perhaps Nintendo finally 
 showing they've gone off the deep end! Not that a pair Italian brother plumbers easting mushrooms 
 and stomping on turtles wasn't enough
  
  In this game, the game play is very forward and simple. Just try to survive as long as you can. 
 You can gain lives by beating bosses, but once you lose all four of your lives, game over, sweetheart. 
 The actually game play has you hold the Wiimote in a variety of positions to emulate what you are 
 doing on screen, with a small diagram to show you what to do before the minigames start. These 
 positions include the broom-handle-like "Janitor", the "Tug-of-War", and the "Thumb Wrestler". 
 Nothing complex or something that you would need a degree in astrophysics for but some games need 
 to played a few times some times for you to figure out just what you need to do in it (you really 
 only have like 5 seconds, man!) . Multiplayer is fun as this is a party game. From the hot potato-style 
 games to a game of darts for over 32 people trading off a single wiimote. It gets intense and crazy. 
 Another thing I like is WarioWare band of characters and non-connecting writing. It is quirky, 
 bizarre and funny. But overall, not terribly complex, funny, and it works.
  
  Now controls seem to run hand-in-hand with game play in nearly every game like a pair of love struck 
 teens, and this is no exception. Most of the mini-games are absolutely spot on and feel like you 
 suppose they should (When have I actually shot a dragon with a laser?!) . The variety of control 
 positions is cool and gave me a kick out of doing them. My only 'tear-your-hair-out' thing, and 
 it is a big one, is that the Wii can't register precise movements and that makes some mini-games 
 nearly impossible, unless you get lucky. This makes it frustrating in a game where you only have 
 five-seconds to win and a loss can come in a matter of seconds. That is only and most major draw 
 of this game. But most of the mini-games work fine and are a blast to play.
  
  I agree with my fellow reviewer Pikaboo in the fact that, besides game play, Nintendo always makes 
 great music and sounds. The in game music is fairly consistent with the stages and it switches 
 when you are in mini games. The between game music is catchy, if not annoying if you hear it all 
 the time. But other wise the minimal voice-acting and sing is spot on, the sound effects are realistic 
 and not as bad as some games. Just annoying after while.
  
  Oh boy, graphics. Now, this isn't halo, people. Graphics don't really mater as much in this game. 
 The back grounds are cartoonish and well put together. They are lush and colorful. The non-playing 
 images are all very consistent and good looking. In the mini-game art varies widely from game to 
 game but that's good because it keeps it mixed up enough to keep it fresh. The graphic are not 
 supposed to look realistic and that's fine. The Wii's not working overtime graphically on this, 
 unlike the Twilight Princess or Super Mario Galaxy, and these could easily be pulled of on the 
 GameCube, but this style of art does really require photorealism and High-Definition. Hell, the 
 DS pulled this style of graphics of in WarioWare: Touched, and it only has a little edge on the 
 N64. But it's fine. If it's not broke, don't fix it
  
  This is a party game, so if you've got a bunch of friends, go ahead. Replay is pretty decent. There's 
 no online play, so that sucks, and playing single player again and again is only training for beating 
 your friends. Good, but not great
  
  Well, coming into it I didn't know what to expect. It's more fun than a barrel of drunk monkeys, 
 but lack of clean controls on certain games and the need of physically-present friends to give 
 it good replay ability reminds you that these are drunk monkeys and that you'll have to clean up 
 after them in the morning.
  -----------
  Gameplay: [9.2/10]
  Controls: [8.0/10]
  Sound: [8.9/10]
  Graphics: [9.2/10]
  Replay Value: [7.5/10]
  Overall: 8.2
  
  For more 
 Reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is a really good game and is really fun but it can get boring. The game 
 consists of lots of mini games which are slightly addictive. Warioware: Smooth Moves is a really 
 short game and you can beat it in less than five hours if you're good. The storyline in Warioware 
 is a bit weird and confusing but you tend not to care much about that element of the game. Once 
 you've beaten Warioware: Smooth Moves, a multiplayer version is unlocked. This is probably my favorite 
 part of the game as it's always fun to play with friends. Warioware: Smooth Moves isn't the kind 
 of game a hardcore gamer would like because it's easy. You also wouldn't want to play it over and 
 over again. Warioware: Smooth moves is a good game which is really fun and original and I give 
 it a thumbs up to any gamer who just wants a bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  If you loves to play minigames through a whole game, this game maybe are good for you. But Playing 
 5-seconds long minigames for more than 10 hours bores you out...
  
  Warioware: smooth moves contains 200 microgames where you have to do all kinds of crazy stuff with 
 the wiimote. But sad enough, the singleplayer mode are finished after 5 hours, and dosent give 
 you very much fun. 
  
  Well, the whole game will seem very, very fun in the beggining, but after 1 hour of singleplayer, 
 is it just getting kinda stupid, And what really makes me mad, is that you have to complete singleplayer 
 to unlock multiplayer: Wich is the only thing that makes the game worth playing.
  
  Multiplayer is more fun. But not THAT fun. There are games with much better multiplayer: Wii sports, 
 smash bros, mariokart and so on. I say, buy the game only if you love warioware, or really loves 
 minigames. However I am going to sell my copy tomorrow...
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is the best part of the game. It has everthing from nintendo classics to new funny sounds!
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Painted graphics wich looks really nice with a HD cabel.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  The multiplayer are OK, but the singleplayer makes me mad, you need someone with 
 the same skill level to play with all the time.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  The controls are great, but sometimes they are completly impossible and ruins the game...
  
 
  
  
  Final score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0lidifieds
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is about as fun as people say it is, if not a little over-hyped. Basically you have to 
 do these tasks in a timely manner and there's tons of variety. You'll do everything from swordfighting 
 to picking your nose. (The swordfighting one is AWESOME I might add.) They are mini-games, but 
 they're MICRO mini-games. It's pretty much self-explanatory. Each game lasts only a few seconds 
 with boss fights being a tad longer. 
  
  The game has a nice sense of humor, but sometimes it's just really dorky. Also the voices they 
 used for some of the mini-games with just 'regular joe's' talking was just too dorky and cringe-worthy 
 even for me. How hard would it be to hire a voice actor instead of just a person with a normal, 
 boring voice? On the plus side it makes it feel kinda like it's 'your game' and the developers 
 are just like you. But still - dorky with a capital D. 
  
  The game's control also takes some getting used to. You'll get stuck on a few things, and it's 
 obvious what to do but there's just subtle nuances of moving the controller in just the right fashion 
 that you have to get a feel for it. I can't explain it with words, it's just getting a feel for 
 it - like learning how to drive kinda. But it comes soon enough. Still, the controls really aren't 
 as good as people say they are. You mess up just a tad more than you intend to and with more effort, 
 they could be perfect.
  
  There's much more good than bad though. It's unique and addicting with high replay value. It's 
 just fun for being fun, really. I realize my review sounded kinda negative, but it's more fun to 
 rant about the annoying things in games than it is to be positive all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  .Great use of the wii remote.
  .Unique.
  Over 200 mini games.
  .It sucks you in and makes you want to keep playing...
  The Bad:
  .But the story mode is very 
 short, and the multiplayer mostly just includes passing the wii remote around.
  
  Warioware comes to the wii with all new controls which work very well.
  Although a very short 
 story line and no online multiplayer this game is still worth buying. Its priced at around 30 pounds 
 and since it only takes about 5 hours to complete its not really worth it although there is definitely 
 good replay value. The story mode includes random things like sawing a piece of wood and with the 
 wii remote you move it like you would a saw. Also if there are certain mini games during the story 
 mode you can always go to the castle place where you can play any mini game from the game you like.
 
  The multiplayer in the game is only fun for a short amount of time especially since it only includes 
 just passing the Wii Remote across the room to the second player. Towards the end of the game theres 
 a few levels which do include the Nun-Chuk but thats optional this game does not require a Nun-Chuk 
 which is not a problem because lots of people have a Nun-Chuk and they are really cheap.
  The only reason I have not given this game a 9.0/10 is because if there was online it would be 
 a huge amount of fun and also because the story is too short but there are over 200 different mini 
 games all unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheApocXPress
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  If you've never played any game in the WarioWare series, you have to do "microgames" lasting from 
 5 seconds to 10 seconds, and you can only screw up 3 times or you fail the level. Every "microgame" 
 is an objective where you have to do a certain thing. In the old games, it was like a "button mash" 
 or "touch screen touch" in WW: Touched! or turning the GBA in WW: Twisted. Here, it's "Form Baton 
 Techniques (As i call it) " and it shows you 15 ways to hold the Wiimote, which, in this game, is 
 some sort of a sacred item called a "Form Baton". You will be passed through 11 levels, with all 
 levels except 8 and 11 introducing a new way to hold the Wiimote. The 11th is sort of an "exercise" 
 level, trying to burn something similar to calories (called "kelories") . You will be introducted 
 to the following characters: Wario, Mona, Kat & Ana, Young Cricket, Jimmy T., Ashley, Dribble & 
 Spitz, Penny Crygor, 9-Volt & 18-Volt, Jimmy P., Tiny Wario, Orbulon, and Dr. Crygor and Mike.
 
  
  Rated 9.0.
  "The game has a few minor flaws, but nothing to worry about." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been an easy 10.0 if it had been three times as long.
  I mean it will probably take you maybe 10 hours at most to unlock EVERYTHING to unlock. But the 
 gameplay and controls are soo amazing that the game will last you far longer then that. You will 
 find yourself trying to beat high scores and playing the half dozen or so mini-games, along-side 
 the 200 or so micro-games that last but a few seconds each. Each charecter has there own theme 
 and micro-games. Like 9-volt has nintendo themed micro-games, so you will be smashing pikmin and 
 making good old 2D mario get coins and pull the master-sword from the tri-force stone. Most of 
 the micro and mini-games are extremely fun, addictive and have great controls. And it has multi-player, 
 of which there are 6 modes, 3 of which are different variations of playing the single-players micro-games. 
 The other three are dart-board, bungie budies where you just over obstacles and a mini-game where 
 you steer a ship shaped like the wii-remote and the nunchuck. These are all fun to play. Too bad 
 you have to beat the single-play to play the multi-player so you can't bring the game to a friends 
 house and play unless you want to play though the single-player first. But all the issues aside, the 
 games controls and gamplay save the day by realy stretching the game to it's lasting appeal limits. 
 Pick the game up if you like any of the previous titles. Or if you want a great multi-player game.
 
  
  good: Addictive.
  Great controls.
  Great multi-player.
  Fun while the single-player lasts and even after that.
  
  bad: A few micro-game duds.
  Short 
 single-player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_WIL50N
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  In for a lot of fun? Buy WarioWare! If you're in to the whole action, completing games, working 
 through levels stuff this probably isn't your cup of tea but why not give it a try? I can probably 
 guess that most if you have a Wii so pull your whole family round for this one. It offers hilarious 
 and fun-packed games that interact with the Wii. Games feature certain moves like the Elephant, 
 the Mortar & Pestle and the Umbrella. The game is simple and very easy which is frustrating and 
 suddenly makes it not earn its worth but I don't think that it was made to be a long game. It was 
 made to be an entertainer and with all the party games, funny little puzzles and exciting levels 
 that test your interaction with the Wii; thumbs up to Wario; keep bringing laughter and good memories 
 to families round the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thattotally
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to begin? First it must be noted that this is a must have game for the Wii. No other 
 party game can give you as much satisfaction.
  
  WarioWare is a game that is fully reliant on the remote and it's motion sensor abilities. The amount 
 of enjoyment that you can get by just waving the remote around is just fabolous. The game slowly 
 pulls you into the "story", which is just basically a collection of brightfully colored 2D scenes. 
 This may put off some people, but the amount of humor in them is fantastic
  
  WarioWare's single player will keep you at it for hours, trying to discover all the hidden moves, 
 or getting a higher score, all the while doing weird, absurd, and lovable motions with the remote 
 (and to an extent, the nunchuk) . The multiplayer aspects are also quite fun, such as competing 
 in darts or jogging. After playing Wii Sports, casual gamers should definitely pick this game up, 
 it is full family fun for everyone. and that's not to say "hardcore" players cannot enjoy it as 
 well, for the diffuculty levels can be changed accordingly for some things, to give players that 
 exrta challenge
  
  Simply put, this game should be in every Wii owners library, for it's hard to see how anyone could 
 doing anything but enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  WarioWare on the GBA was one of the nuttiest games we'd ever played, and that was the age when 
 you merely pressed buttons to complete the mini games.
  
  Since then, WarioWare has had fans frantically tilting the GBA left and right in WW: Twisted (sadly 
 never released in UK) , and scribbling like mad on the DS in WW: Touched. But by far the craziest 
 and most fun of them all is Smooth Moves on Wii, because it uses the Wii Remote's motion sensitivity 
 to cleverly get you waving, flapping and jumping around the place like a complete nutter. And it's 
 brilliant fun.
  
  If you don't know the deal with WarioWare by now, you need to get with it. The game throws you 
 into a series of three-second micro games, each varying in theme, setting and gameplay, one after 
 the other. And we're not talking about normal challenges like shooting some spaceships or driving 
 a racing car - we're talking about screwy stuff like inserting false teeth into a granny's mouth, 
 picking a giant nose, high-fiving a dog or balancing a broomstick in the palm of your hand. 
  
  The more games you successfully complete, the faster the game gets, until you're given barely 
 a second to complete your nonsensical task. The clever thing with Smooth Moves, however, is that 
 each game requires you to hold and use the controller in a completely different way.
  
  Before each mini game appears, you're shown a simple diagram of how to hold the controller, and 
 you have to adjust quickly before your challenge starts. Put it this way: you're not going to impress 
 any girls playing Smooth Moves.
  
  You might make waving a samurai sword around in Red Steel look cool, or proudly show off your swift 
 serving prowess in Wii Sports Tennis, but there's no way you're looking ninja while flapping your 
 arms in the Balloon Fight mini game, or spinning your hips in the hula hoops game.
  
  You'll be holding the Remote over your head as you perform leg squats to lift and on-screen weight, 
 holding it in your open hand to balance that broomstick, or flicking it back like a fishing rod 
 in the Animal Crossing game. You'll look like a buffoon, but it's not about looking good, it's 
 about having a laugh and that you will do with Smooth Moves.
  
  The structure of the single-player game is similar to that of previous games - each of the crazy 
 characters have their own selection of games, and a boss battle. So, one character's games might 
 be based on rhythm-action, while another's are based on scenes from past Nintendo games, from as 
 far back as Super Mario Bros, right up to Wind Waker. Obviously, those are our favourite ones. 
 
  
  But everyone who's played WarioWare will know its all about the multiplayer, and it's the laughs 
 you'll have playing with others that will make Smooth Moves a game you'll get out every time you 
 have a game-playing gathering. Finally, you can give your tired Wii Sports disc a much-needed break.
 
  
  The varying multiplayer modes let you compete in different ways, the most obvious being to take 
 it in turns to complete mini games, with players that fail being eliminated. The balloon-popping 
 game is back, where one player plays a mini game while the other three pump the Remote like a plunger 
 to inflate a balloon. Players take turns to complete mini games in rotation until the balloon bursts, 
 at which point the player currently playing a mini game loses.
  
  But no matter what mode you're playing, you'll have never played a game as crazy as Smooth Moves. 
 It bonkers mini games and manic, control-changing antics will have four of you flapping about in 
 front of the TV like a bunch of brain-damaged chickens, and it's definitely one of the best party 
 games ever made.
  
  The only major flaw is that you can unlock and successfully pass every mini game in the package 
 within two or three hours. After that, there's very little to do outside of the multiplayer mode.
 
  
  A few sweet mini games have been thrown in to extend its life span, like a fiendishly addictive 
 block-catching game that sees you tilting the Remote to control a platform as you catch falling 
 bricks without dropping them, or a bat and ball game in which you keep a ball in the air for as 
 long as you can as you work your way up an obstruction-filled corridor. But even those won't last 
 more than a couple of days at the most.
  
  But WarioWare has never been about lasting dozens of hours in single-player - not unless you're 
 the type of gamer to play mini games over and over again to beat your own high scores. Yet that 
 doesn't detract from the fact that this game, while it lasts, is crazy genius and, as we've already 
 said, will be the one you come back to when you've got a full house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  It's a source of personal pride for me to consider myself one of the very first fans of what is 
 now one of the most popular series to grace any -- or in this case, many -- Nintendo consoles: 
 Wario Ware. Admittedly, it all happened accidentally; I don't remember what I did ask for that 
 birthday, but I got Wario Ware: Mega Microgame$ instead, my mom insisting that this is the game 
 the guy at the toy store most recommended. I was a bit let down -- until I played it, that is.
 
  
  Before Mega Microgame$, minigames and Mario Party were completely synonymous. However, Wario Ware 
 really does bring new meaning to the idea "minigame" -- each little sequence lasts about five seconds. 
 Needless to say, I was absolutely hooked. I blew through the unfortunately short but awesomely 
 fun game and anxiously anticipated more iterations in the series. The GameCube remake was poor, 
 but both Touched and Twisted were incredible. It was fairly apparent to me, though, that Smooth 
 Moves for the Wii would easily be the best Wario Ware game to date. Alas, how wrong I was
  
  It's hard to pinpoint, exactly, what makes Smooth Moves such a flop, but I'll give it a shot. 
 In short, Smooth Moves just is not what the previous games were. Think back to what you liked about 
 the previous Wario Ware games: the crazy humor, the addictiveness, the replay value, and most of 
 all, the variety of completely insane minigames. Well, while Smooth Moves does retain some of the 
 positive aspects of previous games in the series, it drops the ball on many others.
  
  To begin with, Smooth Moves does have the wacky humor that's been the trademark of every Wario 
 Ware game. Naturally, the story begins with the greedy protagonist, Wario himself, looking to make 
 a few quick bucks. The rest of his gang quickly gets involved and each have their own set of minigames. 
 Each character is completely over the top and quite funny -- humor is derived from their names 
 (for example, two ninjas-in-training named Kat and Ana) and their personalities. It's quirky, weird, 
 and kind of hard to describe. But most importantly, it's funny.
  
  Actually, though, much of the game's humor comes from the minigames themselves. Minigame collections 
 like Mario Party had you doing some pretty crazy stuff, but Mario and Co.'s antics pale against 
 those of Wario and his crew. Games in Smooth Moves are funny largely because they just don't make 
 sense -- for example, you'll hold the Wii remote like a rod out in front of you and attempt to 
 make sure a giant hippo on a beach ball keeps his balance. Or, you'll slide the Wii remote around 
 to line up a finger with a nostril so the subject can successfully pick his nose. It's all pretty 
 crazy and nonsensical, but it's also quite entertaining.
  
  Admittedly, while the package in general fails to impress, the Wii controls are surprisingly well 
 done. In the game, the Wii Remote acts as a magic baton called the Form Baton (by the way, some 
 of the game's funniest moments come from a calm, collected voice reading hilarious descriptions 
 of the various poses) which you use to complete the many minigames. The game is divided up into 
 sections of minigames, grouped based on the position that you'll hold the Wii Remote to complete 
 them. Each set of games has you holding the Remote differently -- maybe you'll hold the Remote 
 around it's middle, place it on the table, and grab it when you hear a ring to pick up the phone. 
 Or, you'll hold up the Remote to your nose to imitate an elephant. The variety of poses is impressive 
 -- however, the variety of minigames is not.
  
  See, one of the great things about the previous Wario Ware games is that every single minigame 
 was so unpredictable. Yes, if you were playing for fifty points, you'd encounter several minigames 
 multiple times over the course of your play session. But the difficulty would be ramped up or there 
 would be significant changes (usually additions) to the game. However, such is not the case in 
 Smooth Moves. Far too many times you'll see the same games over and over again, with miniscule 
 changes that don't affect the difficulty or gameplay at all. The games start to get stale and boring 
 all too quickly, which is a huge problem for a game that's so short to complete and relies so much 
 on replay value to warrant the title's fifty dollar price tag.
  
  That said, the first time that you play the game, you'll probably have quite a bit of fun with 
 the games. The repetition of certain stupid games won't be that big of a problem, and you'll instead 
 have fun with the different themes of minigames. Each character's games will feature many different 
 uses of the Form Baton, but the general theme remains the same throughout -- for example, one character's 
 games are all related to sports, while another (my personal favorite) features a bunch of Nintendo-themed 
 games. In terms of this variety, the game is nice, but within each individual theme, there are 
 too few games.
  
  Naturally, this pretty significantly hurts any replay value that this game may have had. I played 
 Mega Microgame$ for hours, despite the fact that I beat it rather quickly. Why? Because the games 
 were still fun. That's just not the case with Smooth Moves. It's almost as if they're too simple, 
 and when that is combined with the fact that there are far too few games, you've got a big problem 
 on your hands. You can easily breeze through the game in just a couple of hours, and in so doing 
 experience about everything that the game has to offer. And because the games feel stale and, frankly, 
 aren't that fun, you'll have very little reason to every pick this game up again. Is a couple hours 
 of game play really worth 50 bucks? I certainly don't think so.
  
  In terms of both graphics and music, Smooth Moves yet again fails to impress. In terms of style, 
 it's nearly identical to the original Wario Ware. And even worse, it's very comparable just in 
 terms of technical graphics. I know that the visuals weren't the focus of the development team, 
 but they clearly could have made a better effort in this department. I'm not one to demerit a game 
 just because the visuals aren't jaw-dropping, but it's pretty pathetic that so many aspects of 
 this game are poorly done. The music isn't bad, but nor is it all that great. It's forgettable, 
 to be honest, and really doesn't contribute much to the game. There are some minigames that rely 
 on sound (for example, the telephone one that I mentioned already) but aside from those, the sound 
 seems to be another wasted outlet to somehow redeem this game.
  
  Smooth Moves has been criticized for its unimpressive multiplayer, and I see no reason to disagree. 
 There are few games that I've played that have somehow managed to pull of a successful multiplayer 
 mode in which you simply pass around the controller, and Smooth Moves does nothing to change that. 
 You can play most of the minigames that you've played in the main mode with some friends, but it's 
 just not that fun. Of course, there's the fact that the games themselves aren't that good to begin 
 with, plus there's no real feeling of multiplayer -- it's like everybody is just taking turns playing 
 single player. Admittedly, it's pretty funny watching your friends perform some of the crazy poses 
 that the game requires, but there are better (and less expensive) ways to laugh at your friends.
 
  
  So, the verdict? The hype was great surrounding this game, so you've got something of an excuse 
 if you picked up this game around its launch. But if you're reading this now and considering purchasing 
 Smooth Moves, I'd warn you not to. Honestly, you're shelling out 50 bucks for what the developers 
 would like to think is a good "idea" -- even if it is, the execution is terrible. If you really 
 want to play it, this would be an idea rental, as you can mess around with it and try out the multiplayer 
 in a weekend. But otherwise, I'd say you're making a good move by trying to distance yourself as 
 much as possible from this disappointing title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  as a wii owner... i love this game... even though i'm a mario type of person i really appreaciate 
 and enjoyed this game. Warioware is a must-buy game for all wii owners. the good thing about this 
 game is that the minigames and the stories are funny and you'll have a lot of laughs. theonly problem 
 is that its too short. It only has about 10-12 or even less character stories... unlike the ds 
 wario... this game is great and i hope they make a sequel on the wii. hopefully a longer playtime... 
 wario is a good game in an aspect of entertainment. its controls are also perfect as you learn 
 all sorts of moves like the handlebar or the mohawk... the game makes you look like a weird person 
 with all the moves you do. my personal favorite was when you danced at one of the last stages. 
 once again... warioware: smooth moves is a must-buy game and even though it is a short game it 
 is worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlayy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun that I have been playing it since I got my Wii back in August of 2007! The 
 object of the game is to... win.
  
  It's very indescribable, it's that loony. You see, you go through these "microgames" which are 
 about on average 5 or 6 seconds long, but they only say a couple words and those are your directions. 
 The game itself is silly. They add little touches to the microgames, such as being able to play 
 with a guy's uvula or having flowers grow right after you pushed someone to the ground, and they 
 work. It gives the game its edge. You will be addicted to it like a guy is to a cigarette (ok maybe 
 not that much, but you get my point) . 
  
  This is definitely a game to get if you have/are getting a Wii. I definitely recommend it to anyone. 
 Although there is no Wi-Fi multiplayer, I doubt it would have worked out anyway. Get it.
  
  -Colin out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The Wii is considered the casual gamers system, the console of the minigames, a white box for kids 
 to play with... but for all the bashing that it's dealt how many other systems can say that they 
 actually have good casual games and great minigames, none! So now that, that's out of the way... 
 Warioware: Smooth Moves. Not much too say except, what were they thinking?... I mean... smoking? 
 The game starts off as a bogus storyline that makes no sense. You find an ancient Wii Remote, you 
 play minigames to escape large boulders or to buy things... thats pretty much it, at least for 
 the single player mode. This game is meant to be played for multiplayer. The graphics range from 
 Photoshopped goodness to NES, to N64, to Cube, and then back to Photoshop... I can't explain it 
 all very random. That's what this game is the random game of all random... (?) Just writing this 
 is getting me confused. An example of random for the game, one minigame has one pick a nose.... 
 thats it. The game is pretty much like that, the games make you confused at first but over time 
 they begin to make sense in a strange scary way. The gameplay if fun and easy to pick up and some 
 games, like the Bungie Twin game. Can be fun with someone you can yell at, with out getting them 
 angry. This game has two people the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk at the same time, and then as the 
 screen moves up one must jump to avoid a pitfall or sandtrap. The concept of the game is to get 
 as far as you can, but if you see cake (Portal anyone?) you must grab it and suddenly you fly further 
 than you could ever run. Strange minigame for a strange game. The whole time playing this game 
 one will be wondering why they bought it, but most of the time they don't realize how sucked into 
 the game they have gotten. Most of the time people want to paly it for only a few minutes, but 
 after tearing the Wii Remote away they find out a few hours have passed. It is a great time waster 
 with friends, and if you buy it just to play with yourself it might be a waste f money. The game 
 has a single player mode, but the only reason you will want to continue playing it is to unlock 
 all the minigames, so you can play them in multiplayer. The sound and music is actually all quirky 
 and fun to listen to making it honestly one of the best sounding games I've heard in a while. The 
 game also has plenty of jokes from older games, and other things making it one of the funniest 
 games of the year. Overall the game should only be bought for people who play with others and not 
 themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Wario Ware series has been a very popular series ever since it first made an appearance in 
 2003. Wario Ware: Smooth Moves comes along in 2007 with hundreds of new micro-games, a weird storyline, 
 some quirky, new characters, and bundles of trouble! 
  
  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves doesn't have much of a storyline, to be quite honest. You pick a character's 
 story, and then you see a cut-scene at the beginning of the level. After beating the level, you 
 will get to see what happens to the silly situation. The stories in Wario Ware: Smooth Moves aren't 
 serious at all. They are funny in an extremely weird way. For example, there is a jazzy fellow 
 who likes like he has been living in the 1970s all his life who dances with a bunch of cats. It 
 is odd to say the least. 
  
  The game play is fun for a short time. There are tons of different ways you hold the Wii Remote 
 in order to complete the micro-game it assigns you. There are about twenty-one different motions 
 you use with the Wii Remote. There's one where you hold the Wii Remote like you normally would, 
 one where you put the Wii Remote on the tip of your nose, one where you hold the Wii Remote like 
 a broomstick, one where you hold the Wii Remote like a dumbbell, and one where you rest the Wii 
 Remote against your hip, just to name a few. These unique ways of holding the Wii Remote are generally 
 fun, but some are stupid and unnecessary. A lot of them could be played just holding the Wii Remote 
 normally, like the one where you hold the Wii Remote against your hip and jump. 
  
  The micro-games are short, and can at last up to only three seconds. When you start a micro-game, 
 it simply tells you how to hold the Wii Remote, and gives you a vague description of what to do, 
 such as "Fire!" It is kind of obvious what to do from the one word it gives you, though. For example, 
 one micro-game tells you to "Return," and you instantly know that you must hit the volleyball over 
 the net. If you really don't understand the descriptions, you can read a much more detailed description 
 in the micro-game selection. 
  
  Each character has a different set of micro-games, and you might have to play the same character's 
 story over and over again to get all the micro-games. It can sometimes be frustrating. Once you 
 get all the micro-games, you feel like you accomplished something, though. 
  
  Each character has a certain number of micro-games you must beat. Once you beat a micro-game, you 
 play the next one. If you lose a micro-game, you still go on to the next one, unless you are facing 
 a boss. The bosses are just longer micro-games, or sometimes you actually fight a real boss. Once 
 you beat the character's story, you can go back and try to get a higher score. Once you beat the 
 boss again in the same play-through, the difficulty increases. There are three different levels 
 of difficulty for each micro-game. 
  
  Once you beat the main single player mode, you unlock multiplayer mode. It isn't as fun as you 
 would expect it to be. You just basically switch off with the controller for when the next person's 
 turn comes up, alternatively. You don't actually play at the same time. It lacked largely in multiplayer 
 mode, which is what most party/mini-game compilations are for. 
  
  The graphics seem to be very cartoony, but they have a nice, original look to them. When you watch 
 the cut-scenes, it really looks like you are watching a cartoon. The micro-games aren't too detailed, 
 and sometimes have black backgrounds, or just plain stick-figures. Nothing seems to be detailed 
 at all. 
  
  The sound is irritating in some micro-games, but the funny voice more than makes up for it. Every 
 time you beat a micro-game, you'll hear a little voice say some weird confirmation that you won. 
 There is no voice acting, really, except for when the cheerleaders say, "Go, go, go!" Some tunes 
 are really nice and catchy and will bring you back to that character's story just so you can hear 
 the nice sounds, such as Tomorrow Hill. 
  
  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is not as addictive as you would come to expect, and you probably won't 
 play it that much once you unlock every short micro-game it has to offer. You'll be done with it 
 in a few days. It just isn't worth the fifty dollars it is asking for. Some micro-games, you just 
 need to swing the controller to win the micro-game, which makes it a lot less appealing. It is 
 a good rental, but you can probably find a better multiplayer mini-game compilation. 
  
  Pros:
  
  + This video game truly shows what the Wii Remote can do.
  
  + There are plenty 
 of micro-games to choose from.
  
  + The graphics have a unique look to them. 
  
  Cons:
  
  - This video game is too short for its own good.
  
  - There isn't much replay 
 value, which is the main point of most video game compilations.
  
  - Some micro-games feel the same as other ones. 
  
  - The price-tag is too much for such a 
 shallow video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is one of the greatest spin-off series of all time, yet it keeps going, unlike Halo. 
 the latest game, Smooth Moves, is for the Wii, and is a great game!
  
  Game-play: 9/10
  
  Game-play is awesome, with an RPG like 1P mode. Neverless, it seems that some of the games 
 are almost impossible to beat without learning them the first time you play them. The use of the 
 Wii is a clever idea, though.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Unlike the first games graphics, these graphics are perfect. The animation is the best in a game 
 since Sonic CD. Everything is joyful.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Thumbs up, baby! The music is soulja boy mix with a great sense of humor. The sound is some of 
 the best on the Wii too, a la the Wario sense of humor.
  
  Camera and Control: 9/10
  
  There's no flaws in the camera. But, the control doesn't quite fit tightly on the Wi, as it is 
 hard enough to get the object in the microgame. Still, it's great and nothing crazy to go.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  No doubt about it. Warioware is way better then any other Warioware game 
 before it.
  
  Average score: 9.6/10
  
  With a friend or by yourself, Warioware: smooth moves can still be a blast! It has great addictive 
 fun, and is one of the best games on the Wii, and of all time. If there is a game the is the best 
 Next gen party game, then Smooth moves is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Smooth Moves is similar to other WarioWare games, so if you've played them, you know what to expect. 
 A bunch of mini-games with various control methods for each stage. Not much has changed, but what 
 has is mostly for the good. It is similar to Twisted! for the GBA, which was my previous favorite 
 version. The graphics are improved, but many games still look dated. Most of the fun comes from 
 the weirdness and fast pace that keeps accelerating as you progress.
  
  Playing though the story will only take a few hours, but then you can try to unlock all the games 
 by replaying the stages. Checking back to the index to see if you've unlocked them all is kind 
 of a chore. Once you've unlocked everything, there's still going to be games that you never quite 
 figured out, even if you randomly beat them sometimes. You can play any game again solo as it goes 
 through all thee difficulties. The side games you unlock are different in that they're longer and 
 have more depth, but not enough to keep your attention for long.
  
  Some games require button presses as well as motion controls, and this can add to the frustration 
 for new players, as they will seldom know what to do when the simple instructions are shown. A 
 little more detail on these screens would have helped. Also, the multiplayer is rather limited, 
 with most modes being "sudden death" versions of the mini-games and one mode that allows players 
 to continue after failing. Darts is probably the most fun, because it's slow paced and lasts longer, 
 even if you make mistakes.
  
  The biggest problem with the multiplayer is that it uses one remote, which can be like trying to 
 pass a baton during a race, since this game is so face paced. It would have been nice to have more 
 options and be able to choose what games you play during multiplayer. People who haven't played 
 through the story will probably be at a disadvantage, but it's still fun enough that only the most 
 competitive players will not have a good time. I would recommend this game, but don't expect to 
 be playing it for a long time. It's good for a laugh now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  The game opens with Wario stumbling upon a temple that contains a mystical, suspiciously Wii Remote-shaped 
 item known as the form baton. From there, the game progresses as the series has always progressed. 
 You select one of the residents of Wario's fair city, and a brief, nonsensically charming intro 
 animation plays. These animations are great, are occasionally funny, and look really fantastic. 
 The smooth edges on the characters really stand out and give the whole presentation a very cartoonlike 
 vibe. These intro sequences also set up the action a bit, but there's no way of preparing for what 
 happens next. The game comprises more than 200 "microgames." Yes, these are smaller than minigames, 
 and you usually perform one quick, decisive action, such as sawing through a log, twisting a maze 
 so that a ball drops out, making Mario jump up and get coins, and so on. So each game lasts only 
 about five seconds or so. The catch is that you don't know in what order the games are going to 
 come at you, and as you play, the whole game speeds up. So it starts out nice and easy, but gets 
 progressively more difficult until you finally snap, run out of lives, and run away from the Wii, 
 frothing at the mouth. Each game uses the Wii Remote in a specific way and requires you to hold 
 the Wii Remote differently. These holds, called forms, are displayed for a second or so before 
 each game starts, giving you time to orient yourself properly for the upcoming game. The forms 
 themselves can be pretty funny. You start out with the most common form, the remote control, where 
 you hold the Wii Remote normally. But you'll also hold it sideways for tilting in a driving-like 
 motion, or with both hands on it like bike handlebars, or up to your nose for the elephant form, 
 or even on top of your head for the mohawk. One form even asks you to put the controller down for 
 a few games, like one that has you answering a phone. The forms are a big part of what makes the 
 game so cool, and it's nice that there are a lot of them. After playing through the main game, 
 you'll unlock a form called the diner, which also requires you to use the Nunchuk attachment. It's 
 the variety in the microgames that keeps the game feeling fresh. Like in previous WarioWare games, 
 one section of the game is largely based around microgame versions of classic Nintendo titles. 
 But because this is a Wii, and not a DS, the range of these games has greatly expanded. Many of 
 the old games you'll encounter here are GameCube games. So you'll get a quick burst of Animal Crossing, 
 which is a fishing game. Or you'll tilt the controller to make Samus roll around and knock over 
 a barrel in a Metroid Prime-themed game. There's even a Wind Waker game. But there are also plenty 
 of games from earlier eras, including Punch-Out!!, Star Fox, and Super Mario Bros. While the nostalgia 
 is nice, the rest of the game also has plenty to offer. Have you ever wanted to shake bugs off 
 of a banana? Hey, who hasn't? Playing through the main game and seeing the story sequences is a 
 pretty easy task, especially if you're familiar with the series and how it plays out. You can easily 
 blast through it in a couple of hours. Of course, seeing the credits isn't really the end of the 
 game because you'll have seen only a fraction of the available microgames. Once you've beaten an 
 area, going back to it puts it into an endless mode where you see how long you can play before 
 running out of lives. You'll also unlock modes that throw together all of the different games into 
 one big jumble, as well as more dedicated games, such as a behind-the-back, polygonal rendition 
 of Balloon Fight's balloon trip mode. The game also has four multiplayer modes, which serve up 
 the different microgames in different ways. All of the multiplayer modes are pass-and-play, using 
 only one Wii Remote. This allows you to have up to 12 players in some cases, but because you'll 
 be frantically passing the controller around, Nintendo's constant dedication to making sure that 
 you're wearing that wrist strap just seems impractical here, if not entirely impossible. There's 
 just not enough time to take off the wrist strap and pass the remote to another player, who then 
 has to put the wrist strap back on, all before the next game begins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinypapershreds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  While the Wii's endless parade of quick-and-dirty ports and shiny discs full of poopy mini-games 
 keeps it this generation's poster child for wasted potential, WarioWare: Smooth Moves (at first 
 glance, yes, a shiny disc full of mini-games) somehow transcends its formal roots to become a standout 
 offering... largely by bashing those formal roots to postmodern bits.
  
  The WarioWare formula of utterly bizarre and largely instructions-free mini-mini-games in quick 
 succession returns largely unchanged, but these games now all center around creative uses of the 
 Wii remote. THIS IS ALL WE COULD POSSIBLY EVER HAVE WANTED FROM THIS GAME. Granted, WarioWare may 
 be one of the easier Nintendo franchises to Wii-ify, but they still do a great job of it. In the 
 single player mode, you progress by surviving a series of quick tests without dying too much and 
 eventually completing a more prolonged but equally over-the-top boss stage. The stages, often organized 
 around each character's central theme, are well-designed, easy-to-understand, and all varying shades 
 of incredibly crazy, and the game does a very nice job of scaling the difficulty as the levels 
 increase. A personal favorite sequence for me was the video-game-centric set of games for the characters 
 9-Volt and 18-Volt, featuring brief snippets of almost everything Nintendo, from Zelda and 2D Mario 
 games to Pikmin and Animal Crossing, in a perfectly-executed bit of collagist remote-waving fan 
 service. While the game is startlingly short, the high score tables and multiplayer showdowns are 
 what really give it replay value, and you won't see all of the hundreds of mini-games included 
 in a single playthrough.
  
  On the multiplayer front, WWSM features everything from standard Survival and competition modes 
 to somewhat shallow but hugely entertaining standalone offerings like the obstacle-jumping of Bungee 
 Buddies and the utter surrealism of Star Nose. While matches between skilled players can easily 
 devolve into lengthy, endurance-testing marathons to see whose remote doesn't quite get picked 
 up by the sensor first, this isn't really what WarioWare is about, and in a room full of casual 
 players, WWSM, supporting up to 13 players on a lone Wii remote, is a wonderfully fun assault of 
 absurdity that keeps everyone laughing and passing the controller, as fun to watch as it is to 
 play. Until the inevitable Super Smash Bros. and Mario Karts Wii are trotted out, this could just 
 be the definitive Wii party game, even more accessible to casual gamers than the timing-fest of 
 Wii Sports.
  
  So the game lacks a certain depth and it's over all too quickly, but while it lasts, WarioWare: 
 Smooth Moves is a real treat, sillier and more wildly fun than anything else the series or the 
 console has seen to date. Full price might be asking a bit much, but at anything less, this game 
 is a steal and well worth the cost of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  This game is not a mission, or some adventure, it's just a bunch of micro-games put into one package, 
 not to say that it's bad, but it sure can make nothing into something. It's just the randomness 
 that's taking the cake. (and by IT taking the cake, I mean Wario taking the cake :P) You simply 
 have to follow the on-screen word, and do it, or else it counts as a miss. Four misses, you lose. 
 One thing I like are the different forms to use with the form baton (weird how it looks so much 
 like the Wii-mote) like the Chauffer, where you hold the form baton like a steering wheel, the 
 big cheese, where you put your hands on your hips and puff your waist out, the discard, where you 
 put the Wii remote down on the ground and wait to pick it up. Another enjoyable feature is the 
 great and hilarious characters with all kinds of different levels. If you are a fan of motion controlled 
 Pick-em-up and play Wii titles, then Wario Ware: Smooth Moves will be a no-brainer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  When i said it was wierd i ment it, the story is very strange and the intervals where it is showing 
 you what actions you can do are very funny but at the same time completly irrelivant and very strange. There 
 is no story whatsoever to it none of it links apart from Jimmy T. and Jimmy P. It becomes a mind 
 boggoling expierence and leaves you saying what the hell?! But despite these Wario Ware Smooth 
 Moves is very, very fun! You just can't ignore it, it's great fun for the whole family and can keep 
 you entertained for quite a while if you find some mini games you like. However on story mode it's 
 totaly diferent you could complete it in under 3 hours, now that is very short. I've played the 
 first one, and i absoloutly loved it, but this one didn't leave the same impact and i felt very 
 disapointed seing as though the first one was so rudicly awsome.
  On a higher note the graphics are simple but shiny and amazing, and you can't hate them because 
 there are just no flaws in them and add to the amusement a lot of the time. The mini games are 
 all unique and exotic, and extremly fun, sometimes frustrating but forgiving beacuse they are too 
 much fun!
  The flaws just keep coming, the Wii dosen't pick up the jestures needed to do the mini games and 
 so you lose a life or fail, this can become extremly frustrating, i suppose it's because of the 
 sheer amount of jestures there are to use. There's just far too many and some are only used once 
 or twice throughout the whole amount of mini games and learning them is hard, you won't remeber 
 them all unless you write them down. I have said this so many times and they key thing missing from 
 this game is a multiplayer option, you can do it at the end but only with one controller wich is 
 a massive letdown, this game could be SO much but has achieved so little, whatever happened to 
 Multiplaying mini game mania that we all loved in Mario Party.
  The only thing that holds this game up is the gameplay, it's great, the graphics hold it up a notch 
 or two but it's still not enough to match up to it's predecesor, i still can't belive GameSpot 
 gave it a 9.1
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  when i first looked at this game i was like um.................. this is stupid, just some stupid 
 little 5 second mini games in some grand game thing..... wierd! Then when gamespot gave this game 
 a 9.1 i just had to get it. Like i thought my first impression was this is terrible but after just 
 a few levels the game really started to pick up and i thouroghly enjoyed it. There is GREAT veriety 
 in all the minigames and tons of different ways you have to hold the wiimote that makes this game 
 and WII ONLY experiance. So much veriety so many games = SO MUCH FUN 
  
  GET THIS GAME NOW you'l love it you can blame me if you dont, my whole family likes it which is 
 pretty much a videogame first besides BIG BRAIN ACADEMY WII DEGREE (which was OK) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the most fun games I've played in a while! So what if the graphics suck, this game is awesome. 
 The Wii remote is held in many (odd) ways in this game. One of which includes holding it up to 
 your nose like an elephant! The audio is great and really sets a good mood for the game. The multiplayer 
 is loads of fun too! There's also tons of microgames to keep you busy for a while. BUY THIS GAME! 
 One of the most fun games I've played in a while! So what if the graphics suck, this game is awesome. 
 The Wii remote is held in many (odd) ways in this game. One of which includes holding it up to 
 your nose like an elephant! The audio is great and really sets a good mood for the game. The multiplayer 
 is loads of fun too! There's also tons of microgames to keep you busy for a while. BUY THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznrdm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is so random HAHAHAHA it's so fun with friends because of the randomness of the game. 
 LOL. It's very unique and is very original. It's also cool that it has its own separate mini (micro) 
 games, and a multiplayer mode. This is a game to play with your friends and family, uses nice control 
 of the wiimote and nunchuck. I don't think this game needs a sequal unless the people of nintendo 
 can think of more minigames and incorporate the minigames from this game. The thing I liked most 
 in this game was the teaching of the type of ways to hold the wiimote and the random minigames.
 
  
  Overall this game is Fun, Funny, and Random 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  At first, I was a little bit skeptical about this game. I was also a little bit confused by the 
 commercial on TV for it.
  
  Then a friend of mine, who had already played the game told me to get it, and I am loving it.
 
  
  I will say that this game is not for playing by yourself. There is a single player mode, that you 
 need to complete to unlock the multi player mode, but this game was made to play with the most 
 people possible.
  
  We had anywhere from 5 - 10 people playing it at a time, and It only gets better with the more 
 people you add.
  
  The mini-games are, at times, a bit hokey. If you can get over that part, this game is excellent 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Warioware for wii was a great game in my mind. You just sit down, grab the wiimote, and you don't 
 have to prepare for any huge serious action game that will be completely consuming. It's just a 
 fun game game to play microgames, make records, unlock more levels, and other stuff. when you start 
 a microgame round, there is a counter that counts how many microgames you have completed and the 
 games get faster every game! There are different ways of holding the wiimote and it tells you what 
 style of holding the wiimote before you start each microgame. 
  So basically, there is not a whole lot of variety in this game, but it passes time very well and 
 it's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarxm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I was new to the warioware series when i decided to pick up this game since i thought all the micro 
 games would be fun. I will agree that the story mode is very short , but the replay value of this 
 game is very high. You have to continuously play every character's story segment in order to unlock 
 all the micro games which can be kind of difficult for some characters. The game uses the wii remote 
 in some wacky ways, such as the elephant, where you must put the wii remote infront of your nose 
 as if it were an extention of your nose. There is also the mohawk, where you must hold the wii 
 remote over your head ( like a mohawk ) . One great advantage this game has over other party games 
 is that it only requires one wii remote for up to 12 people multiplayer fun ( you take turns using 
 the wii remote in a survival multiplayer mode ) . I would recommend this game for anybody that enjoys 
 a huge variety of party games, really anybody can enjoy this game, it is just so darn fun! This 
 was my first warioware game and I really enjoyed it! Go out there and get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  Wario is driving down with his insane laugh and comes across an old temple with a stone shaped 
 like a wiimote. Picking it up, minigames start to fly at him apparently and... Ok, honestly, I 
 can't give this much credit for making an interesting story. What I can give it credit for however, 
 is making some funny cartoony scenes. You know what? Consider this section skipped.
  
  Graphics:
  Looking at screenshots will show you this game as the 2d, simple 3d it is. That's 
 fine however, everything doesn't have to be 2,000,000 polygons before I like it. What does bug 
 me is that while the 2d is amazingly detailed with little random doodles you'll find in the background 
 from time to time and such, the 3d holds complete simplicity. It just feels barren looking at a 
 3d game compared to the 2d ones here. Other than that though, there's no major insults I have for 
 the graphics. It's smooth, fast, and detailed most of the time. Going from game to game will basically 
 be the difference between night and day, as you go from a children's doodle to driving a car down 
 a cartoony road, to balancing a broom in a vector world.
  
  Gameplay:
  While many think minigame compilation, that's actually a faulty statement to me. See those are 
 the kind where you play a little arcade game amongst a list of arcade games to go do some obscure 
 endless goal. What happens in warioware is they take MICROGAMES that wouldn't even pass as a tech 
 demo, and throw about 50 of them into a character, where you select that character, begin their 
 stage, and start being bombarded by these microgames faster and faster until you're on the ground 
 in a feetle position. There's also the occasional boss game to pace it a bit better. This has been 
 the case with the past 3 warioware games and it doesn't appear to be changing. It's still a short 
 experience and if you don't feel like shooting for high scores, then it ends in 1-3 hours.
  
  Overall, everything is really really fun. The motion control is accurate for about 95% of the 
 games, and the poses you have to strike before each game give each one a distinct gameplay stile 
 that will leave your hand twitching by the end of the day. Thankfully, they removed the pointless 
 toys from warioware touched in favor of more old warioware stile games to unlock. There's one where 
 you're playing a shooting gallery, one where you have to balance falling blocks on a platform, 
 and one that's basically ping pong meets breakthrough plus space invaders. This and the unlockable 
 modes make the singelaplyer worth a play through but the multiplayer is the biggest change. Unlike 
 the gamecube's warioware port, the multipalyer here is somewhat well thought out. You pass the 
 wiimote around like a baton, allowing for up to 12 people to partake in 1 match with little gamemodes. 
 The action gets chaotic, the laughs come in large groups and someone spills the soda but we all 
 laugh at it anyways and just throw a towel over it. This is something I can break out at almost 
 any party and have some simple fun. My only annoyance is in setting up 12 characters to play as. 
 Lots of the fun comes in highscores though, and without a way to share highscores, especially online, 
 there's little fun in topping yourself over and over again. 
  
  Sound:
  I'd get your heart checked if the music speeding up with each passing game and the odd little tunes 
 here and there don't get your heart into this game. It's easy to get sucked into and anywhere there 
 should be a sound, there is. My one complaint though is while they returned Dribble and Spitz, 
 my favorite character from warioware inc for GBA, they gave him horrible music that makes him my 
 least played character now. He used to be bad ass sci-fi, and now he's skipping to rainbows and 
 sunshine. 
  
  Who wants this game?
  People who liked the past wariowares, people who need something other than halo 3 to break out 
 at parties, for those people who aren't into shooting eachother in the head, or someone who can 
 take gaming in short burst and will enjoy going for a record. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
  Extremely Innovative
  Nice Art style
  Huge Variaty Of Mini-Games
  One of the best party games on Wii
  
  ...::The Bad::..
  Single player mode is far to short
 
  
  If your looking for something normal, turn away. This is crazy at it's max. WarioWare Smooth Moves 
 is a collection of Mini-Games that takes full advantage of the Wii remotes capiabilities. 
  
  In Smooth Moves, Wario stumbles upon an ancient temple where he finds a mystical item known 
 as the Form Baton, which resembles a Wii Remote. And know the game progresses like the previous 
 installments. You go around the map and select a character, each with their own intro squences 
 and set of Mini-Games for you to undertake.
  
  The game features over 200 Mini-games, each seeing you using the controller in over 10 differnent 
 ways. From holding it as a remote, to using it as if it is your nose. These forms are very funny 
 and enjoyable to use. After playing through the main game, you'll unlock a form called the diner, 
 which also requires you to use the Nunchuk attachment.
  
  It's the variety in the microgames (as they're called) that keeps the game feeling fresh. Like 
 in previous WarioWare games, one section of the game is largely based around microgame versions 
 of classic Nintendo titles. But because this is a Wii, and not a DS, the range of these games has 
 greatly expanded. Many of the old games you'll encounter here are GameCube games. So you can be 
 fishing in Animal Corssing, or tilting the conrtol to make Morph Ball Samus knock over a barrel.
 
  
  Playing through the main-game is very easy and will take you a very short time of around 5 hours 
 at max. Mulitplayer though, will keep you entertained for hours.
  
  If you are a Mini-Game fanatic, or play with your friends alot then definitly check this game out. 
 If your more of the single-player gamer, then the game would really only last for a few hours of 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  The only series in gaming that lets you battle giant noses, control a cat with an arm cannon, and 
 destroy an SUV with a cheese grater returns once again. This time, the whacked-out hilarity has 
 found its way to the Nintendo Wii.
  
  For the uninitiated, gameplay in WarioWare revolves around microgames. These games require you 
 to perform a simple task in a brief time limit, such as attacking a ninja or opening a safe. They 
 come at you randomly, and you won't know what you it's there staring you in the face, so you have 
 to think fast. Add to this the fact that gradually become faster and more difficult, and a four-miss 
 limit, and you have a recipe for insanity.
  
  Smooth Moves has you using the Wii Remote in a number of positions  or forms, as the game calls 
 them  to play the microgames. You'll be holding it like a regular remote, like a steering wheel, 
 and wearing it on your head like a mohawk, among others. The forms are divided up among the various 
 stages. For example, one stage focuses on holding it sideways like bicycle handlebars and upward 
 like an umbrella. Each form is introduced to you the first time you have to use it with a brief 
 cutscene, featuring a narrator with a calm monotone describing the form in some silly way. Also, 
 the game will tell you which form to use before each microgame, and you can practice any microgame 
 you've unlocked.
  
  The 200+ microgames are varied in both objectives and style, from picking a blocky polygonal nose 
 to saving stick figures from a burning building to washing a clip-art car. Like past entries in 
 the series, there's even a level consisting of microgames based on other Nintendo games and items, 
 from Hanafuda cards and Game & Watch to Wind Waker and Nintendogs. Even your Miis from the Mii 
 Channel make appearances in some games. Part of the fun is wondering what microgame and what art 
 style will come next.
  
  WarioWare games have always been big on replay value, and Smooth Moves is no different. It only 
 takes an hour or two to beat the single-player mode and see the credits, but there's still so much 
 to do afterwards. There are still more microgames to see, and all the stages become endless endurance 
 challenges for high scores. New stages unlock, like a fitness stage, and a stage of Nunchuck microgames. 
 There are also unlockable side games, like a can-shooting gallery, a scrolling game where you break 
 bricks with a ping-pong ball (think Brickout, but with more gravity) , and a 3D version of the Balloon 
 Trip mode from the NES game Balloon Fight.
  
  The multiplayer, also unlocked after clearing the single-player mode, features seven different 
 games, most of which center around the microgames. They can all be played with one remote, as you 
 pass it between players. There's a simple game of darts and a pair of two-player games requiring 
 the Nunchuck as well. It's immensely fun, and it's easy for those who haven't played the game before 
 to get the hang of it quick for some intense yet hilarious multiplayer matches.
  
  The only problem I had is that sometimes the game didn't pick up on movements sometimes. It's particularly 
 annoying to fail to hit a baseball or abduct garbage with a UFO because it didn't read the movement 
 or I just happened to go out of range. It didn't occur too often, though. Just try to keep the 
 remote level with the sensor bar outside of the mohawk or elephant forms.
  
  In conclusion, Wario once again strikes gold with this funky and bizarre title. I can't emphasize 
 enough how fun it is. Everything in the game, from disco-dancing cats to smacking orange thieves 
 with a bat and watching them go flying, just screams entertainment and hilarity. It's simple enough 
 for anyone to get into, while its addictiveness will keep them playing. It's fun alone and with 
 friends, and like Wii Sports, it makes a great first Wii game, showing off the different motions 
 and ways you can play with the remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5_LD_5
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 18, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of this series from the beginning. A very unique series that seems to get 
 better and more interesting as it progresses. The GBA game was alright. It was the first of its 
 kind so the developers had not worked out all the kinks to this weird but interesting style of 
 gameplay. The Gamecube version came along at it was pretty much the same thing. The game was ok 
 but had big potential. Then they brought it out on the DS. An interesting game on an interesting 
 machine, it seemed to be a big hit. It was. With the use of the stylus it was bringing out the 
 best of the series. Maybe this is what the series was missing in the first place. The consoles 
 just were not right for this particular type of game. Shortly after Wario Ware: Twisted came out 
 on the Game Boy Advance. The GBA was a great console nonetheless but it didn't have what the DS 
 had. Again we were playing the game with buttons and not with the stylus. But that was not the 
 case. The second Wario Ware game to hit the GBA did not have us using the buttons but it had us 
 twisting and turning our Game Boys. An amazing function that worked extremely well. This is what 
 the series needed, a unique way of playing the games. So when Wario Ware hit the Wii it had to 
 be great, right?
  
  I was very excited for this game. After the Gamespot review scoring better than any of the others 
 I thought it was going to be something special. I was unfortunately wrong. After I was able to 
 finally find the game I was ready to see if this was going to be as good as I expected to be. I 
 started Wario Ware: Smooth Moves and played through the first level. It was boring and no fun. 
 The entire game was pretty much like this. After playing each level I became more and more disappointed. 
 About an hour and a half later I had beaten the game. I was stuck on this one dance mini game that 
 I could not beat for the life of me. After trying and trying I had gotten extremely frustrated. 
 The reason I was frustrated was because it wasn't that I was bad at the game it was because the 
 remote was not responsive. If I would move the remote left it would move right on the screen and 
 this happened a lot. It wasn't the fact that my remote wasn't working properly it was that this 
 is how the game is. When you play or create a game you have to make sure that the controls work 
 and for me it just didn't work.
  
  I felt that once I was done with this game that was it. There was absolutely no replay value whatsoever 
 which was disappointing because the others in the series had a great replay value. Playing this 
 game with friends was just as bad. The ideas were decent but since the actual gameplay wasn't there 
 it was very hard to get anywhere. This game just could have and should have been a lot more than 
 what it was.
  
  Why do I not like this game? It was short and while it lasted it was not fun at all. It just made 
 me mad. I could go with "Broken", "Don't believe the hype", "Overrated", "Rip-off", "Too Short", 
 "Total Letdown" or "Waste of time" because in the end this game is all of those. It was hard for 
 me to decide which one to choose but I had to go with "total letdown" because that is what this 
 game was most to me. 
  
  If you are looking for a quick, frustrating game to last you an hour than go ahead and get this 
 game. If not please just skip this game altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game represents the back of WarioWare to the games... How many time ago was the another? :P
 
  Ok, the game is very easy, with te Wii is too much fun, because you have the liberty of move your 
 arms and see What's on going on, that is really beautiful on this game And In The Wii.
  
  In another point the multiplayer gaming is too weak, because, in the story mode you have too much 
 fun, in the case of the multiplayer is too weak and confused, that is a real deception in this 
 game.
  
  Something what makes me down, is the case of the Nunchuk use, is too hard, because, for a game 
 for everyone like this the coordination of the hands and the difficulty of a level like Drubblon's.
 
  
  That game is excelent, because it haves nothig of mistakes, (except a little ones) and its for all 
 the famili, So enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wet_Sand
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare games can be some of the funnest games around. They usually have horrible graphics and 
 a stupid plot, but those things only add to the charm. WarioWare consists of many microgames, mini 
 games that last up to ten seconds. After you finish one microgame, another one is thrown at you, 
 so you have to be ready for anything.
  
  One great aspect of WarioWare for the Game Boy is that the controls are simple, solid and easy. 
 In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, you spend the whole time waving your arms trying to get the Wii sensor 
 to pick up your movements. The beginning stage of a game should be easy, especially in a game like 
 WarioWare. So why am I failing to complete the first stage in this one? With all the crazy movements 
 you have to do in this game, you would think Nintendo would have tested them out first. Apparently, 
 they did not test them enough.
  
  Like all WarioWare games, Smooth Moves gets fun after a while, and when you've finally figured 
 out all the controls, it gets much easier. But, WarioWare games should be accessible to anybody 
 picking it up for the first time, and this game sadly is not. While Smooth Moves is still a pretty 
 fun game, most of the Warioware charm is lost due to sometimes impossible controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  If you ever played a Wario Ware Game, well, this a complete new experience! This is a great game 
 that will keep you entertained for a long time, with over 200 microgames! If you ever played Wario 
 Ware Touched for the DS, you might find some similarities with the innovative controls, but this 
 is complete new experience with the Wiimote. If you are new to the series, this is going to be 
 a complete new wacky experience for you! The use of the Wiimote is quite innovative and creative, 
 the microgames in the game are just plain fun and well designed, it will give plenty of gameplay 
 hours with a lot of unlockables, such as new chapters (each one with different microgames) and 
 other minigames and challenges. It's quite difficult to explain what the game is about, but try 
 to picture it: it's a survival game, in every chapter you have 4 lives (except one, in which you 
 have only one, but that's another story) and in order to clear each level in the chapter, you must 
 beat a microgame. A microgame consists of you doing what a sentence says in the beginning of the 
 microgame. Of course, there are certain default positions that appear in the screen before beginning 
 a microgame and from that position you must do what they tell you to do. Tthe his is were the fun 
 begins. The microgames are really creative and will surely give you some laughs from time to time. 
 For example, there's a microgame in which yo have to actually mimic the movements of the ballon 
 guy of the Balloon Fight for the NES. You must actually wave your arms (only one, but waving both 
 adds the fun) to fly. After you beat a minigame, you level up and the microgames start to go faster, 
 which menas you must also do things faster! If you fail a minigame, you lose a life. After beating 
 a certain numbers of minigames, a boss battle must be cleared. This are longer minigames which 
 require a greater skill. If you beat the Boss Level, you win a life. The game continues into infinity, 
 everytime going faster until you lose all your lives. That's when the game ends. Every microgame 
 has three levels: easy, medium and hard. This gives more diversity to the games and more fun. The 
 game also features a multiplayer mode, up to 12 players using only one wiimote and it quite fun. 
 I cannot recommend the game to everyone, so I say people should try it first and see for themselves, 
 but all I can say is that this game is one with the most creative design for the use of the Wiimote 
 on the Wii. The graphics are really a problem for someone who expects Unreal Engine Graphics or 
 Cryengine Graphics, nevertheless, the graphics suits the game just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great variety in microgames; Wii controls are mostly implemented well; crazy sense of 
 humor; decent multiplayer; captures the Wii mentality well.
  
  The Bad: Way, way too short; far too shallow for a console game; presentation is awfully primitive 
 in most cases; definitely not worth $50.
  
  When WarioWare, Inc.: Mega MicroGame$ came out on the GBA a few years back, it was met with very 
 mixed feelings. Some people praised and adored its unique, wacky sense of humor and crazy gameplay, 
 while others derided its inherently shallow nature. Regardless, though, it was one of the most 
 original games to hit the portable system, and it spawned a few sequels on the GameCube, the DS, 
 and again on the GBA.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is the latest game in the series, and it certainly does a lot of things 
 right. For one, the fact that it has the Wii controls on its side means that there's all kinds 
 of crazy things that can be done within the split-second microgames. You may be sawing through 
 wood, putting dentures into an old woman's mouth, driving a car, or reenacting old Nintendo games 
 in a thoroughly unique manner. There's all kinds of variety, and it is handled excellently. The 
 game features a bunch of different stances, which it will alert you about before a microgame comes 
 up. You may be required to hold the Wii remote like a sword at your hip, or up to your nose like 
 an elephant, or perhaps you will need to set it down on a table and pick it up when it prompts 
 you. There is a lot of variety.
  
  Though there are a lot of very unique microgames included in WW: SM, there is a bevy of problems 
 plaguing this game. For one, the shallow nature of the series fits very well on a portable system, 
 but on a console it doesn't work so well. Also, many of the games seem geared to just making you 
 look like as big an idiot as possible. The game also doesn't have a lot of multiplayer options, 
 even though it seems like such an obvious party game. The multiplayer modes aren't even available 
 until you complete the single player mode - although it's very short and easy, so it should be 
 no problem to complete it in an hour or less.
  
  Another problem contained within Wario's latest game is the presentation. All of it looks horribly 
 primitive. While this is often completely on purpose, as there are tons of art styles at work, 
 the game just doesn't have any particularly impressive-looking things to it. The 2D "animation" 
 (really just still frames) is crisp, but it lacks personality. Also, the sound design isn't anything 
 special, though it can be humorous from time to time.
  
  Ultimately, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a pleasant game to rent once or twice and enjoy with some 
 friends. There is the trademark wackiness and the insane sense of humor, though it's nowhere near 
 as fresh as the original. It may be too shallow for a purchase, but it is worth playing for any 
 Wii owner who wants a good time with some friends, and maybe a laugh or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend believing it to be nothing more then another boring collection 
 of mini-games thrown into a poor story line. However I was wrong on one front. The mini-games are 
 far from boring! With, I believe, over 200 mini-games, this game will provide you with countless 
 hours of fun! But aside from the creativity and fun of the games, there is no real story to it. 
 And the game is short. But for the time you spend playing it, it's worth it. Also the game makes 
 you hold your "baton" in odd positions making you look really "intelligent". A great fun in groups!!
 
  
  If there would be a greater replay value, I wouldn't hesitate to give this a 10.
  
  MY +++
  
  A lot of mini-games!
  The games are fun!
  Great use of the Wii controller.
 
  Graphics aren't half-bad.
  
  MY - - -
  
  No story.
  Mini-games and game itself is short.
  No replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonah-ocean
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is very original, you basically do a bunch of random hand gestures with the wii remote 
 in 5 seconds per minigame. No games to compare this to. The story is surprisingly existent but 
 not good. I like the weird art in this game, the funny, random, graffiti-like style makes up for 
 the horrid graphics. 
  
  This game is for sure a rush to play and gets your heart beating fast. Cute, random humor is hiding 
 all over the place in this game and with out it, the game would indeed be terrible. This game can 
 be beaten in about two hours with ease. And after those two glorious hours, the game is useless 
 and drained. I tried to milk this game dry, and i did, but it just didn't give me enough.
  
  If your renting this game my score is 8 to 8.5
  If your permanently buying it my score is 
 6 to 6.5
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixa999
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I had this game out at my last birthday and let me tell you, even the toughest guy in the room 
 had the wii remote up to his nose looking like a silly ninny. I know there is a lot of critisism 
 about the length of the story mode, but I don't think it's that big of a deal, because this is 
 far from a one player game. Plus you can replay when you are done and unlocking new and fun levels. 
 Girls/boys and even the most uptight were up there playing this one. I love the video game themed 
 one where you get to deal with such things as getting coins in super mario bros and flying around 
 like link. All in all this is a fun damn game, get it for your next party, just don't expect a 
 epic one player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Luckily we only rented this game instead of buying it. I actually enjoyed it at first but after 
 a while you realize it's the same thing over and over again. After only about 4 hours of game play, 
 we had unlocked everything and played through the entire (non-existent) story. Even worse, while 
 there is a multiplayer portion of the game, it's not really multiplayer... Basically you switch 
 the controller between multiple players so they can't even play at the same time. If you are interested 
 in a game like this, I would recommend Rayman Raving Rabbids or 2 over this game any day. 
  
  Pros: Great use of the Wii-mote. Short term fun.
  
  Cons: Poor multiplayer capability (you 
 have to switch 1 controller between players) . Lack of content. Lack of story. Poor graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Wario ware smooth moves and the Nintendo Wii is a perfect match! I was sceptical at first on buying 
 a "Party game" being a hardcore gamer and all but seeing the good reviews from Gamespot and Official 
 Nintendo Magazine i had to pick it up! 
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - 
  The good -
  
  . Great graphic style
  . Very clever multiplayer mode that uses the mii channel aswell
  . Appeals to all
  . Alot of 
 variety
  . Completely random!! =]
  
  The bad - 
  
  . Story mode over too quickly for people who play alot
  . The 'Let's Pose' feature seems a little 
 strange because it doesn't really no what pose you do
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - -- -
  
  I had never played a Wario ware game before smooth moves but now after this i feel the need to 
 try out the DS and Gamecube games from wario. Anyway now i will talk about the game.
  
  Wario ware smooth moves is essentially a family-fun party game which appeals to a wider audience 
 (As Nintendo Intended) so you could call it a casual game for casual gamers, However do not let 
 that put you off if your more of a hardcore type! Wario ware has many unlockables that will keep 
 you busy for hours and every 5 second game will suprise you! 
  
  The mini games all have there own story's such as when two characters break a DS and go to a store 
 to get another one and then the mini games start and at this particular part in the game all the 
 games a related to older games which is a real treat! i. e Ocarina of time mini game (pulling a 
 sword out of stone!)
  
  The wii remote is what puts the cherry on top of a great game because it is just that which makes 
 it so fun and addictive and able for anyone to play. 
  Theres so many ways to use the remote in the game (all of which are explained with a mono-toned 
 voiced man which is hilarious!!!) . 
  
  Hardcore or not this is a must buy! and if you can't afford the $ then rent it a few times with 
 friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  WarioWare would seem like the perfect fit for the Wii -- the controls of the Wii-mote are simply 
 made for mini-games. But only die-hard mini-game fanatics or those looking for a great drinking 
 game will come away happy. If that doesn't fit your market, then be wary -- the game has its moments 
 -- but varying by the person, it could either disappoint totally or please you endlessly.
  
  Smooth Moves is a somewhat incoherent mesh of mini-games, much like the rest of the games in 
 the WarioWare series, which prior to this game, had been featured most prominently in handhelds 
 (the Gamecube version didn't turn in that well) , and has found some success there. Smooth Moves 
 looks to emulate the random story, hectic-ness, and down-right craziness found in the other games 
 -- and it succeeds in that respect.
  
  One of the even stronger parts about the game is the overall quality (and hilarity) of the relatively 
 short story mode. The animations prior to the set of minigames are phenomenal (sometimes, I found 
 myself re-playing some of the minigame sets just to catch the little things in the background) , 
 though it's where the minigame gameplay comes in (the point of the game) that Smooth Moves falters.
 
  
  The gameplay of Smooth Moves is basically a few series of different mini-games -- as you progress 
 further and further, the mini-games get faster, and tougher in general. Normally, you would believe 
 this would lead to a fun experience, but often, it's simply frustrating. Of course, part of the 
 game is trial and error -- but as you stand there in "The Cheese" position, leaning back like an 
 idiot, you begin to wonder if you should do something else for awhile.
  
  It's quite possible that this would be a perfect hit for (drinking) parties. Each time you screw 
 up, chug down another glass. For those mini-game purists out there, this would definitely be a 
 must-buy.
  
  One point that has to be brought up again though, is the one undermining strength of the whole 
 title -- the humor. The game knows that it's completely ridiculous, so it plays up its part by 
 adding in lines and tidbits that seem wholly ludicrous. The videos introducing each of the different 
 "forms" you hold the Wii-mote in are terrific, and the mini-games each have their sense of humor 
 to them, whether they make fun of WarioWare itself or games of old.
  
  The forms themselves are... rather interesting. Whether you hold the Wii-mote on your head like 
 a mohawk, or in "The Elephant" form (... it's interesting) , WarioWare by far offers the most varieties 
 of how to hold the little remote in your hands. The only problem with this is that someone could 
 just as easily cheat by simply ignoring the instructions -- the game can't register whether you're 
 holding the remote at your nose or at your chest.
  
  So, while you could cheat through the whole thing (and be a very boring person) and wing it, WarioWare 
 wants you to enjoy the smaller details that were put into this one, whether it be the not-so subtle 
 humor or frantic gameplay pace. Just be sure when you buy it that you'll have a reason to use it 
 -- and not to let it acquire a nice coating of dust on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeB56
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game at my friends house a few times now and i just think it is brilliant! I 
 have been told that single player is boring but i just dont belive it. The multiplayer is so fun 
 and there are many mini-games you can play that it wont get boring. Me and my friend spend the 
 whole evening playing it and once we wake up the next morning we are in so much pain, but i don't 
 really mind lol. This game is brilliant for parties, it is one of them games that everyone can 
 play. I would definatly reccomend this game to anyone who just love to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blofa
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  wario ware is currently my favorite video game. i don't if a other game can beat this game. ( i 
 not count super mario galaxy... not yet but soon... i play this only 25 minutes... i need to wait 
 the vacation to play this game )
  
  the gameplay is simple... ( p. s., a left-handed mode or style is available )
  the game have a 
 lot of style to use the wiimote ( form baton in this game )
  and 200 microgames or maybe more than 200.
  
  you go to have a lot of fun with this game. without 
 if you hate a lot the not really hard games. the graphic is the weak point of this game but is 
 no importance... buy wario ware smooth move in the same time when you buy a wii.
  
  i'm very curious how the other wario ware games are like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I had the first wario ware for the GBA. It was good and I loved it. When I found out this game was 
 coming out, I knew it was going to be perfect for the Wii. The Wii was able to fulfill this game 
 to the fullest. It has so many different motions and mini games. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are nothing special at all, because the game isn't made for great graphics. It 
 has cartoon graphics, but it does'nt matter because it's so fun.
  
  Sound: Cheesy noises is all you hear throughout the whole game, but it makes the game what it is.
 
  
  Playability: It is hard to get use to for the first few minutes especially for people who have never 
 played a wario ware game before. The motions and everything is great and everything goes smoothly.
 
  
  Replay Value: Moderately Low
  
  Bottom-line: This a fun game that is a must have if you own the Wii. Fun to Play and will make you 
 laugh. However, It is very short.... I beat it in 4 hours. It won't last that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great game that definatly shows off the Wii's motion sensing controls. 
 There are plenty of microgames that are really fun but after a while they can get a little bit 
 old. But don't worry because there are over 200 of them so it gets refreshed after playing other 
 microgames. The animation scenes are preety imppresive and full of colour. The game isn't that 
 long but its a good thing because you can unlock new microgames faster. I highly reccomend this 
 if your looking for a game with great laughs. This is definatly a good party game. So go pick it 
 up you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I was worried at first that this game would be quite odd to play. This was the first game I have 
 ever played on Wii. May I just say, GOOD! The things you have to do throughout this game are hilarious. 
 The game just shows you different ways to hold the "form baton." The game really doesn't test anything, 
 it is just fun to play. You pretty much go through different areas/worlds and play different types 
 of tasks using a certain method of holding a form baton. Each world has a story behind it. If you 
 want a laugh, play Wario: Smooth Moves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Before playing it, I though Wario Ware was bad, but after finally playing it, I really see it's 
 one of the greatest wii games I've ever played, OK so let's review this thing:
  Story: the story in this game is bad, it's just hmm, well anyways it doesn't matters because it's 
 ok for a minigame collection isn't it:
  8/10
  Gameplay: almsot perfect, really exact and fun!!!!!!!!, I haven't actually played in all the forms 
 but it's really good till now, excepting the waiter form:
  9.5/10
  Sound: really good for a game like this, really, really good:
  9.5/10
  Graphics: just depends 
 on the minigame, but all the graphics are really fun:
  9.8/10
  Total:
  9.2/10
  Conclusion: everyone must get this game, everyone! because everything in this game it's just fun, 
 really!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  So just looking at the wiimotes potential you can tell it will be perfect for party and mini-game 
 games right?
  And developers have seen the potential and theres already so many party/mini game games like mario 
 party 8, Rayman raving rabbids, Boogie and games like sonic and secret rings and super monkey ball 
 have a full single player AND 50 mini-games.
  So what makes this game any different?
  Ok so first of all we will check out the presentation and the graphics. The menu screen is very 
 well presented and Warios eyes follow your cursor and if you place it on its moustache then you 
 can pull it and let it go so it slams back in its face which already adds some humour to the game. 
 So once you press his nose then you start the game. As you know this game is perfect for multiplayer, 
 but you have to complete the singleplayer mode (after you complete there are still some more stages) 
 but don't worry as the game is quite short but it can be very difficult at times and has a huge 
 amount of replay value (which i will talk about after) . There are some short amusing cutscenes 
 before each stage which give each stage a little story before you play it like a boy trying to 
 impress a girl etc. Although these are in 2D, they are full of colour and are very vibrant and 
 the cut-out look gives the game its nice own original effect and works extremely well with the 
 games gameplay as the games mini-games uses the same graphical design ( apart from some 3D mini-games) . 
 The sound is also very crisp with some nice songs playing through the mini-games and some of them 
 can get slightly crazy during the periods while you wait for the mini-game and there are some pretty 
 decent tunes going on. They aren't exactly memorable but they suit the game perfectly.
  So the gameplay which i will talk about now, is the main aspect of the game. The game is basically 
 the perfect game to show what the wiimote is used in endless ways from holding it normally like 
 a tv remote from holding to your nose and using it like an elephant. There are so many different 
 ways the game uses the wiimote it would be impossible to mention even half of them in this review 
 but trust me, as you can play all these mini-games whenever you want because there are so many 
 different styles it adds hours and hours of replay value and because they are so addictive you 
 will be playing them forever! One of the best parts of the game is the multiplayer, and as i have 
 said just now about how great the mini-games are they are 10x better in multiplayer but the downside 
 is that you can only use one wiimote and is hard to wear the wiimote strap every time but you can 
 live with it and it doesn't get rid of the immense fun you will have playing multiplayer and there 
 are six different types of multiplayer. You can also unlock six extra minigames (mini not micro) 
 to play in the single player mode. After you complete the singleplayer there will be a couple of 
 more stages that use the nunchuk which are also very fun.
  Overall i think this is an extremely addictive game with an amazing multiplayer mode, if a little 
 on the short side but adds tonnes of replay value by giving you 6 extra minigames and by giving 
 you something different each time you play the stage with modes like the random stage that throw 
 random mini-games at you and a place where you can play each mini game whenever you want. An excellent 
 package and well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 9.0 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 9 )
  Graphics -- ( 9 )
  Sound ------ ( 8 )
  Value ------- ( 8 )
  --------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Inventive and fun use of the Wii remote;
  - 
 Funny and replayable levels with fast pacing and random micro-games;
  - The game looks fantastic, with crazy and diverse visual styles and colorful and charming cartoon 
 animations;
  - The music matches the pacing of the game very well;
  - Clever use of the wiimote speaker and rumble for certain sounds and actions;
  - More than 200 
 micro-games with great variety;
  - Both, the cartoon animations and the micro-games, have a good humor, making you smile while playing;
 
  - It's fun to watch other people playing the game and makes you want to try it, even if you are 
 a non-gamer;
  - Good multiplayer levels with a smart use of the Mii Channel;
  - Great bonus levels, that deliver a welcome change of pace from the story mode;
  - No loading 
 times.
  
  THE BAD:
  - The story mode should have more levels, even in a game of this type, or should have been sold 
 for only 40$;
  - The multiplayer portion of the game feels unfinished and doesn't add a lot of lasting appeal 
 to the game.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Smooth Moves is the first game to show the range of motions that can be accomplished with the wiimote. 
 It's true that not everyone will like this game. But if you loved the first WarioWare for the GBA 
 (the only WarioWare I played before) , you will love Smooth Moves. It maintains the same structure 
 but, instead making you just press a button at the right time, it makes you do various motions 
 and/or aim with the wiimote at the right time. If you want a game to play for short periods of 
 time or a mini/micro-game collection, this is the best wii game on both those fronts. It's also 
 the most fun wii-game to watch-other-people-playing or  
 for both gamers and non-gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the the previous Warioware game so I didn't know exactly what to expect, upon 
 playing the first few levels and acting out weird moves this quickly started to get seriously fun, 
 the mini-games are so varied that you never know what your getting next and as you beat them they 
 get tougher and tougher up to a point you're frantically moving your arms or acting out the moves 
 a chef would make, its great fun not to mention slightly embrassing, but hey? Thats what party 
 games are all about!
  
  I would definately recommend this for every Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is a great game for single and multi-player action. As long as your sensor 
 bar picks your controller up then the games are pretty responsive and though they're short, some 
 may actually take some thinking. Of course it has better graphics than all the other Warioware 
 games so fans of the 9-Volt mini-games should enjoy it even more with Nintendogs, Metroid Prime 
 2: Echoes, Animal Crossing and a lot more. It really is more than the party game it's been advertised 
 as and I still try to beat my high score on Pyoro S just for fun. This game should be a classic 
 for the ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOhkonut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth moves is an excellent addition to the Warioware collection, but the short and 
 shallow game-play will leave die-hard fans wishing they had more.
  
  If you don't know already, Warioware is a collection of short, witty, micro-games thrown at you 
 one after another. In this installment on the Wii, you'll be balancing broomsticks, doing the "monkey,"and 
 fighting giant noses, all in a matter of seconds.
  
  Graphically, this game isn't very hi-technicaaaal. However, the art and character designs are over 
 the top. Just about all of the micro-games are great to look at, and will make you feel all giddy 
 inside. Most of the game is rendered in 2-D as the previous games have been, in a very colorful 
 and sharp visual appearance. Looks sorta like a really good flash animation.
  
  The sound fits perfectly with this games, with quirky music and a little voice acting. However, 
 nothing really stands out, and it's just all of what is expected of the Warioware series.
  
  The game can actually be a lot of fun through the unique controls and gimmicks, and shows everything 
 a wii-mote can do. You might look a bit stupid by yourself, so play with a buddy.
  
  This is a great game for parties and friends, and will definitely get some laughs. The multiplayer 
 mode only uses one Wiimote and Nunchuck, and although it may sound kind of lame, but it can be 
 a lot of fun, and will have the kids tugging your shirt to play with them again.
  
  In my opinion, the only downside to this game is the extremely short amount of content. This game 
 isn't about how long it takes you to beat it, but how long it takes you to get bored of it. Warioware: 
 Smooth Moves is a cool, fun, cute little waggle-fest that you should definitely play at least once 
 in your Wii-life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a compliation of ridiculous mini-games. Now before you groan and wander 
 off elsewhere it's a rather good minigame complilation in the way that you use the Wii-mote but 
 first the single player mode.
  
  The single player mode must be beaten to unlock multi-player which kinda sucks but it's OK considering 
 the main mode is quite easy. So anyway when you begin to play for your first time you'll be given 
 a map of Diamond City at the beginning only Wario is avalible. Once you start a characters stroy 
 you'll be given a little intro video which will explain what's happening with this perticular character. 
 From then you'll have to complete some mini-games using what the game calls forms different forms 
 are used for different games like the simple Remote Control which is basically a pointer. Or the 
 Mohawk where you wear it on your head. When you complete a few minigames (something around 9-18) 
 you will be given a boss stage this is slighty longer and harder minigame to complete but are cleverly 
 devised (such as 9-Volt retro Star Fox level or Tiny Wario's dancing game) . When you complete a 
 level it will unlock more.
  
  Once you've completed a stage if you play it again the game get's put in an endless mode where 
 you see how many games you can complete before losing all 4 lifes (listen how squeaky the characters 
 voices get in the late 60's) . There's even a level that let's you use the one and only form that 
 uses the nunchuk. Also at the end of every boss stage in endless mode you'll be given a pose to 
 finish you don't have to do it but it's fun. So that's basically it for the single player mode 
 but the real draw is collecting every game and pose not to mention the extra hard secret levels.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode once unlocked and you've got a group of friends round that's when things get 
 competitive and funny. There are a few multiplayer mode to pick from so i'll explain one of them
 
  Survival mode can suport up to 12 players with one remote. The idea is that you complete a game 
 and then pass it on but if you fail a game you're out and the last player floating wins.
  
  Phew rather long review isn't it. WarioWare for the Wii is a awesome game as long you have the 
 attention span to collect them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this is the first game that i bought for the wii (besides wii sports) and i'm all pumped 
 up because this game got great reviews online at Ign and Gametrailers and here. So i go home and 
 plug it in and i play for about 45 minutes and i realise that the game is not what i expected. 
 Graphics: The graphics are pretty good but it's all a little to cartoonish and colorful but apart 
 from that, it's fine.
  Value: No, No, this is not a $50 game, i wouldn't even buy this game for $30, maybe $20-$25. The 
 game is so short, i beat it in one day and i spent about 4 hours on it and POOF!! I'm done.
  Sound: Wow, this is annoying
  Gameplay: This is the only field where WarioWare Smooth moves lives 
 up to its reputation. With 20 different ways to use the wii-mote and in over 200 micro games, this 
 is where the game shines, it's highly entertaining and if it wasn't so short and a little cheap, 
 i would keep playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is a fun and very interactive game. You will do everything from jump rope, to hoola hoop, 
 to balance brooms on your hand. It is a great game and really has no flaws. It is fun from the 
 first time you play it till the end. The game also has very fun mini-games that you can play with 
 up to 12 players. The game never gets old ether. There are sooo many different types of games that 
 you may not even play them all even after months of owning the game. Over all this game is extremely 
 interactive and with have you entertained forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The Wario Ware series has always been about useing your console or portable system in a very wacky 
 way. Wario Ware Smooth Moves, to me, is the first TRUE Nintendo Wii game because it's the first 
 game to fully utilize the Wii motion controller. It doesn't just fully utilize it, it exceeds it 
 in a funny, weird fashion. Twilight Princess was an incredible game, but it was a gamecube game 
 with wii controls. On the other hand, Smooth Moves is a game that could've only have been made 
 on the Wii or it wouldn't be Smooth Moves. There are complaints that the story mode is short, but 
 I don't find it a problem because once you beat the game you can play the mized up level. In this 
 level you will keep completing random challenges until you run out of tries (apples) . There are 
 so many forms to hold the Wii-mote in Smooth Moves. Two of my favorite forms are the Mohawk and 
 the Discard. The Mohark is when you have the Wii-mote on your head, and you'll do things like squats 
 to make yourself look like a retarded weirdo. The discard is fun when you have it placed on the 
 floor, and you pick it up when the screen tells you to. One of the minigames that uses the discard 
 is when you are a sleeping samurai and you need to pick up your sword the moment the burglar ninja 
 attempts to rob you. Also if you wnat to play with friends, this is one of the best games to play 
 with many of your friends. You will be entertained even when you are not holding the Wii-mote because 
 you can watch your friends make a fool out of themselves. In the end, Wario Ware Smooth Moves doesn't 
 need a long story mode because this game's originality in gameplay will make you want to picks 
 this up again and again and play it with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowie1979
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is the latest in the series which serves to showcase the capabilities of 
 the Wii Remote. The truth is, you wouldn't even have imagined some of the uses for your trusty 
 Form Baton 
  
  The concept is simple, complete a series of 5-second minigames in order to progress through the 
 levels. Wait, 5 seconds? What fun is to be had in games that last five seconds? Well, plenty in 
 fact. There's litterally hundreds of them, each getting you to perform a certain action, whether 
 its taking a Samauri swipe with a sword, reaching out to catch a falling girl, or swaying your 
 hips to hula hoop. You have to think fast to assess what is going on and make the appopriate action 
 at the right time. And of course things are speeding up all the time to make it harder. But what 
 makes this, is that its funny. There's a somewhat surreal humour to it all, with a Japanese cartoon 
 feel to the proceedings. Then there's the multi-player. This is the ultimate Wii party game, which 
 will have you competing against up to 12 friends. This is helped by the fact that Its easy to pick 
 up and play, as befits the Wii ethos.
  
  If there was ever a game to show off to your friends what you can get up to with a Wii Remote, 
 this is it. The only downside is that once you've finished the game, you'll probably only really 
 come back to it to improve your times, or marathon runs, or for the multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I had never played a Warioware game before this, and had no desire to try this one when I saw it 
 at the video store. The pink box art and kiddish themes turned me off from the get go. However, 
 this is a classic tale of judging a book by its cover, and inside this box was a game that proved 
 to not only reinstate my faith in the Wii's motion controls, but also happened to be the best party 
 game I've ever played.
  
  You start off in the single player mode, and you have to go around and win each persons microgame 
 set in order to unlock multiplayer. It was rather strange that multiplayer wasn't allowed from 
 the start, but a good 3 hours or so can clear through the game, which means that the multiplayer 
 action isn't far off. The single player game has some good fun, but that isn't the focal point 
 of this game. Multiplayer in this game is outstanding. With a possibility for 12 players and 4 
 main game modes, it's hard to get bored of this any time soon. That can also be contributed to 
 the massive library of microgames to be played. The only complaint I have with the multiplayer 
 is that it seems that the same games will loop over and over again, so you may not see a particular 
 game at all, but you may see another 5 times in one round. If it was more randomized, it would 
 keep it interesting for longer, and it would also make it more chaotic. This only happens every 
 once in a while, but it was something to bring up anyways. As I said above, up to 12 players can 
 play at once using 1 remote. On some level, I would have liked more that one remote to play with, 
 just so when you do get 12 people going at once, you can have 3 people to a remote, and keep the 
 playing floor less crowded. At the same time, having 1 remote does add a sense of frantic chaos 
 to the game.
  
  Next is the controls, which really shine here. Most things work absolutely seamless and with perfect 
 response, which is necessary, since a game like this with poor controls really isn't a game at 
 all. It's just a blank disc in a plastic box.
  
  Theres a few other things involved in one player mode. You unlock some games to play after you 
 beat certain things. One has you shooting cans, while another has you stacking blocks. These are 
 fun for a little while, but that's not the main event of the game. The multiplayer is what you 
 want to check out here. If you have 3 or more people to play with, this game is a definite must, 
 and if you are like me, in that you are turned off by the pink box and cartoony style, then you 
 should know that it will not disappoint. This is the minigame collection to beat, not only on the 
 Wii, but for video games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is pretty decent, yea right, it's all out fun. The funny animations is what keeps 
 you playing and the awesome use of the WII remote. This game is a must buy for anyone who owns 
 a WII.
  
  
  
  
  
  sffsf fsf fsfs sf sf s f s fs f s f s fs fs f s fs f sf s f f f s fs f sf s f s fs f s fs fs f 
 s fs f s f s fs f s fs f s fs f s fs fs f s f s f s f sf s f s f s fs fs f d fd f sd f s df sf 
 sdf sdfsd f sdf sfd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeleeMaster2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Here we have a game who's primary goal is to make you look like a fool in front of your friends. 
 It suceeds greatly.
  
  Primary 1-player mode plays quite a bit like past WW titles: a phrase appears on the screen, you 
 do what it says/implies to beat the minigame. The new gimmick in this title is the forms , basically 
 how you hold the wiimote. Forms range from the Remote (self-explanatory) to the Elephant (hold 
 to your nose) . Playing by yourself is okay, but the real fun begins when a second player gets on.
 
  
  Multiplayer is a blast. Basically, you get to see your friends pose awkwardly while trying to frantically 
 advance through a match.
  
  Overall, WarioWare is a decent rentable. Single-player is little to write home about, so only get 
 it if you have someone to play it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minndak10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Ok here is my review for Warioware: Smooth Move: Well to start out this game is very whacky and some 
 micro games a creepy some are funny you decide there is over 200 microgames and some of them are 
 fun some are not.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are Gamecube graphics so it doesn't really matter I mean probobly only a 
 couple parts are Wii graphics some of these microgames just have drawn out graphic/characters some 
 have 3-D characters that have lots of design the 2-D visuals for cutscenes are ok not the best 
 so basiclly gamecube graphics
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay lots of times make you laugh the first couple of times sometimes it makes 
 you wanna puke but almost all the microgames are fun the story is TOO short but fun games and the 
 story makes sense and it is wacky at the same time but sadly sometimes the wiimote won't respond 
 ALL the time but it practiclly works everytime if you replay one persons story the higher the level 
 you go the harder it gets so I don't get why people are saying this game is for TINY kids! the 
 gameplay gets hard around the 30's
  
  Sound: The sound that comes out of the Wiimote is ok some of the sounds are annoying but most of 
 them are cool and the sound coming from the TV is good good music and sound and nice and crisp 
 sound
  
  Value: This game is worth about $25 but not $50 (I think it should lower already it's been out since 
 release of the Wii) This game was created for basiclly showing off the Wii's power in the remote 
 and and graphics at some point
  
  multiplayer: Multiplayer is ok a couple of games one person uses the nunchuck and the other uses 
 the Wiimote the rest of the games you have to share the Wiimote
  ---------
  This is my review for Warioware: Smooth Moves I give it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoBear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  There is nothing to say about Wario Were.
  I bought the WII not too long and i'm having a blast playing it. Wario Ware it not a hard game, 
 but it's not easy as well. The mini-games themselves are pretty easy, but the new control sistem 
 of the Wii makes them hard to play.
  So, the whole point of this game is to teach you how to use the controler, and it does reach this 
 objective.
  The game shows you a whole bunch of positions you can hold the WiiMote in order to get diferent 
 results.
  So, in other words, Wario Ware is a great game for you to learn how to handle the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  I admit, the Wii has become a resort for party games, and a lot of these are just plain crap. Luckily, 
 unlike its DS counterpart, WarioWare: Smooth Moves provides everything you would want in a WarioWare 
 game and more. Innovative and funny controls, or poses, is the core of the game and all of these 
 are implemented in various interesting ways and come with various and similarly interesting outcomes.
 
  
  The story mode, which is quite funny in its own right, lacks depth and more importantly is too 
 short. This was also the criticism of many and hopefully, Nintendo will create a tailor-made, and 
 not to mention longer, story for this franchise that is funny and meaningful like Super Paper Mario's. 
 Then again, it HAS to be on another platform, since we'll get bored with another Wii edition, or 
 so shall I speculate until further notice. But the unlockables are simply rewarding and fun to 
 play with unlike that of the DS version called Touched!.
  
  Lastly, the aesthetic aspects of the package which comprise of the graphics and sounds are different 
 of often contradict each other in a different way. You get either smoothly rendered Metroid Prime 
 3D or just a plain children's drawing accompanied by either the Metroid soundtrack or an 8-bit 
 soundtrack respectively. They look great in progressive regardless of them being 2D or 3D and the 
 sound just FEELS right.
  
  Overall, WarioWare provides quirky and fun entertainment. And if you get some friends (up to 12 
 with just 1 controller if you want) , the unlockables will be more pleasurable to fumble with and 
 the Multi mode will be better appreciated. The experience will not only turn into a party, it will 
 also become a riot as I can testify with my own experience. There has been no better time than 
 now for a WarioWare game to be released, and it does its job extremely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves for the Wii is a great game. First the pros: there is a large variety of 
 micro-games, there are funny cut scenes, the Wii remote controls work very well, and the game is 
 laugh out loud funny. The Cons: TOO SHORT. I thoroughly enjoyed every micro-game that I played, 
 and never had too much trouble with any of them. The forms worked very well and never game me any 
 problems. The story was a nice diversion while it lasted and all of the micro-games made me laugh. 
 The only negative thing about the entire game is that it can be beaten in about two hours. There 
 are tons of micro-games to unlock, but they can be unlocked in about an extra hour of game play. 
 There are bonus games that can be played to get high scores, but they can be mastered in a few 
 minutes, and none of them really lend themselves to that much replay. There are four elephant stations, 
 which each have a different theme, but none of them are hard, even the fourth. The elephants are 
 just a collection of games from anybody, with certain twists, like no knowledge of what form should 
 be used, or only one chance. Still the game can be finished and never picked up again in a day. 
 The multi-player is fun, until you realize that it is bare bones and it is just more fun to play 
 single player with your friends, trying to beat their high scores. Still despite being so short, 
 the game is truly wonderful; it is a delightful mix of comedy and repetitive motions that will 
 grow on you until its over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  It is an awesome game but the only thing that is wrong with it is that it is too short! I beat 
 it the day after I bought it! The new microgames rock for the wii! I just wish there were more 
 of them. They need to make a Warioware: More Moves! that would be a longer version with more microgames. 
 other than the fact that it is too short the game rocks! you have to fight through some new characters 
 games too like dribble and spitz, penny, and more! All around its an okay game. . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware is one of my favorite series on any system. They are short games that are meant to be 
 played through a couple times. However, Wario Ware is just way too short. Even if you go through 
 the story twice, it will only have been two hours of gameplay at the maximum.
  
  I had high expectations for this game since the Wii had the wireless remote. The microgames look 
 easy enough, but some can be quite frustrating with the remote. The different uses of the remote 
 are, however, very clever and somewhat fun.
  
  Wario Ware microames are beginning to become recylcled as I saw some recycles from the DS game. 
 The DS version is alot better in my opinion as the DS stylus is more fun to use.
  
  All in all, the game is no more than a rent if you can manage to pass it up altogether. The game 
 will keep you busy on a rainy day, but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wings-and-gills
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Having played other games in the WarioWare series, I'm used to the fast-paced nature of the game 
 and found it extremely easy to get into the rhythm. Watching my friends get into the game, I noticed 
 that there is slightly more difficulty (but not by much) as the person fumblingly tries to keep 
 up. Even non-gamers seem to be able to figure out how the game works with ease, though.
  
  Smooth Moves seems to be the most lacking in plot out of all the WarioWare games I've played, though 
 obviously plot isn't a big concern with this type of game. The levels seem to go by extremely quickly, 
 and it takes very little time to unlock all stages of the game and beat the final Boss Stage. There 
 is little substance, so I was left wondering if it was really worth the price I paid. However, 
 the game is addictive and never really gets boring, no matter how many times you play a level.
 
  
  This game is especially good for groups, though if any person in the group is new to the game he 
 or she would need to have the different Baton positions explained to him or her (or else play it 
 alone for a while.) If everyone knows what they're doing, hilarity and chaotic fun can ensue.
 
  
  The game meshes very, very well with the technology of the Wii, obviously. Picking random disembodied 
 noses has never been so fun! The wide variety of different positions you need to use for the Wiimote 
 makes the game that much more exciting and original.
  
  As always, WarioWare delivers on ridiculous humor, especially so with the quirky description of 
 Baton positions. From friends who have never played a WarioWare game before, I heard a lot of exclamations 
 of What the ***?!!? and hysterical laughter, and that's always amusing.
  
  All-in-all, Smooth Moves is perfect for casual gamers who don't have the time/desire to commit 
 to a complex or effort-intensive game, and/or for people who want some quick fun before dashing 
 off to work or school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crmn-tao
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  For the first of all, Warioware: Smooth Moves is the most fun and average game of whole time because 
 it got by great Wii remote motions, levels, and multiplayer but some of them are difficult from 
 using your Wii remote by some of form games that is difficult for your motions. But you know, it's 
 great how it looks cool from using your Wii remote and it get something interesting about this 
 game. Some of unlockables are getting decent but some are very interesting when it has goodies 
 and stuffs. Now, let's about the motion controls. For example, The Remote Control, when you play 
 as The Remote Control form, it's very easy to use but it gets difficult when you actually concentrate 
 the herdest way to use this form. By the Way, it got by 12 levels: Wario, Mona, Young Cricket, 
 Kat and Ana, Penny, Ashley, Jimmy P and T (One at a time) , 9-Volt, Dribble and Spitz, Tiny Wario, 
 and Olbulon. It's got great levels with all the forms that you actually play as but some forms 
 are getting hard now because the sensor bar will keep off with your motions sometimes but that's 
 okay. Well , there are few controls at this game and some of form games have controls that you 
 have to press. There are some multiplayers that keeps great-playing for your friends and your parents 
 and there are some of the interests are getting decent. For Warioware fans, this is a truly great 
 Warioware gamethat you looking for when you have a Wii but it still the same as before when you 
 actually play the previous Warioware games so it's a interesting game that you will looking for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great Wii game. It uses many different styles of Wii control and mixes 
 it all in with lightning-fast minigames like the other WarioWare games. It has you holding the 
 remote in all sorts of ways, you even have to drop it in one minigame! I don't think it's quite 
 as good as the old WarioWare games because of some minor control frustration, incredibly stupid 
 storylines, and you just don't really feel like playing it any more once you've beaten the general 
 'storyline' (if it deserves to be called a storyline) . It also hasn't gotten rid of the old 'too 
 easy' reputation of the previous games, either, but it is slightly more challenging than the other 
 ones. Sometimes the minigames are hard to figure out as well, but overall it's a great, enjoyable 
 game. Definitely worth playing, but ultimately doesn't last long. Worth a rent but not necessarily 
 worth buying for $50.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  this game is fair, ut probably not worth the 50 bucks i paid for it. it can be finished in two 
 hours. the two hours are fun enough, but it would be nice if the controll was a little better. 
 sometimes it seems to not pick up certain movements, causing you to lose some minigames. It is 
 really just not as good as warioware touched. i liked the idea of collecting little toys and things 
 in that game, but there is none of that in smooth moves. they could have some cool stuff if they 
 did. overall, there are better game for the wii than this one. -the honest voice inside your head 
 -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games for the Wii right now. This old school game is very fun once you get a better 
 picture of how to properly use the Wii mote the game is incredibly addictive and fun! The plethora 
 of minigames makes this one a true classic. Plus you wont get bored with the different variety 
 of games to play.
  
  Gameplay- Great gameplay is what makes this one great and fun. When you move the Wii mote to do 
 your minigame, there is not ever problems unless you are very aggressive with the Wii mote. Then 
 it will lose it's signal.
  
  Graphics- I think that when it comes to who has the best graphics for a game like Wario and Mario 
 etc. Nintendo is the best. The graphics are very colorful and there is only black and white when 
 the incredibly boring dude tells you different ways to hold your Wii mote like the mohawk, finger 
 food, and handlebar.
  
  Soundtrack- This game just like every type of Wario game has the catchy tunes and happy music. 
 The music kinda' gets you into a rhythm so you keep playing.
  
  Nintendo brings back some good ol' friends like Dribble and Splitz and 18 volt and 9 volt. The 
 game is great, plain and simple. One of the best for your Wii and really shows you what the Wii 
 is capable of. You dont even have to rent it first, you should like it, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all if your going to say Warioware Smooth Moves is a bad game because the games are small 
 well if you played the others you will already know. Plus look on the bank of the game it gives 
 you a hint Micro games.
  
  Wario and his friends are back to bring you his party game this features a range of games like 
 cutting wood, hitting a guy on the back, picking rubbish up with a robot, driving and whole load 
 of crazy stuff which it shows you on the videos here on Gamespot. Adding to the games this features 
 some NES games but there Micro of course Mario is one of them. Another has Starwing but features 
 as a longer level with it been a boss great game to play too. The game is really easy to get into 
 and can be beat in 3 hours but you can beat it again if you wish the game is enjoyable but the 
 thing is i only play my Wii on my own so i never play 2 player. The game is still a good single 
 playerand worth checking out. If you have played the Nintendo DS, or Game Boy Advance version or 
 never the GameCube version you already know what your in for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser_jrFan
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I do not really like this game. Lots of minigames. It is my 2nd Wii game. I was not pleased. Very 
 bad. Do not get it. Please!!!! I hate the game. I thought Mario and the gang would also be in it 
 but I was very wrong. Just Wario and a bunch of other nintendo people. To many Mini Games. To much 
 of a puzzle. But I like Mario party 8. Strange. And I do like Wario ware touch and go. That is 
 strange. Oh well I do not like this one a bit. I am not saying it is hard . It is easy just not 
 1 bit good. : ( Disapointing. Realy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves was a Wii launch title. It utilizes the Wii's innovative controller very 
 well.
  
  The graphics vary. The style can switch from cartoony to oldschool NES to more modern things in 
 a flash. In this kind of game it doesn't really matter, but everything fits in nicely and looks 
 good.
  
  The soundtrack is good and there are lots of sounds and music in the game. It's all good quality 
 but you won't really be humming any of the tunes.
  
  The gameplay. The game is basically a collection of 5 second minigames. When the minigame starts 
 it gives you one/two words to explain it, for instance 'SAUTE!', in a minigame of flipping up and 
 down a frying pan. If you fail, you lose one of four lives. Lose all your lives, you have to start 
 the 'level' over again. The levels are presented by little characters, and have little animations 
 at the start. There are many, many minigames, including: shaving, drinking a glass, using your 
 trunk to pick up an apple, playing FREAKING STAR FOX, rolling samus into a crate, waving Wario's 
 farts away, pushing over some guy, and many, many more. Before each minigame, there is a picture 
 of your 'Form Baton' (wiimote) and how you should be holding it. This allows for some unique minigames. 
 There is one level with the 'Balance Stone' (nunchuck) but it isn't really that good. Most minigames 
 are presented humorously and not very serious. They are all intuitive and make good use of the 
 Wii-mote, and most work well. There are a few that don't seem to work properly (SHRED! being the 
 culprit for me) but that could just be me. There is also a multiplayer mode, where you use just 
 one remote and share it among your friends. These games are unique and pretty cool, but they could 
 have done more.
  
  This is definitely a game to be played with or among friends, as you look pretty stupid dancing 
 and hula hooping a donut. If you are more a single player person... well I finished the single 
 player in about 3 hours. There is only a basic story too. To be honest I am kind of disappointed 
 in it, so don't get it if you want to be able to play it by yourself.
  
  The game mainly relies on its humour and intuitive controls to deliver a fun game. It is quite 
 short but you can replay it over and over with your friends. It's easy to pick up, and you and 
 your friends will have a blast playing it and laughing at the silly visuals on screen, and most 
 of all at each other. It costs around &pound;30-40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Wutsup people,
  
  I am going to be reviewing Warioware for the Wii, hope you enjoy the review!
  
  
  
  THE 
 GOOD:
  
  
  
  _This game will keep you busy for hours! It is very entertaining and even though it looks like 
 it is made for a younder audience, older people will definately enjoy it too. You start out the 
 game by looking at a map of the city and all the levels that you need to unlock. The first thing 
 I did was click on the first unlocked game and then watched a mildly entertaining cut scene... that 
 I couldn't skip. (I'll get to that later) , anyway, the game is basically a series of mini games 
 and if you lose one of the mini games, you loose a life (not that anyone who played this game as 
 long as I did even has one) . Once you're out of lives, you loose the game and have to start from 
 the beginning. Overall the gameplay is very fun and it is the major strong point in the game. The 
 various Wii remote positions lessons like hold the forum botton in this position... its called the 
 janitor are actually pretty funny and add to the game's colorful, cheerful, fun feeling! Once you 
 finish Single player mode, all kinds of other mini-games are unlocked like a ping pong game where 
 you hit the ball to the top of a castle, and ofcourse... Multiplayer! The multiplayer is enjoyable 
 and can definately help keep your friends entertained while they are at your house. All in all, 
 I would say that the major good part about this game is the fun gameplay. It is somewhat addicting 
 and will keep you busy for hours! THE BAD:
  
  
  
  _One of the major low-points about the game is the length of the Single Player mode. I beat it 
 in 2 days only playing like 1 or 2 hours per day. I feel that they should have made the Single 
 Player mode a little bit longer so that it is more challenging and so it can actually feel satisfying 
 once the player finally beats it! The Multiplayer is also a little bit dissapointing. Instead of 
 having 2 remotes playing at a time, you have to pass them around... which sucks, because I hate 
 taking turns!! lol. But seriously, the multiplayer would have been better if 2 remotes were involved 
 instead of one. Now dont get me wrong, the Multiplayer is still very fun, but... it could be better. 
 Another thing that is very annoying is the cut scenes. I shouldnt have ANYTHING tell me what I 
 can and cannot skip!! If I dont want to see the damn cartoony little cut scenes then I shouldnt 
 have to! Every time you play a new level, the game makes you watch the cut scene and trust me.... this 
 can get very annoying. OVERALL:
  
  
  
  _I would say that this game is not worth the 50 bucks. It is very fun and can provide hours of 
 entertainment to both you and anyone else that you want to play with, but their are many better 
 Wii games out their that you should spend your 50 bucks on. All in all, Warioware is one of the 
 more enjoyable games out there, but it is more of a rent it first type of game. Thats it for my 
 review, thanks for reading!!
  
  
  _asswarrior 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Wario is one of the best characters Nintendo has ever created, Smooth Moves is a very nice experience 
 for a Wii game. This game has a lot of charm from its innovative graphics, quirky sound, and funny 
 story lines. It is a must have if you intend on having a party or get together with friends in 
 your house, its almost a guarantee everyone will get a kick out of the game. Good number of mini 
 games to unlock and excellent multi player mode keeps you coming back for more if you play with 
 friends that is. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmickey2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Hey dude, check out my new game! Oh sure, I'll try it. Wait, you say you beat it already? In a 
 withspand of the time you were asking me? WOW Yes, Wario is back in his lightning quick-and-quirky 
 microgame series, this time it's for the Wii. Although it is entitled under Party Game , it's single-player 
 is longer than it's multiplayer.
  
  Let's go play the one with the bomb! Ok, sure, but keep in mind that your brain will not be intact 
 after this. Whaddya mean? Well, those two kids said it all, the game will make yourself CRAZY! 
 I mean, it's only upside is it's gameplay value, not replay, gameplay. There are themes you can 
 play as, such as dancing, driving, or waiting in line for a chineese bow. But anyways, you may 
 find youself being revealed in front of a couple friends, then wishing you returned it while checking 
 out.
  
  Look how good that... cel-shaded naked colored person looks?! Oh wait, is that Wario with half 
 a mouth? Oh I'm leaving, we're not friends anymore! Yes not only the idea, but the graphics and 
 sound are both horrible! The sound is nearly pulled out of a... Atari game and I think Bob and 
 Larry explained the graphics. Overall, it's a... very horrible game that will not hold up to your 
 bestest fiends expictations, nor your wallets emptyness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I see a lot of high scores for WarioWare and I truly wonder why. Don't be influenced by all the 
 high ratings from users, please try it somewhere before you buy it. I went by a combination of 
 the Gamespot review and user reviews and I now regret the purchase.
  
  The single player game is ridiculously short. You could play through it in 2-3 hours quite easily. 
 It seems like it was meant as something to just kind of blow through and introduce you to all the 
 forms with the reward of Multi now being a choice from the main menu.
  
  When you start you are introduced to an overhead view of a map of a city with one location to choose. 
 You then choose that location and play through its series of micro games; once done you have unlocked 
 1 or more new locations to check out. Each micro game has its own mini boss fight at the end that 
 may take a couple tries, this is the only real challenge offered by the game. It proceeds like 
 this until there are no more locations.
  
  The new locations unlocked will either be another stage you must conquer, a Mini-game suck as Darts 
 you can now play at will, or both.
  
  Graphics are extremely simple ranging from cartoon to bare 3d renderings.
  
  Music ranged form 
 annoying to tolerable, speeding up as you advanced within the level.
  
  Entire presentation is aimed quite squarely on the younger crowd, giving zero multi player value 
 to us old timers (is 28 old??)
  
  The game introduces tonnes of different ways to hold your controller such as in front of your face 
 to mimic an elephant trunk, above the head like a Mohawk, at your side, in front of you, on the 
 table and many more.
  
  The game truly will have you flailing that remote around, and im sure there are others like me 
 who paid no mind to the wrist strap until playing through this game... I was able to make my remote 
 fly.
  
  You'll see a lot of little tidbits from the past in many of the micro games, such as Super Mario 
 or Punch Out. Some genuinely funny splash screens that will truly make you chuckle, though i'm 
 not sure how they would fair after the 3rd or 4th time being seen... my guess is not good at all.
 
  
  There is a handful of modes for multi player which is only unlocked after completing the single 
 player mode, each of which is pretty much just a different way to present the same game play, except 
 for the mini game Darts for example.
  
  When playing multi player you will find yourself handing off the remote between turns. This is 
 a big no-no for me and seriously hurt and potential value in the game, I mean, I've purchased multiple 
 remotes for a reason.
  
  All in all, once I finished I had zero desire to ever play it again, and immediately decided this 
 title was going to be traded in. Perhaps this game could appeal more to a younger audience but 
 I could not see breaking this game out with my 30-ish year old friends and having fun.
  
  This game's only value is in what you get for it when you go to trade it off; in my case $20. Im 
 not a big  sort of person so the fact that I did so with this title 
 speaks volumes.
  
  That's it, ultimately you will make your own decision but I truly believe that you will be very 
 happy if you try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Just a funny party game. Not much more I guess. I don't really understand the hype... so many people 
 rating with a 9+... this game doesn't meet the level of Zelda or Resident Evil 4 does it?
  
  The mini games are very funny; due to unpredictable situations and the wii-mote should be handled 
 in various ways. After drinking a couple of beers with friends this game will assure you having 
 a few laughs.
  
  The story mode is very fast over so as single player it's not worth much and afterall it's not 
 very much fun doing all the weird stuff by yourself anyhow.
  
  So, crazy game, but make sure to bring some friends to play it with for the first time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thoko25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Wariowares - Smooth moves is definitely the perfect sequel for Warioware Inc. for Gamecube. It 
 has updated Visuals, revolutionary gameplay thanks to the Wiimote which introduces Forms to the 
 series. Other new features of Wario include Mii support in multiplayer and the occasional pop up 
 of one in the audience or in a arm-wrestling competition.
  
  WARNING SPOILER:
  The boss stages are absolutely fantastic, for example on the retro section you fly your plane in 
 StarFox using the wiimote to fly around avoiding blocks and in the end fighting the boss by shooting 
 him. Other boss fights include boxing similar to WiiSports. Other boss fights are great but you 
 would rather find out for yourself as words cant express the greatness !!! lol WarioWare is definitely 
 a must buy for wii owners who are craving for a Nintendo Wii game that utilises the wiimote and 
 nunchunk in a great way but are disappointed by other launch title games. Try Wario before making 
 any assumptions of the wiimotes potential ability as just being a gimmick.
  This will definitely entertain Wii-owners until Super Mario Galaxy, Metroid 3 and Super paper mario 
 hit the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnan107
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you are looking for a serious game then go buy zelda or metriod prime 3. But if ur looking 
 for a game that has tons of fun and great little minigames then this is the game u are looking 
 for. This game has 11 stances that each has microgames for. For example there is one called the 
 mowhawk. You hold the wii remote over ur head and then you have to squat and come back up quickly. 
 Microgames like these make this game a awsome and enjoyable game. I hate to complain, but i feel 
 they should have used more use of the nunchuck and maybe a longer single player story to get the 
 player more into singleplayer. There is only one stage with a nunchuck which kind of made me mad. 
 Though the game has it flaws it provides a huge bundle of fun when u and ur friends are all playing. 
 Many people complained how u can only use one controller for multiplayer, but this allows for more 
 people to play. One multiplayer game mode allows for twelve different players!!! Ok wrapping this 
 review up i have to say it is very addicting, enjoyable, and a great blast whether u have friends 
 over or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxfall2pieces
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is perfect for the Wii. It's perfectly interactive and a lot of fun to play. 
 It will have you addicted as soon as you pick up the controller. Although the game isn't extremely 
 long, it has the ability to still make you want to play it even after you have beaten it. It doesn't 
 matter how many times you beat the levels because it will still leave you wanting to play it over 
 and over again. The controller is perfect for this game, and there is a wide variety of things 
 to do with it. Throughout the game you will learn different ways to hold the form baton and balance 
 stone and these will help you beat each level. The new ways even come with a funny cut-scene explaining 
 how to hold them. This game can be played by all ages, and it is a great game to play with your 
 friends. There is a single and multi player mode in the game, but even if you are playing with 
 your friends, i recommend playing the single player mode and just switching turns because the single 
 levels are much more fun. I definitely recommend this game to anyone because it is addictive and 
 fun to play. This game is unique and you should buy it if you are looking for a fun and simple 
 game to play by yourself or in a group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  With the advent of another bizarre concept for a console via Nintendo, it's little surprise that 
 WarioWare has been released on the Wii. In case you haven't heard of the Microgame concept, its 
 basically games that last up to around 10 seconds and you have to perform a task within that time. 
 Sounds simple, sounds boring. Well, you'd be surprised to hear that this concept has taken nations 
 by storm and with this new Wii version, things are set to get better.
  
  The game begins with Wario having lunch. A little creature comes in and steals it. Naturally, Wario 
 begins to chase after this creature, until he stops inside a Temple . He then comes across a weird 
 stick, which is known as the Form Baton. Suddenly he has to use this Baton to escape. Upon getting 
 out the temple, he has a breakthrough and decides to explore the forms via his friends.
  
  The initial concept of the game is one that is familiar to those who have played the previous ones. 
 Go around the stages and unlock bonus features. The thing about this particular game isn't so much 
 what to do, but more what you have to do to achieve it. There are lots of Microgames that use different 
 forms . Some involve you using your remote like you would for a TV. Others will have you holding 
 it on top of your head, beside you, and even putting the remote down temporarily! Another nice 
 feature is the Mii compatability, which enables Mii's to appear occasionally in games. Eventually, 
 you'll also come across the Balancing Stone, which involved the Nunchuk attachment. This keeps 
 the game feeling fresh. The game does suffer one thing, and that is the main game is way too short, 
 just like the last version, Touched!. However, compared to the last one, it does seem longer. The 
 cast is made up of most of the previous crew, with one or two new additions, which fit in well 
 with the other members.
  
  The Visuals in the game vary from the bad to the fantastic next gen look. Most are presented in 
 a 2D fashion, but as with the last game, there are some 3D elements too, and these are more numerous 
 this time around. The sounds are as varied as the visuals, which fits the bizarre nature of the 
 game. The game features plenty of easter eggs, such as alterations to Microgames, interactive title 
 screen, you name it, the game probably has it.
  
  The game features a multiplayer mode, which is fun to do. You have quite a few different modes 
 in terms of Microgames and Minigames. Compared to the last console edition of WarioWare on the 
 Gamecube, the multiplayer here is a little sparse and uninspired. You do have some games which 
 are taken directly from that one, such as the pumping a balloon one, but you don't have classics 
 such as the Balancing on a stack of Turtles, or Dr Says, which is quite disappointing, as they 
 would fit with the Wii's nature. The game does incorporate the Mii's a kind of player Avatar, so 
 you know exactly who's who. This is a nice addition and makes the game seem more personal.
  
  You'll probably spend a lot of time playing Microgames. There are a lot of forms to use and 
 all feel natural, but stupid at the same time. Its even funnier to watch someone else play, which 
 makes a change from the sitting at the TV while your friend beats your score. They probably might 
 do, but they'd look a fool doing so. There are some nice extras, all of which have purpose and 
 aren't pointless, unlike the DS edition (Touched!) , which had quite a lot of useless gadgets. In 
 short, this is a great game, that features nice multiplayer options, that is only ever so slightly 
 ruined by too short single player gameplay and not enough Mulitplayer modes. If you have a Wii 
 and want a laugh with/at some friends, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are a plus side here. They are over simplified, but yet they give you different graphics 
 in every micro game and that's hard to do so give the producers props for that.
  
  The sound in this is hilarious. Because Wario's dialouge where he says fishsticks when he loses 
 is pretty funny and some dialouge in the background you here is also funny. Great tunes also helped 
 the sound.
  
  The tilt was great because the camera angles were almost always the same and controlling things 
 in micro games was clunky in two or three but not a big deal to me. The value isn't going to hold 
 long for singlepayer. But multiplayer has you coming back all the time.
  
  The gameplay is what makes this game. It's so fun and whacky. It just produces the fun factor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! If you are looking for a party game or a game to play when you are board with 
 all your other games this is the game for you. You start out and wario finds this thing called 
 a form baton with is basicaly the wii remote. There are some realy cool games on here like a sword 
 fight boss. To a driving boss and 9 volts games will make nintendo fans happy! They have ones from 
 gamecube this time around though. So anyway this is how i rated it.
  
  graphics:9 out of 10. They realy improved on graphics compared to the handheld warioware
  
  
 Gameplay:10 out of 10. Couldnt get much better than this!
  
  sound:8 out of ten. Some sounds are a little anoying like the noise when you win a minigame but 
 other than that its great.
  
  controls:9 out of 10: Some minigames have realy shaky and jittery controls but most are realy good
 
  
  Overall:8.5 Definately get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  i think this game is a waste of time and money if i where u i wouldnt think of getin this i waste 
 &pound;35 on this and its not even fun it repeats its self and its so so so boring i wanted to 
 eather burn it sell it of break it i just tradded it in for jst &pound;15 its that rubbish they 
 only give me &pound;15 for shame on the game.
  wario ware smooth moves went down rough 2 out of 10 at least its something better then mario party 
 on the gamecube but in total its very very cr*p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidhua
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  at first i thought oh it's just another warioware game that you can finish in 5 minutes and never 
 play it again but when i started playing it i couldn't stop. The mini games are awesome and some 
 are very challenging. This game will keep you playing your wii for hours and hours (even though 
 you might have already beaten the game by the first hour) . This is a must have game for the wii, 
 it is aslo a very great game for plenty of people. What i think is the greatest part is that you 
 don't need to buy more tan one wii remote, you can play with eight people with just one. Once again 
 this game is GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weltyd
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a crazy, random game in a good way. The story is short, but you can always go back and 
 replay it to get high scores. The multiplayer is great. There are a lot of different game modes 
 you can unlock once you beat the game, and they're all worthwhile. There are a lot of microgames 
 to unlock and they are all crazy and random. The different forms you use with the wii remote are 
 original and is probably the best use of the remote in a wii game so far. It's disappointingly 
 short, but it will keep you coming back for short bursts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This is a party game like no other. The microgames were wierd, strangly fun. The game takes place 
 in Diamond City, not that bad of a location. Graphics don't matter since they vary microgame to 
 microgame. Each microgame was even wackier than the last. Voice acting was actually pretty good 
 for what little it had, but as you keep playing a level, the character's voice will be high-pitched. 
 A perfect exmple of this occuring is in Young Cricket's level, his voice become almost squeaky. 
 Aside from the voice acting, There are plenty of levels to beat. Problem is, some are short and 
 easy, while others can become frustratingly difficult. The game itself isn't that difficult, you 
 probably beat it a week or less. I reccomend renting it first if you're not sure if you want to 
 get the game or not. Good things do come in strange packages after all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playersonly656
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The warioware series is addictive, wacky, and insane. Theres definitely no exceptions here in this 
 installment. But just like the Yogos commercials, it goes on pretty fast. The wii controls work and 
 its just as fun as any other warioware game you have played. But it takes about 2 hours to beat 
 every game and another 2 to unlock all the mini, I mean, micro games. But its definitely not a party 
 game. There were only about 4-5 real multiplayer mini games with the latter being 4 player microgame 
 completion and if u can't find another wiimote, be prepared to hold the controller as tight as 
 possible as you will not have enough time to put the wrist strap on. So this is a case of all flash, no 
 substance. The wii controls do work and its alot of fun on single player and a decent multiplayer 
 game will tide you over until Raving Rabbids 2, but other than that, it's a short game well worth 
 a rent, but not worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Story - N/A
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Value - 4/10
  
  Wario's back, and is just as random and crazy as ever! Basically, the game 
 plays out similarly to its predecessors, only this time you've got the power of the Wiimote at 
 your disposal. Basically, for those of you not familiar with the series, you pick a random character 
 whose minigames are themed around something, you watch a random cut-scene, then you play dozens 
 of that person's 3-10 second microgames . When you lose a microgame, you lose a life, and if you 
 lose all 4 of your lives, its game over. The first time you select a character, you're trying to 
 reach their boss microgame , which usually involves beating around 15 microgames. Doing so will 
 unlock more people that you must defeat. Afterwards, you can return to people and try getting high 
 scores or unlocking the rest of that person's microgames.
  
  Sound bizarre? Well it should. It seems like the games goal is to make you laugh or confused. There's 
 just so much randomness to it all. One game you gotta insert dentures into a grandma's mouth, another 
 involves putting the Wiimote on your head and doing squats, a bunch involve holding the Wiimote 
 on your nose like an elephant trunk, and one game even involves a full 5-minute dance-off. It's 
 just an absolutely crazy game that you have to experience for yourself to see just how fun it is.
 
  
  However, the one major downfall with the game is that it's very short, especially for a console 
 game. The main storymode will last you... maybe 4 hours? And then there's some other things to 
 unlock and such, but it's not a very lengthy experience. I remember in the GBA and DS versions 
 that you could go to each individual microgame and try to get a high score in each of them, and 
 there was an objective and if you reached that objective you'd get a medal, and getting medals 
 in all 200 microgames would unlock something cool. But there's none of that in this game, no trying 
 to get scores on the individual microgames, which is what kept the other games going up towards 
 the 20 hour mark. So basically, the game will last you... maybe 10 hours to unlock all of the minigames, 
 and there's some multiplayer to mess around with but it didn't look very deep or like something 
 you could get hooked on.
  
  Overall though, WarioWare is a quirky and humorous game that's sure to keep a smile on your face 
 from start to finish. While its lack of length could make you question whether it's worth the purchase 
 or not, definitely at least give it a rental. Definitely a fun experience that shouldn't be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves (Nintendo Wii)
  Written By: Shinobisoma
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : Most people know what to expect from a WarioWare game but for those who dont 
 The WarioWare series is a Bunch of Micro-games thrown together and it is really fun. However, in 
 Wario Ware: Smooth Moves you will be using the motion sensing controls with your wiimote to play 
 through over 200 micro-games. Most of the motions they tell you to make are very responsive except 
 a few of them like that annoying baseball game. Most of these games are fun and I think most of 
 you will be sastified with them. Graphics (8/10) : This game has some great art and preety good 
 graphics for a WarioWare game. Youll be playing in both 2D and 3D micro-games which is really 
 cool if you ask me. Sound (7/10) : You dont really get to hear the BG music in this game for to 
 long but most of the micro-games use the wiimotes speaker which is a preety cool feature that 
 makes the game better. Difficulty (7/10) : WarioWare: Smooth Moves is not a hard game at all. All 
 you have to do is be able to move your arm around and youll be able to beat the whole game. Whats 
 really hard is not getting addicted to it for a while like I did. Lasting Appeal (7.5/10) : Unfortunately, 
 WarioWare: Smooth Moves wont take you too long to beat. It will last you about 2-4 hours the first 
 time through. However, the replay value is very high especially if you have friends to play with. 
 They have a multiplayer mode which will last you a couple of fun hours and playing through single 
 player again is very likely as well.
  
  Closing Comments: WarioWare is a worthy addition to wii game library. Dont let people who say 
 its a cruddy tech demo discourage you from trying it out. At least rent it. It deserves that much. 
 I still play mine every once in a while and its brought hours of entertainment to me, my family, 
 and my friends. So I recommend checking this game out. Overall Score: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a game that was released a few months after the Wiis launch. Its somewhat 
 of a follow-up to WarioWare: Touched on the DS. Its a collection of mini games that make use of 
 the Wiis motion sensing capabilities.
  
  In the singleplayer mode you have to help the various characters through their problems by completing 
 a series of mini games, with a boss stage mini game at the end of the level. When you first pick 
 the level, represented on the map with the characters face that youre dealing with, it shows a 
 little cut scene introducing that characters little back-story. Then you get to the games. Each 
 mini games requires you to hold the Wii Remote in a certain position, called forms. The first time 
 you use any of the forms, theres a little humorous introduction saying how its supposed to be 
 held. The form is displayed in a little window that pops up in the center of the screen right before 
 the mini game is played. When the mini game starts a word will pop up that you must read quickly. 
 This kind of tells how youre supposed to swing the controller, although sometimes its not descriptive 
 enough. If you fail a mini game, you lose a life. You get 4 lives for each level. Throughout the 
 level, the mini games will get progressively harder and faster, until you finally get to the boss 
 stage. Once you complete the level, you unlock a few more, which you can complete in any order, 
 to then unlock more and more until the end. There are also a number of bonus stages to play, which 
 may keep you entertained for a few minutes until they start to get repetitive. The game starts 
 out hard, because youre still trying to figure out what kind of motions to use, but it becomes 
 progressively easier.
  
  The game is extremely short. There are over 200 mini games, which is quite a good amount, but you 
 dont have to beat all of them to complete the game. You can most likely finish the game in one 
 or two sittings. The mini games themselves are great. There are a few duds, but the good ones (and 
 theres a lot) provide a fun time. Theyre humorous, and youll often find yourself chuckling to 
 yourself.
  
  The Wii Remote is used very well in the game. There are 18 different forms, and a wide number of 
 different motions that you must make. For the most part, the controls are pretty responsive. Sometimes, 
 the game wont pick up the motion youre making, and many of the mini games can be done with a 
 different form then theyre supposed to. Also, a lot of the motions just feel awkward and out of 
 place
  
  The graphics are decent. They could be done on the GameCube, but the art direction is wonderful. 
 Most everything in the game is in 2D, but there are a few 3D mini games. The music is creative 
 and fits in very well with the game. It definitely gives you a wacky and crazy vibe, which matches 
 that of the game.
  
  You dont unlock the multiplayer mode until youve finished the singleplayer, and its not much 
 of a reward. There are a few games similar to the bonus stages in singleplayer, with more being 
 unlocked as you go, but they arent all that great. All of them require you to pass off the controller 
 to the other players when its theyre turn, which isnt fun at all, and is something you can do 
 in the singleplayer mode.
  
  WarioWare is a game that can be completed in a few short hours, and isnt really worth 50 dollars. 
 But, if youre looking for a good time, whether with friends or alone, then WarioWare: Smooth Moves 
 is more than worthy of a rental. Besides, who could turn down a section of mini games directly 
 devoted to retro Nintendo games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  this was one of the first games i got for my wii along with zelda, and i was so excited to play 
 it. i put it in and it felt really good. the controls were intuitive and functional, which is a 
 problem for some wii games. the games were pretty good, but what the heck is a form baton and a 
 balance rock? the game is pretty shallow. there arent many missions and the microgames will show 
 up way too often for most people to handle. anyway, fans of the series will love it, but if your 
 looking for a game to hold off until the big three, chances are you'll be better off with RE4 wii 
 edition and zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun at first and also to watch a friend or someone else play. There is definitely 
 no shortage of mini games so they should keep you busy for a while. One thing I did have a problem 
 with though is doing the same ones over and over again, they get old after a while and you just 
 don't feel like playing them over and over. If your going to buy this game I would tell you not 
 to. I would tell you to rent it and experience it that way so you can have fun with the games for 
 the first time instead of buying it and then getting boring after a few hours because of the same 
 repetitive mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randall2412
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  It may be only a bunch of minigames but still there are over 200 of them. i mean it is not the 
 best game i have ever played and it has no story to it. but this game was WAY better than i thought 
 it would be. someone told me it was gay because all you do is play a bunch of minigames and that 
 none of them are fun. well than why did you even buy a wii? warioware is a game that show what 
 you will be doing with all of the games for the wii. so if you dont like ANY of the minigames then 
 you shouldnt even own a wii. and besides with all the minigames you cant tell me that you didnt 
 like a single one it is just not possible. there is at least if not more than a hand full of games 
 that are fun. 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norfair_dweller
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The Warioware series has graced every Nintendo platform since the Game Boy Advance. After the first 
 installment on the GBA and the second on the Gamecube, the series has pushed off in a different 
 direction. Warioware has started infusing itself with unique features. The second GBA game had 
 you tilting the system every which way. The DS game made use of the handhelds stylus, and now 
 on the Wii the fourth entry in the series utilizes the Wii remote.
  
  In a Warioware game, youre given a simple command such as Drop. A small, roughly five-second 
 minigame (or microgame as the game calls them) then has you carry out this command by doing something. 
 For example, the Drop command would be executed in a microgame where you need to drop the Wii 
 remote in order to make someone go bungee jumping. The entire game progresses this way, throwing 
 microgame after microgame at you with free chances to mess one up until you reach the Boss Stage, 
 which is a full-fledged minigame.
  
  Microgames are divided into groups. Each selectable character (from Wario to his friends) has a 
 batch of microgames. To progress through the single player, you must play each persons microgames 
 and complete their boss stage, unlocking a new persons games. In Smooth Moves, each game uses 
 the Wii remote in a certain way. This stance is shown before each microgame. You may have to 
 hold the Wii remote like handlebars to accomplish one task and grasp it like a pencil for another.
 
  
  This sounds like a rather simple concept, and it is. It can be a little too easy sometimes. Youll 
 rarely miss a microgame for its difficulty level but, instead, for how fast they eventually get 
 or not knowing what youre supposed to do.
  
  Smooth Movess graphics arent really that good from a technical standpoint. There isnt a part 
 of this game that couldnt be done on the Gamecube, and some of it isnt even up to that standard. 
 The bits not up to the Gamecubes standard are intentionally there, such as microgames that look 
 like paper cut-outs. Each game has a unique style to it. All of that put together makes for an 
 average-looking game technically but from an artistic standpoint its quite unique. Those favoring 
 next-generation graphics probably wont find much to like here. Gamers willing to forgive graphical 
 shortcomings in favor of a unique art style will find it enjoyable.
  
  Sound is fairly average. While most games have unique music and sound effects, none of its particularly 
 great. The variety is good even if it doesnt work as well for sound as it does for graphics, but 
 otherwise the music and effects arent anything to get excited about. The voice samples for characters 
 are decent as well, but some of them arent very good at all (Monas in particular.) The voice 
 used to explain stances youve never seen before is pure brilliance.
  
  By completing certain strings of microgames, youll unlock minigames. Most of these are actually 
 pretty good. One has you shooting cans until you get hit by something explosive, one has you hitting 
 a ping pong ball with a racket up a tower, and one is even a 3-D reimagining of the Balloon Trip 
 mode from Balloon Fight. The multiplayer mode is fairly robust with a dart game and several other 
 party games that require playing microgames. Multiplayer really isnt played simultaneously since 
 everyone takes turns. This means youll only need one Wii remote to play with friends as you pass 
 it between yourselves. Sadly, multiplayer mode is only unlockable after the single player I completed. 
 It wont take you very long to unlock this mode, however, since single player takes only a few 
 hours to complete. Unlocking and beating everything takes a bit longer but all in all the single 
 player still remains rather short. Some features in previous games that added replay value have 
 even been removed for some reason. You can no longer play a microgame as many times as you want 
 in hopes of meeting the score goal for it (for example, trying to beat a certain game 20 times 
 at increasing speed levels.) While the multiplayer mode is fun, the single players length is atrocious. 
 There is absolutely no way Smooth Moves is worth its price tag, which currently stands at the full 
 price. Its good multiplayer fun and contains some solid replay value (especially with friends) , 
 but the price for how long it takes to complete the game is ridiculous.
  
  Simply put, Smooth Moves is best for a diversion or multiplayer fun. The fourth installment in 
 the Warioware series is good, but it doesnt last very long like its predecessors. At its price 
 and length, its far more worthy of a rental than a purchase. Warioware: Smooth Moves unique, fun, 
 and quirky but in the long run Smooth Moves is hurt by its brutally short length and lack of challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymous314
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading the extremely positive reviews about this game, I decided to rent it and eventually 
 buy it. It was pretty fun for the first few hours, and the music was nice and funky. I liked the 
 cartoon-ish graphics and the characters as well. But after playing for around 5 hours, the game 
 got extremely boring and repetitive. All the stages were extremely similar, and since I played 
 the GBA version of this game, I got bored fairly quickly. I would strongly recommend renting this 
 game first as I personally feel that this game's tilt is extremely low. It was pretty fun for the 
 first few hours, and the music was nice and funky. I liked the cartoon-ish graphics and the characters 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Wario Ware games and I must say the WII version is the best by far. Its 
 easy to learn and a lot of fun to play. It takes full advantage of what you can do with the WII 
 Remote, the things that you can do in this game are incredible. The cut scenes are colorful and 
 fun to watch and the challenges for each character are unique and challenging. The story is failrly 
 sort but with the addition of multilayer and the challenge levels you can continue to play this 
 for a like time. I love the addition of the mini games like: shoot the cans, and the block building 
 game those also help a lot with the reply value of this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun while your doing the story mode. I just think that the story mode is over 
 way too fast as game spot themselves say. Other than the story mode being over too fast its a great 
 game. The game itself has fantastic and funny mini games in it. This game makes excellent use of 
 your wii remote and nun chuck. Also this game forces you to get off the couch and move around to 
 the beat. Also when your done with the story mode you can play the mini games that you have unlocked. 
 Also the 2 player is very fun after you beat the story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  OK... this game is pretty much a big blur. There is no concept, strategies, or motives in this game. 
 All you do is play 200 micro mini games that aren't even played by wario. They say it's wario's 
 ware but i wouldnt think so. Sure it's fun if you dont have much time to do anything and you need 
 a quick break from your HW or something but it wouldn't last you too long if you wanted a nice 
 game to play for 1-2 hours. HECK!!! Just play outside and gain some muscle. Once you mange to play 
 all 200 minigames (actually they are micro minigames.... even smaller than regular mingames) the 
 game is a total BORE. The graphics? Im really not sure whether they want a really wacky look or.... they 
 just have sucky designing. Sounds are quirky but it matches the graphics (most of the times) Value? 
 Um.... this may change in your mind after a week or two. Day 1-2: good! well worth my 50 dollars.
 
  Day 3-4: Ahhh.... still the same ol fun. Worth 40 dollars..
  after on week: ugh... gettin a lil bored here. worth 30.
  After one month: anyone wna buy this 
 off me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapsak_45_182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have played wario wares but smooth moves is the best. It like wario ware but on the wii you do 
 real movement. It's like anything on the wii, AMAZING. I say buy it!!!! Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, 
 Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, 
 Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, 
 Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, 
 Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, 
 Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  As WarioWare makes its way to the Wii, it adds great new minigames, or Microgames , and even better, 
 a new way to play these microgames. When you begin the game, Wario will stumble across a temple 
 with a Wii Remote shaped item known as the Form Baton. Before each microgame, it will tell you 
 a form to put the Wii Remote in and use the form to complete the microgame. For example, one form 
 requires you to hold the Wii Remote, or Form Baton as a dumbell and use it to perform actions, 
 not only to lift weights which is one of the actions you will have to perform with the dumbell. 
 The graphics are really sharp and make the game look really... Cartoony . Multiplayer modes are 
 fun and addictive. There is also an endless mode that will just keep you playing untill you lose 
 all your lives. Really the only thing that I really hate about this game is how short the story 
 mode is. But other than that, WarioWare is a excellent game and is a must buy for anyone who likes 
 to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosKindred14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare when it began of GameCube had to rely on the surprise and hilarity of the theme, which 
 worked quite well. Since it was on a controller it wasnt as if the microgames were new, but still 
 amazing in its own respect. This version however, Like it's DS cousin makes the microGames new 
 and completely unforseen. Unlike it's DS cousin though, it causes the Player to go through Carpel 
 Tunnel and Spasms of joy as You learn all the new ways to conort a wrist. The remote and the sudden 
 change of positions force you to think at speeds unthinkable. Multiplayer's party mode, although 
 dangerous, adds to this lovelyness making this a Grade - A game on every level, well, except for 
 depth of storyline... but what ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  The Warioware games have entertained a majority of gamers with its wackiest unusal and unique minigames, 
 and Smooth Moves is no exception. Warioware Smooth Moves is a new addition to the Warioware franchise 
 for the Wii. Using the Wii's motion controllers, Smooth Moves introduces the most fun to play minigames 
 in a funny sensational style.
  
  With hundreds of minigames, Smooth Moves creates just plain fun for everybody. Each set of minigames 
 require a specific way to hold and use the wii remote. Whether the action is fanning, shaving, 
 twirling, etc., the minigames put the controller's motion sensing technology to some of the most 
 enjoyable moments ever to be in a game. And when advancing levels during minigames, they'll get 
 harder and go at a faster pace which keeps the tension and fun going.
  
  The strongest aspect in Smooth Moves is the multiplayer. Up to 12 players with just one wii remote 
 can play in a series of multiplayer challenges of minigames that are just absolutely hilariously 
 wacky and fun! Trust me, Warioware Smooth Moves multiplayer is one of the most craziest enjoyable 
 multiplayer gaming out there.
  
  Overall, Warioware Smoothmoves shows what the Wii truly is: Just having fun with others. Like all 
 Warioware games, Smooth Moves' single player is extremely short once you finish. Also, there weren't 
 many extras to check out like there were in Warioware Touched for the DS. However, to summarize, 
 Warioware is simply fun and entertaining and it's totally worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sper56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a fun game for the whole family to enjoy.... That is if you have a family. 
 In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, some stupid critter stole Wario's doughnuts, which lead him into some 
 Temple. He chased the animal down the hallway until he saw a Stick-thingy that looked awfully a 
 lot like a Wii Remote. Wario picked it up and found that he triggered a booby-trap. He ran back 
 down the hall, away from the HUGE rolling boulder and thats when the game starts. The game makes 
 excellent use of the Wii Mote. You can do severel different poses with the Wii Mote such as The 
 Umbrella, The Handlebar, The Sketch Artist, The Chauffeur, The Samurai, The Tug-of-War, The Waiter, 
 The Elephant, The Thumb Wrestler, The Discard, The Big Cheese, The Janitor, The Dumbbell, The Mohawk, 
 The Finger Food, The Boxer, The Mortar, and The Diner. There are more forms that aren't listed 
 here. It is nice to have another game that uses your Mii's. And with that I will conclude my Review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Is nintendo kidding us... i mean, don't get me wrong, wario and the wiimote are "thee" perfect 
 match, but do we really need yet another minigame-game? The story is short, the minigames last 
 2 seconds, and before you know it, you already beat the game! What is this now like, the third 
 minigame based game for the wii? Give wario a new visual nintendo, not just, the fat ugly micheal 
 jackson of the mario series! Its quite clear how warioware compares to marioparty or raving rabbits... 
 all the minigames are minigames within minigames! Marioparty 8 sells so well because it has a catch! 
 The boards and strong multiplayer allow it for much better gameplay, and raving rabbits has a nice 
 theme... In short, this game is overrated, it is NOT lengthy whatsoever... every mini-minigame 
 is just one after another, no catch, and no theme... Why bother even playing such a boring game... 
 and to all those people who claim that they love this game, i wanna know how many hours have you 
 played it so far? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidimicrobium
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, the game lacks depth. The premise of the game is simple; play a series of simple 
 and truly micro microgames. And that is the greatest organizational element the game offers. Whereas 
 Mario Party links its minigames to a more complex and interesting board game style, WarioWare has 
 nothing but microgames. The multiplayer aspect, which I'd expect to be the main draw to purchasing 
 the game, is actually less enjoyable than the single player. All of the multiplayer games are either 
 unfair (if you go first, you usually have a disadvantage because the game ignores the number of 
 turns you've taken) or arbitrarily incoporate elements of luck into the final outcome (after playing 
 a series of mircrogames to see the winner, why would you want to cut ropes that are threaded through 
 pipes just to increase the randomness of the winner?) . While going through the single player mode 
 can be funny and enjoyable from the short stories, it is generally the same mindless repetitive 
 play. When you don't win a microgame, it's usually because the Wii remote is unresponsive or because 
 there are very limited instructions for the microgames. For many this is not a problem, but for 
 many others you'll find yourself lost in what to do. In one microgame where you're instructed to 
 tap, for instance, how are you supposed to know to turn the Wii remote sideways for it to work 
 in spite of the contradictory instructions given? As a party game, you'd expect the microgames 
 to be easier to figure out, so that any new participant would have a chance to at least beat some 
 of the microgames. Unfortunately, it usually takes 15 minutes for anybody (I've played this with 
 7 different friends of mine now) to start to be able to play.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the greatest problem is the limitations of the Wii remote. The sensor is 
 inaccurate at best (particularly the front and back motion) and usually you end up trying to find 
 the best way for the Wii to understand the action you're taking. Even the simplest task of turning 
 a key in a lock can be made difficult just because of the Wii remote. Of course, this is just one 
 more thing to add to the learning curve that limits its capabilities to truly be an effective party 
 game. 
  
  For graphics and audio, there's nothing special. Actually, both aspects are generally more annoying 
 than attractive. It seems like the graphics could have been implemented on the N64 (I know that 
 they're probably pretty high quality; they just don't look it) , but maybe to give the game a party 
 feel, the game depends on obnoxious bright colors to draw you in. Musically the game is either 
 annoying and/or repetitive at all times. On the positive side, when microgames go faster and get 
 more intense, the music speeds up to match the new pace. This helps increse the tension and drama 
 effectively... but it's nothing particularly impressive. The other plus comes from when you answer 
 the telephone during the telephone microgame; who doesn't want to receive a pizza order through 
 their Wii remote? Overall, both aspects are very weak.
  
  I bought this game expecting that it would be someting my friends and I would play whenever we 
 were bored, but all of these problems stack up pretty fast. Ironically, despite the steep learning 
 curve, the game is very easy. In at most 6 hours of gameplay, I unlocked everything in the game 
 (except all of the poses) . That would be fine if unlocking microgames meant more fun for my friends, 
 but the more microgames you unlock, the more confused they'll get when they never see repeats of 
 simpler microgames. Overall, I would absolutely not recommend this game to anyone but a hardcore 
 fan of WarioWare. I don't see any draw to the game, and I don't think it's worth whatever price 
 you'd be paying. Maybe Mario Party 8 has gone nowhere since the original, but at least there are 
 more-accessible and deeper gameplay elements in that series. If you're picking between the two, 
 go with Mario Party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  finally a good wii game for partys. every time you play wario ware smooth moves you feel stupid. 
 the fun type of stupid. Even tough the game makes you dumber i think dumb is intelligent. The game 
 a majority of new micro-games from classic games to sport games like pulling the wii remote up 
 and down to sprint faster and faster. The game may seem stupid for people 14 or older for my eyes 
 thegame is just one of the greatest. this is Crazy bankai 9 reviewing wario ware smooth moves. 
 by the way if you have more questions with the game contact me at wapll@hotmail. com -crazybankai9 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  First of all, this was the first Wario Ware game I've owned. The gameplay is impossible to generalize 
 as it is so varied. It's basically unpredictable; you have 5 seconds to complete some silly task, 
 then it throws another one at you. It's very fun, whacky, and entertaining. But the game is seriously 
 short. I beat it in less than a week playing 30 minutes at a time. While it lasts it's certainly 
 fun, but it's just too short. There are some nice multiplayer features with Mii support, which 
 is always good, however. There are alot of very fun mini-games you'll want to replay, and those 
 along with the multiplayer are ultimately what keep you coming back long after you've beaten it. 
 My favorite mini-games are the ones based on other Nintendo games, there were nice Zelda, Metroid, 
 and a couple of Mario mini-games.
  
  The graphics, like the gameplay are crazy, and border-line seizure inducing. It's very cartoony, 
 cute, and funny. I loved it, however to many people it will likely come off as weird.
  
  The sound was through and through, OK. It certainly wasn't painful to listen to, but it wasn't 
 what you'd come to expect from something from Nintendo, who have such musical geniouses like Koji 
 Kondo on their hands. The sound-effects were pretty nice, a little better than the soundtrack.
 
  
  There isn't much value here, which is why you should rent it first to see if you'd like to own 
 it. Ultimately, I thought it was worth owning, but you may not. It's very short, and at times easy. 
 Still though, it's undeniably fun and has great multiplayer. You have to decide here.
  
  I liked this game. It's fun. But it is very short, be warned. I reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkearney_913
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The Wii is an interesting machine. While not as gamer-oriented as the 360 and the PS3, it offers 
 a style of interaction virtually unseen and incomparable for the gaming masses. The titles may 
 not be as epic as Halo or Killzone, but an immersive, active gameplay experience more than makes 
 up for it. Which brings me to my review. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a game that stretches not only 
 the uses of the Wii remote to its limits, but the viewing public's imagination at the same time. 
 A game where a boss battle is watching sardines and asparagus, among other things, fall onto a 
 hamburger bun before finally taking that burger yourself, WarioWare is creative at the least. The 
 thing that struck me most about this game (at first glance, I would probably never pick this up) 
 was the tunes playing in the background. With everything from pulse-pounding rock to jazz fusion 
 to crazy disco, the musical backdrop never gets boring. The songs are very infectious too. The 
 gameplay in WarioWare is the next point to touch on. With moves ranging from the Tug-of-War (you 
 place both hands on the remote as if pulling it from the hands of a small child) , to the Mohawk 
 (you place the Wii remote on top of your head, holding it with both hands, as you point it at the 
 sensor) and even the Big Cheese (hold the Wii remote while holding your hands to your hips, described 
 as a tribute to the CEO standing on top of his employees with grace) , the perplexity of the control 
 system is phenomenal, yet it remains addictive and incredibly fun. As you move through haunted 
 castles, dojos, inventing competitions, taxis, ancient temples and, heck, even a kitten-filled 
 disco, you will find yourself wondering, What in hell is this? but in a good way. The only thing 
 I really found bad about this game was how short it was. You move through maybe 10-15 stages of 
 this insanity and it's all over, leaving you wanting so much more. And once you finally unlock 
 the multiplayer function, the games just aren't as fun as you expect. Still, in saying that, the 
 levels are fantastic and you'll find yourself coming back again and again trying to beat your old 
 records. The replay value is through the roof on this one. Either way you look at it, WarioWare 
 is a necessity for the Wii owner. Its smooth sense of style coupled with its infectious gameplay, 
 crazy characters and great sense of humor make it a fantastic experience for everyone to enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fremefreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves, is probably the weridest and wackyest games i have ever played. Picking 
 up the wii remote for the first time and experiencing a game like this was a change from what i 
 liked to play to something like this. This game was a silly creation, but ill admit, i own it and 
 I like it. It is a very short single player, but the multiplayer is one of the funnest things to 
 play on the wii. I beat the game in an hour. I recommend that you rent this if you are alone and 
 dont immediately have some other people to play this with, but if you are in a big family, or if 
 you have lots of friends who are close to you, you should purchase it. Its a good game, but it 
 lacks a longer single player! I gave it an 9.4 because this will make you laugh, but its not as 
 fun if you are by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to break this review down by the 4 main catergories:
  
  GAMEPLAY-10/10: The contorls on this game work like a charm. With the different forms of the form 
 baton (wii remote) being as easily accesable and as simple to switch between as they are, the play 
 of the different sets of minigames is smooth and enjoyable. Also, there are a great number of minigames 
 that use the remote excellently.
  
  GRAPHICS-8/10: Now I know that this game is going for it's own art style and the different types 
 of graphics are what it is going for. However, there is just too much variation (from hand drawn 
 style to 3-d) that changes much too often for my liking. However, the cutscenes, and menus look 
 quite sharp. Very bright and very little aliasing.
  
  SOUND-7/10: The sound is probably the most annoying part of this game. After every minigame you 
 play in the main story, the character you are playing with feels the need to throw in a word or 
 two, followed by the same old cheesy music that plays in the backgroun the entire time. I also 
 think that Nintendo needs to start voicing it's cutscenes.
  
  VALUE-4/10: Let me say this much: the multiplayer in this game is TERRIBLE. Bungie Buddies is the 
 only Multiplayer I play. Instead of offering play with multiple Wiimotes, Nintendo insists on passing 
 the remote around the entire time and when you are playing with more than 4 people, it gets quite 
 annoying having to be constantly aware of who the remote is going to next. Also, the 'story mode' 
 is extremely short.
  
  Overall, Warioware is a fun minigame collection that makes up for what it lacks in replay value 
 with solid contorls, interesting graphics and a host of fun and hilarious positions to watch other 
 people play in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyHeyMyMy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Smooth Moves is one of the best games on the wii, if not the best. It is bursting from 
 the seams with originality, humor, and pure fun. It's not perfect, but what is good about it is 
 so good that any flaws that it has are swept away nearly completely.
  
  Gameplay:
  Warioware consists of a series of levels in which you complete a certain number of 'microgames' 
 which are like 5 second minigames, revolving around one or two actions. They fly at you at immense 
 speed, meaning that you need to quickly figure out waht to do and do it. The game uses the wii 
 controller alone (although there is a bonus stage with nunchuck use) and it tells you how to hold 
 the controller quickly before the microgame, so you might hold it at your hips to allow you to 
 jump a rope, or put it face down on a flat surface so you can pick up a telephone when it rings. 
 The games are all really creative, and more than that, many are hilarious. The humor is one of 
 the best parts of the game, with a weird and sick sense of humor, since certain microgames require 
 you to wack old men who try to steal oranges, or clip a fingernail on a overgrown hand of a tiny 
 child. Alot of other reviews have complained about certain microgames that don't seem to respond 
 when you do the motions, especially ones that involve the 'samurai' position. However, the answer 
 is not that the microgames are actually unresponsive, just that the ways to use the remote, even 
 when the position is defined, are sometimes confusing. I know this because I have learned to master 
 every one so that I can do them all with no trouble. An example would be the microgame where you 
 are required to slap wario to wake him up, many people pulled the remote out and held it horizantal 
 while trying to slap him, and thought it was unresponsive. However, if you think about it, that 
 would mean you weren't slapping him, but judo chopping him in the cheek, so you have to turn it 
 sideways for it to be a slap. And when you do in the game it works. So, while it is a flaw that 
 it doesn't always explain these things, it is not due to unresponsiveness, and with enough play 
 time you can learn the ins and outs of each microgame. There are other times when it can be frustrating 
 however, like when you are required to hold the remote at a certain point in the air so it's level 
 with the sensor bar for a microgame to work.
  
  However, these flaws are overcome in part because of the unlockables that you get when you go through 
 the already great microgame levels. Many are highly original and fun side games, and the very last 
 unlockable side game in particular is quite addicting. Theres also other unlockables like a sound 
 system that allows you to conduct and create music. In addition there is a robust pass and play 
 multilpayer mode, as well as many multiplayer side games that can be unlocked.
  
  Graphics:
  They don't push the hardware, but the graphics are brimming with style. None of the 
 microgames look incredible from a technical perspective, but they don't really need to be, since 
 each game lasts only 5 seconds. Some are deliberately simple, but many have some complex and beautiful 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: This is one of the games high points, the sound effects feel like they are perfectly cartoonish 
 and humorous. The music in particular is quite catchy, and some tunes are even dance worthy. The 
 only flaw is a lack of voice acting in the opening cutscenes, although there are limited character 
 outbursts in the game itself. Value:
  This is where the game has been criticized heavily by many critics and players. However, it's my 
 belief that this criticism is not justified. Many people, upon making it through all the microgame 
 levels, view the game as 'done', which only takes a few hours. However, beating the microgame levels, 
 despite the 'credits' at the end, isn't really the game. In fact, I think of it as more of a tutorial, 
 since it's only at the end that you actually use all the different forms available to you. Once 
 those games are completed you still won't have unlocked all the microgames, and you will have only 
 unlocked a few of the unlockable single and multiplayer modes. And unlocking all that content, 
 of which there is a huge amount, is the real game, and will last you many hours. Then, playing 
 all the side games, which are all addicting and fun, and trying out the different modes you unlocked, 
 like the workout 'kelerometer' mode, which is particularly fun, will take you even more hours. 
 So yes, if your only goal is to get to the 'credits' you won't get much out of htis game, but if 
 you want to unlock all the brilliant content and just play the game every now and then your going 
 to get hours and hours of content out of it.
  
  Tilt:
  I gave it a 10 on tilt because it has so much humor and style. Little touches like the deadpan 
 voice explaining the different positions to you in a humourous matter, or the 'let's pose!' moments 
 after each level that make you take up a pose to get flowers to bloom just fill out a game that 
 is so stylish it's unimaginable to anyone who hasn't played it.
  
  Overall:
  I give it a 9 out of 10, because, frankly, unless you hate random fun, you will probably love this 
 game. Maybe this game was just made for me, as I can see alot of reviews lower than this, but Warioware: 
 Smooth Moves is in my opinion one of the finest games of this new generation, and the best game 
 on the wii, because it uses the wii remote as no other game has been able to replicate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great amount of mini games and great variety, highly responsive use of the remote and 
 lots of ways to use it, great animations
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer has to be unlocked, multiplayer involves passing the remote, over quite quickly, 
 small amount of mini games that are ridiculously hard and sometimes feel broken or unclear in what 
 you need to do.
  
  In this game you go through little stages where you play through mini game after mini game in quick 
 concession, there is around 10 stages to play through, each adding a different way to use the remote, 
 for example, the umberella where you have to hold the remote vertically, the elephant where you 
 have to hold the remote to your nose (and look like a complete idiot in the process) and many more. 
 As you play through you will repeat a few mini games, but these mini games are often over in less 
 than 2-3 seconds (yes its that fast!) , but no mini games feel to be the same (in other words, just 
 put their to add quantity) , there is a great variety of mini games, for example, you go from holding 
 the remote to you waist and doing the hula hoop movement, to the sketch artist where you have to 
 just write anything on a peice of paper before the time runs out.
  
  The remote is highly responsive and if you use it the wrong way it doesnt work (unlike alot of 
 other games out of there) . As ive said theres lots of different ways you have to use the remote, 
 making the game alot more fun.
  
  Although there is no voice acting in this game, it feels better without it, the animations are 
 great and look really good, alot of the videos are quite funny and are quite fun to watch.
  
  The major flaw to this game is definitely the multiplayer element, firstly you have to unlock 
 multiplayer, which requires you to get almost to the end of the game, which can take sometime, 
 so if your looking for a game where you can just jump in with your friends, unless you want to 
 take turns with the remote or try beat each others best score, this isnt a great game to go for. 
 When you have unlocked multiplayer mode, there are 6 games to play, all requiring just one remote 
 (and in one game type the nun chuck too) , this is a shame as it just feels like your trying to 
 beat the other persons best most of the time and you dont really feel your at competition with 
 them whilst playing, there is one where you have to take turns whilst running and at the end the 
 person who did best has 3 ropes holding them up, and the other has 2, but this doesnt really make 
 sense as its pretty random so if you did alot better than the other guy you can still lose.
  
  Although there is over 200 mini games theres only around 10 stages, you can go back to previous 
 stages to see how far you can get without dying but sadly it would have been better to see a few 
 more stages.
  
  Finally, there is a very small amount of mini games that can be a pain, the main one that springs 
 to mind is the boss stage in The Dog and Cat stage (cant remember their names) , i had alot of problems 
 passing this, the first part wasnt bad but the shooting from the nose didnt work at times. Theres 
 also a small amount of mini games where its unclear in how you are supposed to move the remote 
 to succeed, for example, the catch the beat mini game and straighten the papers mini game, but 
 overall, this is a very small amount and doesnt really spoil the game
  
  So in conclusion, this is a great by, especially for someone with just one wii remote, your pretty 
 much guaranteed to have at least 2 hours of pure fun with this game
  
  Please Note: The learning curve is set to 1 to 2 hours because thats roughly how long it takes 
 to discover all the remote actions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Wario is Normally Known for being the Anti Mario.. Everything Mario is but more extreme.. same 
 with Waluigi.. But Wario does have anotehr series.. Much Like Yoshi and DK they are in Mario Series 
 but they also have games on there own.. Wario Has his New Series Called Wario ware the debuted 
 on the GBA.. now after Trips to the Gamecube, Nintendo DS, and Gameboy Advanced agian.. he makes 
 his Debute on the Wii with all new Motion Sensor Controls..
  
  For those who are new to the series Wario ware the games are.. Small Micro Games that makes you 
 complete small task in seconds.. like Picking Your nose or Classic Game Tribute..
  
  This Time Wario Takes his Micro Games to the Wii.. It uses the Wii funcutions very well.. Its another 
 one of those games that gets you used to the Wii's Controls.. Now to the Game.. Wario's Stories 
 actually Nintendo's Storys have been outright Crappy.. this game does not break the mold.. There 
 is a Ancient form Batton that Wario Steals.. The story means nothing to the game.. Each charcter 
 has there own micro story.. like 9 Volt and 18 Volt.. 9 Volt is playing a Game and Watch and 18 
 Destorys it and he is trying to get a new one for his buddy.. The micro games sometimes work and 
 sometimes fail.. Some games the wii remote has no trouble picking up the Movements.. However that 
 is not always the case.. Sometimes you will lose not because you did the game wrong but the Wii 
 could not pick it up.. some games can get down right frusterating cause it won't pick it up.. Now 
 the are def. more games that work flawlessly then the ones that have trouble rest asure..
  
  Overall: The game is very fun and is a great party game but the game does not last too long.. 
 on afternoon you should get everything the game has to offer.. but if you want to play every game 
 it will take more time.. needless to say this game is hard to describe because this game is very 
 good but with some mico games having trouble picking up the motions can really mess you up if you 
 trying to play this game
  
  Breakdown:
  Gameplay: Meh.. its Micro games if you like Fart Jokes and Previous Games in the series this game 
 will be very enjoyable
  Graphics: Hard agian.. some of the graphics look like Poo.. however the game does have a nice artistic 
 style and some of the games look really good
  Sound: Some Catchy toons and soud effects are good
  Value: If you like the game the value will 
 skyrocket cause this game you can play over and over agian. but if you don't this game will only 
 last you a single day
  Overall: I love these series even though this one had some wii Flaws if you say it still gets you 
 better equanted with the controls.. Also the things you do with a remote are very Creative and 
 is meant for you to look stupid.. for an example The Elephant, Big Cheese, and Mohawk def. makes 
 you look mildy retared while playing Wario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterpunk5431
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  a great party game and has great use of the wii remote. if you aren't so fast at moving your hands 
 this game might not be for you. It is very short, it only took me about an hour to finish it. And 
 some of the micro games are very random and will make you laugh very hard at its randomness. oh, 
 yes this game also makes you look like a total goof. and last of all you should rent this game 
 if you aren't sure you will like it. it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun it is fun!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game uses the wiimote alot and its soooo fun! Why? Find out in my review!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  It's so fun! There's these really short games called microgames , which probably 
 last for at least only 5 to 10 seconds! You have to peform a different action in each microgame 
 like driving a car (I think I liked that microgame the most) or even fishing in Animal Crossing! 
 It's cool in multiplayer, too!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  They're all pretty funny, and the graphics aren't too bad!
  
  Sound (9/10) -
  Some of the 
 noises are actually pretty funny!
  
  Value (10/10) -
  Worth all your money!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) -
  Very nice game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (9/10) -
  This game is really 
 fun! So if you have the Wii, I 100% recommend this game, so get it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameBoy911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a very awesome game. Even though the graphics may not be the greatest 
 the gameplay is great with very creative mini-games and a humor-filled storyline. The only bad 
 thing is how fast the storymode gameplay is, with how fast the minigames change. Also, it has a 
 very short story. This game is great for all ages and I highly recommend it if you like party games. 
 Another great thing is that in multiplayer you can use your Miis instead of a Nintendo character. 
 The only bad thing about multiplayer is that you only use 1 controller and have to pass it around. 
 If you like the Mario Party games, get it. If you don't like the Mario Party games, get it. Get 
 it! Get it! Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  This is the fourth installment of the wacky Wario Ware series, each getting more insane and revolutionary 
 than the other. The series had you smashing buttons, slicing the DS's touch screen, to shaking 
 the GBA. Now its the Wii's turn.
  
  This game is fun, but gets boring after the first few days. Some mini games (oops I mean MICRO 
 games) use the controller in addictive manner, such as placing the Wii-remote on your palm and 
 letting blocks fall on it. You can cheat some of the micro games by exploiting the control theme, 
 like you don't really have to do all this. I recomend you don't do that, because it simply kills 
 the joy of the game.
  
  The graphics aren't important in this game, but they are nice animations, and I have no complaints. 
 The sound on the other hand, has the same annoying character scores and annoying poppy music. I 
 listen to a CD while playing this game. Don't forget to turn up the volume on your Wii-remote though!
 
  
  All in all, a nice addition to anybodys Wii collection. Although this game goes way to fast (you'll 
 have it completed in an hour , or mabey less) I still say buy this game, its defenliy one of those 
 games you'll pop in after a year or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicinkee
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is all about little microgames, which are really fun. Too bad the shorter they are, the 
 shorter the game is. The gameplay itself is excellent!!!!! Of course, it takes full advantage of 
 the wii remote, used in the 200 microgames or so. You blast through story mode in some extremely 
 fun microgames. After beating them, you will unlock some other stuff like minigames (more than 4 
 seconds) and other modes. All boss battles are minigames as well. But, after beating story mode, 
 all thats really left is to play back old story mode missions and unlock all minigames, thats pretty 
 much the game. Besides, going back and playing the minigames again, and getting a hi-score, thats 
 pretty much all there is to it. The graphics are great as well, and while some minigames look like 
 crap, they are ment to and seem kinda right with the microgame. Like GS said, each microgame has 
 its own music, which is a nice touch. I haven't played multiplayer though, but no matter how good 
 it is I don't think anything could extend this short but fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milanikam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Usually when I pop onto the Gamespot website and head over to the Wii section to find some reviews, 
 I'm relieved and excited to see a 9.1 . But for this review I'm only forced to question Jeff Gerstmann's 
 taste, and I'm almost forced to question advantage of using Gamespot over IGN.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I don't hate this game. In fact, I have a great time playing it with my friends 
 and family. It's zaney mini-games and great use of the wii-mote can leave me entertained for around 
 30 minutes alone and about up to an hour with friends. So, it's not a particularly valuable game, 
 as I will most likely stop playing completely once I get Metroid or Mario Galaxy, but until then 
 I'll be playing with a couple friends about once a week. If you've ever played a Warioware game 
 you know what to expect. Just imagine switching from the DS' touch innovation to the Wii's wii-mote 
 innovation, and buying this game becomes useless. Stick to your DS. I wish I hadn't payed $50 for 
 something I could play for $20. It just seems way more appropriate for a handheld, especially due 
 to it's short storyline and occansional repetition.
  
  At most, I would rent this game. Buy the Twilight Princess instead. WIth it's beautiful graphics, 
 and integrated motion sensing control, slashing your hand like a sword through the bodies of oncoming 
 foes and moving your hand to get a head shot with your bow on a far-away pig-faced enemy may be 
 just as fun and rewarding as usng an elephant trunk to carry apples from a tree to a basket, or 
 unsheathing a katana to kut some wooden barrel, but 40-hours of action-adventure gameplay compared 
 to less than 10-hours of zaney mini-games kind of speaks for itself. Rent it, then give it back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is fun for the very first 1-3 hrs. but after you play all the minigames 
 it gets boring. If you are throwing a party then the game is a ton of fun. but if you are throwing 
 a party rent it. And then play it only at the party.
  The graphics are terrible. They look like spongebob graphics. After each 4 second game you hear 
 a short sound that sounds like a dieing cow. The game is 50 BUCKS. That is the biggest waste of 
 money ever. Its only worth like 20 bucks. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is an overall boring waste of 
 money that doesent deserve a very good rating. Dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves
  
  This game is weard... really weard. But it's GREAT!
  There is not really a story mode. It's only a little scenario for each caraters that you have to 
 finish to unlock new stuffs.
  More you play, more you'll have new controls to do (remote control, the umbrella, the tunb-of-war, etc.) . 
 I really liked the mini-games even if I don't understand what I have to do for some of them. More 
 you play, more it will be difficult and weard. The little voice when you ern a new move is really 
 funny!
  
  The graphics were really good (I really like the cartoon 2-D graphic) . The sounds were good. I 
 don't think you should buy it. Go rent it but buy it only if you really like the game and that 
 you unlocked the multiplayer mode.
  
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the new 200 plus microgames, they use all the wii motes controls 
 and goes very well. The graphics are good, with a nice feel to it and a good fit for the wario 
 ware series. There is some signs of humor in this game, which nintendo does a good job of doing. 
 The wii-mote controls you learn are really nice and some of them are a unique style to use the 
 wii mote. The multiplayer is really good, which i think makes this game really good, in the multiplayer, 
 you can face-off in a couple modes, and the one where your flying with angel wings is a good sign 
 of humor. The characters from the past wario ware series is making a comeback and their story is 
 the same thing. The boss battles are really good and a really good challenge. The 4 elephant towers 
 are really good, those are the challenge of he game, you got a normal mode, a fast mode, a sudden 
 death (one try) mode, and a mode that tells you what wii mote control to use. The bad parts of 
 this game is the microgames are really micro , they only last maybe about 5 seconds, and when they 
 get to fast mode, they feel like they only last maybe 2 seconds. You still got the same gameplay, 
 4 tries and if you lose you fail, then try again, until you get it done, i sense a little repetitive 
 thing going on here. the minigames you get (like the one where you bounce the ping-pong ball in 
 the tower) are not that good. Overall, this game is ok, but i think mario party 8 is better even 
 though this game people think is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  most games are either two things: funny, or not funny. this is the sort of game that smashes through 
 the funny barrier, and then some.
  
  a game that has over 200 microgames can't be anything other than brilliant can it? well the thing 
 that makes this one so much better than the other ones is it's fantastic control system. we have 
 seen other warioware on the ds, the gamecube and the gba, but it feels so much better on wii thanks 
 to the great controls.
  
  the microgames themselves are very unique and can be anything from zipping up a panda suit, to 
 pumping a balloon or even picking a nose. the game is funny as well, very funny actually. whether 
 it's wario's strange sense of humour, the guy who describes the form layouts or even the games 
 themselves, you can help but laugh sometimes.
  
  the game has great value with it's main storyline, the multiplayer modes, the minigames, the extra 
 stuff to do, highscores to get and the temple of form which lets you play any microgame you want 
 through 3 different levels.
  
  this is a game that every wii owner should have. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  I'm not a party game fan, but Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is amazing because it has a micro-game for 
 just about everything you can do with your wii-mote!
  
  Story : 7 - entertaining but fragmented
  As the theme of the game entails, there really isn't 
 much of a story, just micro-tidbits of a story. However, all of the charicters are adorible and 
 loveable. So much so that you want to play through the micro-games just to hear the end of there 
 tail.
  
  Gameplay: 10 - a true Wii exersize!
  As I said above, all of the micro-games in WW: SM are entire wii games in themselves waiting to 
 be developed! From shooters to samurais to racing to platformers to sims! you name it, wario ware 
 gives you a small taste (an apatizer really) of what the new games are potientially available for 
 the Wii to come!
  
  Graphics: 8 - Flash games
  The graphics look like they where made with an Adobe flash creator on steroids. Nothing too fancy, 
 but since you only really see each game for 3-8 seconds (minus boss fights) you don't need fancy!
 
  
  Controls: 10 - amazing
  Simply put, everything responds as it should in every micro-game i've played
  
  Multiplayer: 
 7 - small glitch kills
  I don't know about everyone else, but as soon as WW: SM boots up, I loose my 2nd-4th players. I 
 can not under any circumstances get the 2nd-4th remotes to synch when Wario Ware is running, but 
 as soon as I exit they run. Other then that, multi-player is truly the kind of game you want to 
 play at a part, drunk or sober! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashblast23
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is one of Nintendo's (and Wario's) most successful franchises. And it returns, with the 
 next installment to the series called WarioWare: Smooth Moves . Gameplay: Just like the previous 
 games, you do little crazy and weird Microgames. But this time, you use the Wii-Remote (or the 
 Form Baton ) . The use of the Wii-Remote is very different. There are different Form's to use in 
 order to win a Microgame. You put the remote on your: Nose, Head, Palm, Hip, and hand. This is 
 why the Wii goes great with WarioWare
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game are really beautiful. There in 2-D like in the other games 
 but this time there smooth and colorful.
  
  Story: The story is like any WarioWare story: Weird &amp; Funny. Each host has a different Microgame, 
 like Volt-9's games are all about Classic Nintendo. The only problem is the story is short. You 
 can finish in 2-4 hours.
  
  Worth it?: Yes, I recommend you get this game if your a big WarioWare or Wii fan. It should fit 
 anyone's Wii collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist19
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Wario ware is a great game for those new Wii owners wanting to see what their Wii can do. In the 
 beginning it is very fun because you will not be able to play all the mini-games right away so 
 their is some replay value because you will want to play it over and over until you got all the 
 games. Once you've earned all the games their isn't much else to go for. Like in the original wario 
 for the gameboy advance their are some small games you can play like pyoro where you use your tongue 
 to catch flies. The main game also feels kinda short and the posing can get annoying after awhile. 
 Other than that this game can be very fun, especially when you have friends watching as you stick 
 the wiimote on your nose to catch an apple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameslang
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Bundle a variety of micogames easier than Tic  Tac  Toe, give the player a few seconds for finishing 
 each and you have WarioWare : Smooth Moves.
  
  While the bad thing about this game is the short storyline it may be good as the unlockable features 
 give you great bang for your buck. Excellent variety of games and uses of the wiiMote which may 
 be a  preview  as to what Nintendo has up their sleeve for future games / interaction. The single 
 player is fun but is a laugh playing with a group. The multiplayer may not be simultaneous ( like 
 Mario Party 8 ) and hear it is tricky to pass the wiiMote, wear the wrist strap and ready for the 
 next game.
  
  Graphics range from poor to great however it works well with the games unpredictable flow.
  
 
  Learning the wiiMotes uses may be a bit confusing at first ( because you are  thrown  into the 
 games ) but with a little practice youll get the hang of it. If you really get stuck with a microgame 
 you have the ability practice it in the  training room . If you are looking for quick addictive 
 fun to burn away a few minutes / a night with the gang then youll really enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  A insane game. Its various games fragments and some other minigames to play. It is cool play with 
 friends, make them dance, or do some other things. Wario ware have an story mode, wich you will play 
 with each wario ware gc character and some new wii characters. The bad is you have to play with 
 your friends only in one wii remote (or like the game says, baton form ) .
  And each minigames will be separated into various forms, like play it horizontally, vertically, samurai 
 ,with nunckuck, etc.
  It is funny to see the introduction they make for each form.
  In the game you will see some insane minigames, like a guy drinks something and gera hair and beard, you 
 push a guy and a cat eat him, hou have to dance and much more of those nonsense crazy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangecharles
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Warios done it again. For the forth time Wario has made a fast, fun and adictive game. With over 
 200 fast five second microgames you'll have to stay sharp. This time they have added a new way 
 to play the microgames. Before each microgame a card flashes that shows you how to hold the Wii 
 remote.
  The game starts out with Wario eating some snacks, but this strange alien thing steals them. Wario 
 angerly chases it into an old temple were he finds a stick that oddly looks like a Wii remote called 
 a Form Baton . It's not that hard to figure out the different ways to hold the form baton but when 
 a new way to hold it appears, it dose a little talk through on the way to hold it.
  You will pretty much finish the game in two or three days or so but the replay valu is awesome. 
 The problem is, you can pick a certain microgame and play just it, but you only play through the 
 three levels. You can't keep on going untill you lose your four lives.
  Back to the ways you hold the Wii re... I mean the form baton. Sometimes the way you move the form 
 baton dosent always work, so you have to keep on trying that game utill you get it right. Over 
 all it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyforkittens
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The games are very fun and all, but eventually it gets boring. The art is fun and cute though. 
 It does have very creative features and makes good use of the wiimote. I'm not not saying it's 
 the best, but overall not a bad game at all. You don't need to be a genius to figure out this game, 
 which makes it fun. The worst thing that can happen is if you get EXTREMELY bored with it, or if 
 you get stuck on some mini game that seems impossiblt to do. I would recommend renting the game 
 first just to see how much you would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  This Wario game is actually not as good as I thought it would be. It was fun dont get me wrong, 
 but this game was way too easy. I went out and got it think it would be a bit longer a little more 
 challanging. But, I beat it in two days. On the good side there are a few more different game modes 
 then just the story . And there is a very wide variaty of fun games. But there should be some more 
 of them.
  
  And there is also a multiplayer which only has about five game and they aren't really Wario related. 
 So I don't like it that much.
  
  I would rent this game, but I don't know if I'd get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hfm_brian
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  the game is fun for around half an hour, gets boring after that, i purchased it as an addition 
 to my collection because it was like $50AU and with the ratings everyone gave it, i thought why 
 not, but yeah, really boring fast. has some good humour added to it. my girlfriend who is a beginner 
 loved it and thought it was challenging and everything, so i guess it depends on your depth of 
 gaming. although the game shows you all that the wiimote can do, it is just really repetitive, 
 the mini games are cool, but the actual storyline is non existant. i finished the game withing 
 2hours. havent touched it since. i dont think it was even worth the $50. but do think it is worth 
 it if yourve just purchased your wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware games have been some of my favorite games in the past. I liked the ones for the Gameboy 
 and Gamecube and absolutely love Wario Ware Touched.
  
  THE GOOD: Nice multiplayer, Quick simple game-play thats easy , Okay graphics and sound, Its funny. 
 12 players can play with one wii mote. THE BAD: Quick simple game-play thats good for kids bad 
 for teenagers, No matter how many names they give you for how to hold the remote its all the same (Pointer, 
 Umbrella, DRIVING) , Some mini-games' controls are flawed, $50
  
  Overall: I would never pay $50 for this game mabe when this game goes on sale in a couple of years. 
 The short game-play is fun for the DS not for a console still not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  For anyone that's played earlier games in the series, you have no excuse. This is a fantastic game 
 in the library and deserves to be a fixture in Wii owners' libraries just as much as the amount 
 of people that bought Zelda with their Wiis. You can stop reading now if you're a fan of the series, 
 because this game is worth the money.
  
  For those that aren't, feel free to keep reading.
  
  Smooth Moves is the latest entry into 
 the WarioWare franchise, which started with the insane GBA original. Those that wanted a bit more 
 multiplayer with the GBA had the ability to score a copy of Mega Party Game$ on the Nintendo GameCube. 
 The GC edition didn't break much ground in the sense of new features, but mostly it was a version 
 of the original game for people who didn't have a GBA or wanted to share the GBA originals' experience.
 
  
  From there came WarioWare Twisted! on the GBA, which featured a neat gyro that helped become a 
 strong focus to its series of microgames. This version is sadly the only one I haven't played, 
 as it had been ultra-rare since its release, and is touted as a very quality release for the handheld.
 
  
  Next came the DS edition with WarioWare: Touched! This game managed to employ nearly every hardware 
 feature the DS handheld provides, with heavy emphasis on the touch screen usage. It did a lot of 
 new things, but it didn't seem to have that sense of zany, over-the-top action that the GBA titles 
 had.
  
  It now seems that Wario is back to form with his edition for the Nintendo Wii. Or should I say, 
 twenty forms... because that's how many are noted to be in this game. Most center around the Wii 
 remote and various ways of holding it (or even, not holding it) . Some may argue that the form pose 
 display before a microgame starts is a bit of a spoiler, and ruins the randomness that made the 
 original games so much fun. But even with this, you're still left guessing as there are many games 
 that use the same forms - around 200 in all.
  
  Graphics in general have never been WarioWare's strong point. The reason for the high rating is 
 that compared to the other games in the franchise, it is still one of the best looking games yet, 
 and is actually pretty good for Nintendo Wii standards. The presentation during games and fun audio 
 are what make the game much more engaging, and allow the time to pass by.
  
  As far as controls go, WarioWare: smooth moves in general is one game for the Wii that makes some 
 of the best usage of the motion-sensing capabilities of the Wii remote. There are understandably 
 some games that will take some practice in trying to find out *how* said form is to come into play, 
 but once that comes to you, you'll be mastering games in no time.
  
  If you still have your doubts, it is at least a guaranteed solid rental. And the fun intensifies 
 when you bring your friends along to play and share in the antics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Wario Ware Smooth Moves is possibly the best Wii release as far as making the best use 
 of the Wii remote (and even the nunchuk) . Story mode ends very quickly, but the addition of multiplayer 
 is great. There are tons of crazy mingames in story mode, plus a few games in and of themselves 
 that you can't get sick of playing. Graphics The graphics are exactly what they need to be for 
 Wario Ware. Great cartoon models... plus some surprisingly solid computer animations show up in 
 random minigames. Overall, impressive.
  Sound The music to this game is fantastic! It's the regular party atmosphere, and believe it or 
 not you get caught up in the game much quicker. Value As previously stated, a short story mode, 
 but tons of other games, plus multiplayer adds tons of value.
  
  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves - 9.0 - 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is an innovative, fun game that reminds people that graphics arent everything, it 
 is a perfect example of how gaming used to be. Its a fun addictive game that wiil make you late 
 for something, whenever my friends come over we have to wrestle just to see whose going to play 
 next. This is a game that is definitely worth your time it is a good buy and highly addictive. After 
 you buy it you wont even want to turn off your Wii. This game takes good advantage of the Wii Remotes 
 high potential and can easily become a classic. This game is definitely worth $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemyxDanceWater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great game to play with other people. Of course, in the beginning 
 you can only play single games. You can switch the Wii remote around and let everyone get a try.
 
  
  In my opinion, this game would not be worth $50 (how much I paid) . The graphics are OK, just OK, 
 but there's really no point in the game. I would recommend the prices to be around 20-30 dollars. 
 As I said before, there is no real point or plot in the game. The reason why I enjoy this game 
 is because of the minigames, which you can play again and make them harder. This is my very first 
 real Wii game, I only have Wii Sports and Wii Play. I would recommend this game as a first one 
 too, because it teaches you how to use the remote better. Some parts of the game are hard, but 
 you just have to practice.
  
  This game took my friends and I about 2 1/2 hours to beat it, so it might bore you quickly. It 
 is addicting, and you can go back to all the minigames you liked.
  
  I would say kids around the ages of 8-adult would enjoy it most because it's quick, it's fun, and 
 it's crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  well... honestly i don't have that much to say about this game. it has probably the best gameplay 
 the wii has seen so far. perform insanely pluzzes with the wii mote motion-sensing. throw a party 
 and keep this game as top priority because once your friends play this game they'll want to keep 
 playing. The graphics are a little edgey but they're so simple that you don't even notice. This 
 game will keep you out of your seats for maybe an hour or two then you'll decide that i had enough 
 lets give it a break and maybe start back up the next day or later on. sound isn't really that 
 great but it sure fits the mood of the game which is a great thing. Overall this game is a must 
 get for you wii collection. great use of the wii and you take full advantage of the wii's purpose 
 (motion sensing) . This game is fun for a long time and is fun laughing with and or at your friends 
 making themselves look like idiots... good times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky-22
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this is one stupid game
  i beat it in an hr
  there's nothing fun about any of the minigames
  they're all too easy
  doesn't seem like a hard 
 game to make at all
  graphics are ugly
  can't even think it's fun even while drunk
  total failure for a game
  it's so overrated and sad, it deserves to be on larry king live to 
 shed it's feelings
  or oprah
  i need 100 words to write a review on how horrible it is
  waste of time
  boring game
  no replay value
  this series should be killed faster than sega
 
  
  to waste the 100 word limit i shall say blah until i reach 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying, what were they smoking? The pure stupidity of the game makes you laugh 
 and chuckle while swinging the remote around. The mini-games... well, more like micro-games considering 
 they last about 5 seconds at most are pretty fun and really show off the capabilities of the Wii. 
 However, the main game is rather lacking in replay value, though i do love the can shooting game...
 
  
  One of the only complaints I have is that the games don't come with instructions on what to do. 
 You sort of have to guess at what motion to perform. However, most of the games are very intuitive. 
 Performing the natural motion with the Wii controller will usually end up in success.
  
  Where this game really shines is the multiplayer. The fast paced insanity combined with some wickedly 
 fun games kept me, my brothers, and some friends entertained for hours. We were laughing so hard 
 we could barely play the game. If you have some friends that like fast paced stupid fun, this is 
 the game for you. A definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  You have to have an opened mind to play this game the main objective is just to complete as much 
 mini games as possible in the allowed time. It's a very short game I beat it in about a half an 
 hour. But this game was designed for a party of people. The humor's pretty good especially the 
 voice that explains to you the different positions you have to hold the wiimote. As with every 
 wario game the graphics aren't mind blowing there simple bright colors and each stage you complete 
 the characters have there own story. They are all animated pretty well and it's kinda funny watching 
 these characters dance and fight . All an all this game is fun But I wouldn't recommend buying 
 it's more of a rental then a buy. This game gets a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Warioware smooth moves has a not-so-good-single-player. But this game was not made for some nerd 
 to sit in is room and play it ALL day. This was meant for someone with lots of friends or someone 
 with too much energy. It is a fun game when yo0u earn multiplayer and it is very fun to jump around 
 and swing that wii mote'. The games are also really funny. The overrall game itself is really funny. 
 The graphics are new and typical warioware graphics. If you want a fun multiplayer game. This is 
 for you. If you like long games. Don't buy this....... Instead.... Go buy A PS2 AND GET Final Fantasy 
 X! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what it'd be like to play a party game with mini games that last five seconds? Wouldn't 
 that sound like an awkward idea to you? Party games are fun but parties would be way too short 
 in those games then. Well, what if they make you do crazy things like jump or hula hoop? Wario 
 Ware: Smooth Moves shows you what it feels like.
  
  Wario Ware's story is a pretty silly one to be exact. It's all based on the Form Baton which is 
 the Wii Remote. It's getting silly already. When Wario finds it, he finds out it helps him do anything. 
 So he lends it to other people to use so you're playing a new character after each stage using 
 the Form Baton to help them.
  
  Wario Ware is made up of 200 MICRO games. Yep, they call them micro. Why? They are micro. They 
 last for only like five seconds. So the game is often fast paced. Each of the mini games make you 
 perform some Smooth Moves. Get it? lol Anyway, each of games make awesome use of the Wii Remote. 
 One mini game would be making you hold your Wii Remote to your nose and use it like an Elephant's 
 nose to collect fruit. You're probably like, I ain't doing that! but you'll enjoy it. Overall, 
 you'll love, love the mini games. In each stage, you keep on playing games until you get to the 
 Boss Stage and finish it up. If you lose four times, you lose.
  
  The graphics style is not the best idea. The Wii is much more capable. Why didn't Intelligent System 
 just create 3-D graphics? The Wii can do better then this. The 3-D graphics aren't so good too 
 in some of the games. They have been ripped directly from the game they came from. Which uh, shows 
 some laziness. Sound is nothing special. It's really nice as it fits the game well. Some of it 
 is really funny. The effects are nice too. But wait! A party game that only supports one player? 
 No fret! There is still multiplayer! You just take turns playing using one Wii Remote. Though, 
 there isn't much to do once you complete story mode. But multiplayer helps boost the replay value. 
 Overall, this game is an excellent game. Now let's see you do some Smooth Moves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The 4th installment in the Warioware series (5 if you include the Gamecube Version of MicroGame$) 
 is here on the Wii, and the wacky fast paced mini-game action is still a lot of fun.
  
  Wario stumbles upon the Wii-Mote, which is an ancient articfact in this game, while exploring the 
 inside of a temple, and in Indiana Jones fashion he escapes with the Wii-mote which is called the 
 form baton in this game. After getting a taste of what the game is like by completing the first 
 10 three second mini games your screen will be on a city map of Diamond City with different characters 
 who all have their own unique minigames to play. As you progress through the game you will hold 
 the form baton in different ways. One form is called the mohawk, where you must hold the baton 
 over your head with the sensor facing the screen. The elephant form has you using the wii-mote 
 as an extra nose or trunk. The dumbell form has you hold the wii-mote like a dumbell to complete 
 the minigame. You can try and be a kill joy by ignoring the way you should hold the form baton, 
 but it actually makes the mini games very difficult and uninteresting to play. Each character has 
 about 25-30 something mini games or more, including a boss mini game. The boss mini games are a 
 little longer than every other minigame. 9-Volt's boss stage is a emulation from a stage in the 
 Star Fox classic for the Super Nintendo where. You must hold the wii-mote horizontally and become 
 Fox McCloud himself. The game makes great use of the wii-mote. There is also a two player mode. 
 Don't be sad if you haven't bought Wii-Play yet to get that extra Wii-mote. All you need is one 
 remote to play Warioware's multiplayer. Each player takes turns. The first person to fail at completing 
 their mini-game loses. It's not fantastic fun admittedly, but having it tacked on doesn't hurt 
 at all. Warioware also has a decent amount of unlockables. The handheld versions are known for 
 having a lot of useless unlockables, but the unlockables on Smooth Moves are rewarding, though 
 there probably aren't enough of them.
  
  Warioware is a 2D game but it's still very good looking. Afterall the Wii is a 6th generation console. 
 We can expect at least 2D games to look good and crisp right? Yes, we can. The game is packed with 
 lots of colors and nicely done animated cutscenes. The music in Smooth Moves is very wacky and 
 entertaining. A lot of the sound effects sound similar to their handheld brothers, but are very 
 clean. For some reason this Warioware didn't have me coming back for as much as the others did. 
 The campaign is very short. You can complete it in one sitting, and once you've beaten and unlocked 
 every mini-game it's just not as much fun the next few times around. Smooth Moves probably isn't 
 the best entry in the series, but the game makes great use of the Wii hardware and is still a lot 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  If you like the wii you must be under 12 cause it's childish. So is this game. It's for babies, 
 face it. If you have a 360 or a ps3 you know what realism is and what a game does with you. The 
 wii is just plain fun, it's not a revolution. Wario Ware is just another nintendo game and has 
 nothing new in it. This entry in the Wario Ware series is total carp. It could only be made by 
 Nintendo. When Wario stumbles upon a strange device called a Form Baton, he and his friends use 
 it to learn new moves that are as fun as they are childish. Under Warios tutelage, and with the 
 help of the Wii Remote, players will not expierence something new in game developing. WarioWare: 
 Smooth Moves isnt the game your looking for. If you have a Wii, throw it away and buy a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdelima
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves at a 9.1/ 10 is currently the highest ranking Nintendo Wii game on Gamespot. 
 I picked up my copy on the way home from school one day and popped it the moment I got home. The 
 game was advertised to have over 200 mini-games and this alone seemed as if it would add some massive 
 replay value to the game. The mini-games are more-so micro-games being the longest of the 200+ 
 games last about 5 seconds in length. So at first I thought it would take more than a couple hours 
 to discover all 200 games in the game, as any sane gamer would... Well, let's say all games, even 
 though they aren't, last the maximum of about 5 seconds, (Bustin' out the T. I. 83) that's about 
 16- oh heck I'll round up- 17 min. of games. Each game has three levels of difficulty (easy, medium, 
 and hard) so thats about 51 min. of games and thats the whole game. Less than an hour and I was 
 being generous with my calculator. Another flaw with WarioWare: Smooth Moves is that the Wii-Mote 
 has some major reading issues that get annoying fast. The Wii just doesn't pick up your Wii-Mote's 
 motions. The game can be fun if you have the right friends, but in the end is a major disappointment 
 do to Wii-Mote issues and lack of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  WarioWare has been around since 2003 with the release of Mega Microgame$ for the Gameboy Advance. 
 What has WarioWare done to refresh the format of the game then? Not much - the main difference 
 here really is the use of the remote.
  
  The object of the game is to basically work your way through a bunch of wacky mini-games using 
 the remote in various different ways: just pointing it at the screen, holding it by your side, 
 holding it above your head... you get the idea. You then perform these poses and complete a certain 
 mini-game, while the game is slowly speeding up and making it trickier for you. However, the single 
 player mode is over far to quickly (completed it in an afternoon) .
  
  The multiplayer mode is basically the same, bar a few different formats of basically the same concept. 
 This is where the game really shines as it is funny to see your friends quickly hold the remote 
 by their side and start spinning to make a hoop spin round the person's body on-screen.
  
  The visual style of the game is really different and stands out very well. There is also a good 
 amount of mini-games to work your way through and you don't really get tired of them - especially 
 since they only last three seconds each anyway.
  
  With all these good points, the game is overly hyped and in my opinion it isn't all it is cracked 
 up to be... it can also never be good that this is just another mini-game package for the Wii and 
 just slamming loads of various Wii remote positions into one.
  
  For how it lasts, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a decent game and worth your money but the lack of 
 length on the single player game is a major downside and you really wish their was a knob to rack 
 up the difficulty. Oh well, there's always next time, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak667
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Good points. Fun for about half an hour.
  
  
  Bad Points
  
  Far too short (took me an afternoon to complete.
  No replay value (its not been on since I completed 
 it.
  Gameplay is very repetetive.
  No depth to the game.
  The mini stories are just lame.
  
  I bought this game with high hopes of the gameplay being 
 as addictive as I was lead to believe, but all in all, this game is a huge disappointment, one 
 or two of the mini-games are fun in very short bursts but the main game has no depth and is over 
 far too quickly. Since completing the main game on the afternoon I bought it (about 2 months ago) 
 I have only played it once since. I would strongly recommend that this game is rented before you 
 buy it, as it has been very much over hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game. The gameplay is very good. They are a couple times when you are playind 
 a mini-game and the controls will flat out not work. However there is not a lot of them so you 
 will have no frustration. This is a very good start. Now lets go on to the graphics. They are very 
 simple like Wii Sports but they are good. A game will always look good with simple graphics but 
 I was expecting just a little bit more. The sound is good and I personally like the wacky music. 
 It just gives you a feel of the wario sensation. The game will not last you long. It is a short 
 but sweet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Twisted! introduced the concept of motion control into the franchise. However, it was 
 limited to just left and right movement. WarioWare: Smooth Moves, expands and ultimately capitalizes 
 on the concept introduced by Twisted! by using the Wii's full 3-D motion capabilities that moves 
 the franchise into a fun and fresh direction.
  
  The game starts with a colorful cutscene that shows Wario coming across and stealing the Form Baton 
 -- a Wii remote. And the story just seems to stop there. While the WarioWare franchise -- or any 
 minigame compilation for that matter -- isn't known for story, things feel disconnected here. Unlike 
 previous WarioWares, nothing really threads the different characters together. We're not here for 
 a compelling narrative though, are we? So let's move on.
  
  After the initial cutscene, Diamond City -- Wario's town -- opens up for you. Each resident houses 
 a different, quirky and weird character that are also introduced with a vibrant and often humorous 
 cutscene. Each resident has their own block of microgames. After reaching and completing the boss 
 stage for each resident, you unlock more residents. The game does an excellent job of rolling out 
 with new content constantly which keeps you motivated to go on because you know you're getting 
 something for your troubles.
  
  Yes, microgames. Each microgame takes five seconds to complete and each provides a random and obtuse 
 task that you can't help but laugh at. Whether it's drinking a cup of water or pulling the Master 
 Sword out of its pedestal, you're going to chuckle. Combine this with the hectic pace that progressively 
 gets even more hectic as keep playing and throw in the the four lives limit for good measure, and 
 you'll have little time to laugh as you quickly jump from one microgame to the next.
  
  Now, the trademark humor and the pace have been done in previous WarioWares. So what makes Smooth 
 Moves any different? Well, obviously, the Wii remote literally shakes things up. You won't be pressing 
 a button to pull out that legendary blade, you're going to literally go through the motions. Nearly 
 all the minigames work flawlessly but, if you're too overzealous, the game might not pick up on 
 what you're trying to do and you'll therefore, lose. That happens once in a blue moon so it's not 
 too much of a concern but it does happen. And it totally sucks when it does. To complement the 
 motions, the game also has different forms. Forms are different ways to hold the remote. Some forms 
 have you holding the remote in front of your nose like an elephant and others have you hold it 
 like you're about unseathe your sword. Yes, they're about as ridiculous as they sound. The forms, 
 combined with the minigames, always keeps things fresh and the game really keeps you guessing because 
 you constantly have to change the way you're holding the remote.
  
  The much-touted multiplayer modes are also excellent and are implemented well. Multiplayer range 
 from a general deathmatch to a full-blown game of darts. All the modes work really well and some 
 of the modes accomodate up to twelve players so everyone in that smoke and alcohol free party can 
 have a great time. Visually, it's colorful, clean and, like the game itself, unpredictable. Nearly 
 all the microgames sport their own distinct visual style. Whether it's a recreation of an area 
 in Wind Waker or a crude drawing of a banana, it'll keep you guessing. The general character models 
 sport a clean and simple look that remain endearing. It's not going to blow your socks off because 
 of its technical merits but it's still fun to look at. Audio is much like the visuals in the sense 
 that it's energetic and colorful. The speaker implementation is flawless and the sound effects 
 are humorous enough to make you smile. Overall, the game has a great audiovisual component.
  
  The story mode won't last long -- you can blow through it in 3-4 hours -- but you're not even 
 close to being done after you complete it. You'll probably still have atleast 100 microgames left 
 to uncover and the multiplayer does have lasting value (assuming you have friends or a family, 
 whichever) . While saying Smooth Moves lacks any depth is a valid argument, you can't deny the fun 
 to be had as you follow a retarded dance routine. You just can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazabi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  i just buy myslf a wii. so this is the 1st wii game i play. acctly i dont prefer to play kid game 
 type. i prefere playing action or rpg in my other consoles... but when i play this game tisnot a 
 kid game at all.... i really enjoy plating this game... its really fun.. i dont care about its story... the 
 control works so great... it suitable to play when u boring n dont have uder game to play... the 
 wii mote works great.. n it has bonus levelthat u can use nuncak... us both of them is really great... im 
 really enjoy play this game... go wario..... n go to hell with mario... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingoptimistu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was meant for people to look dumb in front of their friends. It is far too short as a 
 single player game. To beat this game only takes about 3 hours or so, and the minigames get a little 
 repetitive when played by yourself. The minigames often only last a few seconds each, and the game 
 does all that it can to speed things up to a rediculous pace and get you to do lots of crazy actions. 
 You will put dentures in a granny's mouth, pick up apples with an elephant trunk, dance, squat, 
 and just look crazy as you try to keep up the game.
  
  The short games are the best and worst part of the game. It is great because of how different the 
 game is from almost all other console games. There is a great silly feel to this game that was 
 very refreshing in a medium that takes itself far too serious at times. The bad news is that you 
 can only do so many different actions in 3 second chunks. The wii controller is great, but there 
 is only so many different ways to use it for 2 seconds. This means that 200+ minigames borrow heavily 
 from each other at times. It is the same motion whether you're punching a boxer, pushing someone 
 away, or a number of other actions that look like a punch. Additionally, a small number of the 
 minigames are duds, with either confusing goals or poor controls.
  
  I strongly recommend this game if you have a sense of humor and friends to play this with. It isn't 
 for the serious, the lonely, or those without a little bit of ADD, but this game is undeniably 
 fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I often wonder how the WarioWare series ever came to be, a collaboration of the most insane mini-games 
 you could ever wish to play all bundled into one package. I can just imagine now, a room full of 
 crazy Japanese game designers blurting out bizarre ideas such as poking over-sized nostrils with 
 over-sized fingers or shaking the bugs off of an apes banana for pleasure. However WarioWare came 
 to be theres no doubting its a winning formula, theres just something about the random insanity 
 that gamers and non-gamers alike seem to warm to. Theres also no doubting in my mind the decision 
 to bring this much-loved franchise to the Wii, the WiiMote feels like the perfect way to experience 
 the chaos.
  
  Smooth Moves offers you over 200 frantically fun-filled mini-games, each requiring some basic action 
 in order to complete, that could be chopping a barrel in half with a quick swipe of your samurai 
 sword, blowing tiny men off of a cliff using your controller as a fan or simply placing the WiiMote 
 down; waiting for it to ring and then answering it like a telephone. These may sound simple enough 
 on the surface but as the speed increases so does the difficulty and eventually youll find yourself 
 either losing your lives or losing the plot.
  
  You would be forgiven for thinking the game looks like absolute trash, so many visual styles meshed 
 together without so much as a second thought. I consider this one of its positive aspects however 
 and feel its what gives the game its unique look and feel. It also helps to keep things interesting 
 because you never really know what to expect next, you could be playing as Mario one minute, running 
 through a retro style 8-bit Nintendo classic and the next youre rocking out in a fully-fledged 
 3D environment.
  
  Another way the game keeps things interesting is with the introduction of forms, a form is a 
 certain way of holding the controller and each mini-game is suitably tagged to one of the many 
 on offer. So if you were to participate in a quick draw with a cowboy you would hold the remote 
 to your hip like a gun in a holster. Theyre not all this simple however, a few require some pretty 
 strange techniques in order to complete, in fact some even require a few embarrassing ones too. 
 Unless you consider holding the WiiMote on the top of your head like a Mohawk or up to your nose 
 like an elephants trunk a comforting experience. You shouldnt find any of this too difficult 
 though if youre already familiar with the series and will probably breeze through the main game 
 in just a couple of hours. After that there are a few extras to unlock including four multiplayer 
 modes but barring that you will probably end up feeling a little under whelmed, you can play through 
 all of the previous challenges again of course but theres only so much value you can get from 
 doing that.
  
  The game also doesnt possess a whole lot of story but that wasnt entirely surprising considering 
 none of the previous WarioWare titles ever really did. Sure each of the characters provide their 
 own insane animated clip before youre thrown into the action but to call that a story would definitely 
 be pushing the boat out and the fact that they cant be skipped either is really rather annoying.
 
  
  Truth be told Smooth Moves couldnt have come at a better time, even if it is lacking in some areas 
 its still the perfect accompaniment to a console that is eager to show off its motion-sensor capabilities. 
 Whether youre looking for a quick fix or a great party game to add to your collection then this 
 is the one for you, just be sure to attach that strap because we dont want any broken TVs now 
 do we.
  
  Gameplay - Its WarioWare and its Wii-ly fun!
  
  Graphics - A mix of visual styles not only gives it a unique feel but also helps keep things interesting.
 
  
  Sound - While the audio doesnt do anything special it does bring everything together nicely.
 
  
  Value - 200 frantically fun-filled mini-games but unless you have a bunch of friends to play with 
 then youre looking at the experience ending in a matter of days not weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalish
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a terrific game for anyone who wants to play a party game with friends. This is the 
 first WarioWare game I have played and I found myself hating the game the first time I played it 
 alone after renting. But I soon came to love it after playing for an hour and having friends competing 
 against me. I suggest renting first to save money in case you dont like the game due to how weird 
 the playing style is I dont believe that everyone will be a fan. In the end I did not buy the 
 game, but instead had rented it for 7 days and sucked the life out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is preaty good!
  The only problem I found with it was that its waaaaaayy too short!
  You could have the game won 
 in just one afternoon!
  And the mini- games are also waaaaayy too short!
  I mean it only takes 5 seconds a mini - game!
  The game is a good multiplayer though!
  You 
 could probley spend hours and hours playing multiplayer with your like me!
  The only reason I see in buying this game is the multiplayer!
  But thats just me!
  Bottom line 
 this game is a good Multiplayer!
  The only problem is that this games waaaaayy too short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PspSquad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The best WarioWare game to date!!! Alot of stances including: The elephant, channel surfing, samurai, 
 and the waiter. -- When I bought this game for $$ 49.88*, I just was so willing to open it right 
 away and put in a Wii. Just purely good gameplay, funny dialouge.... just so cool!! I reccomend 
 this for all ages!! Some minigames are so hard, you get frustrated when you lost the level!!! But, 
 eventually, you'll beat the level! Just sayin'! I guess it is for E10+ because some kids will not 
 no how to play and break the T. V. or something. All Wii games should be E10+! Just sayin'. You 
 beat levels to get new levels and beat the new levels and get new leves and beat the new levels 
 and.... etc. Just a lot of minigames! They shouldn't call it WarioWare: Arcade STYLE or something 
 like that! But Smooth Moves is aight!!! Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware SM is a delightful game during the first hour you have played. But after you beat the 
 game in a couple hours you don't even feel like playing again. The minigames are fun with the wario 
 style but honestly this game is not worth 50 dollars. The controls on the game do work well with 
 the wii. The sound is crazy weird { what else is new} And the graphics aren't the best but they 
 tie in with the games crazy theme. Overall Wario Ware Smoote Moves is a fairly short game okay 
 game while it last. But I will warn you that this game is very addicting until you beat it. So 
 My advice is to rent the game first beat it and then return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  The WarioWare series has always delivered side-splitting humor with quirky and crazy mini-games, 
 and this version is no different. Even from reading the instructional booklet that is designed 
 to look like Warios personal magazine to watching your friends frantically move about the room 
 trying to complete a mini-game, you cant stop laughing. For anyone not familiar with the WarioWare 
 series, WarioWare is a giant compellation of mini-games, each of which doesnt have any specific 
 instructions. Each of the approximant 200 mini-games is completely random and hectic, because the 
 player has only 3 seconds to figure out what he is supposed to accomplish. While this may be seem 
 frustrating, the pressure accumulated actually helps make the game even more comical.
  
  While the graphics in WarioWare: Smooth Moves arent necessarily next-gen graphics, the cartoony, 
 crayon-drawn art style helps to promote the humorous and relaxed attitude the game has. Each of 
 the characters, which look like they were hand-drawn by a 4 year old, keeps you laughing each time 
 you play their missions. WarioWare wouldnt be very playable if the game had serious graphics, 
 because you would be focused on each detail, instead of trying to complete the exciting mini-games.
 
  
  The game is broken down into missions in a town. Each mission has a brief background story 
 that provides the setting for the mini-games, such as a video game store hosting mini-games that 
 are spoofs or remakes of Nintendo classics. While there is no real story in the game, you do see 
 Wario constantly trying to stay away from aliens, because he has stumbled across a WiiMote that 
 they view as god-like. With around 10 missions, each providing plenty of laughs and frenzied 
 mini-games, the replay-ability is high.
  
  The music and sounds, like the graphics, are really weird. Warios games have always been known 
 to have occasional strange sounds and music, and this addition to the series is no different. The 
 music is upbeat and continues to speed up as the speed of the mini-games increases. This, once 
 again, provides an ample setting for the player by constantly keeping him wary and alert. As with 
 the graphics, a serious soundtrack would have only hampered WarioWare.
  
  Throughout the gameplay experience, the player finds that each of the mini-games, which are broken 
 into stances that you perform with the WiiMote, is very responsive and smooth. These stances, 
 such as holding the WiiMote above your head to represent a Mohawk, have about 30 mini-games assigned 
 to them, most of which are very creative and understandable. Of course, as with any Wii game, if 
 the player isnt in the correct range of the sensor bar, the he will probably fail the mini-game; 
 but I feel that this factor actually enhances the fun and craziness of the game. Overall, the WiiMote 
 functions and stances are very well designed and ingenious, and help the game progress beyond 
 normal mini-game compellations.
  
  Finally, the most important and exciting part of WaioWare: Smooth Moves is the games multiplayer. 
 After the single player missions are completed, the multiplayer options will become available. 
 There are many choices for multiplayer games, including: a bomb mode, where the players choose 
 the next stance for the following player, all the while throwing a bomb on screen; a survival 
 mode, where the players have a mini-game blitz until they fail one-by-one; a dart throwing mini-game, 
 which can become VERY addictive; and a running game where two players take the WiiMote and Nunchuck 
 respectively and must jump over obstacles at insane speeds. The beauty of the multiplayer in WarioWare 
 is that all the multiplayer games are played with one WiiMote, allowing up to 12 people chaotically 
 pass the WiiMote from player-to-player, all the while cutting down on expenses to but another controller.
 
  
  Basically, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one the best Wii games available right now, as well as one 
 of the best mini-game compellations ever made. Anyone who loves to have a good time by themselves 
 or with friends should consider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Since the huge breakthrough that Mario Party had in 1999 many mini-game games have been created 
 during the past years. Most of those games winded up being just a copy, and usually a bad one, 
 of the original party game, and just a few managed to achieve any kind of originality.
  
  Perhaps the most remarkable game among those is Wario Ware. First released to the GBA Wario Ware 
 Inc was a pure insane idea that came from the most creative minds working for Nintendo. It didn't 
 have anything in common to all those other mini-game games and at the same time it was much more 
 fun.
  
  The concept is quite simple. The game is consisted of more than 200 mini-games, that are so small 
 you can actually call them micro-games. Those micro-games are 5-second challenges during which 
 you will be given a certain order and by using your instincts you must discover what to do, if 
 you fail you will lose a life, if you win you won't lose any and you will proceed to the next micro-game.
 
  
  Once you run out of lives you will get that annoying Game Over screen and according to the number 
 of micro-games you have played you will get a score. Another interesting thing is that after you 
 play a certain amount of micro-games you will play a boss game which, if beaten will get you a 
 new life.
  
  Since the first installment of the series the gameplay has been like that. And Wario Ware Smooth 
 Moves does not change it at all. It is the same old Wario Ware for those who have already played 
 any of the previous games. The main obvious difference between this game and the others is the 
 Wiimote. Before each micro-game starts, the proper way to hold the Wiimote will be shown to you, 
 the Wiimote forms are very quirky, you can use the Wiimote as your nose, put it beside your waist, 
 hold it as an umbrella or a broomstick. There are 15 different ways to use the Wiimote.
  
  The game starts with Wario entering a temple and finding an odd device which coincidentally looks 
 exactly like the Wiimote. Once he gets the object a group of aliens chase him but he manages to 
 get out of the temple without being harmed by them.
  
  Once you get the game going you will need to face each characters challenges and after you beat 
 them you will unlock other challenges. The story mode can be finished within a couple of hours, 
 but it doesnt really matter since the best part of the game comes after you unlock everything.
 
  
  Although many people may claim that Wario Ware gets boring after a little while, I say that its 
 hard to stop playing it. After you beat the whole story mode you will be able to play all challenges 
 all over again, which means you can try to improve your score. Another fact is that the micro-games 
 are all wonderful and fun, playing them is always a certainty that you will have a great time.
 
  
  The graphics are actually unimpressive, still the game has a great style. Wario Ware is obviously 
 a game that was not designed to look astonishing, instead it tries to have its unique style that 
 will make you laugh throughout the game. The graphics can vary from nice introduction scenes that 
 feature the characters in cartoon-like graphics, to the cel-shaded style of the Wind Waker. Wario 
 Ware is a game where you will find all kinds of graphics from the nice ones to the odd ones.
  
  The gameplay works perfectly. The game is as addicting as possible and it is the game that 
 makes the best use of the Wimote so far on this system. Once you get into it, you will be carried 
 away by the games frantic pace, you may even be found during some embarrassing moments such as 
 dancing like a crazy person on your living room or running with the Wiimote in your hand.
  
  The sound follows the same style as the graphics. There isnt an actual pattern, they vary 
 a lot, you will be hearing a pop-song while playing a game and within 3 seconds you will marveled 
 to listen to the Super Mario Bros theme. The sound effects are great, not only does Wario Ware 
 make the best use of the Wiimote but it also uses its sound perfectly.
  
  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is a great game. The story mode may look short but there are so many things 
 to be unlocked, so many nice mini and micro-games, scores to be improved. There is also a multiplayer 
 mode that will have you and your friends playing like crazy in 4 different game modes.
  
  To sum it up, if you are one of the many gamers who think the main allure of the Wii is its new 
 gameplay style Wario Ware is your game since it makes such an outstanding use of everything the 
 Wiimote can do, many new mini-game games have been released for the Wii too, but I can easily assure 
 you that Wario Ware tops them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves Platfrom: Wii Publisher: Nintendo
  
  Reveiw:
  WarioWare is so crazy and fun that everyone will have fun with. The game showing that the Wii can 
 be use in so many different way for so many different games like driving a car, pumping up a ballon 
 to picking up the phone. The games is put in different stories so at some ponits you will be playing 
 Wario with his style of games then you play other charaters with own style of games.
  The remote is held in drifferent ways like Chanel surfing, Tug of war and The mohawk each game 
 has a different way of play.
  
  Good ponits:
  +easy to play
  +everyone can enjoy +lot of mini-games to play
  +mutiplayer is fun
  
  bad ponits:
  -the 
 game is to short
  -mutiplayer has not a lot to do Simon's words on game:
  The frist wii game that will your hole family will enjoy. Warioware pack lot of fun into little 
 game it one the best game on the Wii at the moment. If you like this one I would go and try WarioWare: 
 Touched &amp; Mega party.
  
  Final say:
  GET IT AND HAVE FUN !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a serious, hard-core action game... This is NOT what you want.
  
  This game is hilarious, tons of fun to play, and pure insanity to experience.
  
  When you first 
 start it up and go to adventure mode, you'll be treated to a little movie in which something is 
 stolen from the main man, Wario, and he chases the culprit into a nearby temple of some sort. Eventually 
 he tires out and stops, which is when he sees a wand (shaped like a Wiimote, of course) .
  
  Immediately after picking it up, a boulder rolls after you (Indiana Jones-style) , and suddenly 
 microgames start flying at you. I was so surprised, when I first started, the I entirely missed 
 the first one of them.
  
  The games, themselves, are insanity. You have five seconds (usually) to accomplish some intuitive 
 little task, such as drinking a glass of water (you tilt the Wiimote toward your face, but not 
 too quickly, lest you spill all over yourself) or swatting a fly (a fly sits in the screen, and 
 you smack the Wiimote downward to smash it) . These sound easy, but in the insanely fast-paced Warioware, 
 things get tricky.
  
  Once you finish the Wario segment, you choose between a couple routes, each of which giving you 
 a different Warioware character's persona, and each introducing new Forms to you, such as the Umbrella 
 (hold the Wiimote pointing straight up into the air, like an umbrella) or the Big Cheese (hold 
 the Wiimote in your hand and put your hands on your hips, much like a CEO entering a room) . And 
 when these are introduced, you're treated to a little instructional video, which is absolutely 
 hilarious. They truly remind me of the Jack Handey segments on Saturday Night Live.
  
  So basically, if you need practice with the Wiimote, or just want to have pure, insane fun (alone 
 or with others, either way is great fun) , this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Good: best multiplayer game on the Wii, has many different ways to use the Wiimote, anyone can 
 pick it up and play, and its great with the more people you know. Bad: the 1-player is really short
 
  
  I got this game for my birthday and for my birthday me and my friends played this game for about 
 3 hours. Anyone can pick up and play this game. Some of friends who never really played video games 
 became obsessed with this game and wanted to buy this for themselves. There are over 200 mini games. 
 So there are just so many games to play. Most of them are very random and crazy but its great to 
 watch other people do it. There is such a variey of games to play. you can hula-hoop, jump rope, 
 drive a car, and dance with a bunch of warios. There are also a bunch of classic nintendo mini 
 games that are awesome (there is anything from mr. game and watch all the way to pikmin games) . 
 If you are wanting a fun and easy game to get use to your Wii, go pick this game up. Trust me everyone 
 will fall in love with this game. My friends always want to play this game. It will truly make 
 you love your Wii even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  If you've played a WarioWare game before, you'll know that the games in the series are REALLY random, 
 and the new WarioWare game for the Wii definitely keeps the reputation!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very varied, even though almost all of the gameplay is used with the 
 motion functionality of the remote. Sometimes the game requires you not to touch the remote until 
 a certain time or to press buttons to trigger events, with keeps you on your toes.
  
  Graphics: This game might not have flashy or high-tech graphics, but they really are something 
 to look at. The creativity and comedy in them make for a great gaming experience.
  
  Sound: The music is great, but sometimes the noise the characters make when you win or lose a microgame 
 get annoying
  
  Value: The game has great value, with needing only one remote for all of the different multiplayer 
 games there are. There are also over 200 microgames to unlock and a number of souvenirs to play 
 around with. But the story mode only takes at most 2 hours to beat.
  
  Overall: This game is probably the most creative Wii game out so far. Thumbs up Nintendo!
  
 
  Final Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Ahh where to start on this gem of a game. Well, first I think I'm gonna tell you about the gameplay.
 
  
  -Gameplay: The basic controls for the game are just making gestures with the Wii remote to match 
 what you are supposed to be doing on the TV screen. An example would be trying to take a sword 
 out of a stone. You just keep yanking upwards with the Wii remote. Pretty simple right? The controls 
 are one of the main reasons why this game is so amazing. The Wii and WarioWare are a perfect match. 
 At least for controls that is...
  Gameplay-10
  
  -Graphics: The graphics are my only problem with the game. The only good thing about them is that 
 they are very artistic and fit the feel of the game. It's just that for the 3D microgames they really 
 could have updated the graphics. This game could have hada better graphics on an N64.
  Graphics-6
  
  -Sound: I can't really complain about the sound. Not amazing, but not terrible. 
 It still is really good. Most of the time you have a fast paced tune that really helps fit what 
 you are going through. Each character's stage also has it's own music. Such as Dribble and Spitz. 
 Their level has the song about Diamond City. Each microgame also has good music. The perfect level 
 to use as an example would be 9-Volt's. Each oof his retro microgame' stages have music from the 
 original game.
  Sound-9
  
  -Value: A lot of you may disagree with me on this subject since the game is so short but there 
 is a lot of hidden value. This is the one main Wii game that I have never really gotten all that 
 bored of. It has really fun stuff to do. The multiplayer is probably the best seen on Wii so far. 
 It's the perfect game for a party, with a cuople of friends, or just hanging around alone trying 
 to kill time. Definitely worth your 50 dollars.
  Value-10
  
  -Tilt: This is one of my favorite Wii games. It was just a disk full of fun from the time I bought 
 it at launch to now. =P
  Tilt-10
  
  Get this game if you don't already own it. Even get it if you don't even have a Wii. GET IT NAO!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  The game seems so childish, but I can't stop laughing and playing anyways. This game even gets 
 the non-gamers in my family to pick up a 'form' and give it a shot. It is almost as much fun to 
 watch someone else sticks the remote on their nose for the elephant form as it is to play.
  
  Some of the micro games are ridiculously easy, some or crazy tough. The real trick is getting 
 set up for the next micro game and knowing what to do. The trickiest one so far has been balancing 
 the broom, tougher in the game than in RL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and Story, the story is just a fun little bad thing happens and you complete super fun 
 mini games to fix their problems. But this game is all about Gameplay. You can use the Wii-Mote 
 in so many ways you'de not find possible with your purchase of the Wii. If you want a game with 
 good Gameplay and for families this game keeps you active and it's totaly fun!
  
  Graphics, they are good. Nothing special here but its great.
  
  Sound and Music, hmm... not 
 anything special at all about it. It's just gotta have sound I guess.
  
  Value and Tilt, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves has tons of value. You buy this game and you will see 
 yourself playing alot. It is addictive and lots to do. A Wii game thats worth every bit of its 
 50 Dollars.
  
  Control Layout, the whole point of the game is the controls. And you don't really press buttons. 
 You turn your Wii-Mote, drop your Wii-Mote, hold it with one finger, on your head, as a dungbell, 
 as a fist, as a waiter, anything you can think of. Nintendo and Wario Ware are a perfect mix.
 
  
  Total Rating, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves, gets an 9.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Incredibly fun game, whether you're playing alone or with friends its a blast. The mini-games are 
 great and don't get boring quickly, so it's nice to know they will have a nice replay value. The 
 use of the Wii-mote works well, most of the time.... It seems some of the motions don't work as 
 well as others, but thats only minor things that can ve overlooked. One of the few Wii games actually 
 worth investing $50.
  
  Pros:
  -Mini games are a blast
  -Fun alone or with friends
  -Tons of replay value
  -Worth $50
  
  Cons:
  -Visuals are last gen
  -Some of the Wii-mote 
 motions don't work as well as others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Inc for the GBA is my favorite hand held of all time, without a doubt, and one of my 
 most played games outside of the MMO and traditional RPG realm. I was excited to get my copy of 
 Wario Ware Smooth Moves once I got ahold of Wii. Yes, it does provide more of the same humor and 
 fun you get to know and love, but the Wii controls are rather unreliable in some cases.
  
  Let me break it down into sections for ease of digestion.
  
  Graphics - The game has rather 
 phenomenal graphics... in cutscenes mind you. The cutscenes are high quality cel shaded cartoony 
 style graphics that look absolutely amazing even in 480i stretched out onto my 1080p screen. The 
 colors are vivid and bright and cheerful in their cutesy only a Japanese developer could make this 
 kind of way. And that's part of the charm which I love. However some of the graphics in the mini 
 games literally look like someone slapped together some crap from Microsoft Paint and animated 
 it, while other ones are fully rendered 3d models of games like Mario Sunshine or Metroid Prime 
 or just a randomly made 3d model to suit your purpose. Call it an art style, but I call some of 
 the animations and the art quality in some mini games to be pathetic. The GBA had much more consistency 
 and had an excuse of having less than phenomenal graphics due to the fact it was a handheld. For 
 something significantly more powerful than the Xbox, I expected more, regardless of the surreal 
 and oddball art style. 7 out of 10 (and I'm being extremely generous here due to the amazing cutscene 
 graphics) .
  
  Sound - Sound here is pretty good. The musical themes are quite upbeat and quirky and the characters 
 have little one liners, like when you complete a minigame with Kat and Ana they yell out in little 
 school girl voices KATANA or Ninjutsu! or something that is clearly patronizing the non Japanese 
 audience. Regardless it is cute and fits with the game well. The sound comes from the Wii Mote 
 if you didn't know that as well and is especially immersive coupled with rumble when you saw a 
 log for instance or have to tilt it back to chug some unknown liquid. However the greatest asset 
 to the sound is when you are introduced to a new form. Upon getting a new form (more on that later) , 
 a rather droll yet peaceful voice (think the announcer from Burger King commercials talking about 
 Meat and Cheese and egg and cheese, or a relaxing therapy soundtrack you might hear) . The dialogue 
 when he says it is just priceless. Sound is very nice here, 9 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay - Perhaps the most important part. Well, this game is similar that in each game minigame 
 you have anywhere from 3 seconds to up to 10 (a few mini games do this) or up to infinite time 
 for boss games complete what flashes on the screen. For instance, you can hold the Wii Mote (Called 
 form baton in game) like a remote control to point the controller like a shaver or something, or 
 you can hold it like a samurai and sweep it out and cut a log or can in half. Other modes include 
 the Big Cheese , Discard , Handlebar and more. Some clues of what to do are amazingly simple... 
 like Slice in the Samurai mode. Others are a little more subtle like Broil. Others are like.... 
 wtf, did I do it? Of course the other Wario games were a little cryptic too, but unfortunately 
 with the Wii controls this game really has a hard time with controlling things. Sometimes your 
 controller goes off screen or you lower it just a tiny bit and it totally throws you off. This 
 is the problem with the Wii controls and where I find the traditional console controller to be 
 superior. I won't hold it too hard against this game due to it's an inherent flaw in the input 
 method with the Wii, but some of the uses for the Wii mote in this game are a little non intuitive 
 and not applied properly. Still it is an amusing and different way to play a familar game. 8 out 
 of 10
  
  Value - Let me get this straight right off the bat. The main story game is SHORT assuming you go 
 and beat each of the main character's mini game list. I would venture you could complete the game 
 in literally ... 2 hours. But to see every one of the 200+ mini games and extra side games you 
 have to keep playing multiple times, which is something I want to do anyways. Also, you can play 
 multiplayer with other people which is one of the biggest benefits the Wii has, many games are 
 multiplayer. But unless you are a super mega fan of this game and do spend lots of time playing 
 over and over once you get everything unlocked, it's still not the most extreme value. 8 out of 
 10.
  
  Tilt - I looked past the glaring flaws in the Wii controls while playing this game because it is 
 such a well crafted game otherwise and has such charm and amazing cutscenes, sound and just an 
 intangible likeablilty factor . Outside of the annoying control issues, this game is just incredibly 
 fun for anyone who likes mini games and puzzles and especially fans of prior Wario Ware games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyjohnson117
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I havent played Warios game for very long time. Im glad they brought it up for Nintendo 
 Wii. This game has over 200 Micro Games with high scored challenge. Not sure how to review this 
 game. All I can say that I did enjoyed it, but the more fun is with multiplayer mode. You have 
 to play all single mode level (each character) to unlock multiplayer which might take two days. 
 It only took me about three and half days to unlock it because I didnt play a lot on each day. 
 Okay, lets move on. The movement action was really fun and challenging and funny. My favorite 
 part of action is the dancing thing where I have to copy the other computer person, and it was 
 really funny and I laugh out loud myself. Weird I know. The graphics is much like cartoon, but 
 I believe it supposed to be that way which I didnt bothered it, and I think it just great. There 
 was little problem with music to me because it gets little boring, but it work for timing during 
 the challenging part. Its pretty easy to learn what youre supposed to do and that called knowledge 
 or puzzle where you have to figured it out how to going to work under 5 second to pass it. There 
 is lot of different forms style such as The Mortar and Pestle, The Big Cheese, The Dumbbell, 
 Thumb Wrestling, and more to follow the challenging to pass. For example, the style The Mohawk 
 is where you holding a remote top of your head toward TV and the challenging said Squat! and 
 you squat it, then the next one comes different form. About the multiplayer mode, it was pretty 
 fun and it has some humor in it. I like that pumping the balloon challenged, and there is more 
 different challenged for multiplayer. Here is the cool part I also like, there is several classic 
 games available to use such as ping pong, blocks, rabbit flags, and more. Basically thats all 
 it about of this game. It is pretty value for family edition or friends challenging for high scored. 
 Ill let and see if my older brother or Tyler can beat me or not. I doubt they can, eh. My cousin, 
 Tyler, is also a Wii Player too. Thanks for reading,
  
  Cody Johnson
  Nintendo Wii Player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mld316
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  to start off the game rocks in many ways good compaling multiplayer and fun. the design is great 
 with cartoonish looks mii looks and diffrent looks to it. the games will last for ever you'll never 
 get tired of them. you''ll also never quit playing the game. the mini games are simple but there 
 linked with other games like Zelda there are hundreds of them if you get a wii this is the game 
 your needing be sure to buy this one and don't miss out on the fun. other wario games are good 
 but like I said this is the best others to consider are rayman for the wacknes. i still got more 
 to say this may not be a good review but i'm trying. althrough you'll love the game it has no problems 
 so that's great it also make great use of the wii mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  If their is a game that isn't worth buying it will be this one. It isn't this game is terrible, 
 it just simply isn't worth fiftty dollars. First of all the one player mode is relatively short 
 and childish. When I rented the game it just took me a few hours to get through the entire 1 player 
 mode. What was completely unnecessary was the fact that you had to complete 1-player mode in order 
 to get onto multiplayer. However multiplayer mode was much better. The game is simply more fun 
 with more then one person. The game only requires one controller so it isn't necessary to buy anymore. 
 On the flip side of using one controller, it become frusturating during multiplayer when the person 
 you are playing with forgets to give you the controller. Since it is constantly on a timer you 
 must run over to the controller and get it before your turn is over and you lose.
  
  Over-all it isn't worth buying but is worth a rent. Unless you have a large family or many friends 
 whom both love video games, then this game isn't made for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ismakun
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  May I first say this game has disappointed me. I thought I would be having lots of fun playing 
 this game, but seriously it really lacks behind in that aspect. The funny moments of this game 
 were little to non and the controls don't work quite well. I don't recommend to buy this game, 
 first rent it and wait till the price drops for a possible buy. I thought I bought this game for 
 its replay value and GAMESPOT's 9.1 score, but after I finished up to the credits (Aprox. 2 hours 
 of playing time for me) I put the controller down and almost never played it again. I usually play 
 it to show my friends what the Wii can do but still I have to quickly put Wii Sports or Zelda to 
 keep the interest of my friends. The only mini-game I actually like is the Can Shooter since I 
 love using my wii remote to point and shoot. Its sad there are still no good shooters for Wii. 
 Will have to wait for Metroid to change that.
  
  I have to give some points to the game. Its very very and very funny seeing your friends doing 
 squats and hoola hoola but its funny just the first time unless you have infinite friends to invite 
 and play the game and see them doing ridiculous moves for the first time and asking if they are 
 doing it right.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game is good and I'm a fan of WarioWare games, but Smooth Curves didn't 
 filled the Hype of Fun I expected from this game and the use of the remote. Still this game as 
 most of Wii games are great for family fun. Your parents, grandparents, uncles will love to play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Single player is fun, don't mistake me, but it's too short for the price tag. You can beat it in 
 a few hours tops. However, multiplayer is what makes WarioWare shine.
  
  The Good: Well, for one, you only need one Wii remote, which are becoming harder to find recently. 
 But, above all, it's a simple, enjoyable game. Anyone can play. This game has a lot of replay value, 
 you'll find yourself playing single player over just to unlock new minigames.
  
  The Bad: Singleplayer is the main flaw; it's far too short. You can beat it in about one hour if 
 you're familiar with Wii controls. A more minor flaw is the lack of game descriptions; it'll usually 
 give you a one-word instruction, and the rest is guess work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4ttered
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought warioware: smooth moves the day it came out.
  I rushed home, put it in my wii and couldn't wait to start playing. Clicking on the warioware icon 
 on my wii channels, i realised that this was going to be a humourous game. It's a WII... WARIO, 
 WHA HA HA blasted out at me in Wario's voice. I couldn't help laughing.
  
  Right from the start I could tell that I was going to enjoy it. You could tell the game was going 
 to be good merely because of the start menu. Shaking your controller would cause the words Warioware 
 to move about, also you could move your remote around the screen to reveal different pictures.
 
  This amazed me, most games involve just a title screen with the game logo, but this game made 
 it as if you were playing it before you even started.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in Warioware is easy to get used to straight away. You can pick up the remote and 
 know what your doing. Providing you concentrate then you shouldn't find any of the microgames challenging.
 
  The game consists of over 200 microgames for you to go through. You have to go around Diamond 
 city, assisting the inhabitants by using the wii remote or, form baton as its called in Warioware, 
 by playing lots of microgames.
  Each character has his/her own set of microgames for you to complete. Every time you play a microgame 
 it is unlocked for you to play again in the Temple of Form.
  
  The main storyline is short but fun, but the game isn't complete until you've played all the microgames.
 
  
  Along with the microgames comes some minigames for you to enjoy. These minigames are things like 
 can shooting and balloon flying. They are fun and make great bragging points if you get a good 
 hi-score.
  
  The gameplay is fun single player but better in multiplayer if you play it with friends.
  
 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Warioware arn'te amazing but arn'te terrible either.
  The graphics are mostly 
 2D for the microgames with some games being in 3D. The Graphics reflect the sort of game that you 
 are playing and add to the crazyness that is most of the games. The graphics completely work with 
 Warioware as high-def graphics would look out of place.
  
  
  Sound
  
  The Sound in Warioware is good and nice to listen to. Although sometimes some sounds can get a 
 bit annoying, the soundtrack for the most part causes you to want to dance, and when it gets faster 
 makes you want to cheer and dance about. The sound is generally fast paced and upbeat. The characters 
 voices is the only place where the sound is sort of let down, hearing them repeat the same phrases 
 while you play microgames does get sort of annoying, but not to an extent that you couldn't play 
 or you stopped enjoying it.
  
  
  Value
  
  Warioware is excellent value, It is a great party game but even if you are on your own you can 
 still have alot of fun.
  
  Warioware is crazy, zany, brilliant and all around fun for all ages and the best thing about it 
 is that it lets you get rid of your self esteem, dignity and pride and just act silly while you 
 play.
  
  Reviewed by C-A-Doughty
  A. K. A B4ttered 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannweed
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Its interesting to see games that have so many random microgames in it. Its funnier to see it done 
 well. That's what makes WarioWare: Smooth Moves such a fun game to play. Its modest graphics are 
 nothing to be shy of, as they don't hinder such a worthwhile experience. Of course it will take 
 a couple of tries to beat this game because it requires so much speed and accuracy, something of 
 an oddity for the main focus of a game. Regardless, it still packs some completely hysterical games, 
 such as slaping Wario until he wakes up and having a finger to pick his nose. On top of this are 
 the rather pointless microgames such as simply doing a bicep curl in under 7 seconds, and pulling 
 the controller back to yank off some table cloth. These are more of the time wasters. My regrets 
 about this game are few, but still existent. The worst part is that it took me a total of about 
 5 hours to beat the main story mode. I wish it were longer, but despite this, there are some extras 
 and hordes of microgames to play, so it still does have a lot of replay value. That's why I gave 
 it 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dododo902109
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have had alot of fun with this game! So much variety of the micro games and what the wii-mote 
 can do. It is a fun game and suits the wii's style perfectly.
  The Story Mode: A Really good story line. When Wario's junk food gets stolen and he chases after 
 it, he stumbles upon the Wii Remote. (A. K. A. the form baton) which is to have super natural abilities. 
 Though the story you can get thru in one day of playing, there is still more games to unlock, including 
 the elephant stages. Though there is alot of variety there is not much replay value in story except 
 if you have alot of the micro games and you like to play them over and over again. (Which is what 
 i do)
  The Multi-Player Mode: Well there is all of the micro games in multi mode as well as story but 
 as well as extras including Star-Nose. The game plays up to 12 players with just passing the wii 
 mote around for a bigger multi gameplay expirience.
  Overall, it is so much fun and addicting, i would say a must buy in the wario ware series, best 
 in the wario ware series, just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me who enjoys playing games with friends, then you can't go wrong with this... 
 this is pretty entertaining and addicting! I even play this game with my wife and she loves the 
 game. She loves the game interaction and some silliness. This is especially great to play along 
 when your friends come over at your house to hang out. I highly recommend this game. Its good for 
 both adults and kids alike! You won't regret purchasing this game! The only downside of the game 
 is that you can't jump into multiplayer without finishing the game first. That was kind of frustrating 
 because I was hoping that you can play multiplayer right off the bat.... but it you can't.
  
  Hopefully when they make another WarioWare, players can have access to multiplayer to start 
 playing with friends... and definitely add more games into it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone,
  
  WarioWare for the Wii is nuts. There.... my conclusion^^
  Nuts, but very fun to play and a great game for your collection, if you have any sense of humor 
 in your system.
  
  The graphics are hard to discribe, since it's using all kinds of graphical styles. Some are really 
 funny, nostalgic and just plain idiotic. It's really something else, and very nice to look at, 
 even when someone else is playing.
  
  The gameplay is simple, yet challeging at some parts. Minigames, minigames &aacute; nd minigames! 
 The wiimote reacts very nicely, tho sometimes you can get frustrated with 1 or 2 stances. This 
 can be annoying if you have 1 life left, and the stance doens't react.... Thank god this only happens 
 once in a while, and starting over isn't that bad!
  
  The story, lol.... There isn't really a story, but there are short story sequences, wich you complete 
 by doing the minigames. Some are ok, and most are just hilarious!
  
  The overall value in single player is really bad. You can complete the game in an afternoon, wich 
 is a let down, because playing solo and unlocking games, story sequences, etc, is very fun and 
 rewarding.
  Luckily the multiplayer kicks in after the single player, wich saves the overall value. Note; the 
 multiplayer is awesome....
  
  If very serious in gaming, don't buy this game. If you have a sense of humor, and don't mind an 
 hilarious game that shouldn't be taken to serious.... go and buy warioware smooth moves. It's really 
 good.
  
  Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well one of my friends rented this game and we played this for awile. It is a pretty cool game 
 but the games are so random. It goes from like clean the chalk board to pick a guys nose. Gameplay 
 is very fast paced. Graphics are good for a wii game. Very innovative ways to use the wiimote. 
 This one mini game I played with my friend was to hit this ping pong bll as long as you can, it 
 got very addicting. Try this out if you need a wii game to get used to the controls. Remember, 
 this game has no plot at all its just like perform these random acts before time runs out. Give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4supercraz1111
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first Wario Ware that came on GBA I loved the Wario Ware franchise. Although I liked 
 each Wario Ware that came out, I became bored of the games really quickly feeling they could have 
 offer more. Like with Wario Ware Touched I became bored of it after a while because it emphasize 
 too much with touching and it didn't offer much else. But with Wario Ware Smooth Moves although 
 it emphasize on the wii remote movements it is done in a fun matter. In each mini-game you hold 
 the wii remote in a special way to complete it. There are many positions a person can hold a wii 
 remote so in each minigame you can do something different. I felt like in most mini-games I really 
 interact with the game. This game is more than just a point and move the wii remote a little type 
 of game. I love the animation and the music in the game. The full length mini-games in this game 
 is all right, there are only two I really like. The only thing I didn't care for much in this game 
 is the multi-player. I enjoyed the single player more. Overall this is a must have for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun, smart, and addictive. If the story mode wasn't so short, I would definitely 
 rate it higher. The minigames are very creative, and I love playing the nintendo ones.
  It was fun being Link and pulling out the sword, or being mario and jumping to hit the question 
 block, and all the other games are alot of fun, too. There are also a; ot of fun games in the multiplayer 
 place. Alot of those use great ideas to make it creative. Such as the game where you are holding 
 the wiimote and your friend holding the nunchuck, or vice versa, and you jump over obstacles. This 
 game is tons of fun, and I would recommend buying it for your wii, although, after a while, you 
 might stop playing and never play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammy_m20
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is suprisingly innovative, unique and highly addictive. Throughout this game you will 
 defuse bombs, smack the hands of a Samuri stealing cookies, pick nose hairs and wave away a cloud 
 of farts. You complete these various minigames ( Over 140) by twisting, turning and wiggling the 
 Wiimote. The results, a game made to humiliate you and your friends. However this game has it's 
 draw backs such as, you can complete this game in about three hours, which is a very small amount 
 of time to beat a game. Also the multiplayer isn't very strong, which was somewhat of a dissapointment. 
 Besides that i would reccomend renting, or even buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibsonGuy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Warioware has been around a while but got recognized as a classic with Touched. Now wario's in 
 the spotlight with Smooth Moves. The game itself is highly addictive and provides easy access to 
 anyone. Though you may be weirded out by the craziness of it but you'll grow to love it soon enough. 
 The microgames are great and it has SWEET multiplayer but the one-player is over too fast. If you 
 dont party with friends a lot just rent this game. But don't miss the oppourtunity to play this 
 awesome game. It's the third best out IMO behind Super Paper Mario and Zelda: TP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3025
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
 a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
 a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeAmNiNjA
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally this awesome game has came out for the wii, and I got the last copy up at EB games. And 
 let me tell you guys IT ROCKZ
  
  And right after i beat this game the first thing I thought was review time. If you havent played 
 any other of the WarioWare games it goes a little some thing like this. --Description --
  
  This game is very different from others, it features some thing never before seen in any other 
 game besides the ones of the series and thats micro games. Micro games are 5-10 second mini games 
 that are extreamly frantic and fast-pased, just one reason why this game is as good as it is. And 
 of course, Nintendo wouldn't let this great idea go to waste, so they made the whole game micro 
 games. These micro games come in sets in the overall story but can all be played in the temple 
 of form. And of course, since this game is made by the one and only Nintendo, this game has very 
 very very few glitches and all of there micro games works, so if you keep losing one of them, its 
 not the game as you scream out in loss, its you. Ok I think that is a good enough description for 
 now, on to the accually reveiw. --Gameplay 10/10 --
  Just as i explained in the description, this game is VERY FAST PASED. And really, if you are playing 
 by your self, use the strap, I have seen controllers thrown and trust me, its not fun. Basically, 
 this games gameplay is all over the place, before each micro game, you have to switch the position 
 the wiimote is in quickly in order to play the micro game right, that causes some problems with 
 the multiplay, which you play 16 people with one mote, frequent handing off can lead to things 
 breaking (trust me its happened) and people loseing. But dont let anything or any body put you 
 down, the gameplay is probably the most well done gameplay out of any other wii game, and definatly 
 the most FUN. And obviosly fun is the only thing that matters, right PS3. PS3: no graphics are 
 the only thing thats matters, im going to go slit my wrists in the bathroom, naw naw naw.... 
 
  
  You go have fun dieing faster than the N-gage PS3 go have fun. --Lifespan/Multiplayer 10/10 --
 
  Ok, your probably wondering why i am adding multiplayer to the lifespan section, and the reason 
 why is, because without the multiplay, the lifespan would be around 6. Ok, now get ready to listen 
 because this is really important....
  
  THIS GAME IS A MULTIPLAYER GAME.
  
  This game may have a story mode, that is extremly short and only took me about 2 days to beat it. 
 But dont stop playin after you beat the story mode, you still have to unlock all the micro games, 
 and all the mini games, and all the multiplayer minigames (which can take quite some time.) Now 
 on to the multiplayer part of this. The multiplayer is probably the best multiplayer i have played 
 since halo and halo2, but it has its flaws. One bad thing about it is you need more than just two 
 people to have alot of fun in the main multiplayer game (it supports 16 player with one mote as 
 i stated before) . And let me tell you, this multiplayer is.... INTENSE. If you have about 5-6 people, 
 trust me it gets very very competive, and very very fun. --Graphics 10/10 -- If you have never played 
 WarioWare before and you seen the screen shots of this game..... you probably think that im crasy. 
 But, really, the graphics are very well done. The reason why the graphics arent like any other 
 normal game, is because this game is not normal. Any game that features Wario is not normal. When 
 you or if you play, you will understand why the graphics are how they are. Unlike most other WarioWare 
 games, there is not alot of real life cutout sprites because of all the wii motes movements. Instead 
 alot of low polygon 3d models with very vibrant textures are used. But of course as I said before 
 graphics are the most important thing, even thought they were very well done. --Sound 10/10 --
 
  The sound of this game is very upbeat and very nice just like in every other WarioWare game. But 
 of course, as this game progresses, the music starts getting frantic. The music always matches 
 the micro game or the theme that it is in, which (in my opinion) ups the game. The sound effects 
 have been done perfect in every micro game i have played so far and im sure you would like them 
 too. --Other Thoughts --
  Most definatally the most fun out of any other WarioWare game. Three Words.... BALLOON FIGHTER 
 3D! Just like every other WarioWare Games, humor based. --Pros --
  
  - Probably the most fun game out for the Wii right now
  
  - Very well done graphics, and micro 
 games (No Broken Or Extremly Hard Micro Games)
  
  - Multiplayer, Fun at parties! --Cons --
  
  - If the wiimote gets off the screen, the micro 
 game is pretty much lost
  
  - Gets a little boring if you dont play multiplayer
  
  - In multiplayer main game if you lose one micro game, you lose till next round. --Total Score 
 10/10 -- --Rent or Buy --
  Im going to have to say BUY unless..... you are not a WarioWare fan or not going to play multiplay 
 then I say rent first before you buy. But if you love WarioWare definentally buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is nuts. It's insane. It's goofy. But it's great. This is 
 a game you can pick up almost anytime and have a blast playing it. Whether it's trying to stick 
 a finger up a nose, fan a giant robot off a mountain, or have a dance-off, the game is pure fun 
 for everyone. My one complaint about the game is that it is waaaaaaay too short. The main story 
 can be completed in about 5 hours depending on your skill level. This left a lot to be desired 
 by me but there are plenty of side things to do. Where the game keeps its value is by playing with 
 a group of people. This keeps the game entertaining past the main story (pictures friend holding 
 remote up to nose to simulate an elephant trunk) .
  
  All in all, I'd recommend this game to just about anyone looking for something fun and would recommend 
 it more for someone looking to play it with friends/family/etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritard
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 10, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a game that involves simple mini-games that you are required to complete 
 in a short space of time. The mini-games are really varied, and aided by the motion sensing controls 
 that enable many wacky positions, but the mini-games just get too old too fast. The multiplayer 
 games are cool for a couple play-throughs, but nothing more, and the block-star minigame is mediocre 
 at best.
  
  The game starts you off with a few play modes, and sets you to the task of completing each 'character' 
 mini-game section to unlock new games. Alot of the games are really quite fun, but some of them 
 can be difficult, and hard to figure out what to do.
  
  The graphics, while being kiddy chalk drawings most of the time, are quite sharp, and keep in tune 
 with the games very odd style.
  Admittedly, some of the games are very funny just trying to figure out what exactly is going on. 
 One game has you slapping wario a bunch of times to wake him up, but if you smack him too many 
 times after he does, he'll go back to sleep again (makes sense) . Another game has you trying to 
 steal a dog's bone without it noticing. When you do steal the bone, the character pops up looking 
 like a charlie brown ripoff. The sound in the game is decent. The tunes while playing the different 
 modes are nicely done, and it's cool to hear them speed up as you complete more mini-games. But 
 there aren't actually very many songs.
  
  All in all, Wario Ware is fun, but you'll probably get bored with it very fast. It's good for a 
 rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is great addition to the warioware from ds, except ds version was better. it is still 
 good, but is very short, and not great gameplay after beating the game. its very very fun when 
 u got more then 1 person. the graphics are absoultly horrible, but its just a cartoony game. if 
 u like multiplay party games, its a great addition to your wii game . i personally have had a pretty 
 good time w/ it. the story line to this game is pretty good. at least there is a point to it. and 
 the parts before nad after u beat the level is pretty enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy1213
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 8, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  So, i finally got warioware on the wii. I thought it would be cool because with all the minigames 
 and the whole virtual reality deal, i thought it would be a good match. And it mostly is. Most 
 of the minigames are fun, but there are not alot of them at all. The one thing that really aggravated 
 me was the time it took me to beat the game. I swear, i buy the game, i take it home and play it. 
 It took me about an hour and a half to beat the whole game. For 50 bucks for an hour and a half??? 
 But then, the minigames get realllly reallllllly boring (due to how many there actually are) I 
 bought the game and i think i might sell it. Gamespot said it was the best game on the wii yet 
 and the review said it was the highest rated wii game so far. When games like killzone (given a 
 6.9) and mariokart 64 (somewhere in the mediocre section or the begginng of the fair section) are 
 getting really crappy reviews and this gets a 9.1? once again gamspot, i take your advice and i 
 wasted 50 bucks. But dont get me wrong, its a good game while it lasts. Probably after 1 day, you'll 
 be bored. To people who have not bought it yet and are thinking about buying it, DO NOT BUY IT!!! 
 But i highly suggest that you rent it because it will be good for a rental. Once again gamespot, 
 you let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Redline
Rating: 5
Date: May 8, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  With the previous Wii games I have played in mind, I didn't expect much greatness to come from 
 playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves. I have had my Wii for about 2 months now and I have so far only 
 played one game that entertained me enough to play it twice, and that game was Splinter Cell: Double 
 Agent. But I decided upon watching a trailer for WarioWare: Smooth Moves that I would give this 
 game a try... And low and behold, yet another Nintendo product disappoints me.
  
  The graphics in WarioWare: Smooth Moves are not too bad compared to what I've seen in other Wii 
 titles. The animation is clear surprisingly during the cutscenes, and there are not very many jagged 
 edges at all. The cutscenes, however odd and short they may be, were actually put together quite 
 well. But the cutscenes are probably the only area in this game where Nintendo actually took it's 
 time. Granted this is a Party game, I will cut Nintendo a little slack for their lack of attention 
 to detail in the extremely short minigames. But still, the game could have been so much better 
 if the minigames were up to par with the cutscenes.
  
  The controls in WarioWare are less than stellar. I know if you read my previous reviews on other 
 Wii games you would hear me complaining about the Wii-mote, but just play this game and see what 
 I mean. For the most part when the minigames call for simple actions such as moving the wii-mote 
 left or right, or up and down, the controls are pretty responsive. But once the game makes you 
 do the gimmick actions, such as the Elephant, or the Samurai, or even the Mohawk, the controls 
 become a bit of a nuisance, and they just don't respond. This proves frustrating when you are at 
 the Boss stages, because once you lose all 4 of your attempts due to shoddy controls, you have 
 to start the whole chapter again.
  
  The audio, however dated and juvenile it may be, is actually fitting for this game. It's not a 
 huge advancement in technology, but it blends with the cutscenes and the minigames quite well. 
 My only real complaint is a complaint I have had with every Mario related title. Why do we never 
 hear Mario, Luigi, Wario, or anyone say more than 2 words?
  
  Gameplay is one area I was not pleased with in WarioWare: Smooth Moves. The minigames are plentiful, 
 don't get me wrong, but they are far too short. The longest minigames run at maybe 20 seconds tops, 
 but then as you progress the game speeds up, and the time for each minigame is cut down by atleast 
 half it's original length. Because of this, you will find the novelty wears off quickly with WarioWare's 
 gimmicky control schemes and the overall fun factor for this game drops significantly. I enjoyed 
 this game for the first 20 minutes of play, but as the game progressed it just lost its mojo. The 
 single player mode of WarioWare is extremely short, taking about an hour and a half at the most 
 to breeze through every chapter. Multiplayer may make the game a little more fun, but it's no Mario 
 Party that's for sure.
  
  All in all, WarioWare Smooth Moves is an alright game, but it leaves a lot to be desired. If you 
 are into party games with no point, and don't care about wasting your money, then by all means 
 buy this game. But if you are like me and enjoy games with a plot or even a sorry attempt at a 
 storyline, then this game is not for you. The minigames are fun at first, but the overall repetitiveness 
 of this game and the short amount of time it will take you to finish it make this game worthy of 
 no more than being a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggeek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Wow, talk about a game that takes advantage of the hardware. At times it's quite shocking what 
 the game does, the information it pulls up, the graphical techniques that are used and the general 
 ingenuity of the controller use. Putting online aside and I think its fair to do that considering 
 the lack of support from just about any Wii game so far, this game uses it all. The speaker is 
 the first revelation. What were your first impressions of this addition? A gimmick when you heard 
 about it, a nice touch when you experienced it, an immersive little nod in the right direction 
 in Zelda? But here it is so much more. It becomes as integral as rumble, a wonderful, immersive 
 tool that directly links you to the game in hand. Warioware has the advantage, it can draw upon 
 its 200 or so microgames to pull upon all sorts of weird and wonderful sounds and each one brings 
 about a visceral delight. The best example would be a puzzle game, which you rotate to drop a ball 
 bearing out of. You hold the controller horizontally and twist left and right, only the speaker 
 emits this clacking-of-gears sound from the palm of your hand that directly puts the puzzle in 
 your hands and the variations of the sound allow you to moderate the angle of your tilt. It's a 
 wonderful little piece of sound design. The other examples of speaker ingenuity also come with 
 examples of controller ingenuity. Lay the controller flat on a surface, discard it. The pick it 
 up as if you were answering a ringing telephone and the voice at the other end speaks through the 
 controller to you. Turn the controller on its side and pump up a baloon, only the sound comes from 
 your hand like a bicycle pump and like the clacking of gears, the whooshing of air variations allow 
 you to moderate the action perfectly. Another simple delight is a micro-game that uses the wriststrap. 
 I did say that this game uses every conceivable facet of the Wii in some way, did I not? It' my 
 personal favourite, a shrill game of dare. By now you've most probably read the whole furore over 
 weakened wrist straps, you've probably even coddled your Wii controller for being the advanced 
 piece of technology that it is. So the microgame of Bungee is a savage test of your own fears. 
 A hand is represented on the screen with a man (the Wiimote) attached to the hand by a bungee cord 
 (the wrist strap) and it tells you to let go, have no fear. And you just let go of the controller 
 and you can hear the wail of the little man dropping from the palm of your hand, through the wiimote 
 speaker as the controller dangles from your wrist. The game also uses your Miis, I've had an arm 
 wrestling match with m0zart and flown against my virtual mother. Very fun and it even surpasses 
 Wii sports use of the miis imo, giving them better graphics and more unique situations to play 
 in. The game also uses your personal information against you in a quiz, testing your nerve as you 
 decide whether to nod or not. It reads the date and time from the wii, your Mii details like favourite 
 colour and gender and asks you questions about them in a micro-game. Very suprising and very good. 
 My other muddled throughts on the game cover its graphics. The small portion of games that are 
 in 3-D, shockingly have some of the best graphics on the system so far. If this is any indication 
 of what we have coming from Nintendo than I think people will be pleasentely suprised by the games 
 that are to come. Again they fall somewhere past what the Xbox can do, clear, vibrant and well 
 rendered. The videogame inspired micro-game sections are pieces of nostalgia driven beauty. Whereas 
 past WW games had basic emulations of 2-D retro classics, Smooth Moves goes the whole hog, giving 
 you slices of recent 3-D Masterpieces. Roll Samus into a ball on the palm of your hand and knock 
 over a barell, hold the controller like a hose and use your Fludd to put out fires. Hold the controller 
 above your head like a giant leaf and guide cel-shaded Link to safe land. It's all here and more, 
 including a fully fledged level from Starfox on the SNES and a ballon fight revision that has you 
 using nunchuk and mote in seperate hands to flap your way to points and prizes. Another shrill, 
 thrill comes from actually yanking out the master sword from its plinth in the ocarina of time 
 and watching as Link goes from toddler to grandfather in a second as the result, or turning into 
 a chicken on one occasion. The best one has to be the pikmin game, where you play as the giant 
 worm creature and roll the controller left and right, spinning it over and over in your hands to 
 squash the helpless Pikmin. It gives you (as the best games do) pinpoint control, with a physical 
 reaction and when some of the pikmin start getting smart and dodging your attacks, you cannot avoid 
 the grin that cracks across your own face. The best games, show in stark terms where the wii controller 
 will be best used and where it wont, not just in this game but in all Wii games that are to come. 
 The controller works best when married to physics, seeing the subtle variations in your actions 
 playing out on screen and not merely being a physical replacement for a scant push of a button. 
 Some of the microgames based on that physics based philosyphy are much deeper and more satisfying 
 than many others. So, whether to buy this game or not? That is the question you are surely asking 
 yourself. The answer is difficult, I have owned 2 previous warioware games so I knew what to expect 
 from this, but if you've never played one of these games before you may be quite shocked, because 
 it's simply not like 95% of the other games out there. It's arcade based in terms of length, you 
 can beat it in a few days but you wont have unlocked even 65% of the micro-games held within itself. 
 The pleasure will come from replaying it in short bursts like the best arcade games, only you will 
 look at the clock only to notice that your intended 15 minutes has turned into an hour. All I can 
 say is that I'm having a lot of fun with it, but you have to manage your own expectations of what 
 you like in a game or not, because I'm sure that there are some out there that wont 'get' Warioware. 
 And you are all, cold, heartless freaks.
  
  Note: Gamespots mathematical equation for final review score doesn't gel with me so I've slightly 
 changed the invidual scores to reach the overall score I feel appropiate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare has always been known to be cooky and zany microgames of which in Smooth Moves there 
 are over 200. Now of course we all know there's nothing grand or epic about this game - at first 
 glance. But what it does amazingly well is use the Wiimote in amazing ways, just as Miyamoto said 
 would occur.
  
  However, if you buy the game expecting a great single-player experience, you'll be disappointed. 
 Once the storyline ahs been completed, the only thing left to do is start uncovering your remaining 
 games. Then after that... nothing of any real desire. But if you get a lot of friends over, it's 
 where the game really shines. It has about 8 different modes of multiplayer, and not all of them 
 use the 200 microgames. Graphically, WarioWare is unusual. See, you don't have one set art direction, 
 you have multiple that mimic the look of games from Game &amp; Watch to GameCube and DS. The prominent 
 look however is closest to that of Paper Mario, in that character appear as 2D forms.
  
  Sound is another interesting thing. The music never really changes at all, making the soundtrack 
 bland, but sounds are also aplenty. The game also makes liberal use of the Wiimote's internal speaker, 
 and it sounds just fine. In one case, you must place the Wiimote down. Then, when the speaker rings 
 , you must pick it up, and answer like a phone. You then will hear a voice say a short little phrase.
 
  
  Overall, WarioWare is best played as it is designed, a multiplayer or in short micro bursts of 
 single in between your Zelda and upcoming Metroid sessions :-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This a great game at the beginning with funny graphics and fun mini games, but when you do the 
 basic get through the game it just gets really repetitive even with over 200 mini games. Once you've 
 gone through the game you have to go back on yourself to unlock the other mini games but for some 
 reason you end up playing the same mini games over and over again before maneging to play one new 
 mini game. The graphics arn't bad but very simple and childish beyond reason, its the same with 
 the sound pretty much. So overall I would say a good game at the start but then it gets boring. 
 = [ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaznobread
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 6, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  My first Wario Ware game. I just didn't get it. Seemed more like a demo for the controllers. I'll 
 give it a shot once it comes down in price since I just rented it for a day or so but there's other 
 games out there that I found much more fun. I just didn't have any interest in trying the same 
 game again to get it right. Perhaps because I'm still new to Nintendo and all the Mario, Wario 
 stuff is still new to me, it's just not for me yet.. I'm a long time PC gamer that got an XBOX 
 and a 360 that I really enjoy.. The Wii is not getting the play it may deserve.. Now if I had a 
 crowd of people over to give it a shot that would be different, but for a single player, not so 
 much. Hey, I work in IT, I don't have any friends!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 5, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is back on the Wii, and like other WarioWare games, it is addictive, fun, creative, and 
 strange. The games story mode is, as you probably expect, WAY too short, and the stories in it 
 are, as you would guess again, nothing truly great. The graphics are good, offering some good looking 
 2d and 3d microgames. The music and sound is alright, nothing really mindblowing. Where this game 
 shines is the microgames, each one having a different objective, and different difficulty. The 
 game is as addictive as ever with it's 200 microgames and fast-paced gameplay. As said before, 
 the story mode is very short, but the game can still take a while if you attempt to unlock every 
 Microgame, stage, and pose cards. The multiplayer is better than the single player, since you can 
 all look ridiculous together, doing all those poses with the Wiimote, and of course, having some 
 nice competition. This is a game to get if you liked other WarioWares or just want to play something 
 truly unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware ; Smooth Moves is games that you have to do mirco games in 4 to 8 seconeds . It has 
 a serturn limit mirco games to do in different levels or charaters places . In muitiplayer mode 
 you can have two to twelve players but give them the controler quiklt or they will lose . To unock 
 new levels you have to do a sertain number of mircogames to go thought it at last one or mircogame 
 there is a boss to verse or level to do before go thought to a different stage in the game. There 
 are alot more unlockable's even that this game is short .
  
  It is endless to fun in game invite youre freinds over and play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  warios back in an all new game for an all new system the wii
  this time you can do all the wacky crazy and wierd moves and micro games
  with the wii mote it 
 gets pretty tense i rented it from my
  video store as my first real wii game other than wii sports when i
  first played it i got into 
 it the levels are a breeze to pass some of
  the mini games are kinda tough and leave you with little time
  to complete them the good
  
 
  over 100 micro games good use of the wii mote wacky fun
  good multiplayer good nintendo game reference i had fun pulling the master sword out of the stone 
 :)
  
  the bad kinda short some levels are tough sometimes the wii mote
  doesnt respond to the games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Warioware comes to the Nintendo Wii, and man, is it a great addition to the system. While the Wii 
 is literally stock full of mine game collections, this one reaches the top for the wacky uses the 
 developers came up with, even if one or two are bad/don't work. Check it out:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Warioware's golden element is fast minigame action. For its Wii release, 
 the series makes players get in very wacky poses to preforming different acts, from shooting a 
 nose with your nose to pulling the master sword out. The title dishes out some very creative ways 
 to use the Wiimote, but some of them are just plain stupid. The top game to have an idiotic form 
 to it would have to be the waiter. While creative, it seems that you have to be holding it at the 
 right angle from the TV for the sensor bar to pick up. However, this might be just a room thing 
 since the Wiimote is very responsive otherwise. Finally, the game has a slight learning curve on 
 some minigames, since it really never tells you what to do in them, leaving some at the training 
 room trying to figure them out.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics of Warioware have never been impressive, and this one continues the trend. The graphics 
 have no real upgrade over even the DS version of the series, except certain things, like the wind 
 waker minigame. Overall, the highest type of graphic you will see here is N64, which is a high 
 res. While 2D is great, I was expecting the series to evolve more in the graphics department, but 
 then Warioware wouldn't be Warioware without 2D, huh?
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Warioware has always been a place for quick tunes, and this edition follows the trend with some 
 catchy music that follows the beat of going from minigame to minigame. I really like the sound 
 effects of the game as well, since they captured the humor of the minigames, like plucking the 
 nose gets a weird blup sound to it. Overall, you really can't complain, and all the sounds are 
 spot on. Plus, would you really like to have these characters talk?
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  This game is screaming to be in your Wii right now, and it should be. The title is definitely worth 
 a purchase. This game has more wacky things to do than Wii sports, and will keep your folk interested 
 in the Wii since you will be doing so many creative things with Warioware. Wii owners looking for 
 a first title will also be pleased with this pick-up, but it does have a drawback: this game is 
 incredibly short. I mean, we are talking 5-8 hours long in mini games. The title has multiplayer 
 and speed modes to keep things going, but don't expect the story mode to last you. If you are in 
 need of a sweet non-party game as your first Wii game, get Zelda or Super Paper Mario. Otherwise, 
 its all this, my friend.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  being a new fan to the series, I find Warioware to be the most addicting thing to touch Nintendo 
 consoles since Pokemon. The games are addictive to master, and then trying to beat your high score 
 in certain games. I remember getting to like 86 in this one mini game and then my bro topping it 
 with 88. I was ticked about it, but also laughing because he never plays games. this series is 
 good enough to capture the people who don't care about video games, and the Wii version is one 
 of the best ones to show it.
  
  Overall: 9.3/10.0
  Awesome title. The game is a must have for Wii game collectors, such as myself. This one earned 
 its spot on the shelf next to Zelda and Wii sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I rented Wario Ware for only one dollar at my local library. in the beginning of the game i was 
 kinda bored and there really was no challenge however once more positions got added into the game 
 it gets more challenging. This game plays like a god there were absouloutly no problems with the 
 gameplay and moving in the different positions was a breeze. So after about 20 minutes i was enjoying 
 the game and then all of a sudden, boom about one hour in.... it's over, all over. you beat the 
 game, now don't get me wrong you unlock extras like a multiplayer mode and well i'm not gonna spoil 
 anything else but lets just say you DO unlock a couple extra things but nothing near enough to 
 make you want to play this game over 10 hours and replaying old micro games gets old, fast. however 
 while this game lasts it is a lot of fun the rush of micro games coming at you is awsome!! and 
 in the story mode the micro games rarely repeat them selfs. however there are some minor flaws 
 with the story like lack of voice acting but this is really nothing because you rarely have to 
 read anything anyway. and the graphics have a funny art style making this game look good even though 
 it is not completly 3D.
  
  FINAL THOUGHT: DEFINENTLY RENT THIS GAME, DEFINENTLY DON'T BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  It all may sound and look silly at first. It did for me. I remember when my friend told me about 
 the game after he played it for the first time. I listened with a weird smirk on my face as he 
 told me all about how you saw virtual logs, run races, trace shapes, and do hula hoop motions. 
 It's so much fun! he said. I just thought... yea... if you are 2 .
  
  I had the opportunity to play the game for the first time at a birthday party, a great setting 
 for the game because there were lots of people. Thankfully because the game relies on passing one 
 controller around the room, it allows many people to play. (Up to 20 if memory serves) Everybody 
 was able to join in the random zany actions.
  
  The game involved passing the controller around to everyone in the game. You were eliminated from 
 the game when you failed to complete an event presented to you in a limited amount of time.
  
  When you first start playing the game, it tells you how to hold the controller, tells you what 
 action to do, and then presents you with a graphical representation of that action. That is all 
 the information you get. From then on it is up to you to figure out how to complete the task at 
 hand. Controller positions range from the regular remote position to putting it on your nose like 
 and elephant or placing it against your hip in what they call the big cheese position. Each action 
 will be somehow related to the position they tell you to put your remote.
  
  The pure randomness of the game makes you wonder what these people were on when they made the game. 
 After some actions, random lions pop out on the screen that had no relation to the action you were 
 doing. In other cases such as the action of picking up the phone and answering it, the Wii remote 
 will have something random to say if you really put it to your ear like a phone. The game progresses 
 and becomes faster paced as fewer people remain in the game. This only makes the game even crazier.
 
  
  There are also many different multiplayer modes which determine how players are eliminated, like 
 a race/points system, where you accumulate points for successful tasks, and receive no points for 
 failures. At the end of the race, your characters are all tied to Mario plumbing tubes with ropes 
 strung through them (sometimes color coded) . The people with the most points have the most ropes. 
 Each player (in order of first to last depending on points) gets to select a rope to cut. Those 
 with the most ropes have the highest chance of not falling to their doom. It is an interesting 
 way to play a game.
  
  The single player is also very entertaining, presenting some very challenging tasks at a very quick 
 pace. This will keep even the solo gamer entertained for quite a few hours. Being the hard core 
 FPS, RPG, MMO, RTS gamer for the PC that I am, I never figured a little kiddy Wii game would actually 
 be able to entertain so many people. The Wii definitely lived up to its cheap and fun reputation. 
 I can see however where the game would totally become boring if you beat it quickly. Keeping friends 
 around (or even random casual gamers) to play with is probably your best bet with this game.
  
  Overall, it is a really fun game. The 50$ price is really a bit high for the time that they 
 actually put into the development of this game, but regardless, if you like playing with friends 
 at parties and such (this would also be a good drinking game) this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great game overall. With the classic Wario micro games sliced and 
 diced into an awesome Wii game.
  
  The Good: Fun new microgames, plenty of unlockables, good multiplayer games, great use of the Wii 
 controller, great use of the Mii channel (make a Jesus character and play survival, it looks funny) .
 
  
  The Bad: Story mode is way too short, some microgames are difficult to play, like the sumo tapping 
 or broom balancing.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great game to pick up, esspiecally if you have lots of friends playing 
 it with you. This party game won't let down the fans of the franchise and you should definetely 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanTheManAus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  9.1! Are you serious gamespot!?? The first wii game to break the 9.0 barrier is one of the worst 
 i've played so far. The fact that it is still quite fun, especially with a few friends and a few 
 drinks, says a lot for the wii... but still, this is not a 9.1 worthy game!
  
  Basically, you'll be playing a bunch of micro games which are often imaginative, well-implemented 
 and totally crazy. The use of the wii-mote is excellent and will certainly make you and your friends 
 look very silly, which is great for a laugh... for about half an hour. Playing by yourself is a 
 little more monotonous, as the game gets very very repetitive and is over in a couple of hours, 
 giving you little reason to switch it back on again. On top of this, the story mode forces you 
 to sit through supposedly 'charming' introductory cut-scenes which I would more aptly describe 
 as boooooooring. I can see that they are trying really hard to be funny in that off-beat Japanese 
 anime kind of way... but for me, it was mostly just uninspired (nothing like Elite Beat Agents 
 for example, which really was funny in that off-beat, charming kind of way) .
  
  Don't get me wrong, my friends and I had a few great laughs playing this game, and Im probably 
 being a little harsh because of high expectations, but this is just not an outstanding game by 
 any leap of the imagination.
  
  Rent it with some friends one night but don't waste your money buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hidys
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Warioware has charm if you like playing with a lot of people (up to 12 people which is more than 
 any wii title) can play. It has several microgames however the story is short if your good at doing 
 things quickly or have good reflexes you should beat the game in 2-4 hours maybe less. The game 
 still has some memorable characters and songs. This game does have some of the weirdest microgames 
 I have ever seen. This version also does things that the others couldn't or were to lazy to do 
 like have microgames based from 3D consoles
  like a pikmin mini game. Overall this game would probably be worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedwithwii
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  When I was thinking of buying this game I thought it would be a letdown. But WOW!! Wario Ware is 
 one of the best Wii games out there. It really makes you move. With 200+ microgames (microgames 
 are even smaller than mini games. They usually only require one motion.) the game is spread out 
 into two modes: Single Player and Multi Player. The Solo mode is very short though, that is the 
 only problem. Solo takes about 2 hours to beat as the game is very fast paced and flashy. Otherwise, 
 this is one of the games to posses. Multiplayer is great, having 5+ modes to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  --Warioware: Smooth Moves is a game that has microgames in it. Yes, microgames. Because you have 
 to do something in a few seconds. For example it says The Remote Control and a dark screen appears 
 and says Find him! Be quick, a few seconds left! Oh, quick! You have to collect the apple with 
 your Wii-Mote nose! Quick! A girl's falling! Save her! And you really do them with the Wii Remote. 
 You shoot, you hold, you jump, you tap... --There are over 200 microgames in this game. To unlock 
 all of them, you should replay all levels again. Yes, there are levels. You play microgames in 
 levels. There are also a few minigames that are fun.
  
  --There isn't exactly a plot but here it is: While Wario is eating junk food, a strange creature 
 comes and steals them. Wario runs after him and enters a temple. He finds Form Baton (Wii Remote) 
 and he has to play a few microgames. The other citizens, too.
  
  --There are ove 15 types to hold the Wii-Remote. Plus, there is a level which you can use Balance 
 Stone (Nunchuk) . The things you do are crazy. And you MUST be quick! Let's talk about the Umbrella. 
 You hold the Wii-mote vertically and.. RUN! The other one is the Handlebar. You hold the Wii-mote 
 sideways and... try not to FALL!
  
  --Without that, graphics are crazy too. They're not hi-tech but who cares? The style is SUPERB. 
 There are lots of styles. 2D, simple 3D (Star Fox) etc. Sound effects are great. There's a song 
 called Tomorrow Hill in the game. It's fantastic. I also like the man who tells the ways to hold 
 it. --Although there are lots of microgames and a few minigames, single player mode ends in a few 
 hours. But, you have to replay levels again to unlock all microgames and after the credits... Huh? 
 New levels! Strangely, after you beat the game, (I mean after you THINK you beat the game) 2-3 more 
 levels open. --And, multiplayer. The best way is you need 1 Remote to play. Who doesn't have? There 
 are 5 types and each of them is fun.
  
  --Warioware's length changes from person to person. I think you can play it forever but another 
 one says It ends in a few hours! If you can REPLAY AND HAVE FRIENDS, this game will keep you until 
 Nintendo's next console releases.
  
  +s: Unique controls, great graphic style, great music, superb use of Miis, it's fast, it IS (?!)
 
  -s: Short (Huh?) , sometimes sensor bar doesn't sense the remote, some boring and easy microgames 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is unlike any game I've played. It's has a very quick speed to it but 
 at the same time it's not too hard to get the hang of. For me the story mode was very short I finshed 
 it in two hours flat, but there is replay value to this game. Usually if you play through the story 
 mode you probably won't see all the micro games. So you can play through to find new micro games. 
 There are also poses you can unlock. I'm not sure what they do but you can look at them in the 
 game. This game also is fun to play with friends. There is a good variety of multi-player games 
 that are very fun. There are also some mini games you can unlock, they're pretty fun. One good 
 thing about this game is that it makes great use of the wii remote. Pretty much all of the games 
 have you doing something with it. I always get a laugh watching friends play this as they flap 
 their arms around wildly or doing some other strange task. So the game is overall a good game. 
 Although I feal it is too short. The game is still really fun though. If you're looking for something 
 different or something that features the wii controler pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlyinM_X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Smooth moves is another solid entry into the Warioware series, and simply a great game all-around. 
 All of the different methods used to hold the wiimote are very innovative (although you can cheat 
 on some of them) .
  Some can be very frustrating too, though (I'm looking at you Mortar and Pestle) . While the main 
 game is light on story and will only take a couple of hours to beat, it earns its keep through 
 a large number of micro-games to unlock (around 200 total , I believe) , form cards, many different 
 unlockable mini-games, which includes a return of pyoro and a 3-D balloon fight, and a multiplayer 
 mode, both versus and co-op. Not all of the multiplayer modes are all that great, though there 
 are a few gems such as darts, hot-potato, and the 2 jumping guys who like cake. When all else fails, 
 you can simply try to set high scores to pass the time too ( but they got rid of the individual 
 microgame high-score challenges, major dissapointment there ) . It's also a bummer that there was 
 only a small part of the game took advantage of the nunchaku attachment. The game doesn't look 
 great, but many times that's intentional, the same goes for the sound. There's also plenty of cornball 
 humor involved, so expect a good chuckle or two. Also, Jimmy has got the best new sidekicks ever. 
 Disco Kitties!!! Your miis also make an appearance in this game. Wii owners should definitely check 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azsoonerfan1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  this game to me is easily the best in the warioware franchise. its funny, the graphics are good, 
 and it has great multiplayer. that is pretty much the only reason to buy this game. if you actually 
 have a life and friends and cant afford a million wiimotes this game is the best party game for 
 you! the single player is short (beat in about 30 min) and that is the only downside to this game. if 
 you get over the fact that it is a short game and relize the beauty of it! this is a great game!!!!!!!! BUY 
 IT. BUY IT. Buy IT... i cant stretch that enough! crap i need one hundred words!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenPenguin84
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I own and love every single Wario Ware Game to date with the exception of Twisted and Party Games. 
 My expectations were high for this game the second I had heard about a Wario Ware Game for the 
 Wii.
  
  Single player really doesn't have Much to offer and can be completed in a matter of hours, In my 
 case 2 hours. upon completing the game I still couldn't put it down. After about a week, it's novelty 
 had worn off on me and I started to tire of it. Now the only purpose single player really serves 
 for me is unlocking new micro-games for multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer really isn't much unless you have a large group of friends and have unlocked a great 
 deal of micro-games. If you do happen to have a large group and many micro-games unlocked, then 
 LET THE PARTY BEGIN. This is the ideal game for multiplayer, It supports up to 12 players and only 
 uses one Wii Remote which must be passed around as the micro-games get faster and faster and harder 
 and harder. You and your friends/family will have a much fun.
  
  Recap: This game has an extremely short but fun and addicting single player mode. Multiplayer is 
 tons of fun with a large group of people and only uses one Wii Remote.
  
  If You are looking for a game with a great single player mode go for Zelda: Twilight Princess or 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings. If you are looking for a game to play with large groups of people, 
 then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I've played on the Wii so far. The quick transitions make it impossible 
 to get into the game at all. Single player is a complete waste of time. Multiplayer is little better, 
 unless you're drunk and playing with a spastic monkey. This is the first Nintendo console I have 
 every owned, so I must be missing something. Everyone seems to think this game is the best Wii 
 game around, but I'd play just about anything before WarioWare. I can't stand it, my wife can't 
 stand it, and my kids can't stand it. Glad I rented it before buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  STARTER
  
  Right, Lets start this review by saying anyone who has ever played a Wario Ware Game (Almost) knows 
 what there in for, A Series of completely whacky games that are fun for the whole family, But Wario 
 Ware : Smooth Moves set's a new bar in Mini-Game entertainment.
  
  INTRODUCTION
  
  From The moment you load the game you are thrown in at the deep end, with over 200 Mini-Games, 
 the variety will keep you going for hours without getting bored, however there are no tutorial 
 levels so you have to learn the controls for each game with the text on screen just before the 
 game, this can be annoying as for a long time your stuck on the games unaware of how to play them 
 but the further you get in to the game the better it becomes.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  My Personal favourite game in the collection is The Chauffeur, the graphics are V. Good compared 
 to the others and although they won't make you forget Gears Of War anytime soon, they are good. 
 The other game's in the collection have varied graphics, some good, some bad, some Ugly but Gameplay 
 is what matters here.
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Overall Wario Ware is an exceptional Game (Or Should I Say Games) that will propell Wii further 
 forward in there Next Gen Battle So if your looking for the best Wii Game out there this is a close 
 call with Legend of Zelda : Twilight Princess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoffmabo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game I must say is quite fun, especially if you have a ton of your friends over. The single 
 player is still even fun by yourself. But the multiplayer just rocks all in its own little world. 
 Sure the games may get goofy at times, but can you really call it a Wario Ware game without the 
 whacky crazyness??? I know I wouldn't be able to, I would just call it some cheap look a like. 
 The multiplayer gets really fast paced, and it is hilarious if you try to play it with your parents. 
 They don't know what the heck is going on most of the time, and end up losing. But my favorite 
 thing to watch them try to do, is the squats. They can't really do them to well, and my friends 
 mom almost fell over! This is such a great game, I hope they continue to make the Wario Ware games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  When I got into the Warioware series, it was after seeing clips of it and I bought this game on 
 the day when I got my Wii. My elder brother and I love this game so much because there's so much 
 fun to do on Smooth Moves because all the minigames are performed by using the Wii remote but one 
 character uses the Remote and the Nunchuk together. The funniest stuff on Warioware: Smooth Moves 
 is in some of the clips are getting rid of the smell of Wario's fart, picking Wario's nose and 
 washing a cows butt. The best thing I love is the silly dance you have to perform. When it gets 
 faster and hard you have to be quick and my brother and I love the multiplayer games, they are 
 so so funny. Its worth playing that everyone should play together especially your family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is the fifth game in this series of wacky mini games hosted by none other 
 than Mario's yellow clothed rival, Wario. If you have ever played a WarioWare game before, you 
 know that there is a strange humor found within the games, Smooth Moves is not lacking in this 
 department. The game is full of zany five or so second mini games that will have you moving around 
 like a fool. If you do not want to look like a complete idiot, leave this game on the shelves because 
 you will be flapping your arms about like a madman. This is one of the reasons that this is a fun 
 game.
  
  The game has often been criticized for being a short game. Most people do not realize that even 
 though the ending credits have rolled across your screen, the game is far from over. After this 
 point, you have unlocked the multiplayer mode, where this game really kicks off. You can also go 
 back on each level, and continue to unlock brand-new mini games to play in the future.
  
  The multiplayer is a huge draw to this game as most people will have some good laughs with their 
 friends. It's great that you only need one Wiimote as well, considering they are still scarce, 
 so it's an easy way to have some good multiplayer fun if you only have one controller. The negative 
 side to it is that most people buy this game with intentions of playing multiplayer, but you have 
 to unlock it first, it's too bad, but doesn't take overly long to complete the initial story mode.
 
  
  The visuals in this game are nothing special. They do offer a pretty clean look, but nothing mind 
 blowing. To be fair, they aren't meant to look real, most are very simple, which complements the 
 gameplay quite well. The one level which features past Nintendo games is pretty cool to see, although 
 it has been done in other versions. It is just really fun yanking the Master Sword from the Pedestal 
 of Time, oh how I love thee motion sensing.
  
  For all of the many multiplayer games released on the Wii in this point in time, WarioWare is the 
 best. It makes excellent use of the Wii's motion sensing capabilities and offers simple, quick 
 gameplay, which is great for a multiplayer game. This game probably shouldn't be purchased, unless 
 you frequently have people over to play games, otherwise you might as well save some money and 
 just rent it, this goes for most multiplayer games to be fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursedspirit33
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The warioware series was always a fun little series. When it came out for Wii, and seemed like 
 it would work, for the wiimote could provide better interaction. This is true, but there are too 
 many flaws to make it a classic. First, the game is too easy. I didn't really find any difficulty 
 towards the second to last character. Second, the game is over quickly. It won't take more than 
 15 hours to beat (and that's being generous) . Third, the wiimote is unresponsive at time, even 
 with a full battery. Lastly, there's little Replay value. Once you beat it, you'll think well, 
 that was fun while it lasted . There's no real hook to draw the player back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimped
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  ok, I rented this game 1st. but I will buy it! it's just plain fun and everyone loves it! some 
 of the remote moves like the elephant are a little to much but othewise it's a ball to play. i 
 can't help but laff at some of the silly crap that this game has to offer. you could go rent it 
 first like i did, but you really dont need to. i'm sure all (but the most hard cases out there) 
 will love this game.
  bla bla bla bla bla (100 words) bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradz182
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  For those who don`t know the warioware series let me explain. It's a bunch of random games thrown 
 at you one after the only lasting for about 5 seconds each.
  Sounds Boring. Your very wrong. It`s highly addictive and keeps you coming back for more and more. 
 What makes it so special is the use of the wii-mote. You use 16 different stances to play each 
 game. From using it as a umbrella to using it as an elephants trunk. The nunchuck is only used 
 for 1 stance but it is used in multiplayer for some games. The bad ponits are that it's short but 
 bearing in mind it's all about improving your high scores and the other thing is that the multiplayer 
 is slightly poor but when you get about 5 people playing it is very frantic fun. So overall it 
 is a very good game with lots of high points and hardly any low. I would also recommend WarioWare 
 Touched for DS which is also very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_G_H
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves was a real surprise to me. I first saw my brother playing it on his Wii, 
 the graphics didn't look that great but he did seem to be having fun.
  
  So, I tried it myself, and it is fun. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is just like a big compact mini-game 
 centre, showing you all the different ways you can play with the Wii-mote. Frankly, I think that 
 Nintendo should have put WarioWare: Smooth Moves in the pack for the Wii instead of Wii Sport, 
 though that's my point of view.
  
  Back to the game, each set of mini-games has some sort of little story behind it, which is nice 
 and some times funny but doesn't add much depth as there isn't really a plot behind it. All it 
 does is chop the mini-games in some themes, like the video game store where the mini-games are 
 based on famous Nintendo games (my favorite level of the game) , though some of the mini-games are 
 randomly put. The game can be finished in a couple of hours, the real challenge is to get all the 
 mini-games and bonuses. Once that is done, well invite friends and have some rounds to see who 
 is the most skilled with the Wii-mote! But if you're always playing it by yourself, you'll grow 
 tired of the mini-games after playing for quite a while.
  
  Graphically the game is unique, it switches from 2D to 3D and what may some times seem like a 3 
 year olds drawing. I guess its the fun and children style WarioWare series always had, I can 
 not say Im very fond of the style, but it does add into the fun.
  
  Musically, well I cant really say much, I dont find the music to be great or horrible, just some 
 sort of tool to accompany the game
  
  Now to the gameplay. WarioWare: Smooth Moves, like I have said, really shows the potential of Wiis 
 system. The many different manoeuvres that the player can do is what makes this game so fun and 
 entertaining. It is maybe, for the moment, one of the best uses of the Wiis system.
  
  To sum it all up, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a game any Wii owned should have, it may even be a 
 way to practice on your Wii-mote skills, who knows ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedzub
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is only fun with other people. I my self don't have friends who are interested in the 
 wii and are more interested in the x box 360 or PS3. The game was great at first but loses its 
 value when there is no one to play with its a great multilayer but if you don't have any one to 
 play with don't but this game. I recommend this game if you love party game though but one again 
 if you don't have any one to play with don't buy it. This game consists of hundreds of mini micro 
 games. I loved it at first but put it down after a week and never played it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobinjobin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I just went over to my friends house yesterday and he just got this game and i've been playing 
 the series since the first game, so we started to play t it was definitly the best in series, with 
 all of the addictive boss level's like Mini Wario's dance move one and all of the addictive one 
 or two player game's like bungee buddy's (for two player) and pull the master sword out of the 
 stone (for one player) LOL link's a chicken. Anyway this game deserves the 9.6 because everything 
 about it is perfect except for the graphics i know there good for the series but they still don't 
 cut it if you know what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic9jct
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware; Many will tell you that this is just another lousy Mario spin-off. I mean, seriously, 
 Wario is anti-Mario, right? Well this game is anti-Mario to the max. You got Wario and a whole 
 new cast of characters and everyone's got a story. See, everyone around Diamond City has problems, 
 but by using the Form Baton (Wiimote) and various forms (how you hold the remote) you can make 
 things right again. Each story is told cartoon-style with a character intro, a story and an epilogue. 
 My personal favorite is the tale of two Nintendo nerds when one breaks the other's treasured Game 
 and Watch. The stories are entertaining and at times laugh-out-loud funny, but there's only about 
 ten of these and can completed in one sitting, but there will still be microgames left over. What 
 are microgames? The bulk of the game 5 second games that you must complete, your only directions 
 a single command. Once you've mastered any of the Wario Ware games, you'll forever know what to 
 do when you're told Sink it!, Twist!, or even Find the Weirdo! Younger folk, be warned, your WILL 
 think that this game is the stupidest waste of money and time on this earth. WRONG! As you complete 
 microgames, you will unlock actual games based on their respective microgames.
  
  Where this game truly shines is multiplayer. There is one perk about it that is a blessing and 
 a curse; multiplayer uses only one remote, and this is not an option. The downside; a casual multiplayer 
 session will seem tedious when throwing the remote between up to five people, but that also means 
 that if you buy it with a system, it's playable right out the box. So I recommend this for a first 
 Wii game.
  
  Also, if Wii Sports tired ya out, prepare to develop what gamers call Extreme Wii Elbow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Plus Side: The same kind of minigame fun you expect from a Wario Ware title. A variety of multiplayer 
 modes will make this game a hit with your friends. The humor and wackiness is appealing to the 
 most burnt-out stoner as well as the most stodgy senior.
  
  Negative Side: Way too short: you can unlock everything in a couple of hours. Not the most sophisticated 
 game on the Wii in terms of graphics or controls.
  
  How do you describe Wario Ware to someone who a WW virgin? I said it's like taking Super Mario, 
 Hunter Thompson, and the most ADD addled mind, rolling them up like a katamari, lighting it, and 
 inhaling deeply. That was enough for Vinnie, but what about you? I'm sure you know the deal by 
 now: some bizarre plot inspires Wario and his friends to make hundreds of absurd and hilarious 
 minigames. What makes the Wii version different is the variety of forms/ways of holding the wiimote 
 (and later, the 'chuck too) which you usually have to switch between each little game byte. Each 
 form is introduced gradually in a series of hilariously scripted monotone spoofs on hypnotherapy 
 and meditation recordings. These variety of playing 'forms' help make this Wario Ware stand out 
 from the others.
  
  You will find that some forms work better than others. You'll also find some minigames are hard 
 to get the hang of or the Wiimote wont respond as accurately as it does with others. This usually 
 has more to do with the lack of instruction on how to play (figuring out how to play each minigame 
 is part of the game) than any sort of malfunction. Like any Wario Ware game, Smooth Moves is allot 
 of fun but very short. In fact this one may be even shorter than all the others. It wasn't long 
 before I unlocked everything and after that, the only reason you'd want to play by yourself is 
 for the exercise; which it's really good for since they can group all the aerobic minigames on 
 Dr Cygor's spot on the map.
  
  You may feel gypped between the time you finish unlocking everything and the time you invite friends 
 over to play. However when your friends (especially any stoner friends) do show up, WarioWare Smooth 
 Moves doesn't only provide a frantic hot potato (up to 12 people can play with one remote) minigame 
 experience but also throws in a whole lot more multiplayer fare including darts and one of the 
 weirdest flight sims you'll ever see. These multiplayer games are what makes Wario Ware worth the 
 purchase rather than rent but if your friends don't like getting together to Wii, your better off 
 just putting this on your Gamefly list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Warioware Smooth Moves is an excellent choice for any Wii owner. Smooth Moves maintains the balance 
 and success as the previous titles in the series, and has out done it! With a large variety of 
 mini games, intuitive controls, and characters, this game has it all! The story is very basic, 
 Wario discovers the "form baton" (wiimote) and uses it in his many adventures in the city. The 
 game has some down points though. One, it's not long enough. Although there's hours of mini game 
 pleasure, I'm sure many would've wished there was more to the game. Two, there are some mini games 
 that aren't as intuitive. You may find yourself performing the microgame in the wrong form. For 
 examle, the "waiter" form can sometimes be used in the basic "remote" form.
  
  Thankfully, nunchuk uses for the game were put to the side seperately, that way you couldn't get 
 annoyed by taking the attachment on and off. Although there aren't as many nunchuk microgames, 
 they were very intuitive and enjoyable.
  
  A lot of the microgames can be very addictive. One of the best features in the mini-games is the 
 old school nostalgia to classic games no matter how old they are (Super Mario Bros, LOZ Ocarina 
 of Time, LOZ, Wind Waker, Wario Land, Star Fox, etc.) The multiplayer modes could've been better. 
 The fact that you have to pass the Wii Remote around in circles to each person is kind of complicated 
 and can sometimes spoil the fun of the game, but sometimes it can be enjoyable.
  
  All in all, the game serves great hours of single, and multiplayer madness that everyone can enjoy! 
 Warioware Smooth Moves is a great game for every Wii Owner to enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is a fun collection of mini-games and the first time you play it you will have a blast. 
 But the game can be finished in only a few hours. But that being said there is tons of fun to be 
 had with multi-player and also tons of cool stuff to unlock. The graphics look great because the 
 art style varies dramatically from one mini-game to the other. The cartoon animations are nice. 
 They look crisp and clean with great animation styles. The story seems to be the main theme for 
 some of the mini-games that randomly appear. They could have added more of these because they can 
 be hilarious and many of the mini-games are pretty hysterical at times too. The mini-games are 
 so wild and crazy and they all show how versatile the Wii controls can be. It's a great way to 
 showcase the amount of innovative games that can be created using the wii controls. All the mini-games 
 are detailed and almost all of them can be finished within a few seconds. They also have about 
 3 levels of difficulty for each game. This alone makes the game enjoyable and it makes you feel 
 like playing levels over and over again just to see all the 200+ mini-games. Your mii's also appear 
 in some mini-games from time to time and it's a nice touch. The only control issue comes from the 
 waiter form. While the game gives you a nice and funny tutorial to show what position the wii-mote 
 should be in (19 in all) before each mini-game, the waiter isn't always detected and you will find 
 yourself failing these mini-games a-lot.
  
  There are tons of unlockables including mostly of games and while i won't spoil any of the unlockables 
 i will say that they are all fun in there own way. The boss battles are the longest mini-games 
 and they are the best ones. While again, i won't spoil it for you but i just wish that they could 
 have added more of these because they are so awesome to play. It is also cool that you can play 
 the story mode again and it gets faster and faster each time and the boss battle gets more and 
 more difficult.
  
  In the end this game would have been so much better if they added more content to the already very 
 beefy game and also they should have made a longer story mode (s) . But this is still an awesome 
 game and i recommend it to anyone who isn't afraid to let go of their dignity, even for a little 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenamena
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  i'm not the biggest fan of the Mario universe. you could even say i hate it. but this game is one 
 of a kind. it's good because the wii remote is always active on the game. everything involves it. and 
 just incase you've lost or do not own a nunchuk, don't worry. WarioWare doesn't need one until the 
 last level on the game. basically, you choose the character you want to work for, then you'll be given 
 a short intro to them. the level is about doing the various activities by doing the action it tells 
 you to do. each level gives you four lives which are shown as a object (cats, apples, kids etc.) there 
 are also mini-mini games like shooting cans &amp; barrels, balancing blocks on a wooden strip and 
 there's even one called All Mixed Up where you do activitees from all the levels. overall, WarioWare 
 is a must have if you own the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigphilwilson
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game for the first time, my initial thought was to turn the game off 
 and return it to the video store. The intro was long and drawn out with little explanation of what 
 was to be done. Once the intro was over and the map was laid out, the mini games started to kick 
 in. The Wii mote usage was very intuitive, I could get used to this. I ended up playing the game 
 for the next 4 hours and then 3 hours the following day. The game consists of a map with different 
 stations on the map. You job is to go to each station and master the mini games. Once you have 
 mastered the mini games, there is a boss stage. Each time you beat a new station (s) appears.
  
  Pros: Fun. Great use of the Wii mote. Memorable.
  
  Cons: Too Short!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This games uses the wiimote well, I have to agree with everyone. It shows what potential the wii 
 has, but that's all. Single player has very little content, multiplayer just plain sucks! I always 
 go back to playing wii sports after 10-15 of playing with friends. This games shows how good the 
 wii would become, but I'm very happy I bought this for only 51$ and sold it back for 43$ (got guitar 
 hero 2 with the saves :D)
  
  100 words is a lot too much to describre how average this game was and how overrated gamespot made 
 it look like
  
  Actually the first time I buy a game gamespot has noted really well that disapoints me on every 
 point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves was a highly anticipated game for the Nintendo Wii, and it appears as though 
 it has lived up to those expectations. This game consists of a bunch of 10-second microgames. For 
 each level, you do a certain number of these games, and then you have boss battles, in which you 
 do more smooth moves. Though this game is great and entertaining, the single player is EXTREMELY 
 short. Although this game is usually looked on as a multiplayer game, it would have been nice to 
 have seen Nintendo extend the first player. All in all, this game is worth it, and is a worthy 
 addition to anyone's Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unsunghero28
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I know a lot of people have been complaining about WarioWare's short length, but they're incorrect 
 to complain. They obviously haven't actually tried going through and unlocking EVERY SINGLE MICROGAME- 
 if they had, then they would know this game can easily offer a good 10 hours of gameplay, plus 
 a multiplayer that is perfect for when you've got a bunch of friends over.
  
  Anyone that owns the game and is at all disappointed and hasn't gone through the second time, then 
 TRY IT. Go back and play through the story modes again. There are still a ton of hilarious microgames 
 (not to mention multiple boss battle difficulty settings) that you can unlock. DO IT and you won't 
 be disappointed.
  
  If you have ever wondered how much your wii-mote could do, then pick this up. You'll be amazed 
 at how much this game alone proves the Wii's motion sensing can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak323
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  the thrill wears off. although if u have like 3 or 4 people playing it is fairly fun... althow 
 i really dont think it should be a 9.1 more like a 7.0 - 7.5 i think zelda twilight princess is 
 amazing great: challenging but fun... and its a pretty long story. i think tp should be on top 
 not ww smooth moves. and once you start playing u also notice thee miny micro games tend to be 
 at least 3 seconds short maybe a lil longer so your changing the position of the wiimote every 
 5 secs. next thing u know its saying faster faster faster!!!! and u dont have any time at all. 
 so i think u should rent this first see if u think its worth a big price of 50.00$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  i played the first WarioWare on the GBA and Touched on the DS and this is way better in many ways: 
 Graphics can be in a level of bad GBA, Great GBA, DS, Gamecube and i saw one on the level of a 
 GB. the gameplay is the same only it feels much better using the Wiiremote insted of the D-pad 
 or teh stilyist. the game has many short stories for every charater you play such as that wario 
 steals the Form Baton (WiiMote) and 18-bit destroying 9-bit's DS and he tries to buy one before 
 they sell out and the last is that creatures protecting the form baton geting it back from wario. 
 the way you hold the wii remote starts simple such as pointing stright and hold it upwords or put 
 it on the side NES style that the buttons are in front of you or pointing at the roof. then it 
 becomes more and more crazy like putting the remote in fronte of your nose and over your head and 
 under the stomach to do games such as jumping in a rope and doing the hula, the game has great 
 minigames that you never find one of your favourite, but you can pick a faourite charater and mines 
 is 9-bit and 18-bit because they have the the classic Nintendo Charaters such as Mario, Link and 
 others such as StarFox. the game is short so you can see all the options in a couple of days but 
 to finish them all complely it would take at least 15 hours. i just played with one other player 
 in multiplayer so it wasn't that great but i see that it can be very fun when you have let's say 
 4-10 players. it has five option and i tried all of them. 1. a reguler threw the pin in the circle. 
 2. try and complete all minigames until you lose and the last man standing wins. one is last man 
 standing only that after that you choose they way the next guy plays with the form baton. the next 
 is that you need to pump a ballon and then do the mingames. i played many minigames and that is 
 just the best one i played and even it is short it can be fun playing it again and again and if 
 you buy a wii and you want another game beside Zelda there's no other game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inominavell
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Smooth moves took the wii-mote to another level, getting it to what it really should be. It's really 
 what we will have in party games, such as Mario party series.
  The Forms stuff (the wii-mote ways of handling) are also a great thing, since a few games explore 
 tha much of the wii-mote controller (Metal Slug is fine!) . The only problem I see it&acute;'s the 
 replay feature, on single player, of course.
  Multi-player works just perfect, so if you don't have the four wii-motes, go and grab it fast, 
 and then call out all your friends to a huge and fun party! Great Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukieuk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Bought this for my two daughters, aged 10 and 6. Me and the kids have has hours of fun on this 
 game, the music is swell and the graphics are retro and cool.
  The husband wouldn't join in this game, he joined in Rayman and Wii sports but this wasn't for 
 him.
  We all completed the game which was very quick and we usually takes months to complete a game, 
 you can play over and over and the multi players were good but not enough for me, the kids loved 
 the way the mii came into this game and were pretty pleased with the game but it's got old and 
 now i've traded the game in.
  Great for parties but no for one person only, this must be played with a few people. I would like 
 to see a Wario Ware 2 but with more mini games and better multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  The new Warioware game, Warioware: Smooth Moves, has Wario discovering a temple, finding a Wii-mote-like 
 Form Baton. Being the greedy slob he is, decides to steel it. Then, a huge boulder chases him. 
 You must help him get out by using your Wii remote doing various and random microgames. What happens 
 afterwards? Well, you have to help everyone around Wario's town, Diamond City, with their regular 
 activities; if it's to help 2 kindergarden ninjas to defeat an evil demon, or to help dog and cat 
 cab drivers bring a woman back home . The review is below; please read, as I talk about what this 
 Wii game offers:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: The Warioware franchise has been holding up quite well (despite a few little problems 
 with some games, such as Warioware: Touched) , from its GBA premier to now, and this is no exception. 
 This time, Warioware has Wii controls, and I can't stress enough about the number of amazing positions 
 and styles combined with many microgames, or shorter than minigames. One of the styles is known 
 as The Waiter. What you do is balance the controller on the palm of your hand, and then do the 
 action the TV screen tells you to do, such as balancing a broom. There are, of course many other 
 sorts of styles of the remote you can use. Here is the following of such: The Remote Control, The 
 Big Cheese, The Elephant, The Discard, The Mohawk, The Janitor, The Samurai, The Diner, The Dumbell 
 and a few more. All can be explained through a very good instructuion run-through before you each 
 microgame that introduces the new technique that, for the people that watched SNL in the late eighties 
 through the early or so nineties, sounds alot like those silly half-minute Jack Handy monologues. 
 This game does deal with the nunchuck (or The Balance Stone as this game calls it) add-on, but 
 is only used through the level that introduces The Diner (excluding the arcadey minigames) , and 
 that doesn't come until very late into the game. You might be asking me, How and/or when do you 
 know to switch from postition to another position? Quite simply, each time a microgame is complete, 
 a sign will tell you the name of the postition, give you time to get in postition, and prepare 
 to do the next microgame. It will all work out nicely. But anyways, you'll realize soon how addictive 
 and fun the uses of the controller mixed in with the microgames. What are some of the microgames, 
 you might ask? Well, some include flying a paper airplane, picking a nose, hula-hooping, pushing 
 someone down the ground (I can't stop laughing every time I do this microgame) , running to the 
 the finish line, picking up trash, lifting a dumbell, and many more to the total of more than 200 
 microgames. There are also boss battles in each level, doing such as dancing, playing Star Fox, 
 dueling with swords, and many others. What considers to be the best set of microgames? While all 
 of them are equally very fun, I personally like the classic 9-Volt microgame sets, for it is not 
 only a review over all the Wii techniques learned (excluding The Diner) , but is also the fact of 
 doing random microgames that are from licensed Nintendo games (such as Pikmin series, Super Mario 
 Sunshine, Metroid Prime series, Animal Crossing, Legend of Zelda series, etc.) . But anyways, Warioware: 
 Smooth Moves provides amazing, innovative, and intuitive gameplay that makes good use of the Wii's 
 motion control; no doubt, Warioware is one of the best games the console is offering. Anything 
 wrong; what's the catch? Well, the game, is sadly, way too short. And I mean, like, two or three 
 hours short, plus two or so more hours once you unlock all the microgames. Pretty much, you can 
 go through everything this game offers in one sitting. It's because of the small length that makes 
 this game not as challenging as it can, either. That, and the motion sensitivity sometimes won't 
 work, causing frustration. Otherwise, this game is awesome. Everything in this game should be replayable, 
 and multiplayer will surely be a blast to play. Don't worry about looking stupid; you should let 
 your inferiority complex go and just seriously play this game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: While Warioware was never a technically powerful game, but on the other hand, that's 
 not what the game was aiming for. Of course, Warioware's always been about the style. Smooth Moves 
 still has the quirky and random style in this game, as well. If it ever looks odd (well, that's 
 all the time) or kind of ugly, remember: it's for a purpose. The fact that this game has so many 
 different styles and drawings (every microgame pretty much looks different, and that is good thing) , 
 that you can't say that the developers (which this time appears to be Intelligent Systems and not 
 Nintendo) did not work at all for the looks of this game. Warioware looks great, and while it's 
 not mind-blowing all the time, the style still fits the game perfectly, much like the other Warioware 
 games.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: I have to say: Smooth Moves' sound bits fit the game very well, much like the graphics do. 
 It's flat-out goofy and quirky: music, sound effects, everything related to sound. Like the graphics, 
 every microgame sounds (or close to) different. Warioware: Smooth Moves has the best use of sound 
 for the Wii until further notice. Quite simply, the sound, much like every attribute for this game, 
 works for me while playing Smooth Moves.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: While it is short, that doesn't mean you have to stop once you went through everything. 
 There are microgames to unlock, highscores for minigames to be done, and challenges. There's also 
 a neat carb set of microgames, to see how many carbs you lost, and see your rank carb-wise, so 
 that might get you coming back every day. Multiplayer is also fun and addicting, and unlocking 
 all the microgames is an accomplishment, so there is alot of things to do for its short lenght 
 of time. It is possible this game can even be played with a friend and not be multiplayer. Warioware, 
 in general, is addictive, and the length can't stop that.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Is Warioware recommendable for the Wii? Well, I've completed it, but rented it, yet I'm tempted 
 to buy it. It's short, but it still, everyone can get into this, and pretty much everyone should 
 play this. This score more relates to how much I thorughly enjoy this, and I just love the game. 
 You have to play this, buy or rent; you'll most likely be entertained by this game either way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This is just a plain zany game. Fun to the end with tons of unique Wii-remote controls. Definitely 
 the best game to showcase the controls out there currently. Comparing it to Raving Rabbids, I like 
 WarioWare's storyline better but Rabbids as a whole better as the mini-games are just a lot more 
 fun. The graphics in WarioWare are fun but not quite as cool as Rabbids. Definitely a great rental 
 OR a good party game with friends new to the Wii as the controls really are great at many levels! 
 I wouldn't necesarily run out and buy this one unless I could get a good deal on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Theres only one game series that could possibly make drinking a glass of water and doing leg squats 
 fun. That series is Wario Ware. Its destined to be a hit for all the same reasons Wii Sports was 
  its accessible to both hardcore and casual gamers, it gets people moving, it takes full advantage 
 of the Wii remote and last but certainly not least  its fun.
  
  For those who havent tried a Wario Ware title yet, its basically a title made up of hundreds 
 of minigames  and I do mean mini in every sense of the word. They last literally about three 
 seconds; sometimes its as clear as day what exactly youre supposed to do (Jump!, Shoot!, 
 Grate!) , while other times youll be left scratching your head. Actually, youll usually be scratching 
 your head whether you finish a minigame or not because Wario Ware does that to people. Its just 
 so  weird. The music, the art style, the games themselves. Its best to check your brain at the 
 door but keep your sense of humor very, very near. Past Wario Ware games have really taken advantage 
 of the platforms they appeared on. Wario Ware Twisted! for the GBA took advantage of its handheld 
 maneuverability and added all kinds of tilt functionality, while the Nintendo DS version, Wario 
 Ware Touched! used the touch screen to fantastic results. With Smooth Moves, Nintendo was able 
 to go crazy with the free hand, motion-sensitive capabilities of the Wii remote. And go crazy they 
 did.
  
  Thats the key to Wario Ware games how you play them is whats most important. Smooth Moves follows 
 the same basic recipe of the past games in the series  start off with the easier, basic moves, 
 finish a set number of minigames and complete a boss stage, and open up more and more games  
 but makes it fresh and original thanks almost exclusively to the Wii remote. Before each minigame, 
 youre shown a certain stance to take, such as the Umbrella (hold the remote pointed straight up 
 toward the ceiling) , the Sketch Artist (hold the remote in the air between two fingers as if its 
 a pen) and the Elephant (yup  hold it with two hands up to your nose) . You then have to complete 
 the following minigame in that stance. Some of the games they made up are absolutely genius, from 
 water drinking (dont drink too fast!) , to hula-hooping (dont even think of slowing down before 
 time runs out) , to answering a phone. Watching someone attempt the dancing game boss stage is practically 
 worth the money for the game alone.
  
  Wario Ware shines just as bright, though, in the multiplayer modes which, inexplicably, all have 
 to be unlocked when you first start the game (bad, bad, bad decision Nintendo) . Its worth the 
 wait taking the hour or so to unlock the multiplayer games, because they are downright addictive. 
 Though one of the modes can support up to 12 players, youll only ever need one Wii remote. See, 
 these multiplayer games work similarly to the GameCube Wario Ware  players are randomly chosen 
 onscreen and the Wii remote has to be passed around accordingly. Theres the standard elimination 
 mode (the best mode of them all) , a hot potato mode (a close second) , a points race and more. 
 All of them work very well, and its hilarious seeing the chaos ensue as you get more people playing.
 
  
  Theres always something to come back to in Smooth Moves though, friends or no friends. Whether 
 youre trying to unlock those last few minigames, trying to burn some calories in the active-games-only 
 mode, or just trying to beat a high score, this is something that will have you hooked from the 
 beginning and wont let go. Only one problem. It's too short. You'll probably beat this game in 
 about a day. But Wario still stands strong in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchver2point0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of, if not the, funniest game of all time. Now, it may make sense 
 for me to start off by describing the gameplay or describing how incredible the graphics are or 
 whatever else normally goes into a review, but Warios sheer hilarity is its largest attribute. 
 The announcer is disturbingly humorous. A certain scene involving dancing cats made me fall off 
 my couch, clutching my sides. I had to pause the game before I could continue. Nintendo excels 
 in this scenario. There arent a million jokes. This isnt the Borat of video games, but rather 
 a bizarre episode of Sesame Street. While the game may have a few flaws, the humor truly makes 
 WarioWare shine.
  The original WarioWare was developed for the Game Boy Advance in 2003, and was a surprise hit. 
 It introduced micro-games, which are merely a flash of a word or phrase, and five seconds (give 
 or take a couple of seconds) to perform the action. For example, Catch the toast! Then you had 
 five seconds to catch a piece of toast. Simple as that! The charm of this mechanic is that none 
 of the micro-games sync up in any sort of fashion. One five seconds, youre playing Frisbee. Two 
 five seconds, youre trying to stick your finger up someones nose. Three five seconds, youre 
 saving a girl from falling into a pit of ninja alligators. These games continuously speed up until 
 you run away from the television screen, frothing at the mouth.
  Every WarioWare game before this one has had some sort of gimmick. Previous entries cashed in 
 on a touch pad and a slight motion sensor. With the Wiis incredible range of motion sensing, the 
 creators have gone all-out. To make the game a little deeper, forms have been added. Theres always 
 a certain way you have to hold the remote; like an umbrella, or a broom, or an elephants trunk. 
 Not only do you have to know the form, but you still have to figure out the micro-game. This adds 
 a slight bit of depth to what otherwise could have been quite the simple game.
  Truth to be told, this is not a difficult game. You can blow through the main single-player portion 
 within three hours. However, the developers knew this, and knew that would not be their emphasis. 
 Therefore, the whole game is about high scores, high scores, high scores! Havent reached the 100 
 games on the 9-Volt level and want to impress your friends? Go for it! The first time you see all 
 this, it blows your mind. Afterwards, however, the gameplay starts to wear a little thin. It may 
 make a good showcase to those who have not yet seen the Wii in action, but like every other WarioWare 
 game, youll leave it sitting on the shelf after a few weeks.
  Despite some grievances, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is the best WarioWare game yet, and arguably one 
 of the best games available on the blossoming Nintendo Wii. Theres plenty to see here (including 
 a 12-player elimination mode!) , but once you see it, there isnt much else. Perhaps this has been 
 done to make you anticipate the next one even more. Regardless your age, gender, height, weight, 
 skin color, or anything else, this is a near-perfect buy. If youre willing to plop down those 
 fifty bones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves
  
  Well, what can I say about WarioWare? Its addictive and fun to play! WarioWare is a great game 
 with 200 mini-games and you dont even have to have your mates over to play it, its just as fun 
 playing it on your own!
  Its a crazy game and the mini-games are really funny and the whole game is just totally wack! 
 I think this game is cool but if you play it all the time the 200 mini-games feel as if the game 
 doesnt even have 200 mini-games! WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a brilliant game and is addictive 
 so anyone with a Wii, I would advise you to buy it! &amp;#61514; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowknight92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Warrio Ware Smooth moves is the next game in the fun and strange Warrior Ware series. This game 
 is chock full of mini games that are fun and interesting (and maybe even just a little weird) that 
 can either make you laugh, or just plain wonder why... While the game is very fun, it is also on 
 the short side, and after a while the mini-games just get a little boring. While the multiplayer 
 is fun, It gets a little anoying having to pass the Wiimote around, espicially since you should 
 have it strapped on, and getting the strap off, passing it, and having that person putting the 
 strap on could take more time then the mini-game that comes up. In conclusion, warrior ware smooth 
 moves is a fun and funny game, and is definatly worth a rental. If you like it so much then, then 
 by all means go out and buy it.
  
  And on another note.... how could this game possibly get a better grade then Twilight Princess. 
 They are both good, but gamespot, seriously, what are you smoking and where can i get some? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hariobros
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Warioware, for years, the wacky game consisting of 200 (micro) games has now been released for the 
 Wii. In my opinion, I agree with the gamespot review. Warioware and the wii are a perfect match 
 . Smooth Moves offers many fun and sometimes challenging games that provides all the fun of a great 
 video game AND getting your hours exercise at the same time.
  
  I'm not too keen on the graphics, though. Cinematic cut-scenes, good. But on the other hand, I 
 don't like the characters being paper thin in the cutscenes and the microgames.
  
  It has a good value for money, as I play it at least once every day. This is not only because I 
 use it for exercise, but playing the microgames over and over, funnily enough, does not get boring.
 
  
  To sum up, Warioware is a great game. if the graphics and sound were spiced up a bit better, I'd 
 rate this a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiggymaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Warioware has to be one of the funnest games ever, because it is just non-stop fun. There are over 
 200 microgames to play, and it takes ages to play them all (I would know!) . The games are fast 
 paced and sometimes tricky, but usually quite easy and extremely fun. The graphics are hardly next 
 gen, but they are good for this game. Its fun for all the family and a bunch of laughs too! As 
 you progress through the game, which isn't that long, you unlocked mini games which can be fun, 
 but do get boring. When you complete the story, you can go back to ant character and try to get 
 a high score, which will keep you busy for hours on end!
  In conclusion, a game well worth buying and very fun!
  
  9.4 / 10 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kermot
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  look i bought warioware and i was disappointed the games were to short and i lost interest very 
 early is was good starting off but it is a very short lived game i do not know what the fuss is 
 about &gt;: (
  
  i have notting else to say and i need to write 100 words soooooo
  
  gjndpg gfdgnfud gfdgnfuid fdgnuingh gfdgnfdguin dfgn [dgnfd fgidpgnfd fdgn dfgn fdgn fdno dpfn fd [p 
 ngpfnd ng n n pifnd uinio niogniodnion inio n nio ni non ion in ion iongidgn fdniog non ion in 
 ion noi nign in in ion ionio n ionion oinfuid ngionfidng iodfn gnidog nign iong ion ion pnio niod 
 nion ion io
  
  d onot buy warioware 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is another game full of micro games to add to Wario's slowly increasing 
 amount of games. In this one Wario stumbles across a 'Form Baton' - the wii mote - and starts using 
 it to complete tasks. This game has several different stages consisting of a variety of mini games 
 using different techniques to quickly complete the game.
  
  Gameplay: It has a pretty good set up. There are all these different levels each needing you to 
 complete a certain amount of mini games without failing more than four. As you progress, you need 
 to complete more micro games in a shorter space of time, making the game slowly more difficult.
 
  
  Graphics: While in some of these micro games it may just look like cartoon and pathetic, they actually 
 look very good. All the colours are nicely done and the cartoon-y feel of it is actually quite 
 nice.
  
  Sound: There isn't a great variety of sound in the game. You are mostly stuck with the same music 
 continuing throughout all the micorgames. The pretty much only change is when you pass a few micro 
 games and the music speeds up. None-the-less the music is alright.
  
  Value: This is far from a long game, and unless you play the multiplayer often it won't be a game 
 that stays in your wii for a long time. So if you won't be playing much multiplayer, i would reccommend 
 renting it, not buying.
  
  All in all: a did have a good time playing this. The micro games can have funny and odd results 
 which can put a smile on anyones face. My major issue i have with this game is the fact that some 
 of the micro games can be insanely unresponsive and the fact you may have a split second to read 
 what you need to do and you don't catch it. This can force you to make a stupid mistake and cost 
 you beating a level which angers people (such as myself) .
  
  Reccommend: rent it before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a game that is really good.
  You may love this game and if you do you will play it for awhile. There are tons of Games to play 
 with endless fun. So much gameplay to play you wil play for hours. This is a big improvement from 
 the GBA game.
  
  Graphics are getting better, with some games bein cartoon like while others are more life like. 
 Some of the graphics are funny so the graphics are well done.
  
  Sound is quite good, with some of the music is intense while some of the minigames are filled with 
 funny sound effects which makes the sound even better.
  
  Great value! i Recomend this game to any one who has a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon_1378
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  warioware: smooth moves is a GREAT game the only flaws are that the microgames are only 5 seconds! 
 i know micro games are supposed to be short but they could've made them longer and ther flaw is 
 that the game is waaaaaay to short i finished it in like 2- 1 hour. but smooth moves also has good 
 stuff if u have alot of freinds to play this game i would recommend buying it its a fun game and 
 the story is hilarious and there is over 200 fun microgames. the wii and warioware: smooth moves 
 make a perfect combination. However if u just got a wii and u could just get one game for now then 
 i wouldn't pick this game (it's over too fast) but this game is perfect for parties or sleepovers. 
 but if the microgames where longer and the game was longer this would be one of the best party 
 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fooljeff
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  I love the micro game concept, so I was really pumped for this game. I was going to buy it until 
 I found out how little play time there is. So I went over to my friends and beat it.
  
  Good:
  
  The calm voice that explains the different wii-mote styles is absolutely fantastic. 
 The funniest stuff in the whole game.
  
  If you haven't played a micro game before you will probably enjoy it on the sheer innovation of 
 micro gaming alone. But...
  
  BAD:
  
  Its under an hour of playtime.
  
  You are forced to watch these boring cartoons that not even a child would find funny.
  
  Most 
 of the games aren't that good. Especially when you don't know what your supposed to do and end 
 up shaking the wii-mote and winning, and that happens too often.
  
  The game needs to tell you which wii-mote style to switch to before each micro game. Its necessary 
 but there is too much time between micro games to keep the fast pace flow going.
  
  Multi-player is the suck because you have to pass the wii-mote and play by yourself. How is that 
 even multi-player? I could do this with any game.
  
  Final thoughts:
  You will probably love it for the first 10 minutes. Unfortunately when you beat the game an hour 
 later you will feel cheated. Especially when half of that hour was taken up by boring cartoon shorts. 
 A lot more microgames and some good old fashioned effort could have been put into this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The Gameplay in Warioware: Smooth Moves Is perfect, All the actions fit the wii-mote very well 
 and it never get boring when your playing, Only 1 problem would be that the game is too short. 
 You could get through the main story in an hour or 2 but it is still fun to go through the same 
 levels again to unlock all the mini games and poses cards.
  
  Graphics
  Its hard to describe the graphics in Smooth Moves because its always changing but the graphics 
 is good.
  The games all look good and the miis look all right.
  
  Sound
  It sounds like most of the Warioware games do, the game uses the speaker in the wii-mote what sounds 
 good and overall the game has great sounds.
  
  Value
  The game has good Value, It has the replay-value and you may still be playing after you finished 
 the game.
  
  Tilt
  Overall if you want a great game on the wii that has the best Gameplay I have seen, Pick up Warioware: 
 Smooth Moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  The warioware series has always been innovative and fun. But no game is perfect (except OoT) . The 
 series only real weakness is the length of it's games and i think smooth moves may be the shortest 
 entry yet.
  Game play: Basically this game is about completing five second micro games that have you perform 
 some pretty strange and sometimes distrubing tasks. An example could be pulling out teeth or even 
 clipping nails. How do you control all of these things? Simple, by using the forms of the form 
 baton, more commonly known as the wii remote. There are 19 forms in total including one that requires 
 the balance stone, in english that's the nunchuck. The forms start out simple like pointing the 
 wii remote at the screen but they gradually become more complex, such as the elephant form where 
 you hold the wii remote to your nose. As you progress the games get faster and nintendo finds more 
 disturbing things for you to do.
  Graphics: The character design is well done and the colors are vibrant. The microgame design is 
 well done as well.
  Sound: The sound is great coming from the t. v and the wii remote. For example you have to pick 
 up the wii remote to simulate picking up the phone and suddenly you hear hey whats up coming out 
 of the wii remote.
  Value: The value is pretty low since the game only took me 2 hours to complete but this is a great 
 multiplayer game and you only need 1 remote. Tilt: I have no idea what this is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxXIchi_goXxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare : Smooth moves is another great Wario game , having a huge variety of awesome mini-games 
 , and uses the Wii-mote's motion capability to its fullest.
  
  The game is awesome, Having mini-games ranging from Super Mario bros. to Zelda to picking noses 
 , its just great.
  
  The graphics are so colorful and unique , combining 3D figures with old 2D classics , its really 
 nice .
  
  The music in this game is amazing ! , Its great and goes well with the mini-games !
  
  And 
 the game will have you playing it a pretty long time, (Although you can beat it in a day) but you 
 can still play the mini-games over and over again without getting bored quickly , the multiplayer 
 mode also adds value to the game.
  
  I recommend it to all of you gamers out there, you wont regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fartys
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is a fun and enjoyable game that just about anyone can pick up and play, from 5 year 
 olds to the elderly. WarioWare launches you into the game with a hillariously poor story which 
 is short and simple, after this you dive straight into the action and by action i mean the microgames. 
 The microgames are basicly the game, though they are the so funny they will make you wet your pants 
 they only last around 5-10 seconds each. Although there are a few minigames to unlock along the 
 way which are entertaining but get old fast. Each stage has around 13 (taken by average) microgames 
 which provides much entertainment and quite a challenging experience the first time through, however 
 considering there are only 20 or so stages to complete in single player and 7 or so stages in multiplayer 
 (unlocked when game is completed) you can imagine there is not much play time here. Personally 
 i completed story mode in 1hour 50mins and multyplayer in 30mins which is the main reason i downed 
 this games score. The graphics in warioWare are all cartoony and cool and look very crisp when 
 viewed in 480p and create a very funny and memorable experience. As for the sound, it's great lots 
 of hillarious sounds along the way with catchy music in the background to keep the sense of speed 
 alive. The gameplay in WarioWare differs from microgame to microgame each more unexpected than 
 the last, you'll find yourself looking stupid more than once in this game and that's a guarantee! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  The game that best caters to gamers ever-atrophied attention spans makes its triumphant debut 
 on the Wii with WarioWare: Smooth Moves. Once again the colorful cast of characters will have you 
 piloting a giant proboscis, inserting dentures, waving away massive fart clouds, and accomplishing 
 over 200 other unthinkable feats of absurdity.
  
  The Remote Control
  
  As in past WarioWare games, Smooth Moves provides a map from which you can choose different characters 
 stories to play. Each story in the main game is comprised of 10  20 progressively accelerating 
 microgames followed by a boss stage. You have four lives to successfully complete a story and 
 unlock new microgame collections and other goodies.
  
  WarioWare titles always give a heads up on how each mini-challenge is executed, but Smooth Moves 
 also provides a prompt explaining how to hold the form baton (Wariowares cute code for Wii Remote) . 
 These cues describe the various ways to clutch and fondle your Wii remote in order to best complete 
 the task at hand. The brilliantly tongue-in-cheek explanations are crooned with the dulcet tones 
 of a self help guru who should be made poet laureate for his efforts. Nintendo dreamed up an impressive 
 array of stances ranging from the conventional remote control to the positively kooky mohawk. 
 This is an advertisement - This story continues below
  
  
  The Sketch Artist
  
  Nintendo continues to take advantage of the rare understanding that visually interesting game design 
 is not dictated by graphical realism. Smooth Moves 2D art is a pleasure to watch, and the microgame 
 graphics get the 3D update that was conspicuously missing from GameCubes Warioware: Mega Party 
 Game$. The graphics certainly arent cutting edge - the low poly models look blockier than a bag 
 of legos - but everything is in the service of the games hodge-podge aesthetic. The Mortar and 
 Pestle
  
  The WarioWare series is now in its fifth installment, so the measure of Smooth Moves success rests 
 on how well it innovates. Thankfully it delivers on this most crucial level with its truly original 
 use of the Wii Remote. You are called on to manipulate your unassuming white wand in ways unexpected 
 and infinitely creative. Once in a while youre faced with a maddening control scheme  spatially 
 sensitive games are particularly finicky  but these minor annoyances are dwarfed by the overall 
 ingenuity of the controls. WarioWare is full of the neat-o moments you would expect from a game 
 perfectly suited to show off the Wiis unique capabilities. I defy even the most testosterone-fueled 
 FPS lovers to conceal their girlish glee while they experience the feedback of bouncing a ball 
 on a tennis racket or pick up the phone to be greeted by an actual voice.
  
  Of course WarioWare also tests new levels of players capacities for the ridiculous. You will find 
 yourself furiously gyrating, squatting and flapping to appease relentless microgame gods. Any attempt 
 to play sitting is an exercise in futility. Luckily throwing in the towel of dignity opens the 
 door for tons of fun. With the help of WarioWare you may just uncover your true destiny as a hoola-hooping 
 mime. Consider it an added bonus. The experience of discovering the untouched microgame for the 
 first time is completely thrilling, but even slapping Wario awake or navigating Link to safety 
 grows less exciting with repetition. On top of this the games are less varied and more predictable 
 than in previous iterations of the game. Nintendo is also guilty of recycling a fair amount from 
 older WarioWare offerings. And, in the end, a nose picked is a nose picked regardless of whether 
 it is fully rendered in three glorious dimensions. That said, thanks to WarioWare the exciting 
 day has arrived where I can claim to have picked a mans nose on over four different platforms.
 
  
  Aggravating these issues is the fact that the main game is painfully short. All of the characters 
 story lines can be completed in an hour or so  and that includes necessary breaks for laughing 
 at your friends uncoordinated flailings. Of course, beating any one story line entails playing 
 through only a fraction of its microgames, and the game encourages players to return to strive 
 for ever-higher scores in an endless mode. Sadly the games startling brevity accentuates the sting 
 of its $50 price tag. In this sense WarioWares roots as a portable game made to play in short 
 bursts show more than Courtney Loves month old dye job. The Tug of War
  
  Luckily, multiplayer can go a long way toward extending the life of this brief game. It allows 
 up to 12 friends to join in on the action. The unlockable multiplayer section consists of four 
 main games and three minigames that range from the conventional (darts) , to the outlandish (racing 
 noses with an insatiable hunger for fruit) . The four main multiplayer modes have a good diversity 
 and facilitate a spirit of competition. The real drawback to multiplayer is the requirement to 
 pass one Wii Remote between all players. While this may add an extra level of difficulty (try lasting 
 through a round of hot potato without madly flinging the remote at a friends head) it represents 
 short sightedness on Nintendos part.
  
  The Big Cheese
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves cant quite conceal its lowly portable origins, but that doesnt stop it 
 from being a truly fun and innovative game. Moreover, its a great way to scratch that multiplayer 
 itch while you wait for Mario Party or Wii Play to arrive. Smooth Moves brief main game and its 
 inability to completely distinguish itself from previous WarioWare titles prevent it from being 
 truly stupendous. But it cant be denied that the bells and whistle on this game could wring joy 
 from Mary Todd Lincolns scowling corpse. With a smaller price tag or a more robust main game Smooth 
 Moves would easily swing a five. We can all breath a sigh of relief that the Wiis first foray 
 into the mad mind of Marios arch nemesis does not disappoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is the fifth game in the series, and one of the only great Wii games you 
 can find now. Now I'm not insulting the Wii, but it sure has a lack of great games apart from The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. However, when Nintendo released their Wario Ware for Wii, Wii 
 gamers had a new reason to start playing the console again until more games like Super Paper Mario 
 and Metroid are released. Wario Ware is also a great way to get used to the Wii Remote. Quite a 
 few Wii games just downright mess up the control schemes, but Wario Ware offers so much variety 
 with it that you'll get used to it and be a pro with it in no time.
  
  If you've played past Wario Ware games, you already know the drill. You play minigames that are 
 about five seconds long in an attempt to get to the boss battle. To beat the game you try to reach 
 the boss battle, and beat it with every character. There are a lot of characters in this game, 
 but it is still a very short game. To get to each boss battle, it usually requires you to complete 
 15 'microgames', which are the about five second long minigames. You get four lives each time so 
 if you screw up four times you have to start that character's minigames all over again. Overall, 
 there are over 200 microgames including the boss battles so you definitely won't see everything 
 on your first play through.
  
  To add a twist to these already twisted minigames, they come in all different forms. For example, 
 before each minigame, a screen will come up that will tell you which way to hold the remote so 
 you will get a basic idea right then. There are many different types of positions such as the basic 
 remote in which you simply hold it as if you are holding a TV remote, to the chauffer in which 
 you hold the remote as if you are driving a car. That was only two examples, there are a lot more 
 formations.
  
  Every Wario Ware game must gave a totally random storyline thrown in. In Smooth Moves, it starts 
 as Wario is sitting at home, watching TV when all of a sudden, some creature appears and steals 
 Wario's food. Now obviously, Wario is pissed off so he chases the little creature, which leads 
 him to a strange looking ancient temple structure. Inside of the temple, Wario trips and right 
 before his eyes is the 'Form Baton.' The Form Baton is what Wario uses to complete each minigames, 
 and of course to become rich. However, these creatures aren't too happy about Wario stealing their 
 Form Baton. One complain I have about the storyline is that this time it just isn't as funny and 
 all the random parts of the game are starting to grow thin. Wario Ware Inc. for Gamecube was so 
 weird that you couldn't help but smile during the cutscenes. Smooth Moves has a few funny parts 
 but it's storyline and cutscenes are probably the weakest parts of this otherwise great game. That 
 being said, Smooth Moves without a doubt has the best selection of minigames out of all the games 
 in the series. With a few exceptions, all of the minigames are really fun and well done. In addition 
 to the 200+ microgames, six other minigames are included which are much longer than the microgames. 
 Some examples is a Breakout-style Table Tennis game, a fifty level block puzzler, a 3D edition 
 of Balloon Fight, a can shooting game and more. Also, once you beat the game, you'll unlock a character 
 where his microgames are done with the Nunchuck attachment. Other than that, all the other microgames 
 are performed with the Wii remote. The graphics in Wario Ware, well they can be good and just... well... Wario 
 Ware style. All of the cutscenes are done in cartoon, and 2D and they all look great. I can't really 
 go judging the microgame graphics because it really varies. Some of them look really great and 
 are in 3D and everything while others look hand-drawn. This was intentional, of course. Also, in 
 one characters microgames, they are also based on classic Nintendo video games and toys so you 
 will be playing five second segments of games like Pikmin 2, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, Wind Waker, 
 and Super Mario Sunshine which are all Gamecube games. There are more Nintendo, Super Nintendo, 
 and Nintendo 64 minigames though so of course they will look dated. Heck, you'll even be looking 
 at the original Gameboy graphics stretched out on a TV screen. So really, the graphics range, but 
 it overall has a really nice look to it.
  
  The music in this game also really sticks out. It's really creative, and different. Each character 
 has their own music and some of it really stand out as distinct, and other, just really weird. 
 There are a few voice samples, but we really need some full voice acting. Eventually games only 
 having dialogue, but no voice acting will be something of the last generation of video gaming so 
 Nintendo needs to just improve that. Other than that, the sound effects are great and the music 
 is even better. And dare I say, the sounds coming out of the Wii remote speaker are surprisingly 
 decent.
  
  Once you've beaten the game, you'll unlock a multiplayer game. Well, there is a catch which is 
 both good and not-so-good. The multiplayer is up to 12 players, but you only use one remote. But 
 trust me, once you've tried some of these multiplayer games, you'll understand why it's still really 
 fun. And, look on the bright side, now you don't have to run out and buy another Wii remote to 
 play multiplayer in this game. There are seven multiplayer games ranging from Darts, to Bomb, to 
 Survival. There are even two where one person holds the remote and the other holds the Nunchuck. 
 I thought that was really cool because it is kind of like having two controllers, except linked 
 to each other. Now we get to the part everyone's worrying about... the replay value. Rest assured, 
 Wario Ware: Smooth Moves has the highest level of replay value out of every game in the series. 
 The core game will only take you about two hours to complete, but you'll still have a ton of pose 
 cards and extra minigames to unlock. There are also four challenge modes which you can keep doing 
 over and over again to get high scores and a movie theatre where you can watch cutscenes. That's 
 still not all. There is an unlockable sound test room where you can listen to the game's great 
 music, the six extra minigames and of course, the multiplayer mode. You could easily spend twenty 
 hours playing this game instead of two.
  
  Overall, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is chockfull of unlockables and has a whole ton of fun minigames 
 and microgames. What it lacks in the storyline and cutscenes departments, it makes up with it's 
 original minigames and super fun gameplay. Rest assured, this is the best Wario Ware game yet! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckwap3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Jeez, where to start with this game. I bought it about 2 months ago, and I've been playing it ever 
 since! Let me do this in good, proper reviewing fashion
  
  Gameplay- Oh man! I picked the good thing to describe first! This game is solid in gameplay. There's 
 a lot of variety in the different poses, such as The Waiter, The Handlebar, and, my favorite, THE 
 SAMURAI! The multiplayer has to be unlocked by completing single player. Which, has it's ups and 
 downs. Really, the good to it, is that you'll be able to get used to playing it, but if you've 
 owned a wii for a while, and you've gotten used to it, it's kind of a down side. But still, the 
 gameplay has LOTS of variety. And the learning curve isn't very long, since they give you pose 
 cards that give info about the pose you use in the mini-game.
  
  Graphics- It's the Japanese, what do you expect? I'm just joking! The Wii graphics are actually 
 not half bad. But I always say: Gameplay comes first. The art style in this game is just wacky. 
 But in a good way! First, it'll be the nostalgic 8-bit graphics of yesteryear. Then it'll be a 
 crazy Japanese art brush style! It's very colorful, I do have to say also. Sound - This part's 
 kind of hard to describe. The sound coming through the Wii-mote was a pretty cool up side, and 
 the sound is pretty, well, realistic! Whether you're slicing a barrel in half, or hearing the sound 
 of upbeat music, the sound part of this game really strutts it's stuff.
  
  Value- I bought this game, expecting another mini-game packed, wacky, insane WarioWare game, and 
 that's what I got! This game is really worth it's value.
  
  Tilt (Overall) - Overall, I definitely recommend this game to anyone who owns a Wii. The mini games 
 are crazy, and will have you talking to your friends about them, all the next day and have them 
 thinking: Why would a panda bear be balancing on a huge blow-up beach ball, balancing himself with 
 a stick of bamboo? The humour, isn't cheesy at all, no overused jokes, funny sound effects (I never 
 knew a panda bear about to fall off of a giant beach ball sounded like that..) And it's innovative 
 use of the Wii Remote are some of the best parts of the game. I give this exciting, and wacky game, 
 a 9.3, an overall Superb game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boo_bob
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  ok wario ware in a nut shell is one of the craziest games i have ever played but it is so fun.
 
  
  gameplay --- the game play is very fast past solid yet odd controls. there are like 11 or 12 different 
 styles to use the controller in this game all very fun in there oun way. one problem with the controls 
 is that u can do all the styles holding the remote one way its not as fun but u can do it. gameplay 
 is just a bunch of 5 sec mine games that are all very fun and addictive.
  
  graphics --- the graphics are alot like flash animation but there are times when u get a 3d model 
 here and there it makes for a very unique look for the game. sound --- there are so many sound efects 
 in this game its crazy so many sounds that it rocks. every game has its oun unique sound and they 
 are all preaty funny.
  
  value --- ok this game is very fun and will give u good fun for hours it just makes u want to play 
 and play more and more. in a group u will hear people laughing and having fun at how people look 
 when playing and how it feels to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouTube89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. A WarioWare game in which you get to use the Wiiremote's motion sensored controls. 
 It is very cool.
  
  Gameplay: Two cons about the game. It is too short (meaning you'll beat the game in less than 10 
 hours) , and the controls are a little hard. Other than that, it's great.
  
  Graphics: I understand that WarioWare games are supposed to have cartooney graphics, but it still 
 looks 3D to me.
  
  Sound: The music and sound are great. It can really get me interested. It can be rocking or scary 
 at the same time.
  
  Value: This game is worth your time and your wait. It's a perfect match on the Wii.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: This is the best WarioWare game. Better than Touched.
  
  Overall Score: 8.8 (Cool) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  This game came to me as a bit of a surprise. There had been a bit of hype online about the game 
 and I was well aware of the crazy style because I had played the Gamecube version, but I just couldn't 
 be prepared for this. I mean, actually picking somebody's nose with the Wiimote-there's just something 
 different about that. Something that only the Wii could deliver, and it does it great. This game 
 proves that you can have lots of fun with a game without it being complex in any way. There's lots 
 of stuff to unlock, and some of the minigames like Can Shooter and this weird hummingbird shooter 
 are fun games in their own right. However, the main game is over too quick, and it would be awesome 
 to have more multiplayer modes. That said, it's a hilarious game that I've played tons and besides 
 Wii Sports still the only great Wii multiplayer party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknightmario9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  picture you just bought youre wii and u like party games and you nought wariro ware its like mario 
 party on crack it has the fast and crazy gameplay and physco and stupid (yet hillairus) story line 
 but atlas the con there is always a teching of which way to hold the wiimote and it just gives 
 boring stupid descriptions and the game is way to short!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and it only has two 
 options in the main menu so if u can only get one game this is not the game but if u pare this 
 up with zelda twilight princecs it would be he start of a really good line up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare smooth moves is made up of 200 minigames all packaged into to yet another quirky Wario 
 title. My first impression of the game was that it was a waste of time.... but it turned out to 
 be great fun! The Singleplayer mode is not that much fun but once you beat a certain number of 
 levels (which is quite easy) you get to unlock the multiplayer mode which is up to 5 PLAYERS!!! 
 You can only use one remote as you pass to each player (like a hot-potato) for their turn. This 
 was very smart in that many people either dont always have an extra controller or just havent had 
 enough money to buy one. This insures that everyone can join the fun! Each of the minigames only 
 last a few seconds but are loaded with funny, yet wierd jokes which many of the Nintendo- Fanboys 
 will get. This is a great game for a part but not so great for singleplay. I totally recommend 
 this game: 9 stars!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceK17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of the most fun games I have ever played. With over 200 micro-games, 
 over 20 different ways to hold the controller, and a crazy wacky and goofy story to top it all 
 off, this is an ideal game to purchase for Wii owners. When I first played it , I was surprised 
 to see the addictive nature of this game as I have never played a WarioWare game before. But I 
 quickly learned what I had to do and what this game was all about and that was FUN. Even playing 
 the single player mode is so much fun, but when you enter the multi-player mode with all your friends, 
 frantically passing the controller back and forth to each other, its gets even more fun as well 
 as competitive. Single player is where the bulk of the game can be played, there is a lot to be 
 said but I will explain it briefly. When you begin the game, you start off picking the Wario icon 
 level from the top screen viewed map of Dimond City . Each level starts with a intro, then a cutscene, 
 followed by the the set of micro-games, which is what the game is all about. There are 12 main 
 game levels as well as plenty of extras, all unlockable, over 200 micro-games and even 6 arcade-styled 
 minigames, and even collectable Pose Cards . Each level has its set of about 30 or more micro-games 
 in which you will have to complete, 9 that must be completed before you face a boss but that number 
 will increase as you progress from level to level. In the 1st level, Wario is running from a boulder 
 (indianna Jones style) chasing something holdind a mysterious Form Baton which gives you power 
 to do magical things by performing 1 or more motion actions in those micro-games. You get 4 lives 
 in each level, meaning 4 chances to mess up but you can also gain a life each time you defeat a 
 boss in the Boss Stages . At the 9th micro-game in the first level, you go into a more longer micro-game 
 where you will have to baciaclly do the same thing as before, make a specific motion rapidly, in 
 this case make a faning motion to blow of a big robot monster thingy which is the boss  
 Anyway, after you defeat the boss you see the finally cutscene of that level, you will unlock more 
 levels and so on. In the first level you were introduced to only 1 position or Form as they call 
 it, but as you progress, you'll be taught more forms which range from every possible way you can 
 think of to hold the controller. And thats what makes this game stand out and so great, is that 
 its a perfect match for the Wii. It takes full advantage of the Wii remote's motion sensing functionality 
 as well as Nunchuck in the final level. The game just spells fun and is highly addictive. But the 
 bad thing I have to say is that the game is overly short. You can be done the story mode in only 
 a couple of hours, but does'nt hinder the game as much as you think as it willl take even a couple 
 of days or weeks to unlock everything in the game. You can always go back to each of the levels 
 to try to get the high score, as the micro-games keep getting faster and faster, the game gets 
 really frantic and manic, you just at some point, no matter how good you are, have to lose. The 
 higher the micro-game # you are at, the faster and harder it gets and at the really high numbers, say 
 after 50, it becomes really challenging. Overall, with all the micro-games, all the forms, all 
 the great unlockables, Single or multi-player mode, I haven't even touched the surface of what 
 WarioWare lays out, which is  a whole lot of fun. FTWii !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quincy1
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  It's a waste of money, cuz you take a Wii, Wiimote (and a nunchuck at the end sidegames) and 1 or two 
 hours and KABLAM congrats for playing the game out so DONT buy it's a ultrawaste of money
  
  It's fun to play but read what i type above, its all and only MICROgames and 21 funny poses 
 like the mohawk, where you hold the Wiimote above your head like a mohawk, or the elephant where 
 you put the Wiimote in front of your nose like the nose of a elephant. It's fun but a waste of money. do 
 you get me? A bunch of Microgames but a short game.
  
  My conclusion.... SOOO FUN but renting is good enough i&acute; ve traded it the same day for EXITE 
 TRUCK.................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeniceMenace
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to playing this game based on the reviews and buzz, but once I started playing, 
 or better yet, WAITING, to play it, I was quite disappointed. The concept and overall theme of 
 the game are intriguing, but the execution could use some work. The biggest flaw and annoyance 
 for me was that I spent more time WAITING for the microgames than actually playing them. I'm waiting 
 about triple the time it takes to complete the microgame. Now once or twice that's nothing to gripe 
 at, but when you're going through the whole game, you realize your spending more time waiting than 
 playing. It's like watching a TV show with more commercials than content. It doesn't take very 
 long for that to wear thin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Never in my wildest dreams did I ever think I would use a game controller to pick a dude's nose 
 or give granny her dentures. Come to think of it, those are rather gross. What kind of videogame 
 is this? Sadly enough, it's one geared towards all-around family entertainment. Wait, what kind 
 of whacked out virtual experience promotes these kinds of actions? It happens to be one that involves 
 Mario's evil twin fat man, Wario, who's had some of his coveted tasty treats stolen. On the way 
 to recover them, he finds what WarioWare: Smooth Moves dubs the 'form baton'. Is it any mere coincidence 
 that W's new toy resembles that of the Wii's revolutionary controller?
  
  Smooth Moves is a game that can only appeal to one type of person, one that isn't afraid to look 
 like a complete fool whether he or she is alone or not. Jam packed with over 200 mini-games (most 
 of which that end within seconds) , WarioWare for the Nintendo Wii can be enjoyed by a bunch of 
 random partiers, or those with nothing to do on a rainy day. The beauty of the game is that it 
 features a number of colorful characters, each with their own story to tell. Most of them are rather 
 creatively amusing, which serves to do nothing but help bring the mini-games to life.
  
  Although, you would think all the off-the-wall games and characters would be enough to emphasize 
 the craziness of Smooth Moves. Heck no. It goes one step further. How you play is by using the 
 'form baton' in a number of different 'poses' so to speak. These poses are what drive the theme 
 of the mini-games, as there are plentiful activities that coincide with each. What's hilarious 
 though, is how the elegant male voice introduces them upon first encounter. I don't know who wrote 
 his lines, but said person deserves major props for the acute randomness that just somehow manages 
 to fit every situation.
  
  There is a broad collection of poses that apply to the game, with handlebar, dumbbell, and waiter 
 merely scratching the surface of that list. These poses are introduced through the characters' 
 stories conjured up for this game, so things stay quite fresh as you progress from one tale to 
 another. As you play through these chapters, you unlock the ability to play the minis in special 
 locations on the game's cartoony map (in random sequence) until you fail a certain number of times. 
 Playing through all the offered adventures may not take exceptionally long, but it's the variety 
 and overall wackiness that helps everything along. There're even a few hidden multiplayer modes 
 (one that allows for over four people to be involved!) available for those that wish to partake 
 of them. However, they serve more as a means to kill time than to have an in-depth experience. 
 The only legitimate gripe I ever had in the gameplay department is that the game doesn't always 
 respond to what you do with the Wii remote. At times the translation of your movements is choppy, 
 while at others it doesn't register altogether. It's doesn't happen often though, so it shouldn't 
 frustrate you too much when it does, it's best to maintain a consistent distance between you and 
 the television screen.
  
  Now, you may remember that at the beginning I described this game as being meant for 'all-around 
 family entertainment'. Well, think about that for a second, and then how it usually affects visuals. 
 Don't take that as if I'm saying Smooth Moves looks like crap, because I'm not. But when you consider 
 Nintendo and how they've approached such games, it doesn't take rocket science to figure out that 
 they often end up with less-than-inspiring presentations. WarioWare's graphics can be summed up 
 in one word, simple. While it's clearly evident that a lot of time and effort were put towards 
 making all the vibrant minis, when comparing the overall scope of it to other current generation 
 games, it's nothing that will impress a junkie. There are a couple activities that feature Wind 
 Waker and Metroid Prime, but those are previous generation efforts, so nothing in Smooth Moves 
 showcases the Wii's true horsepower. Most of what you'll see are simple animated caricatures and 
 other basic drawings that a talented middle school student could easily whip up with some time. 
 Simply bear this in mind so you don't end up disappointed.
  
  On the sound side of things, Smooth Moves is rather captivating, as a majority of the music and 
 effects fit well with everything. All of the stories feature their own unique audio pleasantries, 
 which is definitely a plus, but since nothing could exactly be considered 'memorable', chances 
 are not much will stick with you. Half of it is what you might generalize as 'cute' (a dreaded 
 word for Nintendo fanboys) , while the other 50% could be considered dramatic. Will it wow you? 
 Perhaps, but only temporarily.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is without a doubt the most unique title yet to be developed for Wii. This 
 franchise installment easily brings the series to its current pinnacle. Prepare for a lot of laughs, 
 maybe some confusion and perhaps a couple 'What the ****?' blank stares. Needless to say, Smooth 
 Moves isn't for everyone, as stated before, as it really requires someone (or a group) with a carefree 
 attitude. If you can get past that the game is anything but normal, then prepare to have a blast. 
 It may not last long, but chances are you'll never forget what you experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves has got to be one of the weirdest games I have played in a long time. Yet 
 at the same time, it makes some of the best use of the Wiis motion controls to date. There really 
 isnt any story to the game. Wario finds a wand that looks a lot like the Wii Remote, and from 
 there you have to help different characters by playing various mini games.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Warioware is played using a single remote. No nunchuk needed. But you use the remote in ways that 
 until now, and never been thought of. The game consists of 100+ micro-games. These are mini-games 
 that typically last around 5 seconds, and involve using the remote in a particular way. Before 
 each game, you are shown a brief slide explaining what remote form the mini-game uses.
  
  For example, one mini-game might require you to use the mohawk form which has you hold the remote 
 above your head. The content of the mini-games varies greatly. One may require you to put false 
 teeth in an old lady's mouth. Another might require you to sweep up some leaves, or even pick your 
 nose. Its very bizarre to say the least.
  
  None of the mini-games are particularly challenging. But what makes the game fun and challenging 
 is the way the games are presented. They come at you in a completely random order, and youre only 
 given a second or two between mini-games to prepare for the next one. This can lead to some confusion, 
 as its not always clear on what needs to be done to win a given mini-game. But the controls work 
 well, and the game is an absolute blast to play. Especially once you unlock the multi-player mode.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  From an artistic view, the graphics in Warioware standout, and give the game its colorful and 
 lighthearted style. The story scenes are rendered in a 2D flash style. It doesnt look great, but 
 it suffices to give the game a cheerful look. However, the graphics in the actual mini-games vary 
 greatly. Some of them are rendered in the same style as the cut-scenes, but others are more hand 
 drawn cartoons. Still others use very basic 3D renders. This adds to the weirdness of the game, 
 but this also means that there's no consistent style in the mini-games. Not that this is a bad 
 thing, but some of the art is just painful to look at.
  
  SOUND
  The sound varies almost as much as the graphics. There's no voiceovers during the cut-scenes expect 
 for the occasional laugh or grunt. The other sound effects are your typical cartoonish bops, boinks, 
 and what not. What makes the sound stand out is the sounds used through the remote speaker. This 
 makes the player feel more like his direct actions are controlling the on-screen games. The music 
 is what really sets the sound department away from other party games. It's very wacky, and fits 
 the theme of each scenario.
  
  VALUE
  The one thing that really bugs me about Warioware is that you're required to play through the entire 
 single player game before multi-player is unlocked. It seems to be a common trend in party games 
 lately, and I don't like it. Multi-player should be playable right from the start. That's the reason 
 most people bought a Wii. On the positive side, the multi-player is a lot of fun. In addition to 
 the games from the single player mode, there are also multi-player only games like darts. The only 
 problem with multi-player is that you only use one remote, and take turns handing it off. This 
 sort of goes against Nintendo's emphasis on using the remote strap; you don't have enough time 
 to put it on before the next mini-game starts.
  
  Overall, Warioware is a fantastic party game that is sure to please Wii owners. Its sense of humor 
 is a bit strange at times, but that further adds to the light-hearted atmosphere of the game. If 
 you like party games you need to check this game out. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  That seems to be the question I keep asking myself, Never before in a video game have I done something 
 so stupid and pointless. But boy did I love it! Its games like these that make the Wii so great. 
 I found myself laughing my head off at the sheer stupidness of what I was doing. The game makes 
 you use the Wii-mote in different positions to compelte mini-tasks in a 5 second or so time slot. 
 You are left without ant clue of what to do and you frantically start trying to figure what you 
 have been asked to do. Its even more hilarious with Multiplayer and is a real party game. Although 
 I hate the idea of more party games on the Wii, WarioWare is the best and is really a lot of fun.
 
  
  Graphically well... who cares about graphics in a game like this? To be fair they are actually 
 quite good because nearly every minigame has its own art style. On a HDTV it looks bright and colourful 
 and attrative. By far, the best bit of WarioWare is watching someone like you nan flailing a wii-mote 
 about tryin to figure out what to do, Pure Genius. This game is a definate for any Wii-owner, whether 
 you have a nan or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_bomb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  this game is so funny when ever youu are fealing down you can come play this game and you will 
 feal happy agian this game ( i think) used most of all the wii reamotes ability. some of the game 
 are realy random and you dont know whats hapeing but then it has you roling on the ground peeing 
 your pants. good things - fun - keep you intersted - you can play with lots of people - evreyone 
 likes it when theyu play
  - makes you happy when your sad
  bad things
  - some of the things u do are realy stupid and thats all for the bad stuff. so id say this is a 
 great game and evryone with a wii should own it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is the 5th installment of the Wario Ware series, and is the best so far. 
 Like the other Wario Ware games, they include tons of short microgames, but this time, they're 
 all motion-sensitive!!! To play several microgames, you'll need to hold the Wii Remote (or sometimes 
 the Nunchuck) and use it in different ways. BUT (and there's always a but ) , the game doesn't completely 
 rely on the Wiimote's motion-sensitivity. Sometimes, it requires pressing buttons.
  
  For example, sometimes you need to use the most simple way of them all: Shomen (The Remote Control) 
 . All you have to do is aim the Wii Remote at the screen and... so and so for. There's also another 
 called Taki-nobori (The Umbrella) . You hold the Wiimote upright as if you're holding a drinking-glass 
 in your hand. Keep your thumb over the A button in case you need to press it on some microgames. 
 And then, there's the silliest pose in the entire game...! Tengu (The Elephant) ! You point the 
 Wiimote at the screen like you do with Shomen, but you hold it at your nose...! O_O I know, weird... 
 There are plenty more poses and motions in the game that will make this game real fun.
  
  If you're looking for a Wii (or if you already have one) , I strongly suggest that you buy this 
 where and when the hell you can. Why? Because it's one of the wackiest and most addictive games 
 for the Wii and you know it! It's as good as Trauma Center: Second Opinion! (Or maybe better...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves for the Nintendo Wii is the most bizarre game on the Wii to date. It features 
 200 5-second microgames that are normally played with one fast, decisive action (Swing, chop, jump) . 
 WarioWare has different positions to hold the WIimote, or forms. These include: The handlebar, 
 waiter, remote control, etc. Some are used a lot (Remote control, umbrella) while others are used 
 for maybe only 5 games (Elephant, tug-of-war) . The games in WarioWare are a lot and fun and, with 
 some omissions, are easy to use. While the game does have easy controls, you are not told the controls 
 because of how the minigame is just shoved in your face right after the other. There is one minigame 
 where you have to perform in a duel but it doesn't tell you that you have to hit the B button to 
 shoot. While there are only a few other examples, a large majority of the games are high quality.
 
  
  The visual style of the WarioWare games has always been bizarre. First you may be playing a game 
 in a Crayola-drawn child's picture, then thrust into a minigame with a 2D, arcade style monster 
 that you have to shoot down. The minigames go from crayons, to cut outs, to paint, to 2D, 3D and 
 everything in between. But, as awkward as these seem, they fit right in with the frantic playstyle 
 of WarioWare.
  
  Sound in WarioWare is a bit more difficult to describe. While the small voice overs do get annoying, 
 the music that speeds up with the minigames that gets your heart pumping is a nice addition and 
 has always been one of my favorite parts of the games. Multiplayer in WarioWare: Smooth Moves is 
 way different than other party games. Instead of having 4 players with a separate Wiimote each, 
 the players use 1 single remote that is passed between the different people in 4 different game 
 types. My personal favorite is Lifeline, where 2-6 people play a series of minigames to see how 
 many points you can get. All the players are then strung up to a pipe and, depending on how many 
 points you have, have a certain number of ropes holding you up. If you lose all your ropes, you 
 lose and whoever is the last one standing (Or I guess it would be hanging) wins. It is especially 
 funny when you see your friend cut himself down when it was just you and him left up.
  
  Another one of the gametypes is Survival which is a classic elimination match but the main difference 
 is how, instead of Lifeline's 2-6, Survival has 2-16. I have yet to be able to get 15 other people 
 to simultaneously play this game, but I bet it is a lot of fun. Another important thing to note 
 about WarioWare is its use of the Miis. In multiplayer, each of the players selects a Mii that 
 is their personal character in a game. These Miis are seen hanging from the ropes in Lifeline, 
 soaring through the sky in Survival and also seen in some minigames.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of the best games that I have seen on the Wii. While the single 
 player is extremely short (It only takes a few hours to unlock all the minigames) , the multiplayer 
 is where this game shines. Having a group of friends huddled around the TV as one of them tries 
 to hula hoop a doughnut is a site to behold. To all Wii owners: Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teufelherz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of the best games I have played for the Wii. It has tight controls 
 (the best I've experienced on the Wii. This game is really addictive. It is so much fun to play 
 and has a lot fo replay value. There are so many creative mini games and ways to grab the Wii remote 
 that you couldn't get bored. But it's not fun just playing, it's also lots of fun watching other 
 people play. It will give you so many laughs if you hand the Wii remote to your girlfriend and 
 see them perform ridiculous moves. The game if fairly easy the first time you play it, but once 
 you repaly something, there are more mini games waiting for you to complete a stage and the difficulty 
 is increased. All in all, W: SS is something you will never regret to have added to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi_trey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first hearing another mini game is out for the Wii. It seems like thats the 
 only type of games they are gonna get. But when my brother bought this games it was a lot better 
 then i thought it was. Its pretty colorful on its cartoon animation and i thought the voice on 
 telling you how to hold a new position was quite funny. Over 200 mini games that are fun and can 
 get you tired after a while does have its problems. Sometimes it will drive you mad because the 
 remote wont respond to the command you are trying to give it or when you unlock the multi player 
 mode and the same mini games appear. Other then that the game is pretty short but it will keep 
 you entertain when you have more people to look at when they make themselves look like a fool. 
 -Good Game
  -200 mini games
  -Act A Fool
  Hands down a good game to get for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yossarian14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  If you want a good idea on Warioware, think of what Mario Party basically is, a bunch of minigames. 
 Now, subtract the game board that connects all the minigames and then make all the minigames about 
 5 seconds long. Once you do that you basically have Warioware. Fundamentally, it is a really solid 
 game. You have a bunch of amusing minigames that become harder as you go along. Utilizing the motion 
 sensing abilities of the controller, you use various forms for holding the controller. Just before 
 you begin each minigame, the screen flashes the form you use, making you move quickly to the necessary 
 form. The games are enjoyable and youll have a lot of fun thinking quickly to finish each game. 
 There are plenty of games and various levels of challenges and unlockables to keep you busy for 
 a while, but eventually youll blow through all of them, and once you do that the game wont hold 
 your attention as much. Theres not much to it but its still a nice experience and it makes for 
 a good rental, but there are other games out there for the Wii that will make the most for your 
 money. I think that Warioware is perfect for the DS since its a handheld and thus you will be 
 more likely to be playing to kill some time, but on the console where games should hold your attention 
 for weeks, Warioware cant really give that experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polaris550
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware is an amazing game. You can play with up to 16 player by passing around the remote. 
 There are over 200 microgames to play. Some which can be done in less then a second and others 
 which could take slightly more time.
  Most of the games are simple. It could be as easy as just lifting your arm. Or you could drive 
 through the woods where there are cows and monkeys blocking the road. Playing lifeline with 5 players 
 is very fun. There is also one game where one person holds the wii remote and the other person 
 holds the nunchuk and you have to go through an obstacle course. You can also play darts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolite
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a game that consists mostly of micro games. The difference between 
 a micro game and a mini game is that the micro ones are beaten within 10 seconds each. The more 
 conventional mini game is beaten within minutes.
  
  The good part with Wario Ware is the art direction it has is done in a good way and therefore the 
 Wiis graphics chip doesn't hold it back in presentation. Most of the minigame are well made and 
 look good in the context. The sound and music of the game is also well made and I often found myself 
 digging the tracks when playing through the single player experience.
  
  The single player of the game takes you through somewhere near 10 sets of levels where you have 
 to complete somewhere around a dozen micro games plus a boss game that marks the end of each level. 
 Though the later levels proves to be kind of hard on some parts anyone should be able to play through 
 the game within 5 hours at the single player mode. Although the game let you play through the levels 
 more times with added micro games and higher difficulty and a couple of mini games (like a balloon 
 fight game where you flap the mote and nun chuck to fly through the levels) .
  
  Where WW: SM really shines is in the company of others. The multiplayer section is unlocked through 
 beating the whole single player campaign and offers four diffrent game modes. All of the modes 
 can be played with a single Wii mote which is passed on between the 2-12 players which adds for 
 the frenzy of the game. Plenty of fun, just watching you friends squatting or lifting the weights 
 in seconds.
  
  As conclusion Wario Ware is a well thought out game with a good number of mini/micro games for 
 the Wii. Many of the early games for the Wii have been mini games heavy, and I'd say if you're 
 just going to have one party game for now, Wario Ware: SM is a solid choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is an outrageously crazy game that inspires just about everyone. It's fun, 
 humourous and down right silly at times.
  
  WarioWare has an extremely unique style of gameplay, it is unlike any other game, making it fun 
 to play because you will never experience a nostalgic feeling whilst playing it. The game basically 
 consists of 'microgames' that consecutively follow each other. Each game is different and only 
 lasts a few seconds and involves you having to do something in order to complete it, whether it 
 may be knocking on a door, shaking ants off a banana or even dancing. Each game is fun and different 
 making the gameplay very expansive.
  
  The graphics in WarioWare are somewhat strange. At times, the game is like a fully animated cartoon, 
 at other times, you will be experiencing full 3D graphics, then some times, the graphics look down 
 right awful in some games, consisting of only a few colours. Even though some of the graphics do 
 not look that appealing, they really do suit the gameplay well, making it less of a hassle.
  
  WarioWare has some nice music, with beats that really work nicely with the gameplay. As the 
 beats speed up, so do your heart beats, because you will start to feel more intense when the game 
 gets faster and harder. Although the beats are great, some of the actual music doesn't sound that 
 great.
  
  The main campaign in WarioWare will only last you an hour or two, making an unbelievably short 
 game. It may be a short game, but it does contain a lot of replay value, the games are fairly enjoyable 
 to play over again and the multiplayer is also pretty fun.
  
  All in all, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a great game that just about any Wii owner should have in 
 their collection. The game costs less than standard Wii games, making it a worthy purchase. In 
 my opinion, the game could have been improved in mainly length, then small things such as the graphics 
 and sound could have been worked on a bit harder. Putting them beside, WarioWare is a crazily fun 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATD123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Yes, i know my title sounded gay but it means what it means. This game surprised me a lot. The 
 gameplay is all anyone really cares about on the wii, so i have to make this part of the review 
 good. Every game on the wii revolves around the amazing controller, and this game made the full 
 revolution. (Me and my metaphors...) I love how the game gives you a different way to hold the 
 controller every time it's your turn, and it does a very un-craputicular (heh) job of not being 
 repetitive on every mini-game. The graphics are just a tad sucky, especially when you are on the 
 flying game and the guys look really, really gay The word gay again! When will this madness end? 
 The sound... (you don't know how much i hate this rating) ... was nothing special to me, as with 
 almost every other game i've played. The value is very good, because of how fun it is to play with 
 friends, and it never gets boring. The tilt is also a fosho (for sure) 10, because of how awesome 
 the controller is to everyone. I guess it is now safe to say that this game is not gay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware has always been a rather odd series, ranging from Blowing into DS Mic to twisting Your 
 GBA Around. you look silly doing it, yes, but its just so much Fun!
  
  get ready to look like a fool in a whole new way, with Wario ware: Smooth Moves!
  
  There is 
 not alot to say about WW: SS, Its a Collection of 200 Micro-games (NOT Mini-games, Micro games are 
 only about 5 seconds long at the most) that keep coming at you faster and faster. So stay on your 
 toes, or you will be Off them.
  
  this is game is fun Alone, But is becomes 1000000X more fun when others play with you.
  
  Gameplay: 
 10/10
  Insanely Addictive, You can't put it down.......
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  the colors are bright and the Crudely Drawn 2d Artwork works well. The 3D Graphics are all very 
 Jaggy, but its in-Style.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  All the sound effects sound great, the Music is good to but some songs can get annoying.
  
 
  Value: 9
  if your looking for a Party game or something Different, you can't go wrong
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Total: 9.2 Buy or Rent: Rent if your not sure about WW: SS, but its worth a buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, what I really like is the concept. I mean, you must move faster and faster, and 
 the replay value of this game is really high! you always want to beat you score and this is what 
 can make you spend a lot of time on this game! Also, each stage have different minigames that fit 
 in the concept of the level. For exemple, i really like the level where almost every minigames 
 are based on other games like metroid, mario, animal crossing ect. Boss stages are cool also. there 
 is a LOT of original content in the game, thats for sure, and what i like is that, not only the 
 games become faster everytime but the minigames themselvesbecome harder. In the other hand, there 
 is thing that I also disliked. It says, wear the straps, but how could we wear the strap when you 
 always need to change the position of the controler, sometime even deposite on the floor?? My friend 
 trew the wii remote trying to get up the controller that was on the floor lol. No multiplayer mode, 
 BUT, you can always play one after the other and try to beat the records, and it will be cool. 
 Sometimes also, it can be hard to understand every minigames. Also i got a glitch sometimes in 
 witch the controller seems to be jamed. I moved quickly the controler but nothing happened, just 
 like if the controler has gone out of range, weird huh. Sometimes the minigames can be hard to 
 understand and will need 2-3 tries before gettin used to it.
  
  In general this game is cool and defenetly worth playing. Theres single minigames and also a lot 
 of levels to play trough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great microgames, fun party game
  THE BAD: EXTREMLY short  Let me start 
 by saying that If you are looking for a game with a lot of replay value deep story, look away now! 
 This game has no story what soever and has little to know replay value unless you are having a 
 small get together. This game is a seiries of microgames that you play in fast sucession. The games 
 are short, fun, and fast. These games range from pulling the master sword from the temple of time 
 to making dinner. That being said you might think the games are either Hit or miss with such a 
 wide range of games but every game is fun and easy. Thought the game is great its like I said before 
 the game has no storyline what soever the story mode is a bunch of random people with diffrent 
 game styles that make you use the Wiimote in weird and sometime embarssing positions. If it comes 
 down to you wanting a party game foget rayman and monkey ball this game takes the cake
  
  Verdict: Buy Used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmyVermicelli
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Before WarioWare, gaming parties used to consist of a four-player game and usually ended with bad 
 feeling as the player who owned the game streaked ahead while everyone else was brushed aside. 
 Even if the games managed to overcome this hurdle, you were left with a shallow game which eventually 
 bored the players to tears  something gaming should never cause. Then WarioWare came along to 
 the GameCube. The GameCube never really took off, and as such WarioWare: Mega Party Games was never 
 really discovered by the masses, which was a royal shame  it was the ultimate party game. The 
 games were so refreshingly random that the only gamer in the group never had any advantage whatsoever, 
 leading to genuinely hilarious parties and, rather than tempers erupting, laughs could be heard 
 for a good many years. The main flaw with WarioWare was, however, its irritatingly lacklustre 
 Single Player modes. The game was one big party game, with almost no focus put on the lone player, 
 resulting in a game that, while utterly unbeatable with four pads and three friends, as a complete 
 gaming package it was just not good enough.
  
  With the Wii came a flurry of excellent ideas, and multiplayer gaming was put back on the map after 
 the domination of online gaming for the past three years. Wii Sports and Wii Play showcased the 
 Wiis control system well, but only one game was really worth the wait for multiplayer heaven  
 WarioWare: Smooth Moves. It would be fair to say that after playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves, the 
 GameCube version seemed obsolete and very old-fashioned in comparison. It is not the natural evolution 
 in gaming that has occurred in this time period; rather it is the evolution in controller system 
  namely the Wii Remote. WarioWare was one of the most accessible games on the GameCube  it had 
 to be if it was to fulfil its aim of being a non-gamer friendly party game  but the Wii version 
 was, surprisingly, even more accessible than its older brother. The ease of getting accustomed 
 to the control system was remarkable. One of the most worrying things about the early versions 
 of the game was that the multiple forms, or ways in which you hold the remote, would alienate 
 people not already accustomed to the properties of the controller. Not so, however, as, despite 
 the complexities of certain forms, it all comes naturally  serious thought has been put into 
 the ergonomics of each form and they have all been scrutinized to confirm that none of the forms 
 are ever uncomfortable to hold for a sustained periods of time.
  The forms make the game instantly more involving than its predecessor. Youll spend a long time 
 trying to master each form which adds a dimension to the single-player that simply wasnt possible 
 in the GameCube version. The forms themselves are a great idea which cannot be replicated  they 
 are great in that some of the easier forms, such as The Sketch Artist, which sees the player 
 holding the remote like a pencil to fly a paper aeroplane or chisel out an idol, are very easy 
 for the beginner player to pick up and the harder forms, like The Mortar and Pestle, which sees 
 the player holding the remote like a grinding stick to grind some herbs or control a robot, will 
 take a long time to perfect. This all adds to the quality of the game, and its relevance and accessibility 
 to non-players.
  
  But what about the games, you ask. The building blocks for the last game were the quirky and completely 
 random nature of the games, used to baffle and bamboozle the players into making a mistake in 
 the heat of the moment situation. The microgames, thankfully, are just as excellent in this version 
 as in the last. Whilst some of the best games are gone that simply wouldnt work with motion-sensing 
 controller are now gone, that has simply freed up space for some of the funniest and craziest microgames 
 youll ever see. The games vary in nature. Some of them are ludicrously simple, such as the writing 
 game, which involves the player scribbling on a piece of paper in the time limit (using The Sketch 
 Artist form, of course) . Yes, it is as easy as jerking your wrist upwards and downwards a couple 
 of times. Others are a lot more difficult  the cartridge-inserting game, which sees players trying 
 to slot in a cartridge into a SNES while it jerks around randomly, is a sometimes soul-destroying 
 experience on the later levels. Some of the games pride themselves on their randomness to confuse 
 people  a few games like inserting false gnashers into a moving grannies mouth and flapping wildly 
 to disperse some of Warios fart gas spring to mind. However, the variety of these games do not 
 subtract from the experience; rather, they add to it by keeping the game constantly fresh and challenging 
  you could be playing this at parties for years.
  
  In a game of this type, graphics usually take a backseat, and I was prepared to deal with a game 
 that was very close to Warios GameCube outing to look at. However, this is not the case. The game 
 does not look excellent  there are a few jagged edges and some of the 3D characters lack detail 
  but some of the visuals are perfect for this game, with lots of rich and vibrant colours adding 
 to its authenticity and quirkiness. The sheer Japanese look of the game complements it very well 
 indeed and adds to its unique flavour  you wont see a game like this developed by Electronic 
 Arts or another Western company.
  
  A vital aspect to the success of a party game is how well it holds up to a lot of chaos on-screen. 
 In this respect its almost faultless  the game isnt too demanding, but the Wii certainly handles 
 whats occurring on-screen, even in the more chaotic multi-player modes.
  
  Multiplayer itself doesnt disappoint in the least. The games are good, solid fun and will keep 
 a group of people entertained for hours. The game vary  some only accommodate two-players with 
 two Remotes, others as many as sixteen with the single Remote, meaning extra expense for a new 
 controller isnt necessary. The sheer volume of multiplayer modes available is great  youll develop 
 your own favourite quickly; be it Bomb, where the Bomb is passed to another player and requires 
 that player to complete the game and pass the bomb on, or Survival, which sees as many as sixteen 
 players playing a micro-game each to stay in the competition.
  
  The multiplayer is certainly very impressive, but this isnt a huge surprise after the multiplayer 
 action in the first game  what gamers who enjoyed the first game wanted was simply a better single-player, 
 and that is where the greatest emphasis on improvement clearly lies. The single-player is split 
 into episodes  which all have their own distinctly Japanese and slightly pointless background 
 stories. The main character is then placed in a dilemma (for example, being trapped in a house 
 with talking skulls and a suicidal magic rod) , and complete micro-games to solve the problem. While 
 this is a slightly ludicrous idea on paper, the format of the game means it works almost criminally 
 well  as soon as you get bored of the one type of game, the story will be completed and youll 
 move onto more challenging scenarios and micro-games.
  
  The new system works just. The real debate is whether it is actually any better than the single-player 
 in the first game  its just as shallow as ever, and although the Wii Remote immerses the player 
 to a point, the freshness of the micro-games eventually runs out and it becomes less and less enjoyable 
 alone until you have completed the game. The single-player is definitely more enjoyable than its 
 predecessor, but somehow it becomes staler at a furious rate.
  
  The audio completes the action on-screen surprisingly well  the Japanese tunes and incoherent 
 noise fits the brash and bold nature of the game perfectly. It has also been mixed very well  
 youll recognise the fairly generic tunes at the beginning of the game return the more you play, 
 this time much faster, with jazzy bass lines etc. This all adds up to a great, albeit very cultured, 
 audio experience.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a very good game, which improves upon its predecessor in most ways. 
 Despite the revamped single-player mode, veterans may feel a little disappointed that the game 
 still isnt long enough to hold your attention for more than a week-end; this shouldnt put anyone 
 off, though, as the superb control system, quirky games, authentic Japanese visuals and audio and 
 an utterly commendable multiplayer make this an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3dbz2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a very entertaining game. There are about 200 minigames but they all 
 get tiring very quick. I beat the game in about... 20 minutes?? The multiplayer choice hardly has 
 anything competitive and requires the use of only one wii more and a nunchuck. Which could be great 
 for people who cant find another wiimote but for others it doesn't let you truely compete with 
 your friend.
  
  If you are thinking about getting this, you should seriously rent it first because in that time 
 you would beat the game and grow tired of it. They tried to utilize the motion sensor and they 
 did it but the gameplay gets redundant. No clue how it got a 9.1 though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun and funny its just over to quick. This game is a game that your mom dad 
 grandmother or who ever cann play and laugh at each other. The little games are so cool I would 
 have never thought of some of the games in this. So all and all I highly recomend you buy this 
 game and some more controlers if you dont have more than One.
  
  Ow and perpare to laugh at each other or at the game because theres some really crazy mini games. 
 But if you dont like party games I dont know if they would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Smooth Moves is the fourth installment of this game series. I started to like this series 
 when I bought warioware touched! for the nintendo DS. I was kind of excited that there was gonna 
 be a fourth game of this series for the Wii. The control maneuvers are awesome, but it gets kind 
 of boring if you play for a long period of time. Let's face it, the game is TOOO SHORT!!! I say 
 you can finish in 3 or 4 hours tops. Come on , 50 bucks for only three or four hours??? So NOT 
 WORTH IT!! but if you're a huge warioware fan, buy it if you want, but I know that I made a bad 
 decision buying this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxmachine09
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Wii hasn't had many great titles. In the past 5 months, the only truly great game released 
 was Zelda. Other titles such as Rayman and Excite Truck are fun, but aren't really worth anything 
 more than a rental. WarioWare: Smooth Moves finally gives Wii owners worth buying. This game makes 
 excellent use of the Wii remote's motion sensor abilities, and makes a very nice game as well. 
 For those of you who don't know, the WarioWare series originated a couple years back on the GBA. 
 The game features the anti-hero Wario and his misfit friends (wait, Wario has friends?) . Wario 
 starts a gaming company to get-rich-quick, but doen't want to work hard to do it. Therefore, all 
 games made by WarioWare last about 5 seconds. There's a single objective that you must quickly 
 accomplish, usually requiring you to push a single button . These Micro Games are thrown at you 
 one after another until you clear enough to beat the level. The gameplay gets quite frantic, and 
 is highly addictive. In Smooth Moves, Wario is back with his gang. This time, he's using the Wii-Remote, 
 or Form-Baton in the game, as the basis for his new batch of Micro Games. Every single mini-game 
 uses the motion sensor abilities of the Wii-Remote. In a game like this, that's a very good thing. 
 The game makes you hold the controller in a number of different ways. These poses vary, and depend 
 on the game you're playing. One pose will make you hold the Wii-remote on its side, like a handle 
 bar. Another will you make you hold it like a giant nose! As you might guess, you'll find yourself 
 looking pretty stupid as you play through the game. That only adds to the experience. This use 
 of the Wii-remote is the best I've seen yet. The imagery of the game matches its chaotic gameplay. 
 The whole visual style of the game is extremely... bizarre. One minute you'll be picking a virtual 
 nose, the next you'll be fanning away fart gas. This makes the game very entertaining, and never 
 gets old because the theme is always changing. It's hard to criticize the graphics. All the characters 
 and places are cartoons. In game like this, that works very well. Especially since everything looks 
 extremely great. The music is just like the visual style; it varies with the mini-games. It sounds 
 nice, but there's nothing spectactular, and it sometimes gets annoying. My one chief complaint 
 for this game is the story mode. if you've read any other review, you already know it only lasts 
 about 2 to 3 hours. That's a big disappoint, 'cause pulls you in nicely, but wraps it up too soon. 
 Nonetheless, you can still kill many hours with this game by yourself, but it's much better with 
 friends. Especially since you only need one Wii-remote, and you can laugh when they try to pull 
 off the ridiculous poses. All-in-all, Smooth Moves is a great Wario Ware game, but an even better 
 Wii game. I HIGHLY recommend it to anyone with a Wii, and especially to anyone with a lot of friends 
 and is looking for a good party game. 'Cause it really doesn't get any better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMAN95
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  This is a great game no dout about it but just a warning it's a very short game I rented it and 
 beat it in one of the 5 days I had it but while I was playing it I had a blast of fun. Well for 
 one the game is hilarious! For two it makes gtear use of the wiimote. For three it's just a heck 
 of alot of fun! But if your rely into good stuning graphics this probably is not the game for you 
 on some of the micro games theres block graphics but I don't care about graphics. So theres not 
 mutch to say about this game other than go out and rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I liked the DS games, thought they did a great job with the touch screen, but overall, I did not 
 think the same for the Wii.
  
  I know its been in said in every review, but this game will make you stupid. Not only that, it'll 
 leave you feeling stupid for buying the game. Soon as you turn it on, you're greeted with quick 
 mini games, and in the first few, you have no idea what the heck is going on. The pace slows down 
 once you complete it, and you're greeted with an annoying Voice Over guy, who explains which way 
 to hold the remote, and tries to add a funny remark at the end.
  
  Such ways to hold the remote are Remote, Elephant (this will make you dumb) , boxer, bike, janitor... and 
 yeah. There really is no need to hold the remote in all these ways. As I was playing through the 
 game, I just thought this had to be a game to show developers, and they panned it on us . Ten hours, 
 max, you'll have beat the game and then unlock multiplayer. This really bugged me from the start, 
 I bought this game to play with a friend or family member to show them what the Wii was all about, 
 all I got was the disapointment of those around me and myself by having to play for the game.
 
  
  WarioWare takes you by the hand and glides you along with tutorials on each new way to hold the 
 Wiimote. Some make you smile, some you just go meh (like putting it face down, and wait for a phone 
 call and pick it up) . In each level there is sure to be one microgame you will enjoy, but there 
 is sure to be some that you just can't quite grasp. All in all though, it won't take the average 
 gamer long to glide through the experience.
  
  Granted, we took turns, and we laughed and smirked as we went through the different levels. My 
 favorite by far was a Nintendo themed level, where you got to see characters from famous franchises. 
 Adding Pikmin in there was a nice touch.
  
  There is no replay value in the single player unless you, for some reason, want to break your records. 
 It just isn't fun the second time around because the random quirkiness is gone. You're left going 
 through the motions of what could of been a really great game. However, the multiplayer is fun 
 if you can find someone who is willing to sacrifice their ego for an hour or two of microgames. 
 No one in my family, or my friends, wanted to play it more then two or three times, and I understood 
 why, the concept, quirikness, FUN, is gone after you experienced the different ways to hold the 
 Wiimote. The graphics and sound are very nice and nostaligc. You'll hear themes from your favorites 
 of old, and the graphics will make you smile because they capture the mood and them perfectly. 
 Only problem is, we've been here, and we've done that. Mario Party will surely create something 
 better.... right?
  
  As like Wii Sports and other launch window games, WarioWare Smooth Moves is just another game taking 
 advantage of the controller, not your mind, your money, or the system's power. You are left knowing 
 this could of been a full game, like Sports, knowing that something in there could of been great.
 
  
  Until next time Wario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is a perfect match for the wii console this game on any other console would 
 simply fail miserably. This is also a good fun game to pick up if your new to the wii or if your 
 a wii expert looking for some PLAIN FUN. with over 200 different minie games this game has so much 
 to offer and will keep you playing.. and playing okay lets just say putting dentures in an old ladies 
 mouth or staking meat on a kabab for some buff guy has never been soo much fun. Though one of the 
 couple flaws is that the wiimote is rarley undetected and results in you losing just because the 
 wiimote cant find the stupid sensor bar I mean COME O. ANYWYAS, The fast animations and incredibly 
 random awesome fun games will entertain just about anyone. The multiplayer option is great but 
 if your thinking well I'll have to miss out on that de to the fact I dont have another wiimote 
 it doesn't matter! You frantically pass the one controller through 4 different playing styles and 
 supports a lot of players. Through the rather short but still great campaign you'll unlock more 
 games, posses and dont forget some more just plain weirde ways to hold the controller. So really 
 Wario ware is a great game for EV ERYONE to buy with over 200 different minie games and over 50 
 ways to hold the controller through multiplayer, single player and a rather short campaign loaded 
 with crazy fun characters designed to make you look like an idiot that no other console could so 
 sooo well at than the nintendo wii overall wario ware smooth moves gets a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Is it a dismal day? Do you want to go outside, exercise, and run around? Look no further, for Wario 
 has come to save the day.
  
  That's right, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves will help you keep with your exercise regimen even if it's 
 raining/snowing/hailing/just plain bad outside. This game is very entertaining to play or watch, 
 and I found myself yelling a lot, whether in frustration because I JUST failed a microgame, or 
 in agony because my bones are so sore, or just out of plain excitement.
  
  Graphics wise, well... we'll just say the graphics are quite unique. You'll find so many varied 
 levels of graphic quality, from simple polygon characters to well animated cartoon dogs and cats 
 to... just about everything. The sheer variety of the graphics really makes it hard to judge them, 
 but then again, the graphics aren't really what's important about the game.
  
  It's the sound and gameplay that make this game truly epic. A fantastic, innovative use of the 
 Wii-mote here makes for some crazy, even absurd microgames. You'll often find yourself using the 
 Wii-mote as an elephant's trunk, or a samurai sword, or sometimes it's just in the strangest places 
 that you can't help but laugh.
  
  The music makes the game even crazier, because during story mode, the brief pauses between microgames 
 are filled with some rather extravagant scenes accompanied by some fast dance/pop theme. The music 
 is really fun to listen to, and it gets you pumped as well, because during a set of microgames, 
 the music continuously gets faster. You'll be switching poses and forms so fast you won't have 
 more than a second to rest before the next microgame comes and slaps you in the face.
  
  I found this game funny to watch, hilarious to play (as well as embarrasing, considering some of 
 the stuff the game makes you do in front of your friends) . All in all, a masterpiece of an adventure 
 (which is truly a tad shorter than I'd like) and one heck of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any other WarioWare game before then you will be familiar with the micro game 
 system that Smooth Moves uses. Just as the series experienced a new gameplay breakthrough with 
 Touched on the DS thanks to the stylus and touch screen... the same breakthrough gameplay has occured 
 again in the form of the Wii's motion controls. This game will cause you to fully utilize your 
 Wiimote and eventually nunchuck to advance through all levels of the game.
  
  The graphics on this game are absolutely stunning. They are bright, colorful, crisp, and fluid 
 images. It looks a lot like a Saturday morning cartoon made in Flash. As with all Wario Ware games 
 you progress through a series of wacky characters and follow their storylines through the in game 
 cinematics. As you complete the boss stage for each character you open up new areas on your map. 
 This can be additional characters that you have unlocked or extra mini-games like shoot the can, 
 which is the closest thing to duck hunt so far. After you have unlocked all the characters in the 
 game you are encouraged to go back and beat your previous records. Doing so will open further special 
 areas that mixup the gameplay and increase the difficulty level.
  
  There are several multiplayer games that are opened up after you progress far enough through the 
 one player levels. Some of these mini games are cooperative two player events like the bungee race. 
 One person uses the remote while the other has the nunchuck. Both characters are running side by 
 side on the screen and have to jump obstacles as they cross them. If one player gets stuck the 
 bungee cord holds the other player up temporarily. The goal is to finish together in the best time 
 possible. Other multiplayer games are competitive and involve games of sudden death to see who 
 loses the first micro game before the others.
  
  All in all I highly recommend this title for everyone with a Wii. Its a great party game with a 
 group of friends but can also be enjoyed as a single player experience from time to time. Much 
 like Wii Sports, this title also does a great job demonstrating the various control schemes of 
 the Wii motion controllers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzordude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  short but too much fun to care, this game should be in every wii owners collection. It uses the wiimote 
 very well and accurate. The microgames are like mini me, short and random. My only complaint is 
 that the game does not explain how to do the microgame so i still dont know what to do on a few 
 games but that would slow down the game. The multiplayer is the best part of the game, supporting 
 up to 12 players. There are a variety of games such as darts, bungie buddies, ect. But the real fun 
 is at surviver and bomb. with a dont mess up mentality, it makes for a really fun experience. A 
 solid game that i highly reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potatoman23
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  I loved warioware for GC. Iloved warioware for DS and still play it. My family doesnt even play 
 video games and they loved it! But smooth moves..... needs more stuff to do. it doesnt have alot 
 of side minigames or toys as they were called in touch... theres only like 4. its so easy and i 
 liked how in the other ones you could replay a game over and over again and you had to do the game 
 harder and harder. now it stops at 3. but there was some good stuff. tower of tennis and stacking 
 the floating briks were fun. and the guy that told you the new moves had the weirdest voice. that 
 was pretty funny. the graphics were crazy like in all the other wariowares. the multiplayer i think 
 would have been alot better if you could choose one or two or three or four controllers instead 
 of just 1. overall this game was pretty good but not as good as the other ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game, i lent from my friend while he lent my Red Steel.
  
  This game i was expectintg it to be a great game, with all the adverts and all the great reviews. 
 So i came into this game expecting alot, and i was amazed because straight away you are suddenly 
 bein chased by a boulder and Wario is running and its like .. wah? but once you realised its started 
 you soon get into it straight away. Its a very easy game to get into with a really weird narrator 
 telling you how to hold the form baton? wtf? the right way hehe. Although the game is original 
 and very easy to understand, it is one of those games where you will play it get bored, leave it 
 then want to play it again. It is a great game and so fun, but the life span of the game is quite 
 short with it easily being completed within a couple of hours. With you not really wanting to replay 
 the levels again, only really the mini games like the tennis tower game and the extra level with 
 the elephant in the background hehe. A great game but short.
  
  DrEd2k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Wario is back and better than ever in Warioware: Smooth Moves. You hold the Wii remote 19 different 
 ways (give or take) and you must complete a series of 5 second long games. There are 205 of these 
 short games, but the replay value exceeds expectations. My favorite form is the Big Cheese, where 
 you hold the Wii remote at you hips and do certain movements. One form that uses the nunchuk has 
 3 different ways to hold it, and you unlock it by beating the single player game, which unfortunately, 
 lasts about 2 hours. But I could play All Mixed Up all day, which mixes all the microgames you've 
 unlocked together, providing with a hectic, yet enjoyable experience. The games get faster, going 
 from five seconds to 3 seconds and faster. There are 3 new characters, Young Cricket, Penny, and 
 Little Wario, who replaces Wario Man. Each character has certain forms in their collection, and 
 every Warioware character is back, even Mike, except Wario Man. But this doesn't bother me. Get 
 this game or else. it's right up there with Zelda! The game also has excellent cartoony graphics, 
 making this a game well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Nintendos newest installment in the wacky Wario Ware game franchise is Wario Ware: Smooth Moves 
 for the Nintendo Wii. Although a couple of past games in the series introduced some cool new and 
 innovative methods of playing the micro-games, Smooth Moves uses the Wii remote allowing a whole 
 new form of game play.
  
  One day, Wario is riding his motorcycle around town. He comes across an ancient building called 
 the Temple of Form. Inside, he finds a strange magic wand. It is called the Form Baton (also know 
 as the Wii remote) . He finds that he can use this baton to complete certain tasks. Wario picks 
 up the Form Baton and out of nowhere, a huge boulder hurls toward himand thus, the game begins.
 
  
  Wario Ware games can be described in one word: insane. The game is a compilation of quirky micro-games 
 in which you must complete a random task as quickly as possible. The games themselves are creative 
 and are often very funny. You will be sawing through logs, saut&eacute; ing veggies, lifting weights, 
 driving a car while avoiding obstacles, and even picking noses! Each task lasts for about five 
 to ten seconds, but as times goes on the speed and difficulty of the micro-games increases. You 
 will be commanded to hold the Wii remote in many different forms to complete each micro-game. 
 For example, the handlebar form requires that you hold the remote like a handlebar. For the 
 elephant form, you must hold the remote at your nose like an elephant trunk.
  
  The main menu screen is a map of the town in which Wario lives, Diamond City. Here, you select 
 a citizen and play their micro-games which consist of a regular occurring form. For example: with 
 Wario, you will be using the remote control form most of the time. On the other hand, with Warios 
 friend, Mona, you will find that the majority of her games require the umbrella form. Not all 
 characters will be available to choose from at first. After accomplishing a characters games and 
 beating the boss stage, you will unlock more characters to choose from. When you select a resident 
 whose micro-games you have not yet played before, you will be graced with a hilarious intro movie 
 to set the scene.
  
  Smooth Moves also has a multiplayer option consisting of four modes. All these modes are played 
 by passing one Wii remote back and forth. On paper, the idea sounds sort of cumbersome, but when 
 you actually get a group of friends sitting (or standing) around the TV looking like fools frantically 
 waving the Wii remote, then passing it as quickly as possible to the respective player, it can 
 be really amusing.
  
  You will most likely cruise through the main game in a disappointingly short amount of time. Luckily, 
 the variety of micro-games and forms with the Wii remote keep the game from loosing its luster. 
 Completing the story will take a matter of hours, but achieving a point where the game is no longer 
 enjoyable could take a very, very long time.
  
  In short, Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is highly recommendable and is truly worth any Wii owners while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsontimson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Dance Like an Idiot or a Monkey
  
  Seriously! Name the last game you played that let you pick a virtual nose, push a girl over and 
 dance like it was still 1984? All of this and much MUCH more can be found on WarioWare: Smooth 
 Moves. This game is comprised of about 205 micro games that all last about 5 seconds each. The 
 controls feel spot on whether your jumping a rope or throwing a ninja star. I have to say WarioWare 
 has the best controls of any of my Wii games so far and that is saying alot since I currently own 
 over 8 games. The cut scenes in this game are all about 3 minutes long and they are all done in 
 anime. The first cut scene is Wario chasing after a rat to retrieve his stolen cake when he suddenly 
 stumbles upon a Form Baton (Wii remote) . All of the cut scenes share a similar quirkiness. Some 
 of the most entertaining cut scenes are simply a deep voiced man telling how to hold your Wii. 
 The sounds in this game are spot on and the game makes full use of the Wii controllers speaker. 
 Unlike Zelda the sounds that come out of your remote don't sound like utter crap. Nothing is more 
 satisfying then hearing the coin noise from Mario in your controller when you jump up to hit a 
 question marked box in one micro game that is a throwback from the original Mario bros. The Visuals 
 are not Photo realistic but then again they don't really have to be. The range of different visual 
 styles is astounding. One second you will be playing the old game and watch and the next you will 
 be slapping a polygon version of Wario in the face. This game is very much a pick up and play game. 
 Even on the Commercial Wii would like to play you can see people picking up WarioWare and instantly 
 getting into the gameplay. It is true to form and after a few games you will instantly be a master 
 at picking noses. The Replay value is the only minor flaw. It will only take about 2 hours to beat 
 the game the first time through. However, after you beat the game you can go back and play the 
 game at faster and more diffecult levels. After awile though you will have played all of the 205 
 micro games many times and there will be no reason to play, except for the occasional multiplayer. 
 If you liked any of the past WarioWare titles I would strongly suggest that you to pick this title 
 up, but even if you haven't WarioWare is still a great example of what the Wiimote is capable of 
 and the game is extremely fun. ~Crimsontimson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Yep, I said it. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is the best WarioWare game in the series yet. It tops the 
 original, Touched, and Twisted. Why is this? For two reasons. First off, it's the only WarioWare 
 created with the intention of being played on a console rather than a handheld, and secondly, because 
 it makes amazing use of the Wii Remote's motion sensitive capabilities.
  
  Premise (for those who haven't played any WarioWare games)
  WarioWare is a series of microgames 
 that are played in rapid succession. You being a level with four lives and play through dozens 
 of small games that each have a simple goal and last only a few seconds. You continue playing until 
 you lose all of your lives. The goal is to get through as many microgames as you can. As you progress, 
 the games get both harder and faster.
  
  Gameplay: 11/10
  The gameplay is very well thought out. You begin with an introductory stage made up of microgames 
 based solely on pointing the Wii Remote ( The Remote Control position) . Afterwards, you go through 
 various levels and learn different positions to hold the Wii Remote. For instance, the Mohawk position 
 is holding the Wii Remote above your head, and the Samuri position is holding the Wii Remote by 
 your left hip with your right hand (as if pulling out a samuri sword) . While playing through microgames, 
 the screen will tell you which position you need to hold the Wii Remote in for the upcoming game, 
 and give you a few seconds to get in position and ready for the game. As confusing as the game 
 may seem, it becomes clear almost immediately when you play it.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  This is the other huge upside. The WarioWare games have always been known for their odd but entertaining 
 visual style. But since they have all been on handheld systems up to this point, we haven't yet 
 seen what the designers are capable of. That's all changed now, though. This game features so many 
 different styles of art and graphics, all thrown at you in rapid succession. One second you'll 
 have a 3D representation of a store cashier, and the next you will have a bunch of cartoonish styled 
 dancing cats. It's difficult to explain in words really. Overall, the game looks amazing, and the 
 graphics complement the fast and furious gameplay perfectly.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  No surprises here. Lot's of characters voices commenting on your performance and fast, catchy music 
 that goes along with the game. The music stands out just like the rest of the game.
  
  Brevity and Replay Value
  I have to go over one issue with this game, and it is an issue that 
 the WarioWare series has always had. It's short. You will literally be watching the end credits 
 within 3 hours of play, I guarantee it. Like the rest of the series, there is more to do afterwards. 
 However, Smooth Moves adds to the replay value with a multiplayer mode and various other levels, 
 such as a fitness level and a level entirely of games using the nunchuk extension controller. This 
 game does fix the brevity issue that the series has always had somewhat, although I still recommend 
 renting it when you need something to do. Ultimately, the game is great and will be a crucial part 
 of any Wii owner's collection in the future, but it just might not be worth the money now.
  
  Pros and Cons
  
  +Addicting
  +Extremely Innovative
  +Superb display of the Wii's motion 
 sensitive capabilities that the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 just don't have
  +Lots of things to do after you beat the game
  +Multiplayer Fun
  
  -Mulltiplayer only available 
 after you beat the main part of the game (this won't be hard though, don't worry)
  -Short
  
  Overall: Don't spend more than $30 on this game, unless you plan on playing it with friends 
 constantly. It's excellent as a rent, but hold off on buying it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Have to say after all the good reviews I was really looking forward to WarioWare, but in the end 
 I am disappointed.
  
  After a few burns on games for the Wii, I have taken the approach to rent them first. This has 
 saved me a lot of cash so far. After waiting over a month for the local video store to actually 
 have it in stock, my wife and I could'nt wait to try it. Boxes are not always accurate.
  
  For example, in order to unlock the Multiplayer mode, you must first beat the game in Single player 
 mode. This is a ridiculous concept! I can see unlocking a few extra levels, but not an entire game! 
 And on top of that, the multiplayer only allows 1 player at a time. Y'all have to pass the baton 
 (Wimote) around for the competition.
  
  Onto game play. Maybe I'm slow, but the fast paced gameplay gets annoying really quick. Faster 
 it says, while leaving less time to read the instructions. Which on your first pass don't always 
 make sense. There were many games that were over as soon as it started, leaving us no clue what 
 we did or how. (The elephant picking up an apple and putting it in the basket is a good example 
 of this.)
  
  I will say the controls were smooth and responsive.
  
  If you are after a multiplayer game, keep looking. Mario Party 8 will be out soon. As for Single 
 player mini-games, at least Rayman was funny and was challenging more often.
  
  Finally, a few words about the mini games. For offering soooo many, most are too simplistic, and 
 few are worth playing over again. My impression is this game was designed for the Gamecube, but 
 then switched midway to a Wii title. The Wii is capable of so much more, and this is not a title 
 that pushes the limit.
  
  Rent it if you must. Save your money for something better that actually has replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theintwowords
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Its interesting to see games that have so many random microgames in it. Its funnier to see it done 
 well. That's what makes WarioWare: Smooth Moves such a fun game to play. Its modest graphics are 
 nothing to be shy of, as they don't hinder such a worthwhile experience. Of course it will take 
 a couple of tries to beat this game because it requires so much speed and accuracy, something of 
 an oddity for the main focus of a game. Regardless, it still packs some completely hysterical games, 
 such as slaping Wario until he wakes up and having a finger to pick his nose. On top of this are 
 the rather pointless microgames such as simply doing a bicep curl in under 7 seconds, and pulling 
 the controller back to yank off some table cloth. These are more of the time wasters. My regrets 
 about this game are few, but still existent. The worst part is that it took me a total of about 
 5 hours to beat the main story mode. I wish it were longer, but despite this, there are some extras 
 and hordes of microgames to play, so it still does have a lot of replay value. That's why I gave 
 it 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_6t9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  A Party game for all ages, WarioWare delivers a fast paced, relentless party game for many players. 
 For those privalleged enough to own a Wii, I Strongly suggest getting this game for lone play, 
 but push it even more as a multiplayer. It brings people together as much as it tears them apart 
 ( In a Competative way!) . The different styles, and forms of holding the Form Batton and Balancing 
 Stone (Wiimote/Nunchuk) add a great twist to how the games function, and put that extra spin on 
 the amont of fun shared by all. Especially if the game is enjoyed with a massive amount of loud 
 people! Once the Single Player is beat, the Multiplayer becomes unlocked. This was the only thing 
 I didn't Enjoy, simply because I wanted to Party Right away! But Going through the single player 
 is essential only because it allows players to learn all the different hand motions, games, and 
 poses.
  Overall, a must play for Wii Owners... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is very wierd, and that's what makes it so awesome. The minigames are short, but 
 still remain fun, especially when you play multiplayer. The graphics are pretty good, and the game 
 functions greatly with the Wiimote .
  
  Graphics- 9
  If you don't get a seizure from the quickly changing screens from mini-game to mini-game, you'll 
 enjoy the graphics on the game. They're not the best, but it adds to the comedic value of the game.
 
  
  Sound- 9
  The sounds on the game are not only good, but also make the game a heck of a lot funnier, especially 
 in the mini-games. Theres also some good music during the cutscenes. Although not all the music 
 is good, the part that is good will make you laugh out loud.
  
  Value- 8
  Even though this is a pretty good game, $50 is a bit steep in my opinion. $35 would be my suggested 
 price.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- 8
  Im not sure what this means, but if Im right and it means something like What do other people 
 think of this game? Then I dont know many other people that have this game, but those who I do 
 know that have it think its a pretty good game, not a masterpiece, but still entertaining.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  Well, in my opinion, gameplay is divided into several different parts, so Ill 
 divide it here, too.
  Controls- Sometimes the controls are awesome and precise, other times you just want to kill them.
 
  Storyline- Well, the storylines definitely funny, and throughout the game you'll see hilarious 
 cutscenes, so no complaints here.
  Multiplayer- Simply awesome as long as you don't whack your friend in the head with the Wiimote.
 
  
  Well, there's not much else to say, so I hope this guide was helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silver_986
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I belive this Wii Wario Ware game is awsome. Ya it's way better than wii.
  I rate it 8.9 though, because at first i didn't understand a few stuff in this game but then I 
 kinda thought what improvements should be made. This game could use more improvements on better 
 sound and gameplay. It should show you how to do the stuff in the mini-games to help you improve, 
 Great game over-all. I also think there shoul be a way of using the multiplayer better. Not when 
 you have to beat the story mode, that takes to long. Like most people that own a wii have siblings 
 and everyone has friends so I think we shoul'dnt have to beat the story mode to get multiplayer. 
 Over-all this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staffmaster123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is a great game and a excellent addition to the Wario Ware Sereis.
  The Good:
  The Microgames are so fun, and using the 3d Graphics is new since all the other Wario 
 Ware games such as GBA or DS coudnt support 3d Graphics. But this one can, and its sweeeet! There 
 are over about 15 positions to use with the Wii remote for different types of Microgames.
  Also, being able to upload your Miis to the game, you may see your Mii charecter starring in a Microgame. Plus 
 there are some new charecters in the game such as Young Cricket, Jimmy P. and more. Plus awsome Bonus 
 Minigames like Tower Tennis, Block star and tons more.
  The bad:
  The only flaw with this game is that story mode is VERY short and INCREDIBLY easy. You only have 
 to beat like 15 microgames to advance to the next charecter and the games dont speed up much. They 
 do give you a short after story, like Orbulans story (using the nunchuck) . And they give you 4 elephant 
 buildings which are pretty hard...
  
  Overall: Anyways, its a great party game and tons of fun!
  If youre a Wario Ware fan, definatly 
 get this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberbanana1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This Wario Ware may be the best one yet. It shows a glance into the future of the Wii's huge capabilities. 
 Yes, story mode ends rather quickly, but this game is meant to be played over and over and over 
 and over and over. Maybe game producers could make it a bit longer, but this game is perfect for 
 all ages, easy for little children, but has enough replay time for experienced gamers. Some nice 
 additions to the game were Dr. Crygors granddaughter and his workout program. Multiplayer mode 
 may be the biggest addition to this, featuring four different microgame modes and three different 
 multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycobra15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Oh, Wario, you greedy little con artist, how do we submit to you? If you find yourself playing 
 WarioWare: Smooth Moves, you will do more than submit to Wario. Returning with an amazing slew 
 of over 200 brand new minigames that make an exellent use of the Wii's amazing capabilites, Smooth 
 Moves redefines the party game genre. The only thing that is bad is that you will find that the 
 story mode ends a little too quickly, but still, Smooth Moves is an instant classic. We love you, 
 Wario. We still love you. My final score: 9.4, because WarioWare is just so freakin fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJL13
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Like many of the Wii's early titles, this game focuses on showing just what the Wiimote can do. 
 The ideas shown here has you doing crazy things, from using the Wiimote as a nose, to just leaving 
 it stationary and picking it up at the right time. But as the story is with this game, it'll leave 
 you wanting more, like showing 2 seconds of the greatest show on Earth.
  
  The stories don't intertwine with each other (Except for one occurence) but the stories give quite 
 a bit of humor and have you wanting to finish the games to see the ending. The graphics are artistic, 
 but we've seen these graphics on the GBA. Some graphics are meant to be sightly upgraded versions 
 of old Nintendo games as one of the themes, and that gives you some happiness. Most games are either 
 just poor 3D or good 2D. There are also hilarious explnations and well shown ways to work your 
 (Form Baton) . However some of these game are unresponsive with the Form Baton.
  
  There's 200 microgames, as in shorter than minigames. While each of these games will have you hooked 
 the first time, few have you coming back. You find these games via singleplayer, and over time 
 you'll learn all the skills. However since the microgames are so short 1. No explaniation except 
 for a couple of words and how to hold the Form Baton. 2. They'll leave you hanging, in like 10 
 seconds tops. Some games are even repeated, 2 boss fights are near identical and so are 2 stories. 
 Boss fights that had you pumped in past games are pathetic in this version. They require not nearly 
 as much effort and you don't feel like you've accomplished something (But the final boss fight 
 is THE best final boss fight ever) Singleplayer will take you an hour and 45 minutes to complete. 
 The game even goes so far as to make fun of you for it. After seeing the credits, you get another 
 story and now you finally get to use the nunchuck. Now you think Oh boy a whole new set! Well you 
 only learn one, and the games using them are hardly any. The final slap is when the story shows 
 you suceeding and having you think once again you're gonna play more games. Instead the keepers 
 of your controls take them back, and that's it.
  
  One playthrough will not unlock all the minigames, but with almost non existant replay value even 
 to people like the game due to the length will make it a chore, seeing as how you get all the games 
 off luck. You also get (Minigames) off completing levels, but these are just flatout stupid. You 
 want to see how long you can lift an arm than lowering it? How about flapping an uncontrollable 
 balloon? The only good minigame is an exercise composed of several microgames, but since it only 
 counts you succeeding what the game tells you to do and shows a system of weight loss I've never 
 heard of, you don't know how effective it is.
  
  But why singleplayer, this game has 12 player multiplayer, plus it's a party game! WHY NOT JUST 
 PLAY MULTIPLAYER! Because you have to beat the singleplayer to unlock multiplayer, I kid you not. 
 You have to wade through the crap to get to the stuff you want, and even then you feel confused. 
 Even with 2 people you can only use 1 Wiimote. This may have been an effort to make you speed up 
 as in past minigames, but it ends being your downfall seeing how 1 second can cost you the game 
 in most of these cases. There's also a dart game that would've been better suited for Wii Sports 
 or Wii Play.
  
  In the end you have 2 options with this game. 1. Rent it a day before your friends come over, beat 
 singleplayer, then play multiplayer with friends. 2. Rent it the same day, switch off every time 
 you fail in singleplayer with a friend. This was not designed for long time playing, and anyone 
 aiming to spend $50 due to high reviews and thinking the high score means you'll be playing this 
 game for a while will just be ticked and shocked at how fun the game is, and even more shocked 
 and angry when the fun ends in only a couple of hours. (Like me, son of a) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wookie_Fodder
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that is both perfect for, and possibly a hazard for the Wii. This game 
 shows off all that is fun about the system, but at the same time - can possibly get old after a 
 while.
  
  WW: SM is very easy to get into in learn. The action is quick and intense, with some 'Deep Thought's 
 inspired breaks to explain the different 'forms'
  
  This is the game that you can't have any inhibitions while playing. Plain and simple you're going 
 to look like an idiot. The sad thing is you won't look like an idiot for very long as this game 
 is SHORT. I had everything unlocked after about 10 hours of game play.
  
  The multiplayer is weak, as there are only a handful of games to play with friends. This is the 
 kind of game that you should probably rent and play on a long weekend. The replay value isn't that 
 great, but while you're playing through it for the first time it's the funnest game ever played.
 
  
  But for as much as I enjoyed this game, it's a love or hate kinda game. You're either going to 
 love it or hate it.
  
  Worth giving a shot - but for multiplayer you might want to check out some other games.
  - Jon 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The WarioWare series has graced every Nintendo system after the GBA, and it seems fit to release 
 one that uses the Wiimote's unique capabilities. This is the most active game you'll ever play 
 on your Wii so far. In this game you'll run, jump rope, play tug of war, grate metallic objects, 
 draw a master sword, pick a nose, kill germs, and a whole new sleu of 200 plus insane microgames.
 
  
  The random amount of fun in this game is what makes this game hilarious. Note: This game's story 
 mode is short short SHORT and beatable in 2 hours tops, so don't expect a sort of deep comedic 
 tale, just mini stories that are so random that it's a suprise Wario makes an apperarence. The 
 microgames are so much fun and insane that you'll really break a sweat if you play for a long amount 
 of time.
  
  Before each microgame, a different position is given to hold the remote, followed by a flash of 
 direction such as Insert! . There is no way of even attempting to avoid doing the positions because 
 there is no time to think of an alternative way to, let's say, hula-hoop or dance. That's the beauty 
 of it, you're stuck embarassing yourself and doing ridiculous poses in order to keep up with the 
 constant flow of insanity.
  
  Anyone who has a disability, steer clear of this game. Sorry to say, there is no way to avoid the 
 more physical microgames without getting creative, which may cost you the game. Then again, I don't 
 think many disabled people own Wii's, no offense to anyone.
  
  Short storyline aside, this is a magnificent and entertaining way to show off what the Wii is capable 
 of. FUTURE WII GAME DEVELOPERS SHOULD TAKE A LOOK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game is not the type of game that needs a good story to be in any way successful. Essentially, 
 it sticks to the gameplay, which is definitely for the best in this case. Though it is classified 
 as a party game , it also manages to be quite exciting if you were to play single player. In this 
 game there are a number of different ways to play. Depending on the microgame that you must play, 
 a different form will be displayed prior to playing it, some obviously more easy to adapt to than 
 others. They can be as simple as holding the remote regularily or something for difficult to pick 
 up such as the mortar and pestle form which makes the player hold the remote vertically while having 
 their other hand underneath. There is the occasional microgame that doesnt seem to work quite right 
 once in a while, but even failing those is kind of funny. After you complete the regular game there 
 are also a few multiplayer modes. It was slightly dissapointing at first when it was clear only 
 one remote was used during the multiplayer modes but this factor does play into some modes quite 
 well, such as a hot potato type game. Also, there is a new form after the main game called the 
 diner where you use both the remote and the nunchuck at the same time. Graphically, the game isnt 
 necessarily impressive but it certainly is charming. The graphics in most microgames and during 
 cutscenes are 2dimensional-like. But they are very cartoony in a good way, and still manage to 
 be pleasant on the eyes. They are very clean as well, with thicker black outlines on each character 
 during the cutscenes. Along with the bright colours this game looks quite good. The sound in the 
 game is nothing more than you would expect from a Wario Ware title. The music is all upbeat and 
 the sounds effects are also pretty goofy, of course all of its for the best. The game's single 
 player does not take long to beat what so ever, probably under 5 hours, but it will definitely 
 warrant quite a lot of replayability along with other minigames and multiplayer.
  
  Overall this is a great game that anyone with a Wii should at least try, especially if they are 
 fans of other titles in the Wario Ware series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camble
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I cannot say this is a bad game. Tons of wacky mini-games, frantic animation and music and fun 
 multi-player format. But, I just don't see how this game compares to other main stream games. I 
 could see this whole game as some kind of add on to another game. LoZ: TP was a huge, extremely 
 detailed game with the kind of animation/graphics that you would expect out of a next-gen system. 
 I know that Wario Ware is not going for that same kind of effect, but the game lacks in the presentation 
 department. The gameplay might be great, but it looks like a solid piece of- well you get that 
 I'm not a big fan.
  
  Biggest problem- staying power. This is not the kind of game that you could play into the wee hours 
 of the night, or wake up and veg out for hours playing. This is the kind of game that you feel 
 like might trigger your programed assassin training that had been lying dormant until some random 
 flash sequence prompts your LSD whacked out mind into kill mode. Long story short, rent it for 
 you and a couple of buddies are looking for a mild distraction from normal gaming and sanity, if 
 you have more than one controller. If you don't have more than one controller, you don't have the 
 least bit of business ever touching this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahoney23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Who ever made this game is insane, which is a good thing (some how) . Wario Ware: Smooth Moves will 
 be one of the weirdest, but yet funnest games you will ever pick up.
  
  Gameplay: Random is the single best word I can think of to describe the gameplay of this game. 
 The basics are the same as the other games in this series, but you use the Wii remote to do every 
 thing (granted you need to hit the A button for a few mini games) . You start out by selecting a 
 group of mini games that are represented by one of the characters in the game. After that you are 
 challenged to complete random mini games in rapid secession. One thing new to this game are the 
 forms. There are times that in between the mini games you are shown a funny but odd clip that teaches 
 you a new form. What these forms are, are different ways to hold the Wii remote. This adds a lot 
 of variety to the game, and some of the forms really make you look ridiculous (elephant form any 
 one?) . Possibly the only down side to the game play is that the single play dosn't last long at 
 all. You can have every thing in the game unlocked in about 1 1/2 - 2 hours depending on how good 
 you are. But still this dosn't bring the game down much thanks to it being so fun to play over 
 and over again.
  
  Graphics: For the most part the graphics are really cartoony, which works great for this game. 
 Some of the mini games have different styles of graphics, though they all seem to fit together 
 just fine. Nothing to complain about here.
  
  Sound: Once again, it's simple, but every thing works perfectly. Also one cool thing to note, once 
 you unlock the sound test you can conduct all the songs in the game using the Wii remote like a 
 baton.
  
  Value: This is a really fun and wacky game for the Wii. It is all so the best collection of mini 
 games for the system yet. If you have friends who live neer by then this is a must for any Wii 
 owner. The multi player will last for hours, while you have fun mocking your friends. If you usually 
 play games by your self you should still give this game a try and see if it's for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3rp3t3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a must get game for the Wii! First me and my family were addicted to 
 Wii Sports and now they can't stp with WarioWare. When my friends come over we always need to pop 
 it in and have a really good time. The story mode is over fast but the amazing ways of using the 
 Wiimote in different ways is just amazing. My favorite is the Handlebar when you turn the Wiimote 
 sideways and you put both hands over it. The music is good because it starts slow and then it goes 
 faster and faster as you get higher in the level. If there is one good party game to get, WarioWare 
 is the one! There are sooooo many microgames and only a few of them are pointless. All of them 
 are Just Right but a few are really hard. If you want to get up and really get into the game WarioWare 
 shows you how. The graphics are 2-D and really cartoony but it makes the game feel more fun and 
 goofy. I am proud that I bought this game and if you bought it you are proud too! Some of the moves 
 like The Elephant when you put the Wiimote on your nose is kind of hard and annoying. But all the 
 other moves are surprising and really good. Get WarioWare and you will see what I mean. That is 
 why I rated this game 9.2. Get it and experience the real way to play Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! You go to different places and you use the Wii control to complete activities 
 to finish the levels. There are a ton of mini games and you learn how to do new moves and actions 
 with the Wii controler. The games are also timed and if you do not pass it you have to do it again. 
 The only down side to this game is that I bet it in two days. Now it does have things you can keep 
 playing after you have opended everything up but would have been nice if it was a little longer. 
 Graphics , sound and game play are great. This is a must have for Wii players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Look at the Wii. It's full of PS2 ports, minigames and the odd exclusive. Not the most killer line-up 
 of titles. And in the dry Janurary month, a game that happens to be on of the better Wii titles 
 comes along in the form of craziness and being a whole lot of fun. Gamespot is right - WarioWare 
 is a perfect fit for Wii. Yes it is hilarious, and yes it zany. But hilarity, and 5 second fun 
 can only last you so long......
  
  Graphics: The art style does shine through and it's a lot cleaner and more impressive than the 
 fuzzy GC predeccesor. Although most of the 3D graphics are terribly basic or dare I say jaggy, 
 it's clever portrayal of minigames, colours and characters make the game just that more alive. 
 But these graphics could be done on GC and some minigames look rough around the edges. Sound: Very 
 typical of WarioWare. However the music is more catchy than usual in a WarioWare game, and some 
 of the tunes are damn nice. The speaker in the wiimote is used very well as fits in with the cheepy 
 noises of WarioWare. What's great is the sound test where you get to conduct the tunes of WarioWare. 
 Who needs Wii Music? Also classic Nintendo tunes are also in the game, if dissapointingly brief. 
 Gameplay: Unfortunately, WarioWare won't last you anymore than 10 hours in single player before 
 you get bored of it. While there are some terrific moments of games, and contains one of the best 
 moments in games (the final boss battle before Orbulon) , you'll probably only return to your favorites 
 briefly or to show friends. The styles of the wiimote is pretty well done, but unfortunately some 
 of the minigames don't respond to your actions or how your holding the wiimote. There's also a 
 multiplayer option for upto 12 players with one wiimote, and while this provides some hilarious 
 and tense moments, some of the modes feel very tacked on and most of the modes involve taking turns 
 which lessens the excitement and involvement. However WarioWare is a game you'll return for a bit 
 of fun and definitely occasional play with a lot of people. The game is mostly VERY fun while it 
 lasts, and there's always addictive SP modes and games which aren't just 10 second minigames, which 
 you'll unlock and have a lot of fun with. While WarioWare isn't a wholehardy recommendation, it 
 must be played for at least a rental if you have a Wii. WarioWare is great but limited, budget 
 fun. + Classic Nintendo minigames - Metroid Prime, Windwaker, Punchout, oh my!
  + A lot of minigames, modes and hilarity while they last - Boss battles mostly rock
  + Unique 
 presentation and qualities - awesome sound test
  - Multiplayer could've been better
  - Some unresponsiveness at times - Shallow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare -- a great and somehow unusual way to have fun at parties. The microgames are involving 
 and fun, and its clever style surprised everyone at the time...
  
  At least until this 1-hour long Wii version hit the shelves with a bang that it didn't deserve.
 
  
  The replay value of this game is abysmal. The single player mode lasts you an hour or less, you 
 have to UNLOCK multiplayer mode (and even so, the structure of multiplayer mode is disappointing) , 
 and to unlock absolutely EVERYTHING in the game, all you need to do is play for around 3 hours.
 
  
  I'm not going to be entirely negative in this review, however. The microgames at least maintain 
 the charm and wit they had in previous games, but as everything does, the games slowly die out 
 once you complete the single player.
  
  You unlock multiplayer by completing single player mode (not exactly a back-breaking task) . The 
 games are fun, providing your willingness to pass a single controller around, which isn't easy 
 with the tiny gaps of time in between games. Often times the multiplayer is extremely frustrating, 
 which subtracts from the party attitude that made WarioWare what it was before. The game doesn't 
 even have the option to support more than one controller, so passing one around is unfortunately 
 the only option you have.
  
  To sum it all up, WarioWare isn't the best place to spend fifty bucks. I made the mistake of getting 
 it. So basically what $50 gets you is one hour of gameplay, a worthless and frustrating multiplayer, 
 and little-to-zilch replay value to go on top of it all. Please take my advice in saying that this 
 game didn't deserve a better ranking than the Legend of Zelda, not even a better ranking than its 
 predecessors. Do yourself a favor and stay away from Smooth Moves. Trust me, you'll thank me later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renger6002
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Warioware.... where to start.
  
  This game is beyond fun.... or should I say b3yond fun ; ) .
  
  There are a billion (not really, 
 but there are like 15-20) forms , which are the way the wiimote should be held for a specific game. 
 After unlocking the forms and watching a hilariously random intro, they will appear in your minigames. 
 Every game shows you what form to use for 1 second, gives you 1 second to prepare, and about 5 
 seconds to do the task. There are 3 versions of every microgame, of which there are a lot of. Overall 
 there are over 200 microgames, which is a big number.
  The game contains ministories, each of them with a collection of games. This main part could be 
 finished within 2 or so hours, then comes the unlocking and highscore beating part, which literaly 
 last you forever.
  
  Every microgame is unique, and some are so totally random that they will make you laugh. After 
 every ten or so levels, the game speeds up, requiring you to be fast, and sometimes, very fast, 
 and sometimes even VERY fast.
  
  There are also several minigames, which are like normal minigames, such as darts. And about 6 multiplayer 
 games, which are either minigames, or microgames with a twist.
  
  Warioware, as usual, has its own weird style, and the graphics are perfect for that style. Sometimes 
 looking like N64 games, sometimes like Gamecube games, sometimes like a comic book in a mix of 
 2D, and 3D graphics.
  
  The music is awsome in some parts, and intense in others as it speeds up along with the game.
 
  
  IN conclusion Wario ware is Wacky. Really wacky, and when I say wacky, I mean WACKY. It is impossible 
 to have more uses for the wiimote that this game does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game im fimalar with i yse to have wario ware for the game boy advance but its losr some where 
 in my garage of doom!!! LOL. its lost some where in the boxxes in the addic. and i also have wario 
 ware touched! there bith reat mini-games but wari ware touched has almost coverd my the middle 
 of my touch screan with scratches from there fast hard mini-games. and my brother hadgot a wii for 
 christams and the only game we had no games but wii !ii Sports and Wii Play. and when this game 
 came out i rushed to the shop at 8.45 on late-night shopping (closses at 9!) and this game was 
 fun and i finshed the whole thing in about 4 days and unlocked the 2 player mode. the game is fun 
 but the game has a arather short stroy and it defently dose show thr Wii's 3D graphics most game 
 are 2D and some are just crappy flat 3D modles and besides that it a great game 2 player party 
 game so any one looking for a great game for the Wiiyou cant go wrong with Wario ware smooth moves 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtodd258
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I gave this game a 2.5. I believe it was a waste of my time and money to buy this game. It 
 is fun for about 1 hour, but it is all repetitive and boring after that.
  
  While many of the game's microgames do make a good match for the Wii remote, a majority of the 
 microgames make it difficult to understand what you are supposed to do. On top of that, some games 
 are unresponsive to the Wii remote itself. I beat the game in an hour. It was a very boring and 
 repetitive hour. The sound, visuals, and gameplay are just repeated again and again. There isn't 
 much replay value in it, because you will probably just get angry at it and fling your Wii remote 
 at your TV.
  
  The multiplayer was also a big disappointment. Most of the game modes are lackluster and confusing. 
 On top of this, you actually have to unlock multiplayer mode. Plus, multiplayer only uses 1 remote. 
 Not four, like the Wii supports, but one. This makes simultaneous play impossible, making the multiplayer 
 the failure that it is.
  
  If you really want to play this game, rent it. Do not spend your $50 on this trash, you will only 
 wish you chose a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  When you play through the first level or two on the story mode its a little boring and slow at 
 points in the game. But as you start to really progress, unlock mini games and unlock new ways 
 to hold the Wii-mote it gets so addictive and its almost impossible to put down. When you finish 
 story mode, which doesnet take long at all (maybe 2-3 hours?) , thats when the real game begins. 
 You can try to unlock every minigame in the story mode, or you can try to unlock all the poses 
 which are unlocked after every boss stage, or you can try to get the high scores on each level 
 and/or mini-game. Multi-player isnt as great as I though it would be but it is the one of the best 
 games to play at a party or just with a bunch of friends. If you have the Wii and your wondering 
 what game to get next, this is the one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbishrob04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  if you've ever played a warioware game before you know what your in for... the most ridiculous cracked 
 out game you've ever played.
  
  Gameplay: is what you'd expect from a warioware title, with over 200 different mini games all with 
 3 different difficulty levels theres an unimaginable number of ways the wii remote is used: placing 
 it flat ont he palm of your hand to balance a broom, holding it upright and swatting a fly, or 
 holding it at your side and shaking your hips to hula hoop (and looking absolutely ridiculous while 
 doing so lol) . while this game may be completely innovative with its control scheme, there is one 
 part of the gameplay where it's lacking... and that is its multiplayer, thats what got me hooked 
 on the wario for GCN. there isnt even a true multiplayer mode in smooth moves, you share a remote 
 by passing it back and forth between turns.
  Graphics: considering most of the minigames are short little ports of NES, SNES, and N64 games.... the 
 graphics really aren't state of the art, but tit in no way shape or form do they hinder the incredible 
 gameplay. needles to say, they get the job done. Sound: the music and sound from this game will 
 have you pissing yourself at times...
  
  everything about this game makes no sense whatsoever which is what makes it so much fun. although 
 this game lacks the multiplayer awesomeness of previous titles i still recommend this game to everyone, 
 whether you're a veteran to the series are have never played one before, i recommend picking this 
 up immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Where the hell do i start with a game like this. It's tough but at least the game is so awesomely 
 random that I feel that starting anywhere would be quite appropriate. To say that this game has 
 a style of its own would be a huge under statement. Every single mini-game has a different artistic 
 style to it which really shows the creativity that Intelligent System has. Controls: In a whacky 
 game like this one, it would be safe to say that controls and style are what really drive the consumer 
 to purchase something that lets face it can either last you 5 minutes or 3 hours depending on how 
 much effort you put into the game. In the controls department there is nothing to worry about. 
 Every Form baton position feels great and each position comes with different mini missions to accomplish. 
 Like the classic poking your nose in 3D, or slapping wario awake or even flipping pancakes or massive 
 fish. The games are just so fun and creative that half the time your going to have to re-do most 
 of the game because you will either find yourself laugh at how outrageous they are or just laugh 
 at how funny some of things your doing can be like for example, picking somebodies nose hair while 
 they are sleeping. All in all, the controls feel tight and I never once feel that i lose a mini 
 game because the controls didn't respond fast enough or the sensor didn't pick up what I was doing.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is so silly and fun that most of the time i felt like just dancing, 
 rather than actually playing the game. Some of the music and sound effect can get annoying after 
 a while but the great thing about this game is that there is so many different types of games that 
 once you get bored of one you can simply move on to another sectioin of the game.
  
  Lasting Value: To me this is the toughest part of the game to review. Why?? Because the lasting 
 value on a game is based solely on the fact of whether the individual playing the game has a desire 
 to continue playing the game even after the game is completely beaten. I found myself going back 
 and re-playing portions of the game just to see if I could beat my old score. In fact it took me 
 an entire week to beat the story in the game because i kept going back and replaying the story 
 mission over and over again because i wanted to unlock every single game. So to some this game 
 will only last them 3 hours but to other like me that really wanted to get the Full warioware experience 
 you can really get a lot more than what you paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doylen05
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Warios 3rd apperince (i think) this game is for all the family its the kind of game u pic up for 
 a 5 minuet game and play it for a hour and also u can see ur granny playing it hehehe but this 
 game is nt all multy player fun the story is that wario has found a *form batton*and u work ur 
 way around peple in town doing levels for each of them there are over 150 microgames to play each 
 lasting 5 second, athough you dont start with a muilty player setting u can unlock it with in an 
 hour .the grafics are sypil but effective using mannly primery coulrs. this wario game is top class 
 athough u will get slightly bored with it in the first 2 days u will be picing it up for mounths 
 and the humar is great in 1 of the microgames u are wafting wat seems to be gas only to find wario 
 let of thanks for taking the time to read my  if its not 
 very good (slightly jumpy lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I respect other people's high opinion of this game. It is indeed creative, and it does indeed take 
 advantage of the Wii Remote (Form Baton or Wiimote) . But, as you can tell from my use of the word 
 indeed , I can be a little bit of a puzzle snob. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a collection of short 
 cartoon skits followed by mini-games that open up other minigames. By minigames, I mean MINI. They 
 are each about five seconds long. You have five seconds to figure out what is going on, act, and 
 then beat the game.
  
  For instance, you must pic someone's nose, drop an apple into a basket, balance a rolling ball 
 on a plate, or sharpen a pencil. The games are so random that you occassionally find yourself chuckling 
 at the author's sense of humor.
  
  Unfortunately, the ADD/ADHD nature of the game... that is, rapid-fire minigames with no reprieve, 
 and cartoon sequences that introduce weird characters doing weird things with general weirdness 
 interspersed just basically irritates me.
  
  I think other people like me would be irritated by this game. If you like crossword puzzles, or 
 concentrating for any length of time on anything, you will not like this game. If you like Homestarrunner 
 or other bizarre flash-cartoon web site humor, you probably would feel quite at home.
  
  The thing that REALLY busts my hump is the fact that some games are actually creative and fun and 
 I would like to spend more time on them, but I CANT because the game rhythm is so frenetic and 
 psycho.
  
  I don't understand why this game got a 9.1 by Gamespot, or why the average person rates it an 8.8. 
 I suppose I'm not like most people. Still, I'll throw in my two cents for the sake of anyone else 
 who is like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idnuf636
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game but should be rented. The reason is that the mini-games stay original 
 for a while, but not forever. The story took less than 2 hours to play this game so i cant really 
 recommend buy, but highly recommend a rent. My only real complaint other than it being short is 
 how easy it is. The only set of mini-games i ever lost on was the last one excluding the bonus 
 thing at the end with the balance stone. Go rent this game and enjoy it, for the short while that 
 it lasts you. The graphic style fits the game and so does the fast paced music as you get to the 
 end of sets. Much more lasting value if you have a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I got a copy of WarioWare for my birthday and started to play with it over the three day weekend. 
 Well I can't say what the point of the game is still ha ha but all I know is I was cracking up 
 playing it the whole time! I got a friend over and we took turns trying to beat the stories and 
 just couldn't stop laughing. This game has some of the weirdest mini games I've ever seen... which 
 I think makes them some of the best! No repeats of other games or anything like that. It's a fast 
 game that is great with friends and I'd suggest everyone pick up a copy. It's really funny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1vgfan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is definetly the best game for the Wii so far. It shows off the motion sense controls, and 
 some of the Wii's better graphics. A must have... even more than Zelda.
  
  This is a great game with a ton of minigames that everyone can find fun in. Even the graphics are 
 great in this. And some of the microgames are so fun, I wish they would make a whole game out of 
 it.
  
  My only complaint would be it's length. It's not that bad, but it took me about 2 hours to get 
 through the main story. I still have a lot of stuff to do though to unlock everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenlight23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Contrary to the popular belief, WarioWare is strange on only one succinct level. The reason being, 
 however, is not because of the main objective of the game being to accomplish as many quaint little 
 tasks as you possibly can while the beat gets faster and faster and faster until you give up and 
 realize that half your hair is gone because you've torn it out involuntarily while playing, and 
 now you have to get one of those cheap toupees that substitute teachers wear, which is probably 
 why the WCA (Wig Companies of America) is so profitable these days. WarioWare is completely odd 
 because it did what others developers were terrified of doing: plunging deep into dangerous waters 
 and concocting a mixture of elements that a game should not be (random, unbearably cute, short, 
 etc.) into one blob of gelantinous goo from which WarioWare's unique concept can be extracted.
 
  
  It is not important, however. WarioWare pushes itself far from the usual collections of puzzle 
 games and action games, and ends up becoming a puzzle/action game itself, something that never 
 seemed possible before. Its quirky, challenging yet ultimately hilarious experiences has captivated 
 many audiences who are willing to try something completely different from the norm of video games.
 
  
  Being the success it has been, the franchise has spawned numerous sequels on several different 
 platforms, including the Game Boy Advance and the more recent Nintendo DS. This time, Wario makes 
 his impression on the new Wii with Smooth Moves. With over 200 more microgames to practice and 
 conquer, newer difficulty modes simulated to tear your hair out even faster, new characters to 
 add to the original oddball cast, and unique multiplayer games requiring only the use of a single 
 Wii Remote, this WarioWare may very well be the best one yet.
  
  For those who don't know, WarioWare's storyline is pretty simple. The infamous Wario has decided 
 to employ yet another get rich quick scheme. How? By entering the video game business. The games 
 that Wario creates, however, are short, pointless and inane. For this reason, he decides to market 
 them by selling them in complilations and throwing them at you as fast as possible.
  
  His scheme doesn't work, obviously, but it sure makes for an entertaining experience. Throughout 
 the game, you face certain encounters with different characters, all of which end up in slews of 
 microgames. Each game is about 8 game seconds, or 4 real seconds, in length (hence the term microgame 
 ) and every one requires a different task in order to complete the game. Instructions quickly appear 
 on the screen before the game begins, to give you a hint as to what you must do. The object is 
 to complete as many games as possible or complete a certain amount of games. After a few games, 
 a Boss Stage will appear, during which you must complete a more complex task than a regular microgame 
 amid no time limit. As you complete microgames, they get faster and harder so the challenge increases. 
 If you fail to complete a task, you lose a life, and if you lose all of your lives, it's game over.
 
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves has Wario obtaining an ancient artifact known as the Form Baton (which 
 looks suspiciously similar to a Wii Remote) and using it to his whim and in his minigames. This 
 is the only straight part of the storyline, because the rest makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. 
 This matters not, though, because the game is so entertaining that there are no second thoughts 
 about the weak story.
  
  In WarioWare: Smooth Moves, the mechanics of the game are made only more interesting with the introduction 
 of the Wii Remote. Before each microgame, you are asked to hold the remote in a certain way, and 
 then you play the microgame by using the remote in that position. This greatly adds to the hilarity 
 of the game because it forces players to perform all sorts of crazy actions in order to continue 
 with the game. Such forms include the Handlebar, the Umbrella, the Samurai, the Finger Food, the 
 Discard, and the simple Remote Control.
  
  The story mode of Smooth Moves takes place in Diamond City, where Wario and his friends live. As 
 you meet each person and complete each of scenarios, you unlock more places, people and minigames 
 in the city. There are a few additions to the old cast, including the martial arts student Young 
 Cricket and his sensai Master Mantis, and Penny, the young granddaughter of Dr. Crygor. In all 
 there are about 10 character scenarios, but in addition to those, you have 6 minigames, the Temple 
 of Form where you can practice the microgames, a special scenario which features the Balance Stone 
 (a. k. a. the Nunchuk attachment) , the Kelorometer for exercise (you'll see) , the Elephant Buildings 
 (modes that let you play random minigames normally, at super fast speeds, with one life, or with 
 no form warning ) , an interactive set of Staff Credits for beating the game, a sound studio which 
 allows you to listen to and even conduct your favorite tunes, and other unique prizes.
  
  There are many other additions to the WarioWare franchise besides the expansive single player mode. 
 After every Boss Stage, a strange Pose card appears, and you are expected to perform that pose. 
 These Poses don't serve much impotance to anything, excpet that you can collect them as a side-quest 
 to the single player mode. There are also many multiplayer modes for people to enjoy together, 
 including the original Survival Mode for up to 12 players, Darts, Bomb, Balloon, and others.
  
  Graphically, Smooth Moves is slick and polished in all directions. The game's cutout characters 
 are full of bright colors and depth. The limitations of the Wii's graphical capacity are irrelevant 
 in this game. The interesting point about the graphics, however, is how each microgame is designed 
 differently. One minute you're stopping a 3-D alarm clock with a 3-D hand, and the next you're 
 shooing away cartoon people with a bug on a stick. These variations of art never lets the game 
 get boring or dull, and each moment while performing the microgames is interesting. The animations 
 that occur after the completed microgame can be downright hilarious at times too.
  
  While the game has rich graphics, entertaining gameplay and long replay value, Smooth Moves' sound 
 may be its weakest category. Some of the sound effects can get annoying, particularly if you've 
 played the microgames over and over. The good news, however, is that nearly all of the tracks that 
 play during the games are catchy, and they also fit the beat to how fast the game is being played. 
 The addition of a conducting studio allows players to conduct their favorite tunes, especially 
 the Nintendo tracks played during Nintendo Cameo games.
  
  Smooth Moves does a fantastic job in reawakening the franchise with the help of the Wii and Wii 
 Remote. Although the single player mode can be over and done with in about an hour and a half, 
 it provides a great amount of replay value that will convince you to play over and over again. 
 Smooth Moves is also a easy game to pick up and play whenever you feel like having a little insane 
 fun. So go on, play WarioWare: Smooth Moves. Those wig stores are counting on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckcleric
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The Good: Extremely fun while it lasts, great minigame collections, makes for a great party game. 
 The Bad: Too short. The Nintendo WarioWare series of games continues on the Wii with Warioware 
 Smooth Moves, and I must say, it is the best installment yet. You'll hula-hoop, pick Wario's nose, 
 and even get to play three levels of the original StarFox. But while you'll have a great experience 
 playing through these games, to put it lightly, the game is short. You can easily finish the main 
 game in three hours, and it takes you about three more to unlock all the bonus content. That said, 
 Smooth Moves is a great weekend rental if you've got some friends over, or even if you are playing 
 it by yourself. The multiplayer minigames are just as insane as the main microgames, with titles 
 such as 'Bungee Buddies' and 'Star Nose'. There's also some bonus content, such as unlocking the 
 very fun minigame Pyoro S as well as the Animal Buildings and the Sound Test. There's a lot of 
 fun to be had with Warioware, but one can't help wishing the game was longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Strengths: Vivid, zany art style; fantastic sound effects and music; deep use of the Wii remote 
 in 200 minigames
  
  Weaknesses: Single-player campaign is very short; games get repetitive
  
  WarioWare: Smooth 
 Moves looks like a wacky hybrid of Rayman Raving Rabbids and Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, 
 and establishes itself as the strangest game yet on Nintendo's quirky Wii console.
  
  At the outset, gamers are treated to a beautiful-looking, two-dimensional story that has Wario 
 stumble into a temple and find an ancient form baton, which looks suspiciously like a Wii remote.
 
  
  The aim of the game is to master the many form baton poses - ways to hold the remote - and complete 
 several quick minigames on the way to final challenges. Winning so-called boss battles unlocks 
 the ability to play your favorite minigames at any time.
  
  The first introduction of each pose is hilarious, in all their Deep Thoughts by Jack Handey glory. 
 The writing and art direction for this game is top-notch, as is the sound - which ranges from well-timed, 
 simple beeps to stellar voice acting and music.
  
  SmoothMoves also finds unique ways to incorporate your Miis into gameplay  and when they appear, 
 it's a laugh-out-loud surprise.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is an enjoyable foray into bizarre fun on the Wii, and it's a shame the 
 single-player mode is so brief.
  
  But the fun goes on, with multiplayer play that requires gamers to complete minigames, quickly 
 pass the remote to another person and repeat.
  
  If you have friends to share the experience with, the value of Smooth Moves grows exponentially. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplegarbage
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  this is such a great game and i will never stop playing it unti li am done with it and that will 
 be never because its something new to play and the wii mote is just an addition to the gamers awesomeness. 
 I now that isnt a word but i just made it up to describe this game. Keep playing this game unti 
 lyour grandchildren die and then u will have a new one to play with because nintendo never stops 
 coming up with awesome games like this. I am very bored and thats why i am writing this review. 
 I like it so much that i played it for 14 hours today and i skipped work to have all my friends 
 over and play it. i ma so glad i bought my wii just so i could play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  You've got to really hate the world (yourself especially) not to dig Wario Ware. I love Gears of 
 War. I love Halo. I love Resident Evil 4. I love God of War, Ninja Gaiden, and every other macho 
 hardcore tour-de-force out there. Wario Ware is a long-awaited breath of fresh air from all of 
 that. Who cares if it's not cutting edge? It's contagious fun! It's wierd! It's hilarious! You 
 get to pick a nose. You get put dentures back into Grandma's mouth! You get to shave random hairy 
 surfaces! 'Nuff said! Get a bunch of your friends over to your pad, and if you're over 21, get 
 a case of your alcoholic beverage of choice, and prepare to have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micropact
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I kept seeing this game on Gamespot user vids, On The Spot and it was frequently discussed and 
 prasied for all the fun it provided, After all that hype I decided to try it out at my friends 
 house who said how great it was... after playing the mini games i felt ABSOLUTLEY sick and dissapointed, 
 they were really easy and short and really not fun! The graphocs were dissapointing and the sound 
 sounded silly and fake just like the game overall. Maybe it's just that am so not into these kind 
 of games but if youre anything like me don't get this game just go to Chucky Cheese! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiffanywtam
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I saw the rating for this game being either a high eight or a low nine, but I totally disagree 
 with the scores after playing it for a few hours. I don't get why it is considered fun when all 
 the games are so short and pointless. The only interesting thing about the game is the introduction 
 to the moves such as the Big Cheese . The crazy music makes the game more bearable but that doesn't 
 make the game itself fun either. The different levels of the games are too repetitive. After a 
 few hours I felt like throwing the remote at the TV... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylendal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware smooth moves is an eccentric game. Whether you're pretending your an elephant, or de-bugging 
 a banana, you will always be having a great time. Wario Ware's gameplay may seem weird and childish 
 at first, but after trying once or twice, I guarantee you'll love it. It's easy to unlock multiplayer 
 is great for parties, allowing up to twelve players, and it's single player will have you keep 
 coming back for more. Whatever the game, you have to think on your toes, and figuring out what 
 the game is demanding you to do is half the challenge. You'ld have be crazier than the characters 
 in this game to not enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajatu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Clearly party material. Expresses that the wiimote can be virtually anything. The moves explain 
 this on its own. ie, The Big Cheese can represent a hool-a-hoop, The Remote can represtent a fan; 
 and the list continues.
  
  If you bring this to a party full of gamers, or even occasional gamers, you will see Smooth Moves 
 work it's magic. Though people will think its odd, and quirky (seeing others do it) , they still 
 manage to somehow get up and try it themselves, and soon enough, they'll want to be up next again.
 
  
  There is also a myriad of games / moves. To be honest, I dont think I've run into every game yet... 
 And the new ones will always catch me off guard. The games will make you laugh, assuming you do 
 them correctly. The intigration of the positions / moves and games just fit hand in hand.
  
  Haven't tried multiplayer that much, but from what I saw, it wasn't TOO amazing. Still fun, 
 but you will get more of a party value by simply having turns in the actual Wario Ware game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Panda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  First I just want to state that this game DESERVES to be the highest rated wii game yet. This game 
 is serious fun. Ok so there are different stages, starting at wario, going to jimmy, mona, kate 
 and ana, and to 8/16- volt. Each stage has its ony goofy style in 15 microgames. Each micro game 
 gives you a set amount of time to complete a small task. These tasks range from sweeping the ground, 
 dropping the wiimote, and yes, even drinking apple juice. There are also about 15 poses/ways to 
 hold the wiimote. In your pants not being one of them. Each microgame has a different pose. A card 
 will come up before each microgame to help you get ready for the game. These pose range from the 
 big cheese, mohawk, the janitor, and the elephant. So after completing each stage (10- 15 micro 
 games, with only 4 losses to spare) you may unlock something. You can unlock minigames like hitting 
 a ping pong ball up a building. But dont worry, if you complete all the main stages, you get 2 
 more (one using the nunchuck, the other for losing calories) and then 4 elepephant stages from 
 hard very hard to it not telling you what way to hold the wiimote. After you do finsih all the 
 main stages, you also unlock multiplayer (1 wii mote, 12 players) . You start out with one, and 
 if you play one you unlock another. Theres darts, bungee buddies, and yes again, even flying a 
 spaceship threw Lincolns abnormally large nose. There are also didfferent ways or methods to play 
 the normal minigames, such as pumping a balloon in between or passing the wiimote around doing 
 microgames when the wiimotes a bomb, or when your running down a village and burning some calories 
 to get some extra ropes for when your going to be cut off of a rope into the sea! Sounds like some 
 crazy fun!
  
  So, as you can see i really dont have any complaints, other than that the microgames get very repetitive, 
 becasue after going back to unlock all the extra stages, and going back to get all the microgames 
 for pyros S, theres no more incentive to keep going. p. s. this was written in note pad, so please 
 forgive me for any mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel_rocks14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that the wii and warioware are a perfect match. The game is extremely fun and 
 funny. The different uses of the remote make the game more fun and you keep coming back for more. 
 This game is the best use for the wii so far. Sure the only thing you do is play mini-games for 
 about 5 seconds but it is the funnest wii game so far.
  Sure you will look like a idiot while trying to hula hoop or do squats but you should still play 
 with your friends because it is just that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillydawg5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I initially rated this game a 5.0/10. This was not a smart decision. I wanted to trade the game 
 in at a local Game store the day after it came out. The guy there basically refused to take it. 
 He told me to take it back home and keep playing. I did. It took me about a week of playing a little 
 at a time to get addicted to it. This game is so fun. Once I got over the self conciousness of 
 looking extremely stupid, it became one of my favorite games. I do think that in single player 
 mode that the music gets a bit annoying, but it still adds to the game. My favorite part of the 
 game is the multiplayer play (although I wish there was an option for multiple controllers) . I 
 love the games that they give you, especially darts. I have been in many heated darts battles on 
 my Wii thanks to Wario Ware. My new rating for this game is a 9.6/10. I recommend it to anyone 
 who is not afraid to look like an idiot. I do not recommend this game to people who hate fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I would consider this the first great (if not, only) post-launch title to be released for the Wii. 
 After the initial excitement of Wii Sports and conquering Zelda (100% mind you!) , I feared that 
 the Wii was going to get boring quickly, just like the critics were saying. And for a time, it 
 certainly seemed that way.
  Then God looketh upon his people and felt a great pity. And the clouds parted and this game descended 
 unto the peoples of the World. And there was much rejoicing. Every time a WarioWare game comes 
 out, it seems to summarise exactly what makes Nintendo great into one overall fun package. The 
 original GBA installments were perfect for portable fun, and the DS version showed off the innovative 
 touch screen features. And now the Wii has an opportunity to prove itself with this game. Not that 
 it needs to prove anything, we already know its awsome.
  Smooth Moves features a crazy cast of characters all of whom have their own story-mode to go through. 
 These are basically one mini-game after another, allowing you to unlock further games and bonuses 
 with future visits. They are fun while they last, but the only reason you would want to go back 
 to them once they are done is to play a random set of minigames as opposed to choosing a favourite 
 of yours from the collection you already have. Still, you can unlock pose cards which are funny 
 but pretty pointless. The graphics are not mind-blowing but they don't need to be, they suit the 
 game perfectly. The cut scenes are remeniscient of flash videos and are cartoony and entertaining 
 and each minigame has a unique look to it.
  The kind of things you'll see are incredibly warped indeed. Anything can happen through a random 
 play through and the results are absolutely hilarious. The sound is decent, with some funky tunes 
 and mad effects combined with the overall look to give a really psychadelic experience.
  The main attraction of course is the unique control method. There are several stances to learn 
 that must be utilised in order to play the games. These stances are explained to you in the funniest 
 way possible, I was literally on the floor laughing my ass off when the smooth, deep-voiced man 
 began explaining the purpose of holding the Wii Remote in a waiter or samurai position. The game 
 recommends that you stand up to play. You certainly will be exhausted eventually as the rapid rate 
 of games comes flying at you. The minigames are often very clever, extremely weird but also make 
 sense in a weird way. You'll even laugh when you realise the weird way in which you were required 
 to hold the remote actually works really well for the game you are playing. For example, one game 
 requires that you simply drop the remote. Assuming you have the wrist strap fastened (and you really 
 should) , dropping the remote will show you a characters bungee jumping off a bridge. Another game 
 has you stopping an assasin by picking up a prone remote from a nearby table or other flat surface. 
 It seems that the developers really thought of anything and everything.
  There is a multiplayer mode, but apart from the darts game and the co-op jumping game, all you're 
 really doing is replaying the minigames. It's not a bad thing but it could have been more. In the 
 single player game, after doing everyone's stories, you get a few extra bonuses such as a tennis/break-out 
 game and they're fun for a while, but like the rest of the game, it can get boring after a while. 
 I pretty much finished everything in a weekend and only occasionally went back to have a laugh 
 with some mates. Which is what this game is intended for I think. Playing by yourself is fun but 
 lonely. Maybe it's just me. Anyway moving on.
  Overall, the game is an amazing experience, utilising the Wii's features perfectly and providing 
 hours of fun. The major setback is that the fun ends after a while, and despite the huge range 
 of minigames, there isn't really any incentive to go back and replay it. Maybe only once in a while, 
 with friends. This leads me back to my first main concern. Is the Wii really only a short-term 
 toy like the critics and Sony fan-boys claim it is? It's a long wait till the next big thing on 
 Wii, and all we have at the moment is crappy Ubisoft ports. Still, the game is great and a must-play 
 if not must-buy title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecrab
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game, I was a little skeptical if this game could hold its grounds. I mean, 
 all it is is a bunch of miny games, that only take about on average 5 seconds to complete. However, 
 once I finally began playing this game, i knew i would be hooked for a long time. The controls 
 for this game are excellent, and each style in which you hold the controller is unique and makes 
 the game that much more innovative. While does take a little getting used to, you'll eventually 
 be able complete some of the most outrageous miny games you have ever seen. Gameplay wise, this 
 game is stupendous with over 200 micro games to play, each allowing you to hold the controller 
 in some crazy (and some times embarrasing) manner. The singplayer portion of the game is surprisingly 
 good, with the minigames being divided into different areas that each have there own stories and 
 will introduce you to the different styles of how to hold the controller. However, the multiplayer 
 is where this game really shines. You will spend hours trying to beat your friends high score and 
 will always find amusement in your friends holding the controller in the elephant style. However, 
 multiplayer can only be unlocked by beating the singleplayer game, which isn't bad because you 
 can still take turns trying the different minigames which is just as enjoyable. So, if your looking 
 for a game that has both a great multiplayer and single player experience Warioware is it. While, 
 it does take some getting used to, its one game that not only you can enjoy, but that the entire 
 family can get in on as well. Either way, Warioware is one game that shouldn't be missed by anyone 
 who has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really a classic!
  The gameplay is so fun (especially multiplayer) but the singleplayer is a little bit short.
  The 
 graphics are funny but sometimes a lil bit fuzzy.
  The sound is weird and good.
  Difficulty=Just right.
  
  In one word: MASTERPIECE!!!
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bl b b b b m m m m m m m m m m m m m ml ml ml ml l lml 
 ml mlm lm lm lm
  m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m mm m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m n n n n n n n n n n n n n n l l l l l l k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is exactly the game I had in mind when I got a Wii, and when I finally got to playing 
 it, I wasn't disappointed! There are many forms in which you hold the Wii remote to play the minigames. 
 Some may make you look a bit weird, but that's exactly what this game is about: comedy. A few of 
 the minigames may take a bit of adjustment for the censor bar to detect, but for the most part, 
 I was able to respond to them correctly. The graphics can be a mixed bag in the battle between 
 style and photorealism. In a photorealistic point of view, they are crap, but in a stylish point 
 of view, they are brilliant. The sounds, like the game itself, are fast pased, so you'll hear one 
 tune in one second, and another a few seconds later. The replay value will depend on whether or 
 not you take advantage of the game's multiplayer, as the single player itself will only last you 
 a few hours. If you're looking for a game that uses Wii control to its fullest, look no further. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safasmets
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  it is basicaly a crime if you dont have this game but have the wii system. This game is a lot of 
 fun. there is a lot of good to this game. It brings back some classic games. and some games will 
 make you laugh and make you look like a fool, i know i did. The graphics are nice, and the game 
 play is great. the game and the wii-mote are made for each other. Yes the game is short but its 
 worth it at the end. my advice is to buy the game, Im pretty sure you will never stop playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NATATO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  You'll bicep curl, squat, bow, dance, conduct, punch, slap, vacuum, drive, flap your wings, answer 
 the phone, swing a sword, arm wrestle, unlock doors, clap your hands, and even drop your Wiimote 
 (on purpose) . Sounds like fun? Well if you weren't faithful to the capabilities of the Wiimote 
 before you played WarioWare: Smooth Moves, this game will turn you into a believe.
  
  WarioWare SM continues the weird but extremely successful WarioWare series. Although the game lacks 
 some of the features that we've come to love in WarioWare, WWSM merges together with the Wii seamlessly 
 enough to create a AAA performance.
  
  Based on its predecessors for GBA and DS, SSMM doesnt stray far from the formula. For those of 
 you that have never played a WarioWare game before, the game makes players complete series of micro 
 games that are basically mini games that will last from anywhere in-between 4-10 seconds. You'll 
 continually play this games non-stop, until you mess one of up or fail to complete it in the short 
 time span that is required. Messing up four times will end the round, and the addicting urge to 
 succeed will most likely have you pressing the retry button more than a few times before you call 
 it quits. Wiimote game play makes a already crazy format even crazier. Unlike the it's predecessors, 
 before each micro-game a form will appear telling you how you should hold or position the Wiimote 
 before the game starts. This system works well with the exception of a few micro games where the 
 given form just makes the game harder than it needs to be. Some of the forms are pretty funny, 
 like setting the Wiimote down and answering it like a phone, or putting it on top of you head and 
 doing squats. The different formats will have you looking like an idiot while you play, but if 
 you can put that aside and focus on the game you'll have blast. As far as graphics and sound goes... 
 Well I was kinda disappointed. The graphics look smooth and well animated for 2D cartoons, but 
 obviously don't compare with next gen graphics, which makes it difficult to give it any higher 
 than an 8/10. The sound is probably the worse part of the game. Some of the background songs are 
 just bad and don't set the wacky mood for the micro games like WarioWare has done in the past. 
 And I'll be honest, I sometimes don't play a level just because the music is so bad. I see a lot 
 of reviews saying the game is too short, and I disagree. The story mode will take you like 3 hours 
 to beat, but once you done there's a lot more to do. You'll have to collect all the micro games 
 by continually playing levels over and over again to unlock all the secret content. After 20 hours 
 of playing you'll probably have everything unlocked and mastered, but still have a handful of unlock-able 
 features and multiplayer to mess around with. If you like REALLY beating a game, you'll get a good 
 30-40 hours out of WWSM, even though there are not as many unlock-able mini games as I would have 
 liked. Overall, SSMM is the next great Wii game after LoZ: TP; if you own a Wii at least rent it 
 so you don't miss out on the fun. If you don't mind looking like an Ar-tard while you play, you'll 
 have a blast playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves. That's the truth, and even if you don't like the 
 game, realize that this game shows the infinite capabilities that the Wii can produce. Don't believe 
 me? Try slapping you ass while doing the disco in WarioWare: Smooth Moves and you'll see what I 
 mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii has been out for almost three months now, and thanks to games like The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess, it is nearly impossible to find. For those lucky few who have one, 
 the next must-own Wii title has arrived in the form of Warioware Smooth Moves.
  
  The Warioware series debuted in 2003 with Warioware Inc.: MegaMicro Game$ for the GameBoy Advance. 
 Last years Warioware Touched for the Nintendo DS left much to be desired, but the Wii version 
 is simply superb. Warioware is a collection of short, three to five second mini-games, and Smooth 
 Moves takes advantage of the Wiis unique remote controller (referred to in this game as the Form 
 Baton) . The game has several different positions for the controller, including the elephant 
 in which the player puts the remote in front of his or her nose. The positions are all very clever, 
 and the game introduces you to them with a hilarious set of instructions.
  
  While multiplayer is the games true purpose, the single player experience is just as good. In 
 fact, multiplayer isnt even an option until you have completed the story mode. Dont be upset, 
 the main story can be finished in roughly 90 minutes. The single player has you following the storylines 
 of several characters. Some of them are more interesting than others, but the collection of games 
 makes up for the unskippable cut scenes. One game has you sticking a finger in a giant nose, and 
 another has you spinning a hula hoop around your waist. The ridiculousness of the games makes this 
 an enjoyable single and multiplayer experience.
  
  There are four modes in multiplayer. Two of them are sudden death modes, where the players must 
 complete the games or face elimination. Another is based upon collecting points, and the person 
 with the most points gets an advantage in the games final round. All of the players are tied in 
 ropes dangling from a pipe. The more points the player collected, the more ropes you have. Each 
 player takes a turn cutting the ropes, with no way of knowing if they are cutting their own rope 
 or someone elses. The player who does not get cut down wins. The final mode is called balloon, 
 where the player must not be the one to pop a giant balloon. All of these modes are very fun, and 
 a great way to relax with friends.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game are not remarkable, but they really dont matter. The visuals 
 have a cartoon style to them, and some of the art is hilarious. While it wont win any grammys, 
 the music does help maintain the pace of the game. In each stage there are dozens of games, and 
 every so often the game will say Faster and the musics tempo will speed up as the game gets 
 more and more insane. So while the graphics and sound are nothing to drool over, they fit the game 
 extremely well.
  
  This game belongs in every Wii owners library just as much as Twilight Princess. Its single player 
 may be lacking, but the multiplayer definitely makes up for it. This is a game thats replay value 
 will probably never go down at least until the next Warioware comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_cHrIs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  When I got my wii I was kinda stuck on what to buy Marvel ultimite alliance was rubbish and I traded 
 it back in zelda was no where to be found in my small town red steel was fun but not great and 
 wii sports was the only thing I was still playing. But wario ware really took me by surprise at 
 only &pound;32.99 and fun stamped all over it I had to buy it. and here is what I think.
  
  Graphics: on a technical view point this isn't anything that will make you say wow! but you can 
 see the time and effort that has been put into making each character, screen, minigame and video 
 origanal. Each minigame has it's own look if you like some can easily be defined as futureistic 
 some look like they have been drawn by a kid but each games looks slightly different and you can 
 apprecheate it.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where this game really shines. the gameplay is fast and addictive but still chalanging. 
 Warioware shows just how many ways the wiimote can be used all the ways work well and if me or 
 my friends have tryed to do somthing and it hase'nt worked that'ill proberly be cause it is our 
 falut but people with short tempers (or big egos) may think thats its the game and lose their temper. 
 The game also has a slight puzzle element in it as you have to work out how to use the wiimote 
 in the form you have been given (your form is how you hold the wiimote and/or nunchucku) The multiplayer 
 is a bit slow as it is a pass the wiimote around kinda thing but does'nt give you enongh time to 
 put the strap on unlees your quite profecint at it like me
  10/10
  
  Sound: The sound in warioware gradually speeds up when you play more games and really gets you 
 into it theres really not much to say about it but it's really good in most respect exept that 
 the sound changes from minigame to the level screen so somthime the music does'nt fit which might 
 break up your vibes man.
  8/10
  
  Value: I've seen this game prices pretty weirdly ranging from &pound;32:99 to &pound;37:99 but 
 it's still under the usuall wii game price tag which is &pound;40:00 also this game is addictive 
 and it's multiplayer will have all your friends either ripping their hair out or boogieing about 
 (oh yes my friends it rymes) either way it's good fun the only problem is that only one wiimote 
 is in play so it's not as frantic as single player
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the Weirdest, funniest, and fastest moving games I've played in a long time. It 
 offers something that really hasn't been done before at least in this fashion (Warioware Twisted 
 for DS is similar) . It takes full advantage of the Wii remote and I mean full it has you doing 
 everything from holding the remote regularly to golding it up to your nose and waving it around 
 like you are an elephant. Sure, you may look stupid but its some of the most fun you'll have. It 
 is something completely fresh and interesting. The graphics in this game are completely weird and 
 always changing. The cut scenes are done in a Manga type fashion while the gameplay is weird off 
 the wall random types of graphics. You can start in a realistic looking samurai environment and 
 then go into a 2d looking environment and then into a cartoony one. So graphics are rated higher 
 because of the massive variety and unique styles it presents.
  
  There is virtually no story. It is basically a bunch of random peoples activities that have many 
 games in it to complete their story. Really just random like the rest of the game.
  
  The controls are very simple. just do what it looks like you are supposed to do in that many game. 
 The difficult part is how to hold it while playing the micro games. There are somewhere around 
 20 positions to learn, you pick them up and they are easy to learn, but there are several of them. 
 This is one of the games Nintendo aimed at mainstream so the controls are very simple so that anyone 
 can play and it still keeps hardcore gamers interested.
  
  This is one of the must have party/ minigame games to have for the Wii right now. It is really 
 fun and always keeps you guessing. It is extremely addicting and that is why the single player 
 seems so short, you can beat the whole story in one playing. After that there are tons of unlockables 
 that will keep you busy so don't think that because the single player is short the game is short 
 there are tons of games to unlock.
  
  Its a great game to rent and you will definitly get your money's worth out of the rent. Hopefully 
 this and another game can hold out until Super Mario Galaxy and Metroid Prime 3 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves Review --------------------------------------------------
  
  Here is a game that shows the Wii has potential and is still really fun in multiplayer without 
 the online. Very innotative and is what you expect from a WarioWare game. It's not that platformer 
 type of game you usually see, but it's yet again a game with many mini-games that get so addicting 
 you just want to keep playing. Here is my review with the ups and downs, but mostly ups of WarioWare: 
 Smooth Moves. Gameplay - If you haven't yet played a game using the WiiMote in different ways, 
 then you better play this game. It's not like Wii Sports were your usually punching, swinging, 
 etc. There is over 20 different ways the game plays. I'm talking about different forms. Each form 
 plays out differently and your usually only going to get frustrated with one or two of the forms. 
 Some forms are simple such as the Remote Control Form. Others will be a pick-up-your-wii-mote form, 
 where you put your control on a solid platform and pick it up at a certain time (Discard Form) . 
 Some of the forms though can be difficult to master the first time, you'll usually have to learn 
 a new form and use it at least 25% of the time. It's not to hard or difficult but it may cause 
 headaches. Luckily, it shows you which form you'll be using for a certain mini-game before you 
 do it.
  
  There is over 200 mini-games, varying for the 20 different forms. Most of them are easy, some get 
 challenging. The Remote Control one can be the most puzzling, as some mini-games want you to reach 
 for a clock, or aim at a dinosaur. It sounds kiddish but trust me it's to fun to tell. There is 
 some boss stages after doing a certain amount of mini-games. Some boss stages are fairly easy, 
 some get kinda hard, and some you can't tell. You'll be wondering what to do at first but once 
 you figure it out it gets easy. There is over 10 different stages, (ten different characters) to 
 choose from, along with mini-game ones. You can play any of the mini-games you've completed in 
 a certain type of building. Here is a note for you. You can only play multiplayer when you've completed 
 ONE of the files. You will not unlock it till then. Multiplayer - Multiplayer is up to 12 for a 
 certain mode. There is three other modes that only allow up to five. You won't be using more then 
 one WiiMote as you pass the WiiMote to the next player. That makes it more fun and easier, as you 
 won't be seeing six or seven people hoola-hooping. Multiplayer is easy to do and you only need 
 one other person do play with, they just need to have a Mii Character and a file to play. You can 
 play all the mini-games you've unlocked from all the character files you made and you should have 
 at least 100 mini-games by the time you complete the game. Graphics Graphics aren't everything, 
 and this game doesn't have the best looking graphics ever. It does have the cartoony look you see 
 on cartoon shows, and that's a good thing. You won't see any glitches but your Mii Characters faces 
 look funny, depending on what your doing. You will only see your Mii in either Multiplayer or in 
 a few mini-games. Sound - The music is nice and it definately goes with a certain mini-game. If 
 your playing single-player and your choosing a stage, that stage will have it's own type of music 
 for the course of however many mini-games. It's a good idea not to put any other type of music 
 when playing this game as it may become confusing. Value The Story Mode aka Single Player is about 
 2 hours to 4 hours of play if rush through the stages. You can however play all the mini-games 
 you've completed again if you so choose, or try playing another game, such as Darts. There is also 
 a stage after completeing the game, that challenges you to see how long you can last through as 
 many mini-games. There is also Multiplayer of course which should last you when company is over. 
 The only other thing that will keep you playing besides multiplayer is trying to get all of the 
 mini-games. There is a place to check which ones you have so good luck on that if you do. Bottomline 
 The game definately shows why the Wii is an innotative console. If your looking for a game to play 
 with others or that shows the WiiMotes innotative features, then definately pick this up. If you 
 want to rent this game for just single player, go ahead. I recommend buying this game if you ever 
 have company over. AND REMEMBER TO BEAT IT FIRST FOR MULTIPLAYER
  
  By: Sasukedevil Created on 2/12/07. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrsvic
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fanstastic use of the wii remote, Most of the mircogames are rendered in 3-D, Great unlockables, 
 Great music, Great Multiplayer, Great Graphics.
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer should have been unlocked from the start.
  
  With Touched and Twisted 
 released, they take full advantage of the touch screen, and the Tilt sensor. and with Smooth Moves 
 taking full advantage of the wii remote, it is the best thing nintendo has ever done. like putting 
 the wii remote on your hand trying to balance a broomstick, or holding the wii remote on your nose 
 trying to shoot down a gaint nose. or Driving a car in the chaffur form.
  
  The best mircogames in this game are 9-volt's mircogames, they seem to have present games like 
 pikmin, nintendogs, and metriod prime. and playing the oringinal starfox with the chaffur form 
 is amazing.
  
  The graphics are immpervese, like the 2-D graphics in the cutscences are Great, and The 3-D graphics 
 in the mircogames are Wonderful.
  
  Overall: With full advatage of the wii remote, Warioware: Smooth Moves is the best game in the 
 warioware frashice.
  
  buy Warioware: Smooth Moves or Wario will stick a wii remote up your ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcamp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game right after it came out. Didn't rent it first, and I don't regret it. I've played 
 it with a number of different people (about 10) and everyone seems to find something different 
 that they enjoy about it. A big fave is block stack, as it seems to surprise the non-wii owners 
 as to the sensitivity of the wiimote.
  
  The story mode may seem short, but that's fine with me, as you have to beat it to unlock multiplayer. 
 i unwrapped it with a group of 5 people, and had to beat it before everyone could truly enjoy it 
 to it's potential.
  
  the only thing i found to be disappointing was the darts game. Every now and again a dart will 
 just go wild on you. We played it for about 30 min, to try to figure out why it reacted funny sometimes, 
 but couldn't figure it out.
  
  Bungee buddies is sure to get a laugh from people as well. sharing the wiimote and nunchuck between 
 2 people like a bungee chord is a hilarious idea.
  
  I personally can play this game by myself for hours. just trying to best myself and get to a higher 
 level of difficulty is the real challenge. The higher difficulty levels are quite frantic. So you 
 may have an easy time with the first few levels, depending on your general skill with the remote, 
 but later on, once everything is beat, you can definitley challenge yourself. Even the basic remote 
 pose from the first level gets tough around the 50th level of play.
  
  In a nutshell, nobody who has played this game with me has had ANY negative comments. All have 
 enjoyed it, (ages 20-35) and look forward to their next visit to challenge it again! I'm not saying 
 go out and buy this right away without trying, but renting it first should convince you of the 
 genius behind this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puck269
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  That sums this game up the best. This of course, is probably the best of the bunch and depending 
 on how long you like to play mini games and how much of a completist you are will depend on how 
 long you play this game.
  
  This game is made completely for the person with a short attention spans, like my brother. The 
 controls on some of the games are outright frustrating as at times even with the lights off the 
 wii has a hard time detecting the remote if its not in a particular spot. The game can just flat 
 out be cheated, and you don't have to do any of the wierd postures to really get the game to work. 
 It's disappointing, because scores if you are playing competativly with a friend on the leaderboard 
 can be drastically faked or skewed depending on how you play. Of course, that makes the hardest 
 difficulty elephant even playable, since things get so frantic they don't let you know what setup 
 to use the controller with.
  
  I do have to say though, that difficulty does get gradually harder the longer you play, which wasn't 
 necessarily the case in Warioware's DS debut, which some of them came down to pure endurance. Its 
 a good party game, but it doesn't hold up as long as others like Wii Sports, but besides that game 
 it is probably the best party game on the playform that I've played and has the longest lasting 
 appeal. It is also pretty easy to pick up and play, however the learning curve is difficult cause 
 at no time does it ever give you instructions on how to actually beat the microgame. I would recommend 
 this game, if you can find yourself a Wii and will probably hold you off until Mario Party comes 
 out, or something to break up a Wii Sports run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerensky287
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  I rented this game last night and beat it in less than 4 hours. That's the main thing that keeps 
 coming up in my mind. Why is this? Because almost everyone is giving it massive praise, but if 
 you buy it, it's almost impossible to get your money's worth. The game itself is a blast. The cutscenes 
 are wonderfully animated and designed, the sound is outstanding, and the microgames are original 
 and very fun to play. The way that you have to quickly switch to a different form (from The Remote 
 Control to The Mohawk ) in between levels almost makes you panic on the higher difficulties, as 
 you're usually wondering what game you'll have to beat next. It may be shaking flies off a banana, 
 it may be closing shop after a day of selling things, it may even be trying to yank the Master 
 Sword out of its pedestal. Regardless, the games offer lots of challenge the first few times you 
 play them.
  
  The problem is, after playing for only a few hours, you'll have seen everything the game has to 
 offer... except, maybe, for 2 or 3 microgames. There's a ton of variety, but each original thing 
 literally lasts only for a few seconds. You can replay sets of levels again once you've beaten 
 them, but the only benefit to this is unlocking more games. Once you've beaten a level, it seems 
 so much easier if you play it again that it gets repetitive.
  
  There's a multiplayer mode that you unlock once you beat the game, but it doesn't support more 
 than one controller. That means that you have to hand off the wiimote to the next person in order 
 to keep playing the game, which can be annoying - specifically if you want to slip on the wrist 
 strap every time, or if a person is being a poor sport and keeps the controller from you.
  
  In conclusion, the game is fun while it lasts. However, the difficulty (easy) and the game 
 length (really short) make it hard to get your money's worth if you buy it. Rent it first, and 
 if your friends all really like it, get them to pitch in on buying the game. You'll probably end 
 up kicking yourself for spending 60 bucks on a game that lasts an evening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcelice
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  At the wii launch, i was reluctant to buy any mini-game collections such as Rayman Raving Rabbids 
 and Super Monkey Ball Blitz because i told myself to hold out for when Wario Ware hits the wii. 
 I have been a fan of the series ever since the ds version (which was just as short but somehow 
 overcame its length) . Anyway, i bought this game and went home and played it. About three hours 
 later (three hours of total fun might i add) , i was done. 50 DOLLARS FOR ONLY THREE HOURS WORTH 
 OF GAMEPLAY? I can't believe Gamespot gave this game a higher rating the zelda: TP. This is a total 
 rip-off. My advice is wait till the price drops to maybe around $30, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Plain Fun. Those are the words that i would use to describe Warioware: Smooth moves. Rapidly scrambling 
 to make a random thing is the way to go, even though sometime the actions are confusing and the 
 wii remote doesn't pick up the action that you just did, which can be frustrating. Also new games 
 tend to be quite hard since you have no idea what to do-and you must do it in 5 seconds. However 
 the fast and fun gameplay make up for it and the usual 5 lives leave plenty of room to make mistakes.
 
  Definately worth buying and hours of guaranteed fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is one of those games that is fun at first....... but you are capable of 
 beating it in under 2 hours. The gameplay is fun.... and the majority of the mini-games work perfectly. 
 If you were thinking of buying the game though...... you might have to think again...... being able 
 to beat the game in under 2 hours is quite a let-down...... nothing left to de except master all 
 the games. For an older person to walk in the room and seeing you pretending to have an elephant 
 nose, it seems weird.... but once you actually pick up the game and start to play, it gets pretty 
 addicting. You probably need to be pretty goofy and have quite a sence of humour to enjoy the game 
 to the fullest..... but you'll manage to have fun nomatter what.
  
  Rent it, because it will be one fine night of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Like i said in my review deck, Fun while it lasts. The game took me 1:45 minutes too complete. 
 This game is just simply overated.
  
  The game has 200 minigames, each of them lucky to last 4 seconds well very few do apart from the 
 bosses witch can last a good 20 seconds........ if your a bad gamer. Dont get me wrong this game 
 isnt that bad, there are quite a few good minigames and the real fun starts when you have competed 
 the game and go back to do your faviriotes. Multiplayer is a little bit thin but i dont really 
 mind about that. The bosses are probally the most fun out of all the minigames, as they last longer. 
 Its a shame the game has a average lifesapn of under 2 hours before you complete it, they should 
 have added another island or something. After 5 days i dought you will pick it up again.
  
  The graphics are what some call 'Paper graphics' but again i dont mind, as the presentation of 
 it all makes up for the 2d graphics that are on most of the minigames.
  
  The sound is suprizingly fun especially the Dj levels, you will find yourself litterally dancing 
 while your playing! I know i did anyway until someone pointed it out to me.
  
  I diddnt want to say this but DO NOT buy this game, it is no way worth your money, however you 
 MUST rent or borrow this game for at least 2/3 days as it is essential you eventually get your 
 hands on it.
  
  Overall i have given this game a 7.6, this is not a bad game but gamespot clearly overated it by 
 a long way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinkuDaisuken
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I will Review this based on 5 Factors.
  
  Use of Wiimote/Time Spent/Look of it/Fun/Sound/
  
  Use of wiimote:
  This game makes the wiimote 
 useful in ways i didnt know it could be used in, it makes more use of it then wii sports. With 
 all the forms in the game, you won't be doing 1 action the entire time. Also great news on that 
 is, Most of the forms, except 1, use the wiimote alone, which shows you Nintendo's Work on that 
 little remote. I give the Use on it, a 10 because it made me move around and stand while playing.
 
  
  10
  
  Time Spent:
  This is where the game Drags, the singleplayer is short. So short it can make a person who hasnt 
 beaten it, beat it within a few hours of trial and error on the levels. Yes even if it was fun, 
 it just was short. I would give the length on this a 6 since it can be replayed over and over.
 
  
  6
  
  Look of it:
  This game is great on the artwork, the artists on this, have a unique style and this style makes 
 the game look very lively compared to other games i've played. The animation is good, and simple 
 which make it look nice to child and adult. To put it short, this game has great artwork and, all 
 of the work is very well put together. Ill give this a 10
  
  10
  
  Fun:
  Alright the part that matters, This game is very fun indeed, and the multiplayer on it is very 
 good, and since you dont use multiple controllers, even people with 1 wiimote can have a party 
 on it with friends. Every game will make you want more, and more of the action. ill give the fun 
 a 10.
  
  10
  
  The Sound:
  Great music, in it thats catchy and fits the game perfectly, however the wiimote sounds are a little 
 clunky so that would damage it, Other than that, the game has good sounds. ill give it an 8.
  
  8
  
  Overview: This game has alot of fun, innovation, multiplayer, and catchy music, however 
 the game is too short to be a buyer, and i recommend you buying this only if you have alot of friends 
 who come over alot because frankly, if you dont youll end up being bored within a week. Hey though, 
 renting works to see how you like it, playing the game is more useful than reading a review anyway. 
 So rent to try it, and buy if you like.
  
  I rented it and played until i got every form card, and gotten past 60 on all of the levels except: 
 thrilling and sudden death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingPKoopa
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The controls are probably the best part about the whole game! This game really shows what the Wii 
 can do and the whole concept is a bit like flash cards . But more like Flash Mini games ..
  
  The game has an outstanding presentation and it can get REALLY addicting!
  The story is a 
 bit short and I am a bit sad that it ended quickly yet, I still play it and I love to play it with 
 my friends that come over.
  
  I dislike some of the mini-games and some of the characters are just plain weird. But I overlook 
 that!
  It's a great game for any Wii owner and a great Party game for any Party game fan. If you do however 
 are a bit worried that it might be a bad hot-pink game I suggest you rent it before you decide 
 to buy it.
  
  Despite the short story mode and you have a great game for your Wii console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest. The Nintendo Wii has had a pretty bad lineup of games post launch. What really 
 is there? Zelda, Trauma Center, Madden and I though WarioWare.
  
  Whoops. I thought wrong.
  
  I could easily do a review on how poorly GameSpot reviewed this 
 game. They gave this game a higher rating then Zelda. In case you missed that, I'll say it again. 
 They gave this game a higher rating then Zelda!!!
  
  I booted up the game and was met by a great opening screen. The presentation is great. When I got 
 to the initial menu, I was disappointed to see that multiplayer wasn't available right away. Apparently, 
 I had to earn it. Whatever, I continued on, and got into my first round of WarioWare microgames.
 
  
  Here is something that is seriously understated: MICROgames. Never in my life, did I ever think 
 attempting to pick someone's nose in under 5 seconds could ever be classified as a Microgame but 
 apparently WarioWare can get away with it.
  
  Once I regained consciousness, I realized how random these games are. Your first set of microgames 
 are after Wario is chased out of some sort of temple by a boulder. So, I made what I though was 
 a safe assumption, by believing the games would be somewhat boulder based. Was I ever wrong. I 
 was greeted by the aforementioned picking of the nose sequence, then I had to put teeth in some 
 Grandma's mouth and the nightmare went on.
  
  So, after doing 10 or so microgames, I reached the Boss Stage . Since I don't want to post any 
 Spoilers I'll just say that this game sucks.
  
  Next, it was time for me to go to the next set of microgames, expecting more of a challenge. I 
 blinked for a second, and I swear I saw challenge scurrying away from this game, afraid of it for 
 some reason. I didn't know why, but I played on.
  
  What I discovered was this; WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of the most overrated games in the history 
 of gaming. It defines shallow, unrewarding gameplay. It just doesn't do enough with the controls 
 to make it truly interesting. Right when you think it could get interesting, it does something 
 stupid, like making you pick up your controller, in this case used as a phone, in 5 seconds. It's 
 the definition of boring, easy gameplay.
  
  Plus, there is no reason to play on past the initial hour or so. This isn't because the game is 
 boring, it's because the game will be over. Yes, that's right, I finished this game in 1 hour and 
 20 minutes. Right when I thought I was just wrapping up the tutorial levels, I was greeted by end 
 credits and the opportunity to play the newly unlocked multiplayer mode, which is also a mess.
 
  
  In summary, this game is garbage. It does a great job at making sure you understand the controls 
 before you play each new set of microgames, and the presentation is quite strong. But outside of 
 that, this game defines disappointment. Hourlong single player, boring multiplayer and really hardly 
 any replay value. Please folks, don't purchase this game.
  
  Positives:
  + Easy to get into
  + Funny introductions to new controls
  
  Negatives:
  - Super short 
 single player
  - Boring multiplayer
  - The overly random, boring microgames
  - The lack of any difficulty what so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is an amazing game. The games are just oddly hilarious and fun. But there are some bads.
 
  
  Pros: Fun and funny mini games, hilarious poses, and simply wonderful use of the Mii Channel.
 
  
  Cons: Not really a family game, my dad hated it and didn't get it, the games are usually too easy, 
 and most importantly: IT'S WAY TOO SHORT!!!!!!
  
  Conclusion: WarioWare is a fun renting expierence but you don't want to buy it, my family didn't 
 like it so you might not want to get YOUR family playing, too short to but I bring up again. However, 
 there is one boss stage that introduces what could be an awesome super amazing super cool scrumdiddlybiddly 
 game on the Wii, and maybe ever created! There is a Star Fox mini game. Controls-AWESOME! Was it 
 fun? Hmm...... YES!!!!!! Yeah, easy 10. You should rent it for the WarioWare expierence AND this 
 super cool mini game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrobvi
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this review short, just like Warioware: Smooth Moves.
  
  The entire single player mode can be beaten in one sitting, and although you won't play all the 
 minigames during it, a single day's worth of playing the game will give you everything the game 
 has to offer. You'll get bored with it after a day or two. If you're a gamer who loves depth, this 
 will be the bane of your existence. It's probably fun to play multiplayer, but I imagine that gets 
 boring after a couple sessions as well.
  
  The game itself is fun, it's just too short. Rent it for a fun experience, buy it to burn a hole 
 in your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokartguy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Although I haven't spent much time playing warioware (I just rented it yesterday) I think this 
 game is pure awesomeness. People keep complaining oh its too short and it lacks depth! , i think 
 what we should be focusing on the gameplay, which by the way, is awesome. In Warioware, the Wii 
 remote is called the Form Baton . Their are several different ways to hold the form baton, like 
 an umbrella, or a steering wheel, and so on. There are alot of innovative ways the forms are used. 
 Like with the umbrella, you have to finish of a glass of water. There is also a game where you 
 have to Hula-hoop with the Big Cheese form, this is done by holding the form baton next to your 
 hip, don't have hips? Well the.... you probably shouldn't be playing this game then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thulhu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  For all intents and purposes, the Nintendo Wii is the PERFECT party game machine. The controller 
 is highly passable, the possibilities for gameplay are limitless, and the system itself is designed 
 to be as multi-player friendly as it comes. So it makes perfect sense that Wario-Ware would make 
 an appearance sooner or later. Unfortunately, as far as the launch window goes, it had to be later.
 
  
  Mario Party was Nintendo's smash hit party game, with dozens of mini-games and a cool 'board-game' 
 mechanic that served as the spine of the game's structure. I guess at some point Nintendo decided 
 that minigames weren't 'mini' enough, and decided to condense them even further into 'micro-games.' 
 That's what WarioWare: Smooth Moves is all about; games that take nought but a few seconds to complete, 
 and fly at you like pissed-off hornets on heroin. With the Gameboy Advance version, the games consisted 
 of hitting the A button with immaculate timing, or doing something with the D-pad, and while it 
 was fun, it wasn't terribly engaging. But engaging is the perfect word for this new installment; 
 the scope of motions used with the Wii controller is positively baffling. You'll find yourself 
 moving the controller in ways that you might've previously thought wouldn't read. In one microgame, 
 your task is to shake a victory champagne bottle, then to spray some crayon-drawn characters with 
 the celebratory booze. In this instance, you have to put your thumb over the top of the controller 
 and shake; then after aiming the mouth of the bottle, the champagne won't actually flow until you 
 really take your thumb off of the top of the controller. There are many other impressive uses of 
 the controller in the game, but this one stood out the most prominently to me.
  
  A lot of people seem disappointed that the story mode doesn't last longer, and they feel like they've 
 been ripped off. Before buying this game, you need to understand that this is NOT a traditional 
 game, it's a compilation of 200 tiny games that you'll play over and over. The lasting value is 
 in its multiplayer and its variety of interaction, not the length of its story. In truth you can 
 'beat' this game in about an hour or more. If that's not what you're looking for, look elsewhere. 
 But you've been warned; you WILL be missing out.
  
  There are supposedly 200 microgames; it WILL take you a while to unlock them all. You'll end up 
 playing through each character's game set about three times (at least) before you get them all. 
 And then when you do, it all goes crazy. Each game it seems has some unique way to use the controller, 
 even though there aren't anywhere near 200 'forms;' the slight variations are enough to mix it 
 all up.
  
  The motions of the controller aren't the only variety, either; in traditional WarioWare nature, 
 the graphics and styles of animation are all over the board. Video game sprites, 3D rendering, 
 crayon-drawings, paper cutouts, even frequent cameos by your personal Miis. The sounds are just 
 as eclectic and varied, though not nearly as prominently displayed. There will be a ton of points 
 where you'll have to stop and say, Hang on... what WAS that? And if you're like me, you love games 
 like that.
  
  The only problem WarioWare had was that it wasn't a launch title. That's not to knock the game, 
 nor do I think that it absolutely should have been; however, after Rayman and Wii Sports and with 
 the Wii's lack of traditional first-party releases, it almost feels like that the minigame genre 
 has become the Wii's cop-out game solution. WarioWare totally could have set the bar for Wii games, 
 if it had only come before the others. But that's no reason to give this game up; if you own a 
 Wii at all, you need this game to show you just how crazy the system can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  wario ware makes use of the wii mote very well. some of the mini games however leave you a bit 
 lost on how to do them. you understand some of the basics but really may take a few tries to get 
 a certain mini game down. dont give up hope right away. sometimes it seems 4 tries isnt enough. 
 however you can always go back. the first set of stages goes fast. you can always visit a certain 
 area again.
  
  warioware is a bit cartoony and may come off more for children, however i think this is more aimed 
 at kids from 12+
  
  not to say this game isnt made for children but you may have to go over how to do certain mini 
 games with younger children.
  
  the music in the game comes off pretty nicely at first but it becomes really repetitive after a 
 few levels.
  
  not too sure how this fits as a multi player game seening as all i saw was a single player game.
 
  
  however while this may seem a negative review. i do like the game play and relative speed of the 
 game. its good for people like me who have a short attention span and bore easy.
  
  is it worth the $50? not really but if you wait a little i am sure $30 worth be worth the purchase 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbtrey3
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  I got this game after reading GameSpot's review which praised WarioWare's innovative play style. 
 I will admit that this game does have some truly new and original ideas for the use of the Wii 
 mote. Your first hour of the game will leave you laughing and pondering what the developers were 
 on when they made this game. However, your second hour of the game will be spent being pissed off 
 because you completed the story mode and found you have practically nothing new to find in the 
 game. This is where WarioWare is a complete let down. GameSpot's one con for this game of, Too 
 Short is grossly understated. When I think of Too Short , I imagine a game that is beaten in 4-5 
 hours (Gears I would consider too short) . This game falls more into the category of You have got 
 to be kidding me..... that's it! Overall, this game is worth nothing more than a 2 to 3 day rental. 
 In that time you can experience all the crazy things this game has to offer and feel satisfied 
 that you didn't waste any more money for the experience. Gamespot should be ashamed of their completely 
 misleading rating of this game, as it DEFINETLY should not be rated the top game for the WII at 
 the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMar555
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware getting 9.1 is crazy. it is at best an ok game for the first hour of playing. it scored 
 better than TP. crazy talk. with TP you get about 50 hours of great gameplay. the first hour of 
 WW is ok at best and by then you have the game complete. its a game that gets old very fast. multiplayer 
 doesnt keep you interested either with the annoying passing back and forth of the controller. while 
 the visuals and sound are good in the game its just over far too quickly for my liking and it doesnt 
 leave you wanting more but wanting your money back. as innovative as it is it is not worth your 
 money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2hot2rotvamp
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Though the game is very innovative... once you beat the main story, and dont learn any more forms 
 it has no replay value. The reason i have played for 10 hours or less is because the game itself 
 is an hour and a half long at most. Though it is cool seeing how the wii remote can work and do 
 different things, it gets old pretty fast. The videos are extremely boring and most of the games 
 are forgettable. This game is a must rent though, but make sure you dont rent it for a whole week 
 if you have a choice. It would be great for a party, but do not expect to get much use of it after 
 that. The multiplayer is missing something so it feels sort of rushed. They could have made this 
 game so much more than it is. The game is very crazy and fast paced, but it is way to easy to beat. 
 I believe this game should be marked down to about 30-40 dollars because it is not the big game 
 that you would expect for $50. And the ending is really bad. A form is the way you hold the wii 
 remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is one of the first game we saw when Nintendo released its first official 
 Wii commercials. It boasted crazy fun times and full use of the Wii remotes capabilities and without 
 any surprise that is exactly what we got. Wario Ware Smooth Moves will not only have you glued 
 to your Wii with hours on end it will have you doing everything from jumping up and down to putting 
 the Wii mote in on your nose to imitate and elephants trunk.
  
  In full Wario Ware fashion you will do many things like:
  
  1. Shave a face.
  2. Wash a cows 
 butt.
  3. Put teeth in grandmas mouth.
  4. Slap Wario.
  5. Unwind snakes
  
  You know normal Wario Ware tasks. Over all WWs controls work great and really make use off all 
 the Wii motes features. But sometimes the controls will wig out on you but its rare and nothing 
 that will spoil your fun. Multi-player is a blast you do a random mix of micro games only one controller 
 is needed which is cool for the kids with small pockets. WW is a joy to look at everything from 
 its cartoon look to its bizzare atmosphere will be packed with color and look good enough to 
 eat. The audio in WW is crazy from fast past jingles to strange songs and even some fermilliar 
 Nintendo tunes will show up in this game. The Wii mote makes a different noise for every mini game 
 and it sound really good compared to the sounds it makes in other games.
  
  Overall if you own a Wii play this game and be glad you did because you will never shake flies 
 off a banana the same way again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I really liked many things about this game and there were a few things I didn't like. First, the 
 gameplay is great and you can keep coming back for more. The only problem is the story mode is 
 a bit short and for me I felt like something was just missing from this title. I love the look, 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound, but like I said, I just felt like something was missing. The multiplayer 
 games are a lot of fun and as you will see that is probably the best thing about this game is involving 
 more people (up to 12) and you only have to use 1 remote. Overall, you will enjoy this game and 
 you will enjoy it even more with more people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I had great hopes for this game. Metacritic list it as the second highest game for the Wii, behind 
 only Zelda: Twilight Princess. The story line looks like it was produced by some designers that 
 came back from watching 72 hours of MTV. The mini-games are annoying and simple, requiring little 
 actual movement or skills. The game has you put-up with 1 minute of pain inducing sound/animation 
 combo for 3 seconds of game play, then more pain. I am glad that I did rent this game, but sorry 
 that I even wasted that amount of money. Nintendo must have purchased a lot of advertising on Gamespot 
 to give this game anything above a 3.
  
  This game was actually worst than SpongeBob on the Wii. I give it a 1... equal to how many hours 
 this game was even tolerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  It's that time again for more crazy Japanese style gaming. And Nintendo pull it off so well. A 
 game tailor made for the Wii comes off as fun for the first 15 minutes but doesn't offer anything 
 in terms of depth for games that are in it's price range at the moment.
  
  The Warioware Smooth Moves for Wii manages to show off the new motion sensing controller with style 
 allowing players to use the controller in a variety of wacky and ridiculous positions. But the 
 fact is the game itself is wacky. In fact the game is full of mini games. That's all. The game 
 goes from mini game to mini game without remorse making it a game not necessarily for the whole 
 family and more for the kids who don't have time to follow a deep and meaningful storyline. The 
 way the game uses the Wii mote is original and innovative. But the game itself is nothing more 
 than mindless fun.
  
  It has no depth to gameplay and a lackluster storyline that the game doesn't really encourage players 
 to continue on playing the game. Instead an endless barrage of mini games - the one trick formula 
 for this game.
  
  Simple. That's the one word that sums up Warioware's endless barrage of mini games - from the downright 
 stupid to the downright outrageous. It's all there! The Form Baton (the Wiimote is called this 
 in the game) is gripped in a variety of different ways. Thus opening up different scenarios for 
 hilarious gameplay - although the humour does fall flat - just like the fun of playing the game 
 after 15 or so minutes. And nothing really more is done to emit a chuckle. They didn't really put 
 a lot of effort into keeping it's longevity Same can be said about the graphics. Which is sad really 
 because they could have shown off more of the graphical side of the Wii than keep it childishly 
 comical. It doesn't pay off as a power showcase for the Wii.
  
  Seeing someone playing the game is probably the most fun. It is bound to make people laugh more 
 so than the lame gags present on screen.
  
  Heaven forbid the sounds for the game! Simply some of the worst music in a game that I've seen 
 for a very long time. It tries to add to the comical nature but just ends up getting on peoples 
 nerves. Maybe a licensed soundtrack could have done well in this game.
  
  It's value for money can be debatable. On one hand it is a brilliant showcase of what the Wiimote 
 can do but on the other hand the mini games don't last in entertainment value and once you figure 
 out how to play them the fun is lost. This is a prime example of what can happen to a game without 
 depth.
  
  The overall verdict: An original showcase of the Wiimote's capabilities however the lastability 
 issues are too great to make this game anything more than a demo.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Wa rio Ware Smooth Moves is the first Wa rio game that i very good found without the game style 
 of Mario, but i found that this game so good is. Want with the Wii Remote are the Wa rio Ware micro 
 games double so fun than with you the micro games playing with a standard game style. And it's 
 good that some micro games a Retro style have of a pair old Nintendo games. And the single player 
 mode is very funny want as a charter of this game choice than sie you a crazy movie for you the 
 micro games play of the style of the charter's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Although the WarioWare series has learned to twist controls to extremes in the past, never has 
 it reached such a high point as this before. Making you do things with your Wiimote that you wouldn't 
 do anywhere else, (Tell me one other game that will have you simulate a Mohawk) it pushes the console 
 to its gameplay limits and allows fun while doing so. All around, it's a wonderful game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  The aspect of Video Gaming that WarioWare puts most of it's effort into, this 
 is where the game truly individualizes itself from any other party game for the Wii that you will 
 probably see for a long time. The game teaches you 19 different forms, one with the nunchuk, (stuff 
 like Dumbell, Boxer, Chauffeur, etc.) and then creates microgames around the idea of the form you're 
 Wiimote is in. (Some outstanding microgames might be Bungii!, Penny's Boss, and anything to do 
 with The Big Cheese) The only reason it has a 9 is because a good handful of microgames are playable 
 outside their forms, and while it is always funnest to play within the specified form, it is sometimes 
 actually easier to play with a different form, making the microgames a bit more loose-ended then 
 previous WarioWare titles. However, this a small gripe, and is not damaging to the game's aura 
 of fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  Now, if you looked at WarioWare's graphics from a technical standpoint, the game's graphics wouldn't 
 be anything special. On the contrary, looking at the graphics from an ARTISTICAL standpoint, the 
 graphics are pure gold. Oftentimes the microgames are actually really fun to look at, and the varying 
 art style from microgame to microgame keeps everything fresh. But one of the funnest things you 
 can get out of WarioWare's graphics is probably seeing your old friends like Wind Waker and Animal 
 Crossing, (I missed you, Pikmin 2!!!) have fresh breath blown back into them during 9-Volt's stage, 
 after you've beaten them and forgotten them years ago. So if you're way of judging graphics is 
 through color saturation and pixel resolution, then close your eyes during play.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  This is the only area where WarioWare slightly falters. While the bulk of sound 
 is passable and atleast not grating to the ears, a few sounds get repetitive and annoying after 
 the 3rd of 4th time youv'e heard them. However, WarioWare redeems it's sound with some truly funny 
 little clips thrown in here and there.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  I'll interpret what value means myself, and I think that it is completely worth
  the 50 dollars 
 it's asking for.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: 10/10
  Simple. I loved it.
  
  SPECIAL TWIST: 11/10
  Ooooh, high point for RoyFanatic's imaginary Attribute Category. This Attribute 
 cap is given to WarioWare for it's simply perfect multiplayer. True genius is at work with the 
 game's multiplayer capibilities.
  
  RENT OR BUY: BUY
  Buying this game means you'll be having some of the greatest parties of your life!!!!
  
  OVERALL: 
 9.5/10
  A much loved addition to the masterpiece series that is WarioWare. While not quite a perfect game 
 and still having some catching up to do before reaching Twisted! glory, the game is welcome to 
 my Wii library forever, and is a must for anybody else in the world who has friends.
  ~Royfanatic
  ---
  
  
  I \ \ 'u' ) ==== / \ I I I 
 I I I L L
  (it's some guy holding a sword, dummy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vote4Wii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  TRUE fans of the WarioWare series know that completing a character (or stage) is only the beginning. 
 YES, it is true that if you play through completing each character and going to the next that you 
 can complete the game in two (2) to three (3) hours. TRUE Wario Ware fans like me complete a stage 
 and play through it again until all the minigames for that stage are unlocked. Not only do you 
 get to enjoy the stage again and discover new minigames but you also take advantage of how long 
 WarioWare: Smooth Moves gameplay can really be. Multiplayer is very addictive and fun and I don't 
 really care what the other players who are not TRUE fans say about it. WarioWare features truly 
 the BEST gameplay the Wii has to offer. Graphics are cartoony and fit the style of how a WarioWare 
 game should be. Sound in the game is HILARIOUS for instance when they explain to you a new way 
 to hold the Wiimote. WarioWare: Smooth Moves may not have the LONGEST gameplay out there, but it 
 is Brilliant! And DO NOT listen to those tards who whine and whine about short gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagetofu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Think your kids are going to be sitting on the couch playing video games all day?
  
  NOPE! They are going to be dancing, scrubing a cows behind, squating, pumping iron &amp; picking 
 a virtual nose right in front of the tv.
  
  Nintendo makes it happen again. This time you have the remote &amp; nunchuck &amp; allot of moving 
 added. In fact if your hip enough you will be playing wario ware with your kiddo's &amp; friends. 
 (or just friends) . (hopefully not your enemies!!!!!)
  
  I have a 3 year old son &amp; thus far this is the only game he can play by himself. That alone 
 makes it awesome.
  
  The story line is funny &amp; approiate for all ages. The remote &amp; nunchuck are very accurate 
 and the games are easy to figure out.
  
  The downsides to this game are that the story game is too short &amp; the story never seems to 
 have any resoloution of any kind or even make any sense.
  
  The greatest part of wario ware smooth moves is after you beat the simple story mode and are able 
 to unlock the multiplayer action of the game. The is a great party game and a must buy for any 
 parents looking for games for your kiddo's, for any youth centers, church youth organizations, 
 college frat parties or just for plain exercise.
  
  Yes wario ware may not get your kiddos outside. However if you live somewhere that has winter it 
 provides great exercise in the comfort of you own home. Wario ware is a classic and a must have 
 for anyone who wants to have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have alway a fan of the WarioWare series. But to me WarioWare: Smooth Moves is the BEST in the 
 Series! Beause the Wii Remote does what the Gamecube, GameboySP, and DS can't do! And WarioWare take 
 good use of the Mii Channel you not just only see your Mii in multiplayer, but you also see them 
 in the Microgames.
  Next, smart multiplayer modes the multiplayer is really FUN, because it not just take good use of 
 the Mii Channel it have really fun games like Darts, Buggle Budded, and Star Nose.
  And, the Story mode maybe end too soon but the game are good my fav is 9-Voat because you play nintedo 
 game from the past that is fun!
  Overall,
  The Good: Terrific use of the Wii Remote; fantastic visual style; plenty of variety; smart multiplayer 
 modes that make good use of the mii channel; great unlockables.
  The Bad: Story is over way too soon!
  This game is a must-buy for anyone who own a Wii!
  And 
 you will play this game for hours, hours, and hours!
  And get some friend over because this game is fun in Mulitiplayer!
  So buy and have FUN!
  a 
 5 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLordHimself
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute madness. What other game has you dancing like a monkey, picking virtual noses, 
 dismantling a globe with a cheese grater, and planing enough wood to cover saturn's rings? None, 
 that's for sure.
  If you've never played Warioware games before, the premise is simple. You attempt a series of 'microgames' 
 each lasting usually 5 seconds, and try to keep completing each one whilst the game get harder 
 and faster, until your lives are up.
  What makes Smooth Moves different to the rest is the implementation of the Wii's motion sensing 
 capabilities. You'll lift the Wiimote like a weight, turn it like a key in a lock, slash as if 
 it were a sword, and many, many more. While playing on your own can be great fun and surprisingly 
 addictive, when you've got mates it becomes something truly excellent. There are a number of different 
 multiplayer modes, such as a simple survivor mode where you play until one person is left, to 'bomb', 
 a game where you pass the controller to a player of choice until someone fails and the bomb goes 
 off and eliminates them. Up to 12 people can play at once, and you only need one Wiimote (which 
 is a relief)
  The multiplayer is perhaps the deciding factor, so think about this when deciding whether or not 
 to buy it.
  I love this game because of my situation in life. I'm a student who lives in a house with 6 other 
 people, only one of which doesn't like computer games at all. Also take into account people's mates 
 coming round in the evenings and various beers, spirits and (cough) other intoxicants and you've 
 got a perfect environment for this game. Which is why I love it so, (as do my house mates)
  If you don't think you'll get a chance to play any multiplayer, you may want to leave it, or maybe 
 get it at a later date pre-owned and cheap. If you can easily see yourself playing big multiplayer 
 games often, then I highly recommend this. It's not the kind of game to play through in one stint 
 and let gather dust. It's a game for playing, as they say, 'every now and again' with mates. Me 
 and my mates have already racked up some serious play time on it (And Wii Sports) and although 
 the game is yet to break my personal 40 hour rule for a 9 in value, I can easily see it surpassing 
 that within a week or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollingstones7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game!
  
  Gameplay: Amazing! the wii-mote is used nearly perfectly! my only compliant is that some games 
 require you to stand very close to the tv for them to work correctly (like4- 6 feet) Graphics: fine 
 for what they are needed to do... colorful
  
  Sound: nothing special
  
  Value: not great... once you unlock all the games, multiplayer is why you come back
  
  Tilt: 
 easily one of the most innovative series ever.
  
  Notes: you WILL look ridiculous!!! And you WILL have fun doing it!!! Multiplayer only needs one 
 controller, so its a little slow. in other words, its not as crazy as single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang456
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  In just had so much fun playing this with my friends i just had to write a review. WarioWare: Smoothmoves 
 is the perfect game if you want to have some hilarious fun. There are just so many games that actually 
 put you up to the challenge that its just awesome. There are just so many things you can do when 
 you are playing with your friends that you will probably never get bored. This is just one of those 
 great party time games which will put a smile on everybody's face when they feel the heat. Overall 
 great game with just and outstanding fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavEnger09
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Great with friends, but fun by yourself too, the only downside is that you have to unlock multi-player 
 mode, but it only takes about an hour to do that. It's definitely a great buy. This game has yet 
 to bore me, unlike most games that are over once you beat everything. The microgames are fun, but 
 even if those get old there's still mini games to keep you entertained including a shooting gallery 
 game. This game is also super easy to pick up, so playing against friends who don't own it isn't 
 totally lopsided. Overall, this game is really fun, and has plenty of games to make you laugh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  wario ware! always a shining example of wierdness in the nth degree has shown his grubby greedy 
 face for his wii outing and its a wario ware game allright. picking noses?
  check
  retro microgames?
  check
  guy in panda suit?!
  ummmm yeah check indeed. wario ware has indeed 
 succeeded on the wii and as much as it is tech demo on how to use the wii it is also a full fledge 
 package of wierdness condensed with insanity. gameplay using the wii-mote in various ways the player 
 mainpulates some object in a microgame in a particular way so as to reach a desired goal. in simplified 
 forms.... you may need to tilt the wii-mote to roll a marble out of a maze or drive through a section 
 of road in a driving test. there are 19 different ways to hold the wii-mote (or in one instance 
 the wii mote and nunchuk.) the genius and flaw in the different ays of holding it is that some 
 like the mohawk which is supposed to be held on top of your head , can be easily faked simply be 
 holding it in your hand instead allowing cheating and all in all less than honorable tactics occur 
 making some games much easier than planned but thats the nature of the beast. sound and presentation
 
  it looks like a wario game, sounds like a wario game.... then i guess it is a wario game. i feel 
 the whole japanese theme to the game is....... a little out of place. all in all well done. replay 
 value.
  this is the ouch factor. once you beat the game its over. sure you can unlock a few new things 
 such as the multi player menu (yes you have to unlock it!) and a few new things including the diner 
 stance which uses the nunchuk but for the most part the only thing left to do is multiplayer and 
 unlocking more microgames. this is the reason people will trade it in quickly as the single player 
 can be completed in about 3-6 hours if dilligent. all in all a lil short on replay.
  
  overall
  everything in the game comes together in a very good package. a few detection problems 
 in a few games and the replay value will utlimately blunt the overall fun factor in the game. now 
 that ninty knows how this one turned out maybe we'll see a more polished version in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_Diner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  though the fun was over in a couple hours, Wario Ware is exactly what nintendo was wanting to bring 
 to the table with the Wii, i was surprised at how accurate and responsive some of the mini games 
 were to the Wii-mote, for example the balancing broom. and though most of the other character scenarios 
 had nothing to do with Wario and the For Baton, they were still pretty fun, My favorite part was 
 when you were in the game store, and got to play a bunch of old school nintendo games as the mini 
 games.
  would definately recommend but try renting it first because though its a great game, it can easily 
 be beaten in 2 hours, and knowing what to expext the replay value is still fun, but just becomes 
 too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Yet another day does by and yet another minigame based game for Wii is released. But this is by 
 far the best minigame based game to come to the Wii yet! Im here to review Wario Ware Smooth Moves 
 for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The game starts off with Wario finding a temple and grapping a Wiimote. Then in Indiana Jones fashion, 
 a giant boulder comes out and Wario must flee the temple. Then you are thrust into the first world, 
 so to speak, of the game.
  
  Like past Wario Ware games, Smooth Moves is made up of hundreds of micro games. These micogames 
 last about 5 seconds. And increase in speed as you go through the game. Once you get to a certain 
 amount of micro games you will play a boss micro game. Each micro game has a certain form. Before 
 the micro game it will tell you about the form so you know what to do. These forms tell you how 
 to hold the Wiimote. For example, the Mohawk form makes you hold the Wiimote above your head. And 
 during the game if you come upon a new form it will give you an introduction to it. These introductions 
 can be plain hilarious! Once you beat the boss stage you will unlock a new world to play. Each 
 world has its own mini story, which is told through very funny and wacky cut scenes before and 
 after you start playing the micro games. And each world is based upon a certain character in the 
 game. For example, you have 9-Volt who is an old school gamer. And as such, all his games are based 
 upon past games. Smooth Moves is by far the funniest game out for Wii. The cut scenes are very 
 comical and the micro games will easily make you laugh. And just wait until you get to multiplayer. 
 Just watching other people play will make you laugh your socks off.
  
  Wario Ware Smooth Moves host a very comic-cartoony like graphics. If you have ever played a past 
 Wario Ware game you would know that it fits franchise well and Smooth Moves is no exception. But 
 there are some places that could use some improvement to them. This is mostly in the 3-D micro 
 games. Besides those the graphics are great.
  
  The sounds in Wario Ware are somewhat mixed. The music gets the job done but it isnt something 
 you will remember. The sound effects are good for the most part. And they make good use of the 
 Wiimote speaker. Smooth Moves is all about multiplayer and of course they have a robust multiplayer 
 portion. In multiplayer, you can choose from four different types of games. The first is single 
 loss elimination, the next is a game were one player plays the micro game and the others pump up 
 a balloon and if the balloon pops on your turn you lose. Then there is a game where you are hanging 
 over a river and you must cut the ropes at random. The last person hanging is the winner, and you 
 have no one to blame if you cut your own rope and die. :P And there are other things you can play 
 as well that are just as fun. But the bad thing is the fact you cant play multiplayer until you 
 beat the main game.
  
  With 200 micro games, unlockables, and a robust multiplayer you would think this game would last 
 you a while, but it doesnt. The single player wont last more then a couple hours if that. And 
 there isnt enough unlockables to make you want to play more. I wish Smooth Moves had the hundreds 
 of unlockables like Wario Ware Tilted did because they could use the Wiimote to go use, but they 
 only have six or so unlockables. Overall Wario Ware is the best party game to come out for Wii. 
 And that doesnt seem to be changing anytime soon, unless Mario Party goes online! :O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberkyber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game, it takes full advantage of the wiimote. Its fun alone or with you friends 
 and it also has some nintendo nostalgia in there which i liked. The microgames are pretty good 
 and interesting so i guess the drawback would be the game length on the other hand this is a game 
 where you can replay it a lot of times. As for the graphics your not going to get anything special 
 although the graphics relly made me laugh in some of those microgames (like that gorilla) . All 
 in all a really fun game so if you have a wii i highly recommened this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaejas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Ware for art, thou Wario?
  
  If you find any appeal in microgames, you will not be disappointed with Nintendo's latest offering. 
 Moving past the Gamecube controls and DS stylus certainly took a leap of inspiration, and the over 
 150 members of the WarioWare development team have embraced the Wii with gusto. The variety of 
 Wii-motions showcased in Smooth Moves will likely become a template for other developers. The diversity 
 of styles among the microgames can be jarring, but never tiresome. The technical issue with any 
 Wii game is response, so it may be difficult to succeed if the system has a hiccup. You can also 
 cheat most of the form movements, and I easily played every game sitting down, with the wrist strap 
 attached. The only source of frustration for me is that five seconds may not be long enough to 
 catch on to the correct motion. Certain games are not forgiving! (It is worth noting that I feel 
 the microgames here do a better job of Wii sword battles than Red Steel. :-p ) And yes the nunchuk 
 does get used for particular single and multiplayer sets; you won't need to madly plug and unplug, 
 and it allows for four players with only two pair of controllers.
  
  The humorous style presented in the script and soundtrack makes for absolute top-notch entertainment 
 for player and bystander alike. The droll voice-overs describing the forms for holding the baton 
 can be laugh-out-loud inducing. The majority of art is cartoony and charming. Even more impressive 
 than the humour is the retro games showcase. One character, inspired by the classic Game and Watch 
 portable, has levels based entirely off other Nintendo properties. Culminating in a (yes I'm going 
 to spoil it) Starfox SNES boss run. For. The. Win.
  
  While the core storyline is over shortly, the value is in replay and multiplayer. There are dozens 
 of games you won't see the first time around. And if you are this easy to bore with this much variety, 
 then I'm amazed this review kept your attention this long.
  
  WarioWare feels like those old 200-in-1 bootleg NES cartridges. But inspired.
  -V- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillings24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  There are so many different little minigames and each one is fun or hard or weird. A great part 
 of this game is the instant gratification for something done right. There is always a funny or 
 strange congratulatory portion at the end of each minigame completed correctly. The many different 
 ways to handle and manipulate the wii-mote and nunchuk keep the variability of the game high and 
 the pace of the game very frantic deeper in each level. Some of the levels are hard to figure out 
 on the first or second try because you only have a maximum of three seconds to figure out what 
 they want you to do and to actually execute the demands of the minigame. Graphically they did a 
 very good job stylistically speaking. There are some minigames which have a nostalgic value to 
 them. Using Gameboy graphics from back in the day puts a smile on friends faces seeing it again 
 for the first time. If you own a Wii you should give this game a rent and if it is remotely in 
 your alley you should definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laz3r15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played a few Wii Titles and all, but Zelda taking 50 hours or so just to complete the game 
 without half the side quests makes me wonder if $59.99 is really worth it for this game. I rented 
 it thankfully and on a 5 day rental, I beat it with a friend in less than 2 hours. The games are 
 really enjoyable and fun to play. Some more difficult than the others, some as easy as one simple 
 movement with the wiimote.
  
  I really don't like the shortness of the game though, if they spent less time on the weird movies 
 which I really didn't even understand half the time nor care about too much, they could have added 
 more worlds for example to play on and play new games along with them.
  
  I was really surprised after seeing THE END after 2 hours of this.
  
  Fun game overall, would've 
 gave it a much higher score if they had just increased gameplay time but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_rule
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  this is an awsome game because it does not only have the story it also has fun side games as you 
 advance. at first it is hard to figure out all the positons and it is funny what they say about 
 the stances or positions. the story is fun because te farther you get in the game the faster you 
 have to go and it gets pretty chalenging at times. i sugest after you get done with the game you 
 should check out all the smal minny games. it does not have the best graphics but i don't need 
 to have funny by looking at the graphics any way . maybe its because it's the only game i have 
 for the wii besides wii sports but i think it is a great multiplayer game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is a zany crazy game. It looks like a Warioware game but it has a new feel. You are forced 
 to do everything from jumping like a maniac to picking a nose. The last boss is easy but hard because 
 you don't really get an explanation. I'm not going to spoil it but let's just say you have to mimic 
 the Wii remote on the screen and...*cough*... dance ...*cough*. Once you beat the final boss you 
 get a mode in which you have to use remote and nunchuck. The story mode is extremely short but 
 you get all these cool modes that keep you busy (unrelated to story line) . There is this one part 
 where you doing things you would have to do in past games except now you're doing it with Wii remote (Pikmin, 
 Zelda, etc.) Overall this game is amazing and is, currently, the best game out there. I highly 
 reccomend this game to start out your Wii collection. Also this game definently brings out the 
 uses of the remote and nunchuck (Hmm... well there's also Wii Sports...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: 200 crazy microgames to play, many manners to hold the wii remote, pretty much things 
 to unlock {like multi-player mode and pyoro s mini game etz.} , fantastic multi-player mode {specialy 
 if you play it four or more friends or family members} , super fine working controles with the wii-remote, terrific 
 visuel style, good use of the mii's in the mii'channel for micro games. THE BAD POINTS: the story 
 mode is a way to short, all the micro games are no getting any harder. [CONCLUSION] Nintendo dit 
 it again! they made fantastic party game that you can so much with friends together. and if you 
 have enjoyed RAYMAN: RAVING RABIDS and want a better party game. THEN THIS IS THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3ds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Smooth Moves had been on many a Wii owner's must buy list. It combined the craziness 
 of a WarioWare game with the Wii. Could it Get any better? Well it could, but just barely.
  
  If you've never had the privileged of playing a WarioWare game it consists of a variety of 
 micro-games. These games usually only last several seconds, and you have to learn to play them 
 with in that time. The fun starts when the game starts throwing these micro-games at you and lessening 
 the time in which you have to do them. That's pretty much the basis of WarioWare.
  
  The game has 200+ micro-games. All of them are incredibly varied and none of them seem to repeat 
 the same idea too many times. Some examples are shooting cans, throwing a dart, stenciling a picture, 
 flying an airplane, making Mario jump in classic Super Mario Bros. There are way too many different 
 kinds to list here, but you get the picture.
  
  With the inclusion of the Wii-mote the micro-games have gotten incredibly wacky. The game forces 
 you to hold the Wii-mote in a variety of unique (and weird) ways. Some examples are putting the 
 Wii-mote on top of your head, putting it on you nose, or holding it like the mop. The game boasts 
 18 styles of holding the Wii-mote. Some of them are similar, but some like the ones I mentioned 
 before are off the wall. For the most part all of the styles are very responsive and no matter 
 which one you do are a blast to play.
  
  If holding the Wii-mote in these weird ways wasn't strange enough, than the over the top art style 
 will certainly push it over the edge. It ranges from classic Nintendo games to weird anime to What 
 is that? The styles are just as varied as the games.
  
  WarioWare does have some problems. Some of the micro-games aren't all that great. A paper shredder 
 one was frustrating as it would lose track of the Wii-mote, and with only 3 or 4 seconds, you won't 
 have time to get it back on track. But for 95% of the games they're good. The game is fairly short, 
 it took me three weeknights to beat it. But there is always the option to go back to levels and 
 beat your high score.
  
  My biggest problem with WarioWare is that half the time it isn't necessary to do the silly styles 
 suggested by the game. In fact you can probably beat over half of the games by just waving the 
 remote around. This is really apparent in one stage of the game where you aren't given directions 
 in which style to hold the Wii-mote. Of course if you do decide to play without doing the styles 
 you will be missing out on the real fun that is WarioWare.
  
  Multiplayer was also a disappointment. There are a variety of multiplayer modes, but each mode 
 only supports one Wii-mote. This is a huge disappointment, as there is no way that I can loosen 
 the strap on the Wii-mote, pass it to my friend, and have him tighten the strap in less than five 
 seconds.
  
  Overall WarioWare is a fantastic game. Despite the ability to play without doing the proper styles 
 and the crappy multiplayer and the ability to pass the singleplayer in a weekend. I really have 
 to recommend WarioWare Smooth Moves. WarioWare proves to be some of the most fun I've had with 
 the Wii and is a great addition to any Wii collection. I suspect on WarioWare's next outing things 
 will be a lot more polished and will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beamstah
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is fun, theres no denying that. But the problem is this. 1. It doesnt take very long 
 to complete the story mode. It seems extremely short. This game should be at least $20 cheaper 
 as once you clock it theres not much to go back for.
  
  2. After the extremely successful multiplayer modes on the Gamecube version Nintendo have dropped 
 the ball on the next two Wario releases. Why they didn't include multiplayer on the DS Touched! 
 version was very disapointing. Here there is muliplayer but there may aswell not be. It's pretty 
 boring.
  
  So if your after a short burst of fun this game is very innovative and worth playing. But if youre 
 after something with a bit more depth and longevity I would suggest Rayman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: Over 200 games, 20 forms, intense speed, a lot of 3D graphics, unique play to it, uses 
 a lot of movement, multiplayer, etc.
  The Bad: Style is the same but it's good!
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is pretty much the best Wii game going to be around in 2007. It uses the 
 Wiimote's motion sensor in 20 different ways and then different minigames which are sorted into 
 levels which unlock more which also unlock special minigames and you get the crazyyness.
  
  Wario has found a Form Baton and has ritten a magazine about it (the instruction booklet) . The 
 game will explain the form and then you've got to do an action. A form is a position and this goes 
 from holding it like a driving wheel to boxing glove and to plain old remote control. All of them 
 work very well.
  
  The game has quite a lot of stages which you must complete the microgame coming up to advance to 
 the next and with speed ups in between and then ending with a boss stage to unlock more stages. 
 The new characters are Penny Crygor, Young Cricket, Master Mantis and Tiny Wario.
  
  The microgames last for about 4 and a half seconds. Between is an interval which will show a victory 
 scene, position and what number you're on. The positions may seem to rushed but with me, I just 
 shifted between them fine.
  
  I'd take about one and a half hours to unlock the multiplayer which has 7 nice games in it. One 
 is a darts match on 301, another is 12 players being angels and must beat the minigame and then 
 one person holds the Wiimote and the other holding the Nunchuck and then guide their nose to the 
 food by aiming and the best thing is, only one Wiimote has to be connected. This is because it's 
 take-do-pass style.
  
  Gameplay: The game actually makes the voicing higher too as the music as the game speeds up. This 
 actually makes the game addictive and use a large air of replay value so the minigames won't get 
 boring, even though there are three different variations for each one.
  
  Graphics: The game seems like it was made by a lot of artists, the graphics go from 64-bit stuff 
 to classic graphics and then Wii material to GBA and so on, the game looks lovely in both dimesions.
 
  
  Sound: The game not only goes at a good 24 fps but the music keeps up no matter what so you don't 
 want to go slam the Wiimote on the wall for great music! Dribble &amp; Spitz have a song playing 
 in their level.
  
  Value: This game came out 25th January in Australia and I got it for $75 and that is just perfect 
 value for a new game that everybody wants!
  
  This game is a recommend to anyone who owns a Wii because it's using everything the Wiimote and 
 Nunchuck can do. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepperpop10
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay, for a game that you will finish the story mode in maximum of three hours, it's pretty good. 
 No, scratch that, it's awesome. Since I am new to the Warioware series, I can't compare it to the 
 other ones, but it is a lot of fun for new Wii owners, and is a good addition to any gamer's collection. 
 Graphics aren't fantastic, but the gameplay is stunningly fantastic. The innovative use of the 
 Wii remote is a lot of fun, even though there are some micro-games that seem like they're just 
 not made to be beaten. I highly recommend checking this game out, for it's a nice addition to my 
 Wii library, and it could be in yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurochamps2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  i want to type a review for zelda as my first 9+ for the wii .. but im not done yet so this will 
 have to do. its nice and short and reallly easy to come back to. its the kind of game that also 
 will cause you to laugh out loud with friends. its not to bad with girls either. trust me the have 
 no problem watching a giy make an ass out of himself. The only thing you need to keep in mind while 
 playing this game is that you have to let urself get into it. DO the forms and styles it pays off 
 in the end.
  the brakedown: pros
  -funny
  - you do pretty much every motion you can possibly think of with the wii mote
  -cool unlockables
 
  -great party games
  - gets intense in the extra hyper mode
  - easy to learn hard to master
  cons
  - some of the graphics look just plain bad
  -some of 
 the microgames feel broken
  -you dont have to do the styles it shows you but if you dont it greatly depriveds the game of what 
 makes it so much fun. let yourself go have fun with this one.
  -not for the lonesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booyamcnasty
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game should be called WarioWare: Crack. This game is addictive as crack, and probably about 
 12 times as fun. When after 5 minutes you can get non gamers loving videogames, you have something 
 special on your hands. Not since Pac-man has a game this accessible been brought to the home console. 
 Vids come down to one thing, ultimately: How fun they are. This game is crazy fun for the whole 
 family. You'll be playing again and again and again.
  
  Although this game has flaws, most notably the single player campaign being a little short, I still 
 give it a 10/10 due to the innovative nature of how you use the controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apboyer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Upon first playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves for the Nintendo Wii, one can't help but smile in awe 
 at the inovative ways in which the Wii remote is used. You'll find yourself holding it at your 
 hips doing the hula, perching it atop your head while you recreate a scene from The Legend of Zelda: 
 The Wind Waker, and much much more. The only problem is that it all goes by so fast. This seemed 
 perfectly ok at first, as there was much to unlock including multiplayer modes and modes that used 
 the nunchuck attachment. It's Smooth Moves multiplayer that (although alot of fun) makes this game 
 ultimately a bit dissapointing when compared to Mega Party Games for the Gamecube. While Mega Party 
 Games was comprised of the exact same mini-games from the original WarioWare, it offered up an 
 insanely fun variety of multiplayer modes. With Smooth Moves, we are given some multiplayer modes 
 that use a pass the remote format as well as some other multiplayer modes that make use of the 
 nunchuck attachment. There is also a darts mini-game. In one of these nunchuck multiplayer games 
 you and a friend will hold the wii remote and nunchuck respectively at your hips as if tethered 
 together and make your characters hop over objects by hopping yourself. It's a clever idea and 
 quite fun though it grows old soon. In the other nunchuck required multiplayer game, you and your 
 friend hold the wii remote and nunchuck respectively as though holding paper airplanes and pilot 
 nose-shaped space ships. This, like the previous game is quite fun but also grows old fast.
  
  Darts is also quite fun but ultimately I would have preferred another mode that actually integrates 
 the wide variety of microgames instead of something that seems like it'd fit perfectly packaged 
 with Wii Play . Now for the Pass the Remote style games. One is a survival mode in which you and 
 a friend/friends take turns playing microgames and passing the remote until one of you fails and 
 is out. When playing with people who don't know what they're doing, this game doesn't last very 
 long. Another pass the remote style game is a hot potato like game where you play minigames with 
 a thing of dynamite in your hands.
  
  A third pass the remote style game is one where you take turns inflating a balloon between mini-games 
 and the person it pops on fails.
  
  The final pass the remote style game involves an ending in which you and the other player/players 
 take turns cutting ropes. The more microgames you win the more ropes you have. Still, there's a 
 chance that you'll ultimately end up falling to your doom. All these minigames are fun but compared 
 to the more multiplayer focused Mega Party Games they're somewhat lacking.
  
  All in all, Smooth Moves main flaw is that despite unlockable modes and minigames it all seems 
 over far too soon and you're left wanting more. Still, this says alot about how fun Smooth Moves 
 truely is. What Smooth Moves does best is open your eyes to the numerous ways the Wii remote can 
 be implemented and often times I found myself craving full fledged versions of these microgames 
 because of how wonderfully the controller was used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I must say, though very short, as it took me 2 hrs or less to beat, this game is alot of fun. 
 Lots of crazy mini game fun. Definately deserved the rating it got her at Game Spot. Many people 
 may think, a bunch of mini games? How pathetic but the wii makes great use of controls in these 
 games. Rayman Raving Rabbids and now WarioWare Smooth Moves. I really enjoyed this game but got 
 frustrated because some of the mini game I really had no idea what i was doing or what i was supposed 
 to do, and failed miserably. All in all, this is a solid game and definately suitable for all ages. 
 For older gamers, its cool because it has mini games like landing while parachuting from Zelda 
 or collecting X amout of coins from Mario and Starfox 64 fighting as one of the boss levels. This 
 game would be a perfect ten except for minor details like sometimes the controls dont respond very 
 well and for the shortness and not enough explanation of what to do in certain minigames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is growing on me!! When I first played this game I'll be honest I was very disappointed. 
 I decided to give it a try so I forged ahead. The game started adding different positions to hold 
 the Wiimote/ These are called the Forms. Yes, you look like a complete fool while doing this, but 
 that's just it. You have to just let go and have a good time. When it tells you to hold the Wiimote 
 up at your nose like a Elephants trunk do it. This game becomes very fun and actually a little 
 difficult. This game also use the Wiimote in so many different ways, it's really amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msulli25
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game used great motion sensing. Although about 95 percent of the microgames wre super effective, 
 there were times when the wii did not read the motion very well. For example grinding cheese in 
 a rotating motion has never really worked and it sometimes gets frustrating. The only other minor 
 gripe i have is that this game can be completed in less than 2 hours and its disapointing to be 
 done that quickly. Besides those small complaints, this game is solid, uses great controls and 
 is tons of fun. It brings the same wierd, funny, and quirky feel you got while playing on the ds 
 and gba. Overall i liked the game but it DEFINATELY did not measure up to twilight princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  In Warioware, you start off as Warioware who mistakenly enters the Temple of Form. In said temple, 
 he fidns the Form Baton (or as we would call it, the Wiimote) . Your first set of minigames then 
 begins, as you try to avoid the boulder that seamingly comes out of no where in the exact direction 
 of Wario (it's amazing how many times that happens in video games) .
  
  Using the Form Baton, you have to master a bunch of different forms. Some forms may require you 
 to hold the remote as if it were a mohawk, or some may make you hold it like you were grabbing 
 a dumbell. Some may bare resembelance to others, but the different actions you make with each form 
 a very variable. Not only do they work well, but they're super responsive. The remote control form 
 (just holding it like normal) is sometimes un-responsive, but that's only when your jerking it 
 around.
  
  In Single Player mode, you basically have a map of sorts, and there are a bunch of different objects 
 on the map. If you click any of the available characters, you'll see a short introduction to the 
 story and then plunge into minigames. And the end of your 10 or so minigames, you'll begin a boss 
 stage. If you complete the boss stage, the story will complete itself and you'll move on. It may 
 sound boring, but the big thing in this game are the minigames rather than the story.
  
  While there are a few minigames that don't make sense or seem just placed in there for the sake 
 of having another mini-game to choose from, about 90% of the minigames are fun and inventive; not 
 to mention they make great use of the form you're using at the time. My personal favorites would 
 have to be the classic minigames, which put you in a scenario from previous Nintendo games and 
 have you do something to complete the scenario. For example, one minigame has you as Link (from 
 Wind Waker) and you have to use your leaf to glide onto a platform. Another minigame has you jump 
 up (like in Super Mario Bros) to collect coins. This might very well be the best part of the game, 
 since it puts you in an experience you remember and have to act upon it.
  
  While neither the graphics nor the sound are awe inspiring, they coordinate perfectly with each 
 other. The graphics resemble an anime sort of look, except not as drastic; while the music is playful 
 and funny. With each different character (and their set of minigames) there will be a different 
 theme, which dictates what type of music there will be. For example, in Wario's minigames it's 
 a fast paced beat since he's being chased by a massive rock.
  
  Multiplayer is the big selling point for Warioware: Smooth Moves, and in my opinion it may be under 
 par. They do give you many different options as to what kind of multiplayer you're going to do, 
 each of them uses only one Wii Remote. Even for the ones that can have up to 12 people (yes, I 
 said 12) it would make more sense if you could at least use four remotes so that you're only switching 
 between 3 people. Plus, for some of the minigames it's neccessary to use the wriststrap so you'll 
 have to strap it onto each person just in case. When you've got a big crowd and have to use one 
 remote, it can get hectic.
  
  The actual multiplayer is really fun though. One of the multiplayer games places you and your opponents 
 on a road where you each play a few minigames and win a certain number of points based on whether 
 or not you win. At the end, you're all hanging from strings and whoever had the most points will 
 have the most strings, who ever had the least points will have the least strings. Each player then 
 takes a turn cutting a string, and whoeveris the last one hanging wins. They may not make sense, 
 but it still adds some extra fun to the game when you've got random modes like these.
  
  With all these things taken into consideration, replay value is what will make you love Warioware. 
 The minigames don't get old quickly, and will have you coming back when nothing else really appeals 
 to you. Not to mention that there are a bunch of minigames that you probably won't unlock through 
 your first playthrough, which means if you want to beat it completely it may take you a little 
 longer than expected.
  
  Warioware: Smooth Moves is going to be one of those games that some people love and others hate. 
 If you're a fan of crazy minigames, stupid yet funny stories, and abnormaly large plumbers with 
 crazy mustaches, Warioware is the game for you. If not, you might want to pass on this game or 
 wait for it to drop in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Wii Prophecy fulfilled, by that I mean people who claimed the wii would cause people to flail their 
 arms like crazy people playing video games, were right. But, its a lot of fun! Wario Ware: Smooth 
 Moves delivers on that promise. Full of zany micro games, many of them requiring you to perform 
 some kind of strange body movement with the wii-remote in hand. Wario Ware is a great game worth 
 sharing with the world. The fun, cartoon visual style looks great, and the cut- scenes are full 
 of the quirky humor you expect in a Wario game. The game play ranges from simple, to mind boggling 
 at times, but after a couple of missions anyone can gain a grasp of the dozen or so forms used 
 in the game. The single player mission doesn't last long, but there is plenty of content to unlock 
 once you beat the final level. In addition to the story levels are several mini game levels like 
 Can shoot and Balancing blocks. The multilayer features are unlocked after you finish the single 
 player game. There are six unlockable multilayer levels, each with a different spin on ways to 
 play the micro games head to head. This is also a party game since you can add tons of players 
 to a multilayer match, and yes, each player can assign their own mii to their profile. In all, 
 Wario Ware: Smooth Moves delivers what it promises. Quirky, original fun for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Wario ware has always been a favouirate of mine through the years. Inventive, bizzare, fresh and 
 fun.
  Smooth moves see's wario's mini-game debut on the wii. using the wii remote the player has to adopt 
 stances and poses and use the remote to complete a task. This is highly fun and also challenging. 
 Its nearly as good as the ds version which i found to be the best in the series but for me is far 
 too short. This game can be finnished in two hours and if it wasnt for the somewhat lackluster 
 multiplayer (which you have to finnish the game to unlock) it would be a terrible addition to the 
 series.
  This game somewhat misses the mark for me because it seems as if the game has been rushed and so 
 much more thought could have gone into it. More character games or more multiplayer games, or even 
 like in the ds version mini-games that are pointless yet a great example of the console's abillity. 
 Overall it is a great game, but its what they missed out that you'll miss, here's hoping that the 
 next warioware can be one of the console classics like touched on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare first made its apperance for the GBA and has been strong since, with its crazy games 
 and lighting speed the game gets better with each passing second. People everywhere love its insane 
 ways and with this support Wario has graced his games across two handhelds and one home console. 
 Now he has reached the Wii with the latest edition WarioWare: Smooth Moves. Its the best WarioWare 
 game to date and uses every aspect of the Wii remote u can think of and then some.
  
  The Story goes is you are Wario, just lazily eating snacks and watching T. V . until a mysteroius 
 being takes ur food and Wario gives chase. Wario chases it until he reachs a temple where he finds 
 the strange form batom which is in the shape of the Wii remote. Wario picks in up and the Craziness 
 ensues. A giant bolder barrels down and Wario must get out of the temple by completeing microgames 
 which only last about 5-10 seconds. Once out of the temple then you meet Wario's pals which each 
 have their own unique Microgames. Gameplay is the best the Wii has to offer. Right from the start 
 the title screen seems alive because ever time you move the remote it changes the screen and lets 
 you know what your in for. The different forms you can put the Wii in to accomplish the microgames 
 is really astounding. One second you'll be holding the remote over your head to do a squat, to 
 puting it at your side and jumping rope, to flaping your arms like ballonfighter. There are 20 
 differnt ways to hold the remote which keeps the game fun at every point. WarioWare for the Wii 
 has the best 2-D/ 3-D graphics of any game. The Cartoon animated are very well done. The Colors 
 are vibrate and stand out exceptionally. This is suprising as many Warioware games are not graphically 
 good, this one flows well and gives new meaning to not having 2-D graphics in this game era.
  
  The Sound is crazy and funny. it dosen't depend on the Wii remote as much as Zelda but uses 
 in a just at the right time. My favorite is when there is a mircogame where you have to anwser 
 a phone. When u pick up the phone, a voice responds Hey whats up or Hello how are you . The music 
 for each of the different characters is also well done, each with different music that is right 
 for them.
  
  If u need a good party game or just want to be hopping around the room having a good time buy this 
 game. The Single player is short but you will continue to see youself playin it over and over again. 
 Also if you have friends over, it will be one of the first games you wanna pop in and play for 
 hours.
  
  WarioWare is a great title from start to finish. Its one of the best games on the Wii and the best 
 Muliplayer for the Wii. With the diiferent ways to have the remote is also why you must play one 
 of the most fun and exciting game ever. Its the best Warioware to date and any fan of the Series 
 will love what is has to offer with its so many new ways to play its Microgames on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latosephy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is an excellent game it may be short and easy to finish (the story mode took me 2 hours 
 to finish and to unlock everything I needed another 2) but it is so addictive that I can't stop 
 playing it 5 days after I bought it. Warioware has over 200 minigames some of them are weird to 
 tell you the truth but some are extremely funny and addictive finally the multiplayer mode is very 
 well made from the rope cutting to the minigame running, I recommend this game to anyone who want 
 to fully use the revolutionary Wii controls and also wants to have a great time with his friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  It's hard to imagine that WarioWare used to be on the DS and GBA. Those systems only had a few 
 buttons to control the action on the screen. For the Wii however, it is perfectly apparant that 
 this game was MADE for the Wii. The things that you can do with the Wii Remote in this game are 
 almost limitless. The insane randomness of this game, combined with all the different actions that 
 can be done with the Wii Remote is insane, and you will Love every minute of it.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  I gave both Graphics and Sound a 9. Some people may not think they deserve 
 a 9, but they do. The sheer variety in the graphics and sound is immense. You never know what is 
 going to come next. Also, some of the graphics are very crappy. That would normally get a low score, 
 but it doesn't, and the reason it doesn't is because it is all deliberate. Some of them will even 
 have you laughing out loud.
  
  Value:
  Pretty short game, but it never gets old really. Play some multiplayer and pass the wii remote 
 from friend to friend. I guarantee you'll have some laughs. Overall/Tilt:
  You look at those Wii commercials and think: That is not how people act! Play Wario Ware for a 
 couple hours with some friends, and you will probably change your mind. This is not a gimmick folks, 
 this game really does bring that all absolutely ridiculous behavior out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsmaelGarcia
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  this game is not great or good i would say its ok why gamespot with there hard reviews gave it 
 such a high score i dont know. i bought it please rent it before you buy the game make sure its 
 really ur type of game. its not bad but you wont want to play the game much more after you play 
 throw the story mode ........................ theres nothing more to say but the review needs at 
 least 100 words so rent rent rent rent same from top dont read
  
  this game is not great or good i would say its ok why gamespot with there hard reviews gave it 
 such a high score i dont know. i bought it please rent it before you buy the game make sure its 
 really ur type of game. its not bad but you wont want to play the game much more after you play 
 throw the story mode ........................ theres nothing more to say but the review needs at 
 least 100 words so rent rent rent rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game lacks so much it seems rushed out .
  The lack of multiplayerness really bites the big one
  it should be like the GC one where all 
 the games were multiplayer.
  Not just a handful of selected games.
  
  Another thing wrong with the game is it feels like half a game
  it can be completed in about 
 2 hours.
  
  But the game is pretty fun for the time it last
  the limited multiplayer really cuts the replay vaule of it in half.
  
  Sound/music
  Some 
 of the games music is goofy other times it's catchy
  The sound is good and fitting to the game
  the Contoller speaker is used in a couple of the games
 
  and adds to the experince.
  
  Can't say much for the Graphics but this game was never meant
  to be a graphic marvel.
  
 
  I think $50 is to much for this title wait untill it's around $20-25 dollars
  then it would be worth your money. If you really want to try it out before the price drops I would 
 recommend
  renting it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadwell-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  The WarioWare franchise is the current Nintendo philosophy of gameplay over graphics writ large, 
 and in retrospect is the series that has acted as a testing ground for Nintendos direction in 
 this console generation. The original WarioWare, Inc. for the Gameboy Advance introduced the idea 
 of throwing incredibly simple microgames at you one after the other, faster and faster until 
 your reflexes gave out. That idea was built on in its sequel WarioWare: Twisted!, and really came 
 into its own on the DS with WarioWare: Touched!. Those latter two games combined the craziness 
 of Wario Ware, Inc. with the simple charm of performing an task such as brushing someones teeth 
 by physically performing the action, rather than hitting A repeatedly. That success is built 
 on even further in Smooth Moves for the Wii and is proof that in the right hands, Nintendo are 
 onto a winner with the direction theyre taking. Using the same structure as before, the game is 
 separated into levels in which a variety of characters - some familiar, some new - require you 
 to play enough microgames to trigger a boss encounter, which you have to beat in order to get unlock 
 the next character and their set of microgames. Upon completing these characters games once, you 
 can go back to keep unlocking all of their other microgames which in total add up to around two 
 hundred. Each character has their own look, story, and a set of games which require a different 
 playstyle. Were Touched! broke its games into types, like ones where you had to blow into the mic, 
 or spin things, Smooth Moves introduces baton forms, which require you to hold the Wii Remote 
 in different ways, indicated to the player by a quick graphic before each microgame begins. The 
 standard one, Remote Control is the only one which appears in all the characters levels and simply 
 makes you point the remote at the screen. From that position though, there are many different ways 
 its used, such as shooting cans as if it were a gun, or moving it towards the screen to catch 
 a falling woman. Theres a lot of variety in the games of this one form, but the game gradually 
 gives you nineteen forms to get your head around, so as the levels progress, and the speed increases, 
 it becomes a frantic attempt to get the controller into the right position before each game starts. 
 After a while though, switching between forms like The Waiter, The Samurai, The Chauffeur, 
 and The Elephant become second nature. Eventually youll unlock a mode which asks you to play 
 all the games at random without any indication of which form you should be using. Unfortunately, 
 this mode shows up a slight problem with Wario Ware: Smooth Moves, in that its not actually necessary 
 to get into the position required for most of the forms for the game to still work, so its definitely 
 a game reliant on you playing along properly, losing your inhibitions and holding that remote as 
 though it was an elephants trunk, rather than just pointing it at the screen like a lazy-ass. 
 For the most part the remote works perfectly in whatever position its required, but there are 
 times when youll scream in frustration that it didnt register your movement when you thought 
 you did it perfectly. Generally this is because you werent deliberate enough in your action and 
 were just waving it frantically, or simply werent pointing it at the screen when it required you 
 to do so. Most of the these problems, and ones of just plain not getting what youre supposed to 
 do on some games are overcome by spending a few minutes playing that game in the practice mode 
 where each microgame can be played individually.
  
  Graphically the game ranges - as its always done - between terrible, with some games being basic 
 stick figures, and looking really rather nice, especially with the 480p support on offer if youve 
 got the TV for it. The animated cutscenes are incredibly vibrant and really well animated. The 
 game also includes limited use of Miis, who will pop up from time to time in certain games in the 
 single player, and are used as the basis for characters in the multiplayer. Following on from the 
 craziness of the game in general, the multiplayer allows up to twelve players, but only using one 
 remote, making you hand it on to the next person in line when its their turn. This obviously leads 
 to a lot of fun with accidental dropping of remotes, elbows to the ribs, and general tomfoolery 
 ensuing; all a lot of fun.
  
  If theres one complaint about Smooth Moves, its that it doesnt offer as much in the way of unlockable 
 content as its DS predecessor. Whereas that game gradually rewarded you with a lot of silly toys 
 that made use of the systems unique features, this one gives you a handful of uninteresting minigames, 
 and not a lot else. In terms of length, you can see the credits in an afternoon, but you wont 
 have scratched the surface of actually completing the game 100%. To unlock every microgame (which 
 youll definitely want to do) for every character and every other mode, is going to a good six 
 to ten hours, depending on your ability. After that the games lastability is going to be based 
 on your love of beating high scores and coming back for another quick hit of Wario barminess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadwolf86
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  There are 3 reasons why I only bought Wario Ware: Smooth Moves
  
  1. Mii's are incorporated in with some of the gameplay.
  2.9-Volt's minigames.. using classic 
 Nintendo games.
  3. Multiplay
  --
  
  The results-
  
  1. Could of been used more.. Yes it was in multiplayer.. but the Mii's could of been used allot 
 more in the mini games.. Especially if they did a Star Fox final battle with a Mii head instead 
 of Andross.
  2. NOT ENOUGH.. I was kinda disappointed.. 3. Almost rubbish.. they should of had way to just keep 
 score. Whoever gets the most points wins.. NOT CUTTING ROPES.. NOT BLOWING UP A BALLOON.. and NOT 
 PASSING A STICK OF TNT.. But it had only that.
  
  Sound, Graphics, and Controls where perfect.. not complaining there.
  But the game was too short.. 
 yes I did go back and play it a few times but I feel there could of been more put in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  well i might be the frist to say this. somtimes a game comes along and everyone loves it gold award 
 and all. then i play the game and think what the heck. its a game based on fast short games. you 
 dont know what kind of mini game is comming on. most that i played are fair . i mean picking your 
 nose everyone goes wild over this i say whoopie. then you shave a man s face again wow weee. then 
 the boss stage in one is showing the women and the men to there right bathroom. i am lost over 
 this should give me a rush of fun it dont. the graphics are not that good. most look like a super 
 nintendo game are worse. and i know the wii dont hold up to the ps3 are the 360. that dont bug 
 me. but mindless little side games that are just wow weeee i dont get the hype. the wii sports 
 great game great job nintendo cant say enough about the wii sports. sure wii play will be great 
 as well. but lot of other games for the wii is not all that hot. i am very happy with the wii. 
 i think it will do very well. but rent this game save your 49 bucks and buy wii play. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is what I would call an unusual masterpeice . It is easily the best party game out on 
 any console. It beats all the Mario Parties, but it isn't that similar. See, in this game, you 
 play short minii-games that make you complete simpe tasks like doing a squat or truning a key or 
 running to a finish line that is right in front of you. The time to finish these mini-games is 
 short. The top I have seen is at least 8 seconds. Some of the mini-games refer to old Nintendo 
 games like Zelda, Mario, and others. It has great gameplay, but like nothing I have seen before. 
 This game has multiple stories, but they are with different characters. Like Mario, some kid working 
 with a marital arts trainer, two guys that have afros and dance with cats and dogs. When the beginning 
 cut-scene ends for the certain character, they will get right to their assignement. I think the 
 stories were okay.
  
  Sound was great in the game. The only thing that made me keep it from getting a 10 is that there 
 is no voice acting and I think the game would have been better with voice acting. Besides that 
 flaw, the music works with this game superbly. When you progress into the part of game and it says 
 FASTER on your screen, not only do the games go faster, the music doubles in speed. So, I think 
 the sound overall is fantastic.
  
  The graphics aren't that great. They are 3-D, but not everything game has to have great graphics 
 and be 3-D. They are clear enough well designed to see them clearly. Graphics are great, just not 
 perfect.
  
  Well, this a great single player game, as well as multiplay so grab a family member or friend and 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I got it two days ago from now and i have already completed it (it took me two hours.) That is 
 the most annoying thing about it and when you have done the multiplayer isn't the best either. But 
 moving off that and onto the proper game, the gameplay is just totaly fantastic and the mini-games 
 couldnt be any funnier, especially the last mission on storymode where you have to follow the dancing 
 moves. The graphics are the same as well although it can feel preety strange when it changes from 
 3-d graphics to cartoon graphics. Sound is good, I think the value wasn't very good and i could 
 have been a bit cheaper as it only took me two hours to complete and the tilt if fine there as 
 well so you have nothing to wory about.
  
  Overall i think you shouldn't get it ... SERIOUSELY!! I know i gave it a good rating but its not 
 worth the money and too easy to complete. Once you have completed it there is nothing to do at 
 all.
  
  I hope you agree with my review. luckylucas11... SERIOUSELY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renock
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is meant for the Wii, no other console could pull it off like the Wii could for obvious 
 reasons. The game consists over 200 micro games along with a couple of somewhat bigger games. The 
 single player is pretty easy and can be completed in less than two hours if you really wanted to. 
 As you progress through the single player you learn new and more complex ways to hold the controller, 
 although some of them resemble the others and doesnt really need to be held how they show. Although 
 if you really want to have fun with the game you will hold it exactly how they say, because come 
 on most of the fun of this game comes from the weird things that you do. The games themselves last 
 about 5 seconds and they keep increasing in time, they have you doing miscellaneous things that 
 are for the most part self-explanatory. However some you might not understand until the 4th or 
 5th time you did it.
  
  Alright so the multiplayer is when it gets really fun, there are 7 different things that you can 
 play. Four of them are just variations of ways to play the micro games themselves. Then the other 
 three are just games, there is darts, a cooperative jumping game, and one where you are a flying 
 nose in a cavern trying not to crash and collecting 3 pieces of food before your opponent does. 
 The more fast paced games are fun because you are scrambling to hand one of your friends the remote, 
 and if your playing with all 12 people it really starts to get hectic. If you play through a round 
 of survival with all 12 people without laughing at least once I would be absolutely shocked.
  
  Overall the game play is what brings it through because the graphics definitely arent going 
 to earn it a medal in looking impressive. The graphics are instead really cheesy or weird which 
 fits the game exactly how it needs to. The sounds are also kind of quirky but once again fit the 
 game well because the whole game seems to be just one big weird joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Feath-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  When the first Wario ware was released on the Game Boy Advance, i was really intreagued. I enjoyed 
 it greatly, and hoped for a new one to be planned. I was dissapointed with Wario Ware : Twisted 
 and Touched, as they lacked the magic the first one had for me. Wario Ware : Smooth Moves recaptured 
 that magic in my mind, and hightened the enjoyment i expereienced. There is a heavy variety of 
 minigames all at blistering speed, including minigames from Nintendo's most famous franchises, 
 which add a bit more enjoyment to see the overused yet still enjoyable characters. The game isnt 
 all nostalgic though, the majority are random minigames that make zero sence atall. Brilliant. 
 The graphics in this game, even by the standards of the wii's library of a gamecube game and rushed 
 ports (thanks Ubisoft) , this game looks like crap. There are some 3d minigames, that even bring 
 the playstation one to shame. That being said, you wont notice it much due to the speed of the 
 minigames. 2d art is bright, clear and colourful, which is pleasant to lay your eyes on. The random 
 minigames provide random sound effects, all as varied as the previous games, which is a good thing, 
 as they all sound crisp and clear. This game does not last long as a single player, story wise, 
 with about 1-2 hours until you have completed it, but there is huge replay value and the game really 
 comes into its own with friends over, where the enjoyment is really at its peak. Wario Ware Smooth 
 Moves is a great looking (for the most part) , sounding and enjoyable game that should appeal to 
 all wii owners, and fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is game is so damn fun and addictive. There are over 200 lightning-fast minigames. Chances 
 are you'll have to play them at least once to know whats going on. Some of them you'll know how 
 to play right off the bat. There are different forms you can put your wiimote in to beat the minigame. 
 I personally think that the ones with the nunchuck are the hardest. This game has a story like 
 mode where you go to different people and help them accomplish what they're trying to do. If i 
 have one complaint about this game it is that the multiplayer in this game only uses 1 controller. 
 The 4 towers in the top right of the story map are the towers with every minigame that you have, 
 that takes alot of talent and quick reactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4573r_n1nj4
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware follows in its footsteps all the way to the Wii and its never been better. Wario brings 
 back all the fun with new twists, featuring other beloved nintendo characters and a zany story.
 
  
  The strong point is the multiplayer but single player is really fun too. I suggest this game to 
 anyone with a Wii. If I had to only get one Wii game this is it, Zelda would be second XD.
  
  It is amazing and jam packed to the brim with fun. So if you didn't already, go pick it up 
 fool what are you waiting for XD!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12yon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Smooth Moves continues the warioware saga , its a game that basically will put u through 
 over 200 + microgames .. they only last about 5 seconds each but the gameplay itself is so ADDICTING 
 , it may sound easy but as the beat gets faster so do the games and sooner or later u have little 
 time to react , thus u will lose .. the fact that it uses such great work of the Wii controller 
 its so much fun , u will be answerin the phone , hula hooping , jump roping , steering a car .. 
 even to doin squats , its a pretty good workout , its also a great game to play with family .. 
 my dad was able to jus pick it up and play .. i have probably already mentioned this but its SO 
 MUCH FUN !! hopefully they will make a sequel but if not , this game will still be cherished forver 
 .. my end note .. BUY IT , OR RENT IT watever u want to do but jus make sure to check this game 
 out !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SonicAdvDX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  And, it's about time, too. For me, when WarioWare was first released on the GBA, it felt like a 
 broken Mario Party clone without the board game aspects. The DS version got a bit better, but Nintendo's 
 really got it right with this series' release for the Wii.
  
  First off, I must say that this is one of the most innovative games that I've played on the Wii 
 thus far. This game really takes advantage of every possible way that you can hold a Wiimote. There 
 are countless mini-games to play through and tons of different uses for the Wiimote itself. (No 
 Nunchuck!) It seems like it would be relatively simple, but, honestly, it's not at all. All of 
 the mini-games drop you into a random game, where you never know what it is that you'll have to 
 do. From nodding 'yes' to a question by holding the Wiimote up to your face, uncoiling snakes, 
 to even sweeping shuffleboard pucks. This game was definitely a creative outlet for Nintendo; they 
 threw every little idea thinkable into this game, and more! If you make any game your first Wii 
 game, this should be it, if nothing else. This game is surely one of a kind, right up there with 
 Cooking Mama and Raving Rabbids.
  
  Plainly, a very simple, fun, must-have game for gamers of all ages. Don't rent it; buy it.
  
 
  ~Adam SonicAdvDX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  WarioWare Smooth Moves is a series of microgames, each about five seconds long. Essentially, it 
 is 4 Second Fury, a popular online game. The games range from simple, like shifting gears in a 
 car, or slightly more complex, such as battling an evil ninja warrior. Nintendo fans will recognize 
 many retro levels, including Star Fox, Metroid, Zelda, and of course, Mario. The game uses Forms, 
 which are different ways to hold the Wii-mote. The main form is the remote control, while their 
 are others like the tug-of-war and the handlebars that require ou to turn the remote. Also, there 
 are many humorous forms, including the mohawk, which puts the controller on your head, and the 
 elephant, where you hold it in front of your nose. The game throws minigame after minigame at you, 
 where you must position the controller correctly, decipher the quick clues to figure out what to 
 do, and do it. The games are very funny and use all of the functions of the Wii-mote, including 
 the built-in speaker. In a microgame where you are required to answer a phone, the voice of the 
 caller comes out of the speaker in the controller, both startling and amusing me. The game has 
 no real plot: it's just a collection of games. But really you could play them for an eternity, 
 and then another eternity with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkdragon543
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  i thought the game was sorta gonna be boring but it was alot of fun. It is a great party game too. 
 This game is too short but still is really fun with exersice too. so if youre thinking about buying 
 it dont think buy. In less your going to buy twighlight princess witch is also a awsome game but 
 38 hrs long. Basiclly great game if you are alone or with friends. P. S the last stage of tiny warios 
 is awsome as hell: dancing. And there are different game modes too so you can't get bored of this 
 game with over 200 mini games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojharvey
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry but there is no way that this game gets a higher score than Zelda. Especially a score 
 in the 9s compared to Zelda's score in the 8s. I could possibly have seen giving Zelda a 9.0 compared 
 to Wario's 9.1 due to either not playing the game extensively and the reviewer having a preference 
 for party games but even that would be stretching it. Bottom line, it's a fun game but it gets 
 old pretty fast and the multiplayer aspect of it is kind of weak. Unless you really love party 
 games I don't think it warrants a purchase. It's definitely a fun game to rent but it wears out 
 its welcome too quickly to warrant dropping $50 on it. If you really want it you'd be better off 
 waiting for a cheap used copy rather than buying it new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toiletmunger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Who thought a game so simple could be so challenging? Who thought that a video game could be so 
 funny? Who thought that 10 second minigames could appeal to so many people? No one did... which 
 is why I find myself slightly suprised giving this game such a high score.
  
  This game is very addictive! Its nostalgia level is through the roof! Not only will people remember 
 this game for years, but owners of previous Nintendo games will love this game, too. This games 
 makes references to Pikmin, Metroid Prime, Super Mario Bros., StarFox 64, and many other Nintendo 
 games. I you love Nintendo, then this game is for you.
  
  The things you have to do in some of the 'micro-games' are so funny you'll cry. Picking noses, 
 fanning away farts, and whacking a guy that's trying to steal an orange with a baseball bat are 
 just a few of the hillarious tasks you must complete. (WARNING: Run-on sentence!!) The flash cartoons 
 before each set of micro games are funny, too. For instance, Jimmy T has a relative named Jimmy 
 P. They both have nearly identical flash cartoons... It might not sound funny when I describe it, 
 but once you see both of the cartoons, yourself, you'll find it funny, too.
  
  The artwork for Wario Ware is unique to every minigame. For instance, in all of the minigames based 
 off of other Nintendo games, the graphics are similar to those of that specific Nintendo game. 
 That's all I really have to say about the graphics.
  
  In conclusion, if you have a Wii, you should definately get Smooth Moves. If not, you should definately 
 keep inhaling oxygen and exhaling carbon-dioxide. I'm Velveeta Jenkers and I approve this sausage... 
 I mean message! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobamonkey5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  It was fun while it lasted. i mean smacking your butt on that dancing game was fun, or playing 
 old school star fox. But man the story only lasted 20 minutes tops. Dude i thought it would have 
 a wario story not one about a disco dancer with dancing crack adict cats... But yeah man it was 
 great, and even if it doesnt seem like it you can go back and play this game for hours even after 
 beating it. No one talked about this game, mabe cuz warios reputation is like a ps1 and marios 
 is like a ps3. So mario kinda shadows over wario so no one likes him. But either this or Zelda 
 would be the first game to get for your wii console. So if you want enhanced story lines go pick 
 up supermario sunshine and a gc controler. But if you want stupidness get Wario ware smooth moves 
 for WII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandma1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has played a Wario Ware game before knows that it is a wacky, crazy, fun experience, 
 that is easy to pick up and play. This being the 5th Wario Ware game it is no different. Wario 
 Ware is a collection of short micro-games that come at you from anywhere between 3-5 seconds. They 
 are simple games, and I mean very very very very very simple games. The games speed up as you complete 
 them and then eventually it gets so crazy that you just throw your arms up and quit. Some games 
 include: Pressing the A button to open a umbrella, shaving Wario's mustache, cover sun tanners 
 with an umbrella, slicing barrels samurai style, or answering the phone, but when over 200 of these 
 random games are combined, it makes for a hilarious experience.
  
  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is special from any other Wario Ware game, because of the added functionality 
 of the Wii mote (or as the game calls it The Form Baton ) . Some can say that Wario Ware and the 
 Wii were made for each other, because of all the zany things the game makes you do with the Wii 
 mote. In the game their are a couple dozen of stances that the game can tell you to take before 
 a game begins. For example: the Elephant performed by holding the Wii mote up to your nose is a 
 stance that is used for a handful of games, but after you use it to play a game you change stances 
 for the next game. This makes for a hectic, exciting time, but remember to put on that Wii strap, 
 because when the game tells you to drop the Wii mote they actually mean it!
  
  Wario Ware is a Wario Party in its own case, because its made up of only mini-games. You start 
 the game by making a profile with your name, setting your dominant hand, and a preferred mii. Then 
 you are entered into the story mode of Wario Ware: Smooth Moves. The story is absolutely goofy 
 and you'll have to watch the cut scenes a 2nd time, because its so funny. You start by watching 
 Wario's story and playing his simple games which use The Form Baton in the Remote Control stance 
 and only the Remote Control stance. After you complete some games you reach the boss stage and 
 you play a beefed up mini game and then complete his story. After each boss you get a pose which 
 is showed on the screen. For example: Hygiene shows you washing yourself using the Wii mote as 
 a bar of soap, and although its unspecified if your supposed to imitate it, you'll have fun trying.
 
  
  The graphics have its own sense of exoticness. All the games look like your 7 year old brother 
 could've drawn it, but that adds to the games look and will make you stop and think, Was that a 
 gorilla pealing a banana? , or Was that Wario farting up the room? Its something everyone can chuckle 
 at and you can tell it was intentionally done to make the game more entertaining.
  
  After you beat Wario's story mode a couple other stories open up and you can roam around Diamond 
 City trying each one of these characters stories. When playing a new story new stances will also 
 be unlocked to you. For instance the next game you are playing uses the thumb wrestling stance, 
 one you haven't used before. The game breaks into hilarious a cut scene where it tells you how 
 to hold it. A mono-tone voice comes in that tells you to hold the Wii mote gracefully, Like a true 
 thumb wrestler supreme. There is a lot to do in the story mode as you will also unlock special 
 versions of some of the mini games that you've played in the story mode. After beating a story 
 you might unlock the Ping Pong challenge which counts how many times you can hit the ball without 
 it falling (high-score 81) . One of the stories even uses retro Nintendo games as a theme for the 
 Micro Games. It is quite disappointing that the game lasts less than 5 hours, but most Wario Ware 
 games aren't that long, so its what people should come to expect.
  
  To play the Multi-player mode you must beat the whole game, which isn't hard, but your friends 
 will be whining at you as you attempt to finish the game. The Multi-player mode uses one Wii mote 
 and can support up to 12 players at one time! The games play similar to the ones in Story mode, 
 but you pass the Wii mote after each game. One game might have your picking the stance your opponent 
 will use or simply passing the Form Baton to the next person. Can you pull out The Master Sword 
 quick enough? Can you motivate your Sumo-Wrestler better than others? This is just some of the 
 fun to be had in Multi-player. In addition to these games you can also play darts or a co-op jumping 
 game, which tracks your compatibility with your partner. Overall the Multi-player mode is at its 
 best in Smooth Moves thanks to the Wii's motion capabilities.
  
  Although the game is very short, it does have plenty of replay value. To unlock all of the Micro 
 Games you must go back and replay the game. When you encounter the game in a story you unlock it, 
 and can go practice it whenever you want, and it gets added to the amount of games during Multiplayer 
 mode. It is very memorable to go back and unlock the snapshot game or the Mall Rock star Show, 
 where you have to rock out quick enough to attract the kids. It will take about 5 extra hours to 
 go back and unlock everything, but you'll have a blast laughing at the new games and poses that 
 show up.
  
  There is also one story mode that uses the Nun chukka aka the balancing stone. You might have to 
 use the controllers to Doggy Paddle to the rescue or ride a bike then steer it to the finish line. 
 These games use a stance called the dinner and are a fun short addition into the game. The use 
 of Miis in the game is short-lived, but funny when they appear. Some ways they are mixed in include: 
 Finding the Mii that does not match the others, or they can be found in the background. The Music 
 in the past Wario Ware games is excellent as when the games speed up so does the music. Smooth 
 Moves music can be a boring at times though. Some stories don't even have any music in the background 
 and you don't feel the full intensity when the game speeds up. Wario Ware fans will definitely 
 be able to live through it though, because you will be so busy enjoying this great addition to 
 the Wario Ware series.
  
  It might not be the best in the series, but Wii owners will be instantly say Amazing after playing 
 it. Whether playing alone or will a big group of friends you will always be on your toes laughing 
 and having fun. Wario Ware is known the be a feel good series and Smooth Moves doesn't stop the 
 trend, as it actually feels good to make the weird motions they tell you to. I recommend this game 
 to anyone, but if you love the series it is a must own and maybe even a system seller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gi1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  wario ware smooth moves is an entertaining game to play and gives the user new perspectives of 
 the wii-remote, the game has many poses such as the umbrella, the elephant or the chauffeur.
  
  the is a collection of over 200 mini games where u slap someone to wake up, simply drink a 
 cup of liquid or throw darts. The multi player games come only after you finish story mode, multi 
 player can be played by using the mii channels mii's to play as your character.
  
  The graphics are to be expected from a wario ware game as 2d and 3d mini games .
  
  The sound 
 is different in every stage you play and at the end there is a soundtrack to be played.
  
  overall wario ware smooth moves is a highly addictive game that can be played by just about everyone 
 can play.
  
  gi1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Over 200 microgames; Theres a Story?.; lots of charactures; many different ways to hold your 
 Wiimote; uses every asspec of the controler
  
  BAD- Story is way to short; some games are easy and pointless; some games dont work.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  WarioWare games has started on the Gamcube and worked its way up to the DS were it used its Unique 
 feature for Touching, and finaly its on nintendo's newest consol, Wii. Smooth Moves easily beats 
 the others since it has alot more microgames and unqieu way of playing them, Theres over 200 Microgame 
 but only last atleast 5seconds, so you must quickly think how to do it using the Wiimote, theres 
 different ways of playing like The Handelbar were you hold it like a bike and you could pump up 
 a bollon with it, or Chofuer were you hold it like you were driving and many many more ways of 
 playing. Each characture you come across has his or her different games and different stories, 
 the Stories for each charactures?....... are complette rubbish and pointless in a way, But the Microgames 
 are fun, with over 200 games to play theres a game in there for everyone to like, if you hold your 
 remote like you would with an umberela you can pretend to drink water from a cup, theres games 
 were you hold it like a pen and you can draw or fly a paper plane. Back to the stories, like i 
 said there rubbish and pointless, plus very short and you could complette the game within acouple 
 of hours! but when you've comepletted the game somemore charactues pop to unlock more mincro games.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its hard to realy say if the graphics are good or great!, seeing as theres a mixture of bad graphics 
 and good graphics, the cutscenes how ever look realy good, they may be cut out but there colourful 
 and well animated and funny!. During the game and micro games you'll see Sctected graphics; Old 
 school graphics; 3D graphics and bad graphics!. so i'll go with Great Graphics
  
  SOUND:
  Theres great sound within the game, there may be no voice acting (Apart from the man whos telling 
 you what moves to use) theres funny sound effects and great music!.
  
  OVERALL:
  If you want a game that uses the most out of the Wii's unique features then get this!!.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is very addicting and totally fun to play even though it's a bunch of microgames that 
 last about 4 seconds long. I didn't like it just because of that reason but now I do because it's 
 just so addicting. With Smooth Moves, it's no exception. It's a great and fun game and shows why 
 the Wii is a great console to have. The microgames are fun and challenging at the same time. One 
 good thing about it is that you still see those same characters from previous WarioWare games like 
 Touched! on the DS like Ashley, Jimmy B, Mona, those people, plus more. Learning new ways to use 
 the Wii Remote or the Form Baton is invigorating. The Nunchuck controller is used too.. or the Balance 
 Stone . Even games from old consoles are on it too when you play 9-Volt's story. Games like Metroid, 
 Pikmin, Wind Waker, Super Mario... a lot of them. Another reason to get the Wii is this game because 
 it's just really addicting. It'll make you look like a dork and you'll probably make a fool of 
 yourself playing these microgames, but it's too fun to say no to. (keep away from the dance stage 
 which is a boss stage because you'll look like a fool) Great game to own so if you have a Wii and 
 if you're familiar with the name WarioWare, then play it and like it!!! EEETS-A-WII WARIO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterlala2002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Game... That is ALL. Bit short, but thats forgivable. Great Music, Really Fun, Funny Dialog. 
 Multilplayer inst as fun as the gamecube version, but it is still good enough for a laugh. Great 
 Minigames, and all of them work, which is great, because in previous wario ware games, some mini 
 games were Duds. What can i say, i enjoyed it alot, and i recommend it to any wii owner at the moment.
 
  
  SO ask yourself, are you looking for a great party game, with beautiful animation, thats Funny, 
 great music, Fun? get this game right now. BEST WII GAME OUT at the moment. Cant WAIT till sonic 
 and the secret of the rings!! ^__^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is a really crazy game that you buy for your girlfriend just so you don't look like a 
 moron when your mom walks in and your doing the dance minigame. If you don't know what I'm talking 
 about, go rent the game. The story mode is definitely short lived, quicker than Gears of War, which 
 is saying a lot, but the minigames keep coming after the credits roll. Some of the games are completely 
 pointless, while others are really cool and you want to play over and over again. Should you spend 
 your money on it though? At the end of the day, when your bored and you can't take anymore torment 
 from whatever RPG you're playing, yes. Like Wii sports, you'll find yourself popping this game 
 into your fabulous Wii and busting out some nice form baton moves while nobody's watching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybergurl102
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game in one word : A. D. D
  
  It is fun fast and verry addictive. We played this with a group of 12 people and everyone loved 
 it. Some of the micro games are easy to figure out while some take more time to understand what 
 they want you to do.
  
  This game was a great buy and totally worth more than just renting it for 2 days. It a game that 
 gets you up off the couch and moving and thinking and laughing The thing I like the most is that 
 this game shows off all the ways you can use the mote to control objects on game. All game makers 
 should play it before creating a game so that know the best way to use the wii mote! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  How many people haven't played Wario Ware in the world? I think the answer is probably in the 10-20 
 region. Nelson Mandela played it.* The Hoff played it.* Take That played it.* You should be no 
 exception. Wario Ware Smooth Moves is gaming at its finest, although waaaaaaaaay too short. The 
 main mode will take you a couple of hours to complete, but then there is the rather lacklustre 
 multiplayer, and highscores to beat. No review can describe in words and do justice the gaming 
 legend of Wario Ware. Smooth Moves is essentially the craziest situations you can think of (hooking 
 a little fat man in a fair ground-ish way, guiding someone's finger to their nostril, etc.) and 
 giving you five seconds in which to work out what in god's name you have to do. It really helps 
 in some situations to just wiggle the Wiimote about like a madman on fire in the middle of the 
 Sahara Desert. Or something.
  
  Retro fans out there will possibly have an orgasm during 9-Volt and 18-Volt's minigames, which 
 involve Ocarina of Time Link pulling the Master Sword from its pedestal, Mr Game and Watch snagging 
 some treasure, Mario jumping up for coins and rolling about as Samus in morph-ball form. I personally 
 enjoyed those the most.
  
  The final boss stage is probably one of the best parts of a game EVER. I will not spoil it for 
 those who have yet to get the game, but make sure you are alone and let go of your inhibitions.
 
  
  Way too short, but Wario Ware hits the nail on the head. Gaming excellence.
  
  
  
  
  
  *Note: May not be 100% accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chankk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The WarioWare game series have been around for a while now. With releases on GameCube, GBA, and 
 DS specifically we could have easily forseen a release on the Wii with it's very special and unique 
 control set. I think what we should be most suprised with is that the release of this game so early 
 puts it almost with release games for many people who weren't able to get a Wii right away, and 
 for them I'd certainly advise picking up a copy along with your console purchase.
  
  WarioWare Smooth Moves takes the Wiimote and uses it in every possible way it can be used which 
 was exactly the purpose for the creation of the controller in the first place. With full 3d interactivity 
 the Wiimote and WW: SM meld beautifully into this wonderfully wacky and entertaining interactive 
 game. Gameplay takes a very quick curve which has mostly to do with figuring out two things, how 
 to move the controller to hold it and then what the games want you to do. As with previous WW games 
 brief instructions usually give you the idea right away and allow for smooth and rapid comprehension 
 of the game's controls and actions.
  
  The graphics are on par with a WW game released on a system intentionally built to be just above 
 average with previous gen consoles. There are of course the kindergarden, crayon drawn faces that 
 need to have pencils pulled from their noses but there are also a good mix of decently rendered 
 three dimensional items and environments from pulling the Master Sword from Zelda: Ocarina of Time 
 to one of my personal favourite scenes of scanning items at a Japanese convenience store. Sound 
 likewise matches the mood of the game and the songs and beats in the background often help disperse 
 inhibitions which would prevent players from holding their wiimote at the end of their nose to 
 shoot snot-rockets on screen at other flying apendages.
  
  After clearing the game through players unlock multiplayer which mixes various shorts from the 
 standard game with competetive/cooperative games built from single player elements. Play vs on 
 the many mini-games, play a game of darts, or go jogging across a manhole strewn world with your 
 buddy at your side.
  
  The game is goofy, as are all the WarioWare games, and if goofy isn't your cup 'o tea then this 
 may not be for you; however, most people who pick up the Wii are out there because they wan't what 
 WarioWare offers. In one word, an entertaining game that accomplishes the very purpose of what 
 a game is supposed to be: Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bret_Hart
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is the perfect example of a game which utilises the Wii Remote to its 
 potential. Althought the core game can be comepleted in over an hour, there are other unlockable 
 mini-games and multiplayer levels to completely make up for this fact. Smooth Moves' storyline 
 is composed of the various inhabitants of Wario's town using the Wii Remote in order to complete 
 various tasks. Of course, Wario is the first to have found this Remote in an ancient temple. One 
 of the final mini-games even introduces the Balance Stone (Nunchuk) into the game, making for some 
 very tought but very fun mini-games. At a gameplay standpoint, Smooth Moves excels. The game has 
 various stances that you use for each of the 200 mini-games included in the game. As you progress 
 throughout the game, you'll unlock more stances to use and apply in some of the tougher mini-games. 
 The first stance that you will start out with is dubbed simply as The Remote Control , where you 
 will use the Wii Remote simply as it is to complete a mini-game. Some of the humor in the game 
 becomes apparent when a screen appears describing how to hold the Wii Remote as a very laxadasical 
 voice starts reading off directions on how to hold the controller. And this isn't just funny to 
 a younger audience; it even appeals to an older demographic.
  
  However, Smooth Moves does suffer from a couple of hitches with the Wii Remote during gameplay. 
 An example is the minigame which involves balancing a broom on your hand. If you do not hold the 
 controller high enough for the game to recognize it, you'll fail the minigame. The game does let 
 you know when it is not being recognized by dimming the color of the hand, but this issue can become 
 a problem when performing mini-games at intense speeds.
  
  Smooth Moves' graphical capablities are not the kind that are ment to attract those who've played 
 games with next-gen quality graphics. That said, they aren't ment to. Instead, Smooth Moves goes 
 for an animated theme that works very well with the game. The graphics are not made to impress, 
 but you'll be having so much fun with the mini-games that it will cease to be an issue. Smooth 
 Moves has six different multiplayer modes, and even one mode that supports up to 12 players. This 
 is the mode in which Smooth Moves really comes together as a party game. Some of the modes include 
 a race between two people in which the one who wins the most mini-games, thus getting the most 
 points, is the winner of the race. Another involves using both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk with 
 two players to avoid various hurdles and potholes while racing together.
  
  In conclusion, Smooth Moves is a game that can appeal to everyone. Every mini-game is incredibly 
 fun and intuitive. The game controls beautifully, except for the hitches with the Wii Remote during 
 some mini-games. You can replay each and every mini game with three levels of difficulty, and various 
 levels of speed. Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is a must-have for those who love party-games, and a 
 must-try for everyone who enjoys videogames. Best Mini-Games: Dancing Level, Star-Fox 64 Level 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Smooth Moves Review:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Fast, fun, and frantic. A little simple, but still fun and frantic. The microgames are almost all 
 pretty fun, and all the different modes really make it alot better. The only problem is the occasional 
 IR problems that can ruin a run of yours, making it sometimes frustrating, though usually your 
 having too much fun with the games themselves to get too angry. This is also offset by the great 
 multiplayer, and all the other side games you can play, most of which are pretty dam fun, especially 
 bungee buddies and the can shooter game. Oh and the kelories game? Quite a workout, and really 
 freaking fun too. You try doing several dozen squats in rapid succession, or sprinting in place.
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Cartoony, simple, and most of all, hilarious. Random lions pop out of knowhere after lifting a 
 weight, a man yelps in pain after hitting his arm with a stick, and much much more. It's all animated 
 smoothly, and it has a very distinct style. It's not really pushing the wii hardware, at all, but 
 the style makes up for it.
  
  Sound: 10
  Great bits of exclamations from characters, and hilarious and addictive music. Excellent all in 
 all, couldn't ask for much more.
  
  Value: 8
  The game is Beat in a few hours. The emphasis here though, is on the quotations. Just cause you've 
 beat it doesnt mean you've unlocked everything, and you'll want to unlock everything. There are 
 a lot of side games to unlock, and you need to unlock every microgame in the game, as you can't 
 do that on your first time around, which usually takes a while. Add in the multiplayer and you've 
 got alot of replay value, especially with the elephant levels. Of course, if you get bored of the 
 gameplay your pretty much screwed, other than the small side games, which are fun, but don't have 
 extreme lasting value, although you could come back to them in years time and still have some fun.
 
  
  Tilt: 10
  Why a tilt of 10? To match up more with gamespot's review? No. It's because of the humor. This 
 is one of the funniest games I think I've ever played. There is so much random and ridiculous stuff, 
 you just laugh. Your almost always smiling when your playing this game. You can't help but not 
 smile. And that's what gaming is really all about, getting a smile on your face, and this game 
 does this, very, very, well. This game, kicks ***. Buy it, unless you really hate warioware or 
 something, and fun, for that matter.... Or you think that beating the game is really beating it, 
 in which case your just an idiot, since you need to unlock everything to really have beat it. So, 
 overall, great gameplay, superb graphics, perfect sound, great replay value, and superb tilt. And 
 what do you get? low AAA, 9.0. Some flaws, but overall, really, really, fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terravolta
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible, believe me I bought it. I bought it and yeah I beat it, all 2 hours worth 
 of game. These so called mircogames... usually don't seem like games at all, I mean they're not 
 fun, they don't have any point to 'em, and worst of all they're easy to a point that a 4 year old 
 could accidently beat practically all of them. Don't buy this game I'm warning you, seriously. 
 Once pawn shops start carrying Wii games I'm going in and trading this game for some puzzle game 
 or something on the Wii, something that will actually keep my attention and have a few more than 
 3 hours worth of gaming.
  Conclusion, dont buy this game, its terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ride_yukon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, and for the guy who gave it a 1.0 ... hmm you think twilight princess was 
 a bad game man, you should go buy a ps3 and keep your mouth shut cuz you are an idiot... obviously 
 you havent played this series before... first of yes the game is short but you want to know what 
 it was fun as hell, plus i think they intend this game for multiplayer anyways, we sat down and 
 played the game for hours, hey and by the way if you didnt know Wii didnt go for graphics they 
 went for gameplay... god well anyways another killer game for the Console of The Year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemyelbows00
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I really don't want to write too extensive of a review. WarioWare Smooth Moves is hilarious, witty, 
 has an excellent use of the form baton and balance stone. And it will keep you entertained for... 
 an hour and a half.
  
  I think this game is brilliant other than the lack of multiplayer which the gamecube version performed 
 excellently. The pass-and-go style sucks. Where's the wobbly-bobbly, the space one that's like 
 othello, the balloon pump! ugh, the multiplayer was why i was excited about the game, and now... 
 i have nothing.
  
  I give it an 8.2 because of its shortness, and lack of multiplayer
  
  GOD bless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The long running WarioWare series has finally hit the newest of Nintendo's consoles, the Wii. WarioWare 
 is an example of a game that doesn't have to be a huge technical achievement to be an awesome game.
 
  
  There's truly nothing wrong with how WarioWare plays. You simply go through different stages with 
 whacky characters and nonsensicle stories behind them, then move through about 12-16 minigames. 
 Even though there are about 10 stages, there never seems to be a shortage of new minigames. These 
 minigames go by very quickly and are pretty simple, but at the same time challenging because there 
 is no extremely clear instruction as of what to do in each minigame. Anywhere between unlocking 
 a door, winning a race and fishing will show up in random order in a given level. What also keeps 
 the gameplay varied and fast-paced is switching between Forms. These Forms require you to quickly 
 switch what angle, and where you hold the Wii Remote, so no, you won't just be holding it the standard 
 way. Some examples of these forms are the Mowhawk where one must hold the remote above their head, 
 or the Sketch Artist where you have to hold the remote like a pencil. Also, once you are done with 
 certain minigames, you can unlock a larger mode based simply on that minigame. For example, the 
 can shooting minigame appears in one level, then after you beat it there's a whole section of levels 
 that you can choose to play through that are just based around shooting cans. With fun, varied 
 gameplay and no huge glitches or very noticable flaws, WarioWare plays awesomely.
  
  The graphics in WarioWare are great simply because of their artistic style. The animations, enviornments 
 and characters have a very well done anime/cartoony style. Each of the minigames also has a very 
 whacky artistic style to them. The reason why these graphics aren't as best they could've been 
 is because there is pretty much zero technical value to them. There's only a few stages or a few 
 models rendered in terrible looking 3D.
  
  There's very little voice over work to be found in WarioWare, which certainly is not good in any 
 case in any next-gen game. But, the game does have pretty catchy (though repetitive) music and 
 great sound effects, including so far the best sounds from the Wii Remote that I've heard so far.
 
  
  The story in WarioWare should take only 3 hours to beat, but every minute is extremely fun and 
 worth the playthrough. Plus (as explained earlier) upon beating certain minigames, a whole section 
 based around just that minigame is unlocked, bringing players tons of stages just based around 
 that minigame. After you beat the story, you also unlock a great multiplayer mode.
  
  All in all, WarioWare is an extremely fun game that can end up lasting you for a while. Though, 
 not a technical achievement, the crazy frenzy of minigames, different ways to use the Wii Remote 
 and great cartoony graphics, WarioWare is one of the best games currently available for the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tge4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game ever since I heard it was being released for the Wii. 
 I currently own WarioWare Touched for DS, and it was certaintly entertaining. Smooth Moves contains 
 alot of fun games, mostly cheap animations that are now characteristics of the series. The single 
 player mode's story can be fininshed in about 2-3 hours. I had a friend over when I first got it 
 and we played right through it and said Is that all? . Luckily, no it wasn't. After completing 
 story, multiplayer becomes available. This mode contains 3 games specifically made for multiplayer, 
 and 4 versions of playing the microgames with up to 12 people. After playing multiplayer, we went 
 back to single player and realized that the single games are still entertaining. In the end, this 
 game was definently worth buying. If you rent it, you'll definently miss it. Next time though, 
 Nintendo should expand the story a little longer, so people won't feel ripped off as much. Overall 
 review: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RODRIGUEZJR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I got to admit it. Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is probably one of the craziest games I have ever played 
 and owned. Fans of new and old will certainly have a party of a life time using the Wii remote 
 in different kinds of ways to play.
  
  The game starts off with Wario having a snack in his home. Then from out of no where, a strange 
 little creature ran by and stole his food, which led Wario to an old temple. There, he finds an 
 old ancient relic called the Form Baton, which resembles the Wii remote. After being chased by 
 a boulder, Wario decided to use the relic to create new ideas for his games and share them to the 
 residents of Diamond City.
  
  A fan of the Wario Ware series should be familiar with its characters like 9-Volt, Mona, Jimmy 
 T, and old familiar faces. Along the cast, we see new faces such as Master Mantis, Young Cricket, 
 and sweet little Penny. Each character has their own kinds of humorous story, like grabbing a bite 
 to eat while cutting in front of others in line, and the love story of a football player. If only 
 Intelligent Systems could have added more things to the game. In a couple of hours, you probably 
 beat the game because its short. But, what makes the game going on is definitely the microgames.
 
  
  Unlike other games in the series, this game will make you get off that lazy butt and start doing 
 all sorts of crazy things using the Wii remote. To be able to play each microgame, one must be 
 one with the forms. There are over 20 different kinds of forms that are based on real-life actions. 
 A form that we are all pretty familiar with is the Remote Control. In this form, you will the Wii 
 remote like a regular remote to point at things on the screen and move certain objects. Other forms 
 will have you holding your remote like a samurai sword, an umbrella, a Mohawk, and other crazy 
 ways. Some microgames using the samurai sword form, you will swing your remote to slice through 
 objects and enjoying slapping peoples faces.
  
  Once you start playing the game, you never know which game you will start playing. The screen will 
 show you which form to play the microgame in. Like the previous Wario Ware games, microgames are 
 fast paced, so you will have to act quickly before it ends. If you fail to complete it in time, 
 then you will lose one of your four lives. Each character has specific types of mini-games that 
 uses many of the games forms. For example, Warios games are mostly played by using the Remote 
 Control. Dribble and Spitzs games are played by the Mohawk, Dumbbell, and Janitor forms. Hardcore 
 fans are probably going to enjoy 9-Volt and 18-Volts microgames that uses all forms, but the games 
 are based on Nintendo classics like Animal Crossing, Nintendogs, Metroid Prime, and others. In 
 some of the Nintendo classic games, you will use the Tug of War form, to fish in the Animal Crossing 
 game and use the Big Cheese form to flap your arms in a 3D version of Balloon Fight. In certain 
 microgames, you can use your custom-made Miis and let them have fun in some of the games which 
 involves arm wrestling and competing in trivia contests. Smooth Moves is definitely one of those 
 fun Wii titles everybody should own. It will even be a blast if you have a friend or twelve to 
 play the multiplayer aspect of the game. Up to 12 players can create their own save files using 
 their Miis to compete in survival modes to play all of Smooth Movess microgames and last one standing 
 wins. Although, playing multiplayer with one remote. Once you keep playing the games over and over 
 again, it gets tiring to pass on the remote. The developers could have made the game where you 
 could use four remotes at a time to play the games, but since the Wii can only connect up to four 
 remotes, using only one is the best way to do it.
  
  After you beaten the game, there are quite a ton of things to unlock and even a couple of more 
 microgames to play. In one of them, they also use the nun-chuk attachment which will be known as 
 the Balance Stone. In those mini-games that uses the nun-chuk will have you playing games such 
 as adjusting clocks and rising up red or white flags. Also, multiplayer is also unlocked and then 
 you can play with your friends to have a blast.
  
  For a game like Wario Ware, the graphics dont really matter for this kind of game. You have games 
 that are colored drawn on paper, 8-bit NES games, and very weird looking games. The game is simply 
 known for its cartoony artistic style. The story scene animations really reminds you of watching 
 those good ol Saturday mourning cartoons. The same thing could go for sound. You never know what 
 kind of music to expect in these crazy microgames. You can expect to hear old tunes from old classic 
 Nintendo games and then to mini-game type of music. There will be some games where it may have 
 you laughing from the humor, even more from the Wii remotes speaker. There is a game where you 
 have to pick the Wii remote as if it was a telephone, and then you will hear a funny voice talking. 
 Im guessing it is like this with all Wario Ware games where music and graphics dont really make 
 the game. Its great watching the animations, to have something to laugh at while having fun. I 
 can safely say that, this game is a worthy edition to your Wii collection of games. You are going 
 to have fun, getting some exercise, and most importantly, having a cool game to play with friends 
 or the family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: propowerhitter
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  For starters the graphics were horrible and it is completely stupid the minigames are things that 
 my younger brother doesnt even enjoy. This game is clearly for girls as it has a pink cover. WTF 
 MAN?!!!!!11!!! one!!!11! q!!!!. The minigames are stupid as hell including the one where i scrape 
 bugs off of a banana and a fatass gorilla ets it with pleasure. Another complaint is the fact that 
 the game is clearly racist beacsue it has a hippie in one of the levels. This game is incredibly 
 short as well. Not to brag, but I beat the entire game in 5 minutes. they need to make gears of 
 war for wii.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Just kidding this games sick we were just pretending to be some kid that can appreciate a game 
 for gameplay instead of graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micubano
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I was having fun playing this when all the sudden the credits started rolling and it said the game 
 was over. I sat there watching them in disbelief. When they finished, a lot more single player 
 games popped up as well as some multiplayer.
  
  In general, the game plays fast. While I got through most levels first try, a few did require more 
 than on attempt. I still dont know how to do the finish the drink game, but most games have a 
 natural feel too them. For some reason I really like shake the bottle. Some of the games look like 
 they were drawn by kindergarteners. I know the WII isnt a graphics powerhouse like my 360, but 
 come on!
  
  I have a 5 year old who tried to play without any success. It is just too hard for her. Im hoping 
 now that we unlocked the multiplayer that we can slow the learning curve down for her. However, 
 the multiplayer games sometimes require the two players to pass a remote between the 2 and there 
 is not enough time to put the strap on. Im hoping this doesnt end up in a wiimote related injury.
 
  
  Overall, as a fan of Mario Party, I like the game and can see that there is some replay value as 
 it keeps track of high scores. Once my wife picks it up, Im sure the trash talk will force me 
 back into the game fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamull
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I was expecting the depth of GBA's wario ware, along with at least some entertainment. The storylines 
 were annoying, especially the Jimmy ones. There are so few minigames compared to previous titles. 
 It just seems that this should have been $30 instead of $50 just on the aspect of play time. The 
 1player mode was really really short (2-3 hrs at best) .
  
  The various positions were done well and work well with the Wii. The explanations of each position 
 were funny. Overall, I was just upset that the series let me down a bit. Ah well.
  
  Yes to rent, no to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SENoLimits
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  1. Story too short 2. No multi players games. 3. Price does not match the value. 4. Should not have 
 called the game Wario, because it barely had anything about Wario. 5. Creative, but that revolutionary 
 6. It uses the Wii control well, but it feels if they slapped a bunch of old games together and 
 abused the title of wario 
  
  Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
 Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink124
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun, funny but to short. it took like 20 minutes to get the hang of it. theres about 
 200 minigames, and you have to use the form baton (the wii mote) and there all kinds of forms. 
 this game is all about wario being greedy (sort off) it all so shows all the characters of dimond 
 city and their own little story. dont let the back fool you it is multiplayer after you beat story 
 mode you can play it. i would give this game 3 1/2 stars (for being so short) its best if you get 
 this game when you first get the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Smooth Moves was definitely one of the most highly anticipated games on the Wii. This 
 unique series has garnered many fans after appearing on the Gamecube, the DS, and even the GBA. 
 With a delightfully strange storyline, along with some equally weird mini-games, WarioWare is a 
 definite must have for all Wii owners.
  
  To start the game off, you are faced with a wide variety of mini-games to complete. These games 
 range from loveable Nintendo classics, to some of the most popular Gamecube titles. There are over 
 200 mini-games to play, so don't expect to go through them all in a day. The most frequently asked 
 question about Smooth Moves is: How do the Wii controls work with the gameplay? To answer this 
 question, I will respond with two words: almost perfectly!
  
  There are sixteen different wii-mote stances to master throughout the game. One example of a stance 
 is the waiter, where you hold the controller in the palm of your hand as a waiter holds a serving 
 tray. Another example is the sketch artist, where you hold to wii-mote as you would a pen. Each 
 stance has its own variety of mini games to choose from. Attempting to play one of these games 
 without adhering to the stance can sometimes be difficult, so its best to follow directions. Some 
 of the stances are basic, while others look really funny. All in all, they fit the game very well, 
 and make for some interesting gameplay moments.
  
  After playing through about half of the mini-games in single player mode, you will unlock a multiplayer 
 mode. Multiplayer is possibly the greatest feature of Smooth Moves; its much more fun to play with 
 a group of friends. There are various gameplay modes to choose from, including a balloon bang mode 
 which is similar to hot potato. There are also several longer mini-games to play, such as Darts. 
 The multiplayer game modes are very fast paced, which makes them very entertaining. There is also 
 a unique element of surprise before a mini-game beings. You might be faced with a fly infested 
 banana, and the screen will say Shake. Instinctively, you shake the controller, and the little 
 handdrawn ape gets to eat his favorite fruit. Other games aren't as obvious, so there is a bit 
 of finesse required.
  
  By completing the single player mode, you can also unlock several extended games, which are longer 
 than the normal party games. To name a few, there are games such as Can Shooter, Balloon Man, and 
 a strategic block balancing game. These add some replay value to the rather short single player 
 mode. You will probably find yourself going back to them occasionally in order to beat you old 
 high scores. In short, there is a wealth of great games to choose from, so you will not get bored 
 too easily.
  
  The WarioWare series hasn't really been associated with stunning visuals, but the graphics fit 
 the game very well. As I said, they can range from Gamecube games such as Metroid and Zelda, to 
 NES classics and hand-drawn mini-games. The cutscenes are fully animated, and the art is generally 
 very well-done. The sound is very good also, and adapts well to the gameplay. Sure, some music 
 might sound strange, but hey, this is WarioWare we're talking about.
  
  Overall, WarioWare: Smooth Moves is one of the best games we've seen on the Wii thus far. Not only 
 does it execute the Wii's unique control scheme with ease, but it also gives us a really awesome 
 and fresh gameplay experience. Fans of the WarioWare series will definitely enjoy this amazing 
 sequel. If you're a Wii owner looking for a new game, then this is definitely the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jessicurr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I think that Wario Ware : Smooth Moves is a great game overall, crazy, fun, great multiplayer. 
 But it's downs are that the story mode is over too soon, and well, you actually need to UNLOCK 
 multiplayer mode. Besides those two faults, Wario Ware is a great game for the wii and it's great 
 with the wii controls. Gameplay: Sometimes you may find yourself stuck in some parts, but either 
 than that the gameplay is awesome.
  
  Graphics: Really cartoony and funny, it's a 3d wonder!!!
  
  Sound: The sound is as good as 
 the graphics, great cartoony sound effects and music.
  
  Value: You may want to consider renting this game first, you'll make your money's worth by renting 
 it.
  
  Overall.... an 8.3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves is a great game and worth every penny of that $59.99. At the start it gives 
 you the impression that man I got ripped off but the more you play the greater the micro games 
 get, This game gets so fun I would pay $80.00 for it if that was the price tag because it provides 
 hours of endless fun. The graphics are terrible on some but that's what Wario Ware is, pictures 
 that look like a 7 year old drew and others that are identical to the Game cube Game they involve. 
 But if you are buying this game it will be for the extreme fun it provides, the sound is superb 
 and the game play is unmatched. This is a must buy game for the Wii and a great way to start the 
 new year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreichel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is quirky and random but for some reason I LOVE IT! Here is my review to tell you how 
 much fun it is.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 these microgames are so addicting but sometimes you wont know what to do in some 
 of them and can be frustrating at times.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 the graphics are both cartoon and 3D with simple animation but I dont see anything 
 wrong with them so 9 outta 10!
  
  Sound: 8/10 the sound is clear but with pretty much no voice except for gibberish, the dude that 
 explains certain stance cards and certain levels but other than that 2 thumbs up! Value: I bought 
 mine for 55$ Canadian (45$ American) due to a 5$ of sale so Value gets 10/10! Tilt: 10/10 I love 
 this game it has comedy, fun and a great title all together there for 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  The original on GBA was something special then became bettered by the gamecubes Mega Party games 
 which was slightly improved by adding multiplayer, then the DS's turn which thrashed the other 
 two, followed by Twisted bringing something different, but Smooth Moves isnt just different, its 
 absolutely fun, dont get me wrong, the others were fun, but this is a whole new level of fun! The 
 graphics are good for Wario Ware, but graphics dont always make a great game right? There are great 
 uses of your Mii which is sometimes kinda funny. The unlockables are well good aswell, some addicting 
 games in there. If you liked everyother Wario Ware game, get this, its essential, and also the 
 9 volt section is well ninty'd up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzlebee
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is another great addition to the Wario Ware series. Any one with a Wii 
 and a passion for the psychotic should add it to their library... when it's price goes down to $20-$30.
 
  
  Unfortunately I just can't shamelessly praise Wario just because he's one of Nintendo's many iconic 
 gaming franchises.
  
  First let's break this down a bit:
  
  =======
  Story
  =======
  
  Story-wise Wario Ware: Smooth Moves is simply pleasing. It holds all the characters 
 you know from the previous installments and gives you some wonderful flash animation to tell their 
 stories. There are the Jimmy's, Penny, and a charming host of others that end with the big man 
 himself, Wario.
  
  =======
  Graphics
  =======
  
  Sadly, the graphics disturb, rather than please me. The 3D is very, very stylized, and adds the 
 craziness of the micro-games, but still, I'd like to see more effort. After seeing most of the 
 launch games, most people are aware of the capabilities of the Wii, and although I knew very well 
 that the games varied in visual style for it's unique flavor and theme, I still felt cheated. Some 
 of the 3D featured evil looking old men, various types of badly rendered nostrils, and the sword 
 matches made me more ashamed than nostalgic.
  
  Also, during the story sequences, I agree the artwork is very smooth with bright colors and thick, 
 clean outlines. But, this is just flash art. The characters rarely move, and after seeing so many 
 different flash animated games, I was hardly impressed.
  
  =======
  The Controls
  =======
  
  I'll break down some of the positions for your 'Form Baton' here:
  
  - Remote 
 Control --- Hold the controller like you would a normal TV remote. Games for this position vary 
 from moving a magnifying glass around to burn a bug, to guiding dentures into an elderly woman's 
 mouth.
  
  - The Umbrella --- Hold the controller vertically with the tip facing up, similar to holding a 
 staff, or say, and umbrella. The Micro-Games for this position include pumping the controller up 
 and down to speed up a track runner, and shaking a bottle of soda and spraying very dry old men 
 until they sparkle.
  
  - The Handlebars/Chauffer --- I put this into one category because the only difference to the two 
 is one is held horizontally with the buttons facing up, and the other with the buttons facing the 
 player. Games for this position are ranged from pumping air into a balloon until it pops, or guiding 
 a car down a track.
  
  - The Waiter --- This position was incredibly difficult for me because I have really small hands 
 and short fingers. You hold the controller, buttons up, in the palm of your hand. Micro-Games for 
 this include the commercially famous Don't-Drop-The-Broom and Clean-The-Plate .
  
  - The Mohawk --- Don't get excited, this position has you hold the controller; tip forward, atop 
 your head. Games usually feature you having to squat.
  
  - The Businessman --- Hold the controller, tip forward, against your right/left hip. Games usually 
 surround the hula-hoop theme, having you simply swaying your hips side to side.
  
  - The Discard --- Place the controller on the ground, buttons down. Now pick it up when the phone 
 rings, or the ninja attacks. There you go that's it.
  
  - The Tug-Of-War --- Hold the controller, tip forward, in front of you with both hands. You'll 
 use this position to saw wood or return volleyballs.
  
  - The Diner --- Only position that uses the Nunchuck, and only used for one level. There are three 
 diner positions: Diner A has you hold the Remote and Nunchuk vertically, Diner B holds it like 
 the remote control with the tips forward, Diner C has the tips facing each other horizontally. 
 The Micro-Games for these positions are fairly entertaining, featuring you pedaling a bicycle or 
 guiding balloons.
  
  =======
  Interaction/Gameplay
  =======
  
  I just can't agree that Wario Ware is all that smooth. The main problem is because the games require 
 only one simple movement. I personally am someone that cannot hold their hand completely still 
 upon command. It will sometimes twitch with anticipation, or sway to one side on occasions. And 
 honestly, most people I know are the same. Absolute stillness is very difficult.
  
  What frustrated me was that sometimes a slight sway to one side during the load time would result 
 in me immediately passing the micro-game when it showed up.
  
  Also, the Tug-Of-War position never really worked properly. I always performed it as I was told, 
 and made the movements as I was supposed to, but the reactions on the screen never matched what 
 I was doing.
  
  The Samurai would slice in angles I didn't make. The Discard had great games, but picking up a 
 controller isn't challenging.
  
  Overall, I had this deep, dreadful impression that I wasn't actually doing anything. When I would 
 almost drop the controller during transition from one game to the next, and end up winning the 
 Micro-Game without realizing what I had done, I didn't feel any sort of victory. When certain games 
 came up and I just simply made a bunch of frenzied movements, vainly trying to figure out what 
 I was supposed to do, I didn't get the feeling I was really playing.
  
  Simply put, it's not quite perfect.
  
  =======
  Overall
  =======
  
  I won't deny that 
 I had fun. The games were humorous and crazy, and the controls and pace did make for some interesting 
 giggles among my audience. Unfortunately it was short.
  
  Some don't quite get it, but it's short.
  
  Very short.
  
   
 short.
  
  No matter the replay value, the heaping pile of micro-games or the charming little featured mini-game 
 areas, that's too short. Period.
  
  Well, at least too short for it's $50 price tag.
  
  It's stylish. It's funny, and it does have multi-player.
  
  Multi-player that doesn't support 
 VS, just lets you play hot-potato by passing the remote about. And only allows multi-player after 
 playing through the entire game. And forget the wrist-strap, because it's almost impossible to 
 play with it on.
  
  If you have a Wii, a couple friends, and an hour or two to kill, rent Wario Ware: Smooth Moves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazminisgreat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  The 2d-3d graphics that this game has going on is terrific! The Wii-mote speaker also enhances 
 gameplay. The endless microgames and poses keep this game continuously going in a fast pace. The 
 graphics are really clear n the Wii and they look just like the cartoon graphics it is going for.
 
  
  THE BAD:
  The new system of the microgames has changed, no more hiscores. You do a set of three difficultys 
 per microgame and you're done. The strap on the controller continuously needs tightning.
  
  THE UGLY:
  The Wario minis...
  
  THE FUNNY:
  Elephant pose, mohawk pose, and the big cheese. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Smooth Moves, as GameSpot says, is a perfect match with the Wii. Many Wii games in stores presently 
 don't take full advantage of the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities, but this game really does. 
 With over 200 funky, unique mini-games, you quickly become addicted, but you won't be playing for 
 too long-you will probably beat the game within 1 to 2 hrs. Overall, this game is a huge sucess, 
 and shows what the Wii si really capable of. Here is a quick overview of the game:
  
  The Good: Has over 200 different, fun-filled minigames with their own unique features, and they 
 ise the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities in a superb way -- gets youy extremely addicted, great 
 fo rmultiplayer
  
  The Bad: Game is too short -- only 1 to 2 hrs. of gameplay, and at times, very vague descriptions 
 of what your supposed to do in some of the minigames
  
  Use of Motion: Superb
  
  Smooth Moves is a must-get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  You know the ordeal: hundreds of micro-games that must be completed in under 6 seconds. It gets 
 the blood flowin' and will keep you laughing.. for two or three hours, anyway, but after that, 
 it's all downhill. The game is far too repetitive, and can easily be beaten in 2 hours. Sure, there's 
 replay value, but not much. I honestly can't see me ever wanting to play this by myself, though.. 
 I can just picture it now: Me, standing all alone in the empty house, pretending to hoola-hoop 
 and be an elephant. No, I don't think so. The graphics, or rather, animation, is vibrant and colorful, 
 but the music and voices are rather irritating and repetitive. In brief summary, give it a rent. 
 If you're thinking of buying it, wait until it comes down $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbotic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great... lots of fun and everything is here: mustaches, noses, cats, elephants. This 
 game is just too short. I'm not sure if it's worth $50 USD. All the classic Wario stuff is here 
 and it looks great and stylish in that tripped-out way. You'll fly through this in a day or two. 
 I'm not sure if it's my tv or the game but sometimes the Wii will simply not register my motions 
 at all and I'll lose a microgame which is very frustrating. It's good for one or two nights of 
 party fun. The microgames are so short you'll be wanting more. The long dancing sequences are interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_jabon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is really, really fun! I promise, the problem is getting to the fun. It has these anime 
 videos before each new area of games. You have to watch it and they are all boring as can be. Once 
 you get threw them you can play some very enjoyable mini games, some of which just made me laugh 
 they were so great!
  
  Then once you've got to the boss you get tortured by another un-skip-able movie that is an advanced 
 session in annoyance. Yes you can go back and play again and then skip the video, and even play 
 more mini games than the first time, but when you go to a new area you will be forced into a stupor 
 of torpor again.
  
  To make matters worse there is no multi player at the beginning. Now that I've played through the 
 story line I finally get to play multi player, oh wait, I can only play with someone who has started 
 a single player game them selves. What's up with that? You still only use one controller and pass 
 it back and forth. For the most part the multi player is the same as the single player, but you 
 see who fails the tasks first. The multi player didn't add very much to the game I would say. It 
 should have been multi player from the beginning.
  
  So in conclusion, I have to say the game is worth playing, because it is so entertaining, but be 
 ready for some pointless waiting before getting to the good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rossuron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  To be blunt and to the point: this game rocks. If you have a Wii, no collection is complete without 
 this game. If you have Wii, you have to get this game! Wario Ware is one of those games that you 
 can buy for a system if you get it 5 months after its been out or even 5 years after its been out. 
 I have never seen such a great fast paced mini game collection in my life before I bought Wario 
 Ware. It was totally worth the wait, the hype, the money, and the reaction I got when I played 
 the first mini game. This game has such a unique art style in both the cut scenes and the mini 
 games. There are plenty of bright attractive colours that can lure even the most hardcore of Resident 
 Evil gamers to Wario Ware. I have only played this game for an hour and ten minutes but already 
 the music is stuck in my head and I just can't wait to play it again. If you don't have a Wii but 
 plan on getting one, whenever you do, make sure you go home with this game in hand if you only 
 pick one up. It might be hard for a mini game collection to sound this good, but really it is. 
 The variety at which games switch and the micro themes throughout the game give plenty for the 
 gamer to digest. I hope this review is informative and makes you buy into Wario Ware Smooth Moves 
 for the Nintendo Wii, because it is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the Warioware games for the GBA and DS. They're addictive for sure. So, I was 
 excited about Warioware for Wii, because of all the potential the game has. The game definitely 
 delivers.
  
  Now, I will start out by saying that the game isn't worth $50. There's just not enough to it to 
 warrant that price. However, if you've got the cash to spend, go ahead, else if you don't, renting 
 it would be good until you can get your hands on a used copy.
  
  The games are as creative, and strange, as always. This time, each game requires you to hold the 
 controller a different way (which is flashed for a second before the microgame starts) . You have 
 to then quickly figure out what to do. It takes some time figuring out each game, but that's half 
 the fun. Each stage has a different theme, and you'll quickly find a favorite.
  
  The game's replayability depends on how you like to play. If you are someone who likes to beat 
 your last score, this is perfect because that's basically all there is to do after beating the 
 game. There is also multiplayer, which is very fun and has several different modes. But, other 
 than that, the value is somewhat limited.
  
  I love the game, but it's not something I'd want to spend $50. If it was $30, it'd be a definite 
 buy. The game is definitely fun, and is easily the best Wii game out there excluding Zelda. Definitely 
 try this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blah257
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Warioware and I can't say enough good things about this game. It's everything 
 I was expecting and then some. In fact, my mom likes it almost as much as I do.
  
  It all started at the Fusion Tour. Because of Zelda's line, I could only play once, so right after 
 I got to Warioware. I was instantly hooked. It seemed the forms were coming up at light speed and 
 I could barely keep track. That night my mom and I probably ended up playing ten or fifteen times. 
 My favorite thing about the game is the Japanese sense of humor. I've watched the scene with the 
 disco-ing cats about 5 times. I also love the explanations of the forms and the more wacky microgames.
 
  
  But of course, it all comes down to the gameplay. There are so many forms that it's hard to remember 
 anything beyond the remote control . The games are simple, fast, and fun, and I find myself coming 
 back to play them frequently.
  
  This game is not Gears of War on terms of graphics or sound. It might not even be as good as some 
 PS1 games. The thing that saves it from being ugly is the diversity of art styles. One moment you 
 see a cel-shaded lumberjack, then a second later, a 3D Mii running on a giant field. I can't say 
 much about sound, since it doesn't really stand out as much.
  
  Warioware is definitely the second best game for the Wii, but when your comparing it to Zelda, 
 it sounds a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameismarcman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Warioware: Smooth Moves is the first of the Warioware games I have played. If its predecessors 
 are anywhere as addictive and insane as this version, then I might have to expand on my collection. 
 The game hardly has any boring moments, thanks to the crazy character designs and the limited amount 
 of time you have in between microgames. The game is pretty short for a single person, but the replay 
 value is limitless, especially if you are with other people. Since only one controller is needed 
 for all the multiplayer games, there is no need to search for another wiimote if you haven't already 
 gotten one. In terms of graphics, the game looks crisp and runs smoothly. The animated sequences 
 introducing each person/stage and their epilogues are all well done and the same can be said about 
 the actual microgames themselves. Each game is given its own unique style, whether it's shaking 
 bugs off a banana or dancing in 3d. Overall, Warioware is a must have for any Wii owner who is 
 even slightly curious in what this wacky game has to offer. It makes great use of what the Wiimote 
 is capable of and is just really fun to play and watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware Smooth Moves Review
  Wario Ware has never ceased to surprise me. I loved Wario Ware Touched and Smooth Moves meets my 
 expectations with the newly used Motion Sensitive Controller. This game is a wonderful assessment 
 of Micro Games that will have you on your toes. In this game, Nintendo makes no mistake with the 
 great functions of the controller. You have to perform so many different techniques in certain 
 Micro Games. The Elephant for example: when you point the Wiimote at the tip of your nose and drag 
 it around in an attempt to complete 2 or 3 of the Micro Games that uses The Elephant Technique. 
 Another great technique is the Samurai. You place the Wiimote at your waste, opposite the hand 
 you use. You grip it like a sword and swing when designated in some of the Micro Games. This is 
 such a great style that is so awesome. From The Finger Food, to The Mohawk, there are at least 
 15 techniques using the Wiimote. Prior to Wario Ware games, the story consists of about 10 characters. 
 You are required to help them in whatever they may need help in by completing sets of Micro Games 
 that range from about 12-20. You have 4 chances to beat 20 Micro Games. If you lose all 4 lives, 
 you have to restart the mission all over again. Challenging, it may seem, but this is one of the 
 easiest games to date. It took me 2 hours to complete. The good thing is, the game is supposed 
 to be simple. You shouldnt have the least bit of trouble in unlocking everything. The point of 
 this and all Wario Ware games is replayability (if that is a word) . You are expected to have fun 
 and try the game over and over again to achieve high scores. There are at least 200 Micro Games, 
 so you wont be bored too easily. Although it isnt fun to play the same Micro Game over and over 
 again, the game is a thrill when you play random Micro Games throw at you. Truthfully, there are 
 about only 20 Micro Games worth playing by themselves. There are some great unlockables, as usual. 
 If you have played previous Wario Ware games, you wont be mistaken if you assumed unlockables 
 would be available. There are the famous individual high scoring games that are just a bit more 
 addicting than good Micro Game. I enjoy the games that you unlock. Another great unlockable set 
 is the secret elephant levels. These levels are super challenging and require you to beat 30 random 
 Micro Games to unlock the next Elephant level. Another plus is multiplayer. It isnt very good 
 and even worse you need to unlock it. But hey, at least this Wario Ware has some kind of multiplayer 
 mode. There arent many options or modes, so have fun with the maybe 1 hour max addiction to this 
 mode.
  Graphics in this game are always enjoyable. This one has some great graphics. The animation is 
 humorous and even in the Nintendo level, the graphics look exact to the previous games Wario Ware 
 uses. Animal Crossing for example, looks exact, prior to the game itself. However, the graphics 
 are only okay as far as big consoles go. I have to give graphics an 8.
  Sound is one great thing once again. I love the great music each Character level possesses. You 
 cant go wrong to frequently with Nintendo sounds. Voices are also alright but may get a bit repetitive 
 with them saying the same thing. Otherwise, sound is great!
  As far as value, this game is worth it in pretty much everyones case. Except for those few hardcore 
 gamers who are seeking challenges. There arent any really beyond hard challenges to be featured 
 in this game, let alone tough at all. For the most part this game takes about 6 hours to get everything, 
 although it took me maybe 4.
  All in all, I love this game and it is great for anybodys Wii collection. The fun filled Micro 
 Games will have you going for hours, and Id recommend this game to anyone looking for simple fun 
 gaming mechanics. Thats all for now hope this helped you in a way or another. Peace
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  If you don't laugh at this game, your life is too stressful or there is something wrong with your 
 sense of humor. Some of these microgames are downright hilarious (shake the banana, save the wench, 
 and push the girl over) and some are fairly challenging (any level 3 game for the most part) . For 
 some reason, I end up saying this quite often in my reviews, but WarioWare is just plain fun. The 
 first night I got this, I fired it up with some buddies and we played for about 8 hours straight 
 and laughed for just about the entire time. I can say that I have become hopelessly addicted to 
 Bungee Buddies, a game where you use the Wiimote and the Nunchuk to control two guys and make them 
 hop over certain obstacles.
  
  The graphics in WarioWare could be given a 10 or a 0 depending on when you walk into the room. 
 Some of the games or sections look like they could be drawn by a 7 year old using his off hand 
 in about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, some of the games look very sharp, and the story sequences look 
 vibrant and lively. The sound is superb... especially the gentleman who reads the descriptions 
 of every new form (a. k. a how you hold the Wiimote to play a given microgame) . The gameplay is excellent 
 as well. This game lacks value, clocking in at just over 4 hours to completely beat the single 
 player game.
  
  For anyone looking for something way, way out there and a game that you can play with a whole bunch 
 of buddies, look no further. If you don't like WarioWare, you don't like fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The WarioWare franchise has always been a strong one. I remember getting the first GBA game years 
 ago... and I loved it. Playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves resurrected that love.
  
  The gameplay is absolutely brilliant and fun, as long as you don't mind looking stupid. The game 
 has you put the Wii-mote in various positions, and some of them (the elephant and mohawk, among 
 a few others) are just downright ridiculous. The games come at you fast, but most of them are easy 
 enough to figure out in the short amount of time the game gives you. Above all else, there is a 
 good variety of micro-games here. The game will have you sweeping during curling and also shaving 
 a man's beard, and those are just two of the (I'm assuming) 100+ games here.
  
  While Smooth Moves starts off easily, it gets a little rougher in the later stages, when it has 
 you switch Wii-mote positions between every micro-game. The challenge is definitely welcome, though. 
 It never gets to the point where you want to quit playing out of frusteration, but instead just 
 makes you want to try again, knowing that you can pull it off.
  
  The sound used here is really... whatever. There are some fun things done with the Wii-mote speaker, 
 such as when you answer the phone for one of the micro-games, the Wii-mote will project a voice 
 talking to you. Other than those type of quirky things, there's nothing really here to write home 
 about.
  
  The visual style of the game is very cool, in that it switches art styles with every micro-game. 
 One game will have you controlling Samus in ball form in MP2, and the next one will have you play 
 as Mario jumping to get coins in Super Mario Bros.
  
  Overall, this game is really great. While the game doesn't have much to unlock... it does have tremendous 
 replay value in that the fast-paced style never gets old. If you have a Nintendo Wii, you owe it 
 to yourself to pick up a copy of WarioWare: Smooth Moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxSirusxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awsome game for the nintendo wii console. It makes use of mostly almost all of 
 the wii's features and even better it uses the wii's interactive mii's this is a must buy, i bought 
 this game the 1st day because i knew it was going to be an ultimate follow up to the ds version 
 (warioware touched) also i was lucky to get the last copy because every copy has been already sold 
 and next shippment have started preorders so this is a total buy if you can even get your hands 
 on a copy AWSOME GAME!!!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pickleking23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  OMG wario ware one of my favorite series, and newest wario ware smooth moves is now my favortie 
 game, once you start playing this game you won't stop laughing (if you got a sense of humor) . i 
 never laugh so hard out of all the movies and video games inthe world wario ware made me laugh 
 the hardest, this game is fun and great use of the WIi remote, use the remote every way possible 
 even ways you would never ever thing of, alot of micro games to play and all ver yvery fun alot 
 better than the other wario wares (not that they were bad but this one is just better) .
  you got Wario, Dribble &amp; Spitz, ashley and others, they all got great micro games that are so 
 much fun, single player was great it was the most fun i had with a game in a very long time, the 
 multiplayer was not that great, like the gamecube version was so much fun but the mutiplayer in 
 this was not the greatest they have fun games to play but you gotta use the same Wiimote for every 
 multiplayer mode and it gets annoying, but other than that it is a very very awsome game very funny 
 and great game all around can't give it a perfect 10 i wanted to give it a perfect 10 but the multiplayer 
 isn't the greatest but yeah some of you might like it alot, well if you got a Wii i highly recommend 
 this game my favorite Wii game very well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huracan24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Value-wise it kinda sucks. Really funny and fun gameplay though. The game is whack. It good but 
 sucks at the same time. The story mode took me about an hour to finish, i think thats bs. The music 
 is good, the mini-games are crazy fun. The controls get annoying in a couple games when it doesnt 
 work because you lose a life stupidly. If you have friends over 24/7 then i recomend it, if you 
 have no friends i dont recomend it because you'll return the game within a day. In that case rent 
 it.
  I wish it could use more than 1 controller for multiplayer.
  
  My score: I'd give this game a B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Centorz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. Even starting out it very cool. Picking up the controller and just being 
 able to play is the reason i bought a wii. Sure, zelda was a sweet game but i like being able to 
 have friends come over and not have to tell them, sometimes show them, what to do all the time. 
 Learning curve is about zero min as long as you have had some experience with the wii. Single player 
 was cool, it would have been nice to have been able to do some sort of multi from the get go but 
 unlocking it wasn't hard. it was really fun to see all the old school nintendo influence pop up 
 though out the game. fantastic game through and through. i highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Smooth Moves is your typical Warioware game. The series has grown from being a handheld 
 game, to a console game, gameboy game again, and a Nintendo DS game, and here it is again a console 
 game. The game consists of mini games called Microgames which are about 5 seconds to beat and you 
 have to beat one after the next to advance to the next level and to play in the Boss Level which 
 are IMO the best out of all the microgames. There are different microgames for each character you 
 choose, and there are different uses for the wiimote for each microgame, for example, one would 
 expect you to hold the wiimote like an umbrella, a remote control, a waiters plate, even a elephant's 
 nose. There are many positions to hold the wiimote in this game and there are over 200 microgames 
 in total. This game should last you quite a long time. There isn't really a story to this game, 
 it's just a series of games within the game. It's not a typical game you'd expect though, there 
 are bunch of randomness in this game, for example you're picking someone's nose in one game, in 
 the next, you're running a marathon, in the next you're balancing a broomstick. It's endless amounts 
 of fun especially with your friends and family. This game is pretty easy to pickup and play right 
 away, and it's fully animated which is also appealing to those who like the cartoon-like cutscenes 
 in between. The game supports up to 4 players, and you can play in multiplayer with others to last 
 longer in the microgames than the people you're playing with. Overall I give this game a 9.1 out 
 of 10.0 Great game, by far my favorite for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annexx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my copy of Warioware being slightly timid at what to expect. The DS version was fun 
 but tired rather quickly. After playing through my first level though, I knew Smooth Moves was 
 different, and it wasn't until over and hour later that I let the controller down.
  
  Smooth Moves and the Wii were meant to be, as much if not more than, the Wii is with Wii Sports. 
 I could easily see this being packaged with the Wii if it weren't for its quirky nature and odd 
 graphics that might throw off the other generations Nintendo is trying to reach out too.
  
  WarioWare requires the use of the wiimote in many fun and different ways to complete the minigame 
 objectives. The smooth moves you'll use vary include The Samurai , The Janitor , the Elephant and 
 the Mohawk just to name a few of the more unique ones. Half the fun is learning the new moves as 
 you go, so I won't ruin the experience by running through and describing all of them here.
  
  Before and after each level is a storyline that you complete by beating the minigames. It is 
 sort of EBA-esqe except for the fact the story does not carry throughout the level and the Elite 
 Beat Agents (DS) stories tend to be much more enjoyable. If there is a something lacking/annoying 
 about WarioWare, its these boring/cheesy plot lines they tied into the minigames. I find myself 
 trying to skip through every time, but to no avail. You have to sit through it and watch each time. ugh.
 
  
  As you beat the various levels, you'll unlock new minigame levels that challenge you with different 
 moves each time. Each time a new move is being introduced an instruction screen pops up and explains 
 the maneuver to you in only the way WarioWare could. The screen is white and contains some loosely 
 sketched images of the maneuver and corresponding artwork, such as a picture of a samurai during 
 the explanation of that move. Then a man with a soothing voice begins to explain the move and provides 
 some witty comments into the mix. The first time is a very weird situation, but for some reason 
 you just can't wait to hear his next monologue. Most moves are fun to perform and even more fun 
 to watch, but the first few times you perform a move, you may be asking yourself if there wasn't 
 an easier way to do it. Well first off there generally is, but only for those first few moves. 
 As you progress and you use the move repeatedly it tends to take shape better with the action you 
 are performing along with it. Secondly its a ton more fun to go along with the movements, and 
 in general just ruins the fun factor the game provides.
  
  In the end WarioWare: Smooth Moves can be enjoyed by anyone, as long as they can get past the different/unique 
 artwork and quirkiness that is WarioWare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. This is wario's first outing on the nintendo wii. It had a lot of microgames 
 and was fun. The multiplayer is good too., even though you have to use the same remote for it instead 
 of 2-4. It wasn't the best wario ware game but it was still a fine addition to my wii collection. 
 The microgames are insane. All in all, it's not a totally great addition to the wii but it's good 
 enough to give it a go. A good addition to the warioware series. I give it an 8.2/10. You should 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfaucet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, having a blast playing it right now. Beat the single player game in about 2 1/2 hours 
 which unlocked all kinds of other goodies. I kind of wish the single player game was a bit longer, 
 however WarioWare games never spent alot of time on the story, more the insanity. The graphics 
 are awesome, not for the polygon count, but for the wide variety of artistic styles prevalent in 
 the microgames. The in-game movies totally look like regular animation. The Nintendo stage is completely 
 mind blowing, representing some of my all-time favorite games.
  
  The music is top notch insane.
  
  Well worth the money and well worth the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds360fn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  When you think Wario Ware you think, a bunch of mini games to waste time. Not this one. I couldn't 
 put it down when I got it! The new positions are a great twist to the series. The many positions 
 are better than hitting the A or B buttons on the Gamecube and Game Boy versions. The music and 
 sound effects are great in this installment, zanier and quirkier than before. The graphics for 
 this game aren't that great, but you don't notice the graphics when your having fun. The games 
 200+ micro games are the most in any Wario Ware, and don't ever get boring or repititive, I have 
 yet to play every game. Anyone with a Wii should MOST DEFFINATELY add this to their library, it's 
 worth the 50 dollars, and is great for having friends or family over to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I have played all Wario Ware games, all 5 of them, and I must say, this one is by far, the funnest, 
 most addicting Wario Ware to date.
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  While the story is simple and its really short, its fun, funny, and has lots of extras. It starts 
 with Wario yet another crazy and wacky thing for him to sell, or in this case, have fun with. This 
 item is the form baton, or as we call it, the Wii remote. It ends up falling in the hands of other 
 residents of Diamond city, for their own personal use.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics in the game are just what you expect, plain crazy. The scenes while normal standard 
 for Wario games, the microgames go from cardboard, to cel shaded, to japanese paintings, to 3D 
 and many other styles. In the end, it adds to the overall way the game feels and plays in a way 
 I didnt imagine it would.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Again, almost perfect, everything sounds great, but I take a point off for some annoying voices 
 some times, and some not so great sounds in the microgames that also use the nunchuck.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Its perfect, wacky crazy, and controls perfectly. You play with 19 stances 
 in which you hold the Form Baton (Wii remote) like a sword, like a mop, like a handelbar, like 
 a remote, and more. But really, its one of those things you have to try, to see just how great 
 it is.
  
  Lasting Value: Depends/10
  
  It depends, some people will go back and play multiplayer, try to beat their high scores, and unlock 
 all microgames and pose cards, some wont. The Story takes from 1 to 2 hours, but by doing this, 
 you only unlock about 110 microgames, leaving you with only half, and unlike other Wario Ware games, 
 you can only get some missing ones, after beating the boss , or beating it for 2nd time. This makes 
 the challenge even higher, by not letting you beat it, until you master the others, to advance 
 to the real fun ones. Apart, theres a bunch of ways to play with friends, and you can beat the 
 bosses in story mode again. The first time you beat them, you get a pose card, if you lose, and 
 beat him again, you get the same, but there is 3 pose cards per story, so you have to continue 
 after beating the boss for first time, and beat him again, making for a long game if you want 100%.
 
  
  Overall: 9.2/10 (Personal score, counting replay with the score I give it personally, 9.4/10)
 
  
  This is overall a great, fun game. Its a must have for any Wario fan, or for any minigame fan. 
 Even if you think its not worth 50 bucks, rent it, cause its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizstyler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  From the cute quirky stories and crazy microgrames, there's plenty of laugher playing this one. 
 Especially with the different 'forms' required and the way that male voice tells you how to hold 
 that wiimote almost seductively. I tried to imitate the voice but couldn't quite get to that lusty 
 level. You could probably complete the games without being true to the form but you'll be missing 
 out as it's not as fun if you don't.
  This game takes full advantage of the features of the wii controller. I mean how neat is it to 
 answer your controller like a phone and hear a voice answer, use it to hooler hoop, drive a car, 
 even clip toe nails.
  Great to play with others so you can laugh at the others attempts or to just pick up and play when 
 you feel like a little fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pojo269
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Brings out the full potential of the Wii system this is what nintendo was talking about when they 
 said they would revolutionize the way we play games. This is a perfect game to play when you have 
 friends over or when you are just alone and have nothing to do. Its a great pick up and play game, 
 and makes perfect use of the Wii controller, its all about the controller and this is the game 
 that brings out the best in the controller. This is a game that you should buy a Wii for, so definitely 
 buy this game. Its the best Wii game out to date, and the first to earn a gamespot score of 9.0 
 or higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  You may already be familiar with the Warioware format from the Nintendo GBA and DS  you basically 
 play collections of 5s micro-games + boss matches to unlock further micro-games and rewards (yes, 
 each game lasts only 5 seconds!) . Warioware on the Wii brings the same frantic fun from the handhelds 
 and wittily applies them to games based around the Wii Remote. It is one of the most manic and 
 fun games youll ever play.
  
  The Wii Remote is held in a number of different ways, called forms, which range from using it 
 as a standard remove, to holding it to your hip, or putting it on the floor. Before the start of 
 each micro-game you are prompted to the form you need to use. The forms are initially introduced 
 with a witty proverb and name that perfectly describes the way you hold the remote: for instance, 
 the waiter involves holding the remote in the palm of your hand. So far, I have counted more 
 than a dozen forms with more to come.
  
  Once you have the Wii Remote on the correct form the micro-game starts and you have 5 seconds to 
 work out what you need to do to complete it and move on to the next one. Most of the micro-games 
 are either very funny or just plain bizarre. No matter how crazy the micro-games get, it is normally 
 very easy to work out what to do. There are over 200 micro-games in total, so you never feel that 
 you are playing the same ones over and over again.
  
  Warioware: Smooth Moves features a huge variety of graphical styles ranging from 8-bit classics, 
 to Anime and more contemporary current-gen. The characters back-stories and cut scenes are all 
 presented in a wacky cartoon style that just oozes charm and wit. The sheer quality and breadth 
 of graphical styles makes this one of the best looking games on any console without needing to 
 have HD resolutions.
  
  To accompany the crazy games and wacky visuals, youd expect more mad sound and music; and youd 
 be absolutely right. If anything, the sound effects and music are even wackier and crazier than 
 the games and graphics combined. The music is fantastic and typically Japanese in its aping of 
 western musical styles, whilst the sounds and noises are fantastically abstract.
  
  With over 200 micro-games, various play modes, multiplayer and endless charm, Warioware: Smooth 
 Moves is great value for money. Youll be digging it out and playing it every time you have friends 
 to visit and want to break the ice. Warioware, also only requires one Wii remote, so you dont 
 have to shell out on further Remotes or Nunchucks for fun with friends. The only slight let down 
 is the lack of online support  heres hoping Nintendo will start producing more live games soon.
 
  
  Warioware: Smooth Moves is one of the best party games on any platform. I do admit to being a fan 
 of the series, but Smooth Moves style, combined with the innovative and simple use of the Wii 
 remote, has created the best version yet. Even those who rarely play video games will get a kick 
 out of the simple gameplay, humour and sheer craziness of it all. If you own a Wii, or plan on 
 getting one, then Warioware: Smooth Moves is a MUST purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomius_J
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  There have been a ton of WarioWare games so far, and it is in WarioWare: Smooth Moves that Nintendo 
 have really delivered their most exciting micro-game collection ever. With each previous outing 
 in this outrageous franchise, we have used the latest technology on each platform to give the micro-games 
 a unique feel depending on the version we're playing. With WarioWare on the DS, the use of the 
 stylus and the ability to speak (or even blow!) into the microphone gave the series a new unique 
 feel. This time around, the Wii remote is our tool and it is literally used in every single way 
 imaginable - and best of all, it all adds up for a very special and very entertaining experience.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is very simple, but if it was complicated it wouldn't work. Those familar with the 
 WarioWare series know that with each stage, you are plunged into a variety of fast mini-games (the 
 term micro-game has been coined to describe a game of this sort) . Each game lasts about 5 seconds, 
 and the aim is to complete a small task before the time runs out in order to move onto another 
 game. Once the right number of micro-games have been passed, a boss stage (which is actually about 
 the length of a normal mini-game that most would be used too) emerges and if completed, the stage 
 is done.
  
  The game is not very complex, but I think a huge plot-orientated tale to serve alongside the micro-games 
 would just bog down the gameplay, so instead we are given a load of characters and they set the 
 themes to playing each stage. It works well.
  
  The Wii remote is recognised as an actual item within the game, named the Form Baton . Wario finds 
 it in an ancient temple and that's it really - the game sees you using the Wii remote in various 
 positions (you might have to hold it like a remote, a broom, an umbrella, on your head or you might 
 even have to put it down all-together and answer it like a phone!) . Each micro-game tells you how 
 you should hold the baton a few seconds before it starts, and you could be using the remote as 
 an elephant's trunk to pick an apple from a tree, or you may have to a guide Link (from Nintendo's 
 The Legend of Zelda series) to safety with a parachute by directing him with the remote on top 
 of your head.
  
  As the number of micro-games you pass increases, so does the speed. Before long the game is going 
 crazy and you are changing form poses by the second - it's extremely fun to play and extremely 
 fun to watch, as well. It's actually a formula that is very hard to get bored of, as each time 
 you play you're getting a new experience (over 200 micro-games, after all) ! The multiplayer is 
 great, too - four friends and one remote is a full-proof recipe for fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Though the graphics in are not stunning in a typical sense, for this type of game, the amount of 
 design and artwork that has gone into each and every micro-game (and that's 200, remember) . Each 
 little game has its own distinct look, whether it's 8-bit graphics representing some sort of NES 
 classic, to the fully 3-D volleyball depicted in a beautiful noir/shadow black and white. As you 
 change pace so quickly, it is sometimes frustrating that you can't stick around long enough to 
 admire how much work has gone into making every micro-game its own... and it's always great to 
 see Link and Samus in their glorious Gamecube colors after a ton of 2-D stages.
  
  SOUND
  
  I'm going to bet that the sound in this game is going to be a very unrated section to what 
 is already an excellent Wii title. Since the games move too fast, the music may be missed (just 
 like I mentioned above in the graphics review) . Each stage has its own funky tune, be it rock and 
 roll, drum 'n' bass or a disco classic that'll be stuck in your head for days. As a new micro-game 
 is presented, the stage theme stops and the new micro-game melody - and there's a different one 
 for each stage, mind - flows into it perfectly. When you complete the micro-game, the tune perfectly 
 flows once again with the stage music without any sense of things slowing down. It's great! Some 
 of games include famous Nintendo theme tunes (I've heard Zelda, Metroid, Mario, Yoshi's Island 
 so far) .
  
  VALUE
  
  If there's one thing that stops this game from reaching the highest score in my opinion, it's that 
 there's not really a lot here to keep you busy. By this, I don't mean you're going to get bored 
 quickly - you'll be playing WarioWare: Smooth Moves for months, I promise. What I mean is more 
 to do with the length of the main game (I completed it in about an hour) and after that, it just 
 means you playing the micro-games under a variety of different settings. Of course, Nintendo have 
 given you a load of other stuff to occupy yourself with. Games like Can Shooting, Darts and the 
 multiplayer challenges are great fun, but I get a real sense that we needed something a bit chunkier 
 to do... even if it meant adding in a completely new feature. Still, one cannot argue - there's 
 loads here if you're looking for a mini-game madness and a lifelong companion to make your sleepovers 
 the most entertaining.
  
  OVERALL
  
  On the whole, WarioWare: Smooth Moves cannot really be faulted. For what it is - essentially a 
 micro-game package - it delivers everything one would expect from both this type of game and pre-existing 
 WarioWare titles. It's entertaining, funny, fast-paced, beautifully original, and, with the possible 
 exception of The Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess, it is the Wii's best title so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  well i picked up wario ware in the shop and wasn't sure too by it or not so i took the risk. about 
 10 mins into the game i was in gaming heaven the mini games are so well suited to the wii controller. 
 This game will have you in the middle of sword fights, Dance offs, some major retro re-do's and 
 thats just to name a few.
  
  The graphics are excellent very cartoony and well suited to the style and theme of the game.
 
  
  Right now to the problem, as i said after around 10 mins i was in gaming heaven until around 45 
 mins later when a screen appeared saying the end 
  THE END what i just payed &pound;35 for something that lasts for around 1 hour i have now forgotten 
 how good much i enjoyed this game and i am now sorely reggreting buying it i mean c'mon nintendo 
 this is ridiculous. and no the game isn't even that funny. If your reading this thinking should 
 i buy this or not. i am a big fan of nintendos work but on this occaision i am saying no way is 
 this isn't worth &pound;35 so no don't buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazbazz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  When I first heared about the Wii back at E3 2006, the first game I saw on offer was Warioware 
 Smooth moves, and I instantly wanted to try it out. It looked just as crazy as the other games 
 in the series, and seemed to make interesting use of the Wii Remoe. Let me promise you, this game 
 does not disapoint.
  
  The point of Warioware games is simple: complete a series of very short 'microgames' that gradually 
 get faster and faster, until you quite literally have just over 2 seconds to complete each game. 
 You have very few instructions for each game, so you must spend your time figuring out what to 
 do, complete the task, then instantly move on to the next game. The frantic pace is what gives 
 the series its charm and appeal.
  
  All the microgames make use of the Wii remote, and there is about 15 different ways to hold the 
 remote. This ranges from simple poses such as pointing the Wii remote at the screen or turning 
 it like a steering wheel, to downright crazy positions, such as holding it to your nose like an 
 elephant. Once you complete the main game, you will unlock a section which makes use of the Nunchuck 
 atachment. To be honest, a lot of the positions are the same basic concept, for instance one pose 
 tells you to hold the Wii remote in 2 hands, where as you could just as easily hold it in one. 
 The elephant pose can also easily be completed by simply pointing the Wiimote at the screen. But 
 I think following the instructions correctly immeres you more into the game, and makes it more 
 worthwhile.
  
  The game starts off very easy; you have ample time to complete each task, there is no manic rush 
 that fans of the series will love. But once you get about half way through the game the difficulty 
 starts to pick up. Near the end of the game is the Super Hard level, which uses the full range 
 of poses and starts you at an amzingly fast pace, which only gets faater.
  Once you complete the level the first time round, you can revisit it for an endless run, where 
 the difficulty can pick up quickly.
  
  Graphically, Warioware is by no way the most technically impressive game, and when compared to 
 something like Gears of War, it simply pales in comparrison. But the ammount of different art styles 
 used in the game is another strong point. The cutscenes use a very attractive 2D style; the sort 
 of thing you might see on a Flash cartoon. The microgames themselves range from simple 8bit drawings 
 to Gamecube-like graphics, and much like the microgames themselves, you really never know whats 
 going to come next. Games like this dont need amazing technical graphics, and in my oppinion the 
 simplistic style only adds to the game.
  
  The use of music and sound in the game is done really well. Each microgame has its own little tune, 
 and they all seem to slot together very nicely. Of course, as the pace of the games picks up, so 
 does that of the music, adding to frantic nature of the game. Sound effects are all done well. 
 They are nothitng revolutionary, but all sound right, and there is a great veriety of them.
  There is limited voice acting in Warioware, but all of it sounds good and professional. The best 
 use is possibly the sleepy-sounding guy who explains the different poses. These short turorials 
 may slow down the pace of the game a little, but are informative and very funny.
  
  FINAL NOTES:
  If you're a fan of the Warioware series, you will no doubt love this game. The 
 same frantic, random gameplay is just as great as the other games in the series. It makes great 
 use of all the Wii remote has to offer, and is great for multiplayer parties.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. This is the first review I've ever written, so constructive critisicm 
 is greatly appreciated. Please send my a PM with comments, and again, thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  When WarioWare Inc.: Mega MicroGame$ was released on the GBA back in 2003, it received plaudits 
 for its wacky style and insane speed. Since then, Gamecube and DS sequels established the WarioWare 
 series as a major franchise for Nintendo. The fifth installment, Smooth Moves, takes advantage 
 of the Wii remote in what seems to be a match made in heaven. In reality, the Wii remote is something 
 of a mixed blessing for Wario's latest adventure; although Smooth Moves retains the unique style 
 the series is known for.
  
  The story is about an ancient relic called the form baton , which is just a rock shaped like the 
 Wii remote. After Wario gets his precious food stolen from him, he chases the thief and stumbles 
 across the form baton in a temple. It allows you to strike all sorts of poses which will help you 
 complete the mini-games. From here, the story branches out into small chapters focused on individual 
 characters. Old favorites like disco king Jimmy T and happy-go-lucky alien Orbulon return, mixed 
 in with some new faces like the kung-fu fighting Young Grasshopper. Smooth Moves may utilize the 
 motion sensing technology of the Wii remote, but it plays just like any other WarioWare installment. 
 You have a series of short and simple games to complete within five seconds. You keep going for 
 as long as possible, and the longer you survive for, the quicker the pace will become. Failing 
 to beat a game will lose you a life (of which you have four) . Lose them all and its game over. 
 You can regain lives by clearing a boss stage, which come about every ten or so levels.
  
  The essence of WarioWare is in its mini-games, and many classics make a return in Smooth Moves. 
 Favorites such as the infamous nose picking game return and are as fun as ever, but there is also 
 a glut of new ones. One sees you drinking a glass of water, but jerking your arm back too quickly 
 will spill the water everywhere! There are over 200 games, so it will take a while to play them 
 all. While the series is known for its mini-games that are unlike anything else, it has always 
 paid tribute to Nintendo history. Earlier WarioWare games put an alternate spin on NES and SNES 
 games, but thanks to the power of the Wii, there are also mini-games based on N64 and Gamecube 
 games. Look out for cameos from Starfox 64 and The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. Before every 
 game begins, you are told which form the game requires. They range from the remote control ; the 
 conventional way you hold the Wii remote, to the mohawk ; which sees you grasping the remote with 
 both hands above your head. The variety of different forms makes Smooth Moves highly enjoyable 
 to watch, as well as play. You can get around most games without taking up some of the more hilarious 
 forms, but there isn't much fun in that. There are just over twenty different forms, one of which 
 uses the nunchuk (dubbed the balance stone in the story) .
  
  Unfortunately, the Wii remote does have its disadvantages. Before each game, an illustration shows 
 you which form the next game will use. This creates a pause between games, which isn't present 
 in other WarioWare games. It still feels very quick, but it doesnt have that insane feeling that 
 its predecessors had. Alterations to the between-game format could have quickened the pace and 
 reduced the pause, but unfortunately, that was overlooked by the development team. Fortunately, 
 you can unlock a mode that doesnt show the illustrations before each mini-game.
  
  One remote multi-player is supported for up to twelve players depending on the game, but to access 
 multi-player, you first need to complete single player mode. This decision is a puzzling one; it 
 can take as little as an hour to breeze through the single player game, but it is disappointing 
 that it is a requirement. There are a range of multi-player modes, such as survival; where you 
 take turns playing until one loses, and bomb; which sees you choosing the form you want your opponent 
 to take. There are also modes that don't use the conventional WarioWare mini-games, such as darts. 
 The variety of modes keeps things very fresh and the fact that only one remote is required makes 
 multi-player very accessible.
  
  Despite incorporating a range of different visual styles, the graphics still feel very synonymous 
 with the WarioWare series. The overlying style of the games presentation is very colorful. The 
 2D story cut-scenes before and after each chapter are crisp and vibrant, helping to progress the 
 story well. The mini-games are where the variety comes into play. There are many 3D styled games, 
 a first for the series (the nose picking games has been given a 3D face-lift) , but they are well 
 balanced by the retro graphics of NES/SNES based games. The visual breadth of Smooth Moves expands 
 well beyond 2D and 3D. The style and art direction used in many of the games are unique. Some of 
 the games would fit in well at a modern art museum. It is pleasing to see the Wiis power being 
 put to good use. The games have made a clear progression from earlier installments, not only in 
 pixel power, but in style and design. There is a lot to see in Smooth Moves, and you certainly 
 wont be disappointed.
  
  The sounds of WarioWare are on a par with its looks. The cast of crazy games wouldnt be complete 
 without accompanying music and sound effects. The background music is varied and catchy, even though 
 youll hear it for five seconds before a new game starts. There is some great voice acting, although 
 there isnt a great deal of it. Most of it is one or two word phrases from Wario and friends, but 
 voice acting is also used in explaining forms. The calm, care-free voice, combined with the hilarious 
 script, makes learning the forms even more fun. Although it is used sparingly, the Wii remote speaker 
 is utilized in some games. The best example involves you answering a telephone. When you pick the 
 remote up, you hear the message Hey, how are you doing? from the remote speaker.
  
  WarioWare: Smooth Moves is simply a hilarious game. Everything about it, from the mini-games to 
 the audiovisuals, is just about having fun. The single player is short but sweet, and youll have 
 to replay some of the chapters if you want to unlock all the games. The multi-player, despite the 
 strange unlock requirements, is fantastic, and single remote sharing makes it one of the most accessible 
 games on the Wii. It may not have the absolutely insane pace of previous entries, but the pros 
 far outweigh the cons. WarioWare: Smooth Moves is a game that belongs in any Wii owners collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is fastly becoming another Nintendo classic. Heck, this is the 5th game in the series 
 and the previous 4 have all been great fun. So, does this game live up to the Warioware name?
 
  
  The gameplay is what you would obviously expect from a Warioware game. You have microgames to complete 
 to clear levels. However, the key factor now is the Wii remote. There are many different ways of 
 using the remote. This is a very inventive use of the remote. However, this can all get a little 
 confusing. It tells you which position to hold the Wiimote before the microgame starts but some 
 microgames need more than this and a short one word explanation to fully explain to you what you 
 have to do. Sometimes the game throws you into a microgame and you have no idea what you are doing.
 
  
  The graphics are actually full 3D this time around and is good to see as all previous Wariowares 
 have all been 2D. In 9-Volts microgame collection you play microgames based on full 3D Nintendo 
 games suck as Wind Waker and Metroid Prime. In these microgames the graphical level is exactly 
 the same as the actual games and you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between this and the 
 actual game.
  
  Now here comes the key part. The Multiplayer. Wariowares key asset. The Gamecube Warioware had 
 one of the best multiplayer experiences on the Gamecube, with loads of different modes and everyone 
 holding a pad, hectically pressing buttons. You would think Well, all Nintendo need to do is do 
 the exact same formula as the Gamecube version. With the Wii versions minigames it will already 
 be much better . But guess what? They mucked it up. Big Time! Instead of everyone holding a remote 
 each, one person doing a microgame and others trying to put the player off or make a balloon bigger 
 to make the player lose, they replaced it with pass the remote multiplayer. This is a huge disappointment 
 as the hecticness of the multiplayer has gone and is no longer the hugely fun and crazy multiplayer 
 it used to be. This is very disappointing as this is the main element of Warioware and is the one 
 part which will boost up its value, as the single player is insanely short.
  
  Warioware is a solid game. You have fun while it lasts. But the one key factor that will have you 
 coming back for more, the multiplayer, has been ruined making this not the essential purchase it 
 should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  The wario ware franchise has got wario higher up in the status of nintendo he is now recognised 
 with the big boys like mario and yoshi... thanks to this.
  
  Well i must say before anything this game will make you look like a retard... not because you are 
 doing strange things with your body but due to the fact that it will make you laugh so much.
  This game is the funniest yet... the bits when the man descirbes the action with the remote is so 
 funny and the cut-scenes are hilarious too.
  The gameplay is well.... genious nothing but it you will be flipping the remote to cook a chilli 
 or placing the remote by the nose and making a nodding action to answer whether you are male of 
 female.... exactly wtf.
  You will have to direct people to the correct loo and even have too push down on the remote to 
 blow up a balloon.
  One problem.. it's too damn short al; though it has mass repley value its so addictive and you jus 
 want to geta highscore and unlock everything single last bit of the game.
  The graphics are well.. wario ware graphics they are nothing but fanatastic.
  this game is probably 
 the best ive seen apart from zelda on wii and i recommend this IT IS WORTH THE &pound;35. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Looking back to the GC Wario Ware was a really fun title, the multiplayer was really enjoyable 
 and made the hours pass quickly. This time round Warios failed to deliver completely, theres 
 not much been changed from the GC version. Cartoony graphics- check
  Addictive mini games- check
  Arm flapping- check
  Controller beating- check
  
  There seems 
 to be a lack of ingenuity and imagination as its predecessors, everything seems to come in a obvious 
 format, boss fights especially. Having said this it still manages to keep the humour that were 
 all too familiar with. Single player is as per-usual intriguing for a few hours at least, but even 
 then youll probably have completed it. There doesnt seem to be an awful lot of unlockables for 
 such a quirky game.
  The good thing about Smooth Moves is the way it shows off the Wii-mote and exactly what it can 
 do. Wario Ware is still a big series of entertaining games, but Touched and Twisted aside, theres 
 not a lot left that Wario Ware could offer that seems completely new and refreshing. Nevertheless 
 an entertaining game all the same. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
