-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wario Land: Shake It!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/wariolandshake/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of replay value.
 Gorgeous background art and animation.
 Challenging puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gimmicky controls.
 Short Story mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 445 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Good-Feel
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wario Land doesn't shake any conventions, but it's still a fun, beautiful platformer. 

  It seems that not all Wii developers are too busy working on the next big breakthrough in virtual 
 pilates or sleep-training minigames to throw the side-scroller fan base a bone. Japan-based Good-Feel, 
 for example, have been toiling away on the latest Wario game, Wario Land: Shake It (or Wario Land: 
 The Shake Dimension in Australia) . Unfortunately, despite much of its charm and familiarity, the 
 game is an anachronism. It harkens back to the joyous, bygone era of difficult 2D platform scroller 
 games and then cops out by pandering to the waggle generation by letting everyone win.  

           Chin-ups are always easier when you have motivation.      

  The plot here is wafer-thin 
 and serves only to keep the action moving. Playing as antihero Wario you receive a stolen globe 
 from Captain Maple Syrup that contains the entire Shake universe. An inhabitant of the Shake universe, 
 a Merfle, pops out to inform you that its queen has been captured. King Shake is behind the dastardly 
 deed and has also made off with the legendary Bottomless Coin Sack granting him unlimited riches. 
 Wario is hardly a philanthropist, but the lure of lucre is enough to get him on the case.  

  Wario Land: Shake It is played by holding the Wii Remote horizontally. You use the D pad with 
 buttons 1 or 2 to jump and perform dash/attack moves. One of the biggest boons of this configuration 
 is that it's simple to pick up and play. It also controls like the platformers you've experienced 
 before, though it incorporates some motion controls that unfortunately mean there's no Classic 
 or GameCube controller here. Shaking the Wii Remote performs various functions, depending on where 
 you are and what you're doing. Shaking in proximity to enemies or interactive environmental objects, 
 such as stalactites or precariously placed heavy blocks, allows you to perform an earthquake-style 
 move, which shakes items loose, raises platforms, and stuns foes. Once you've picked up an item 
 you'll see an arrow indicating the intended trajectory of your throw. Adjusting your aim is done 
 by tilting the controller, so the bias is either on the left- or right-hand side. It's not unlike 
 the mechanics in Yoshi's Island, but instead of firing eggs you'll be using the bodies of stunned 
 Goomba-like enemies. The majority of the levels are played on foot, but you'll also take control 
 of a unibucket (an oversized unicycle with a bucket on top for riding in) and Wario's own Subwarine. 
 These end up being some of the more frustrating levels to navigate and come off feeling like cheap 
 control gimmicks that have been thrown in simply to reiterate that everything is being controlled 
 by one magical white wand -- albeit badly.  

  Once inside the Shake universe, you'll find the tried-and-true multiworld formula consisting of 
 five zones, each with five levels. Each zone has a boss battle, which requires a specific ability 
 of the game's gesture-driven control scheme to defeat it and continue. Examples include swinging 
 on poles by shaking the controller or tilting the Wii Remote to drive a giant unicycle with a boxing 
 glove attached. Though you'll need the rewards from killing all five of the bosses to fight King 
 Shake, success does not guarantee your passage between zones. Instead, you'll need to revisit Captain 
 Syrup at her pirate ship and purchase the next map to play it. Once you've completed them, any 
 level from any zone can be repeated at will if you find yourself a bit low on cash. Captain Syrup's 
 store also carries potions for extra credits and heart-vessel upgrades, giving you an additional 
 point of life. These also scale in cost, and you may find yourself grinding gold on easy levels 
 to simply unlock all abilities after you've ponied up for maps.  

  In addition to the primary goal of finding and freeing the imprisoned Merfle in each level by picking 
 up its cages then shaking the Wii Remote, you'll also have the option to search for three to five 
 hidden treasures, ranging from a Mahjong piece to a six-week-old curry. Most times, at least one 
 treasure prize -- hidden inside huge red and gold chests -- is visible as you traverse the level from 
 left to right or bottom to top. But the others can, at times, be quite difficult to find and require 
 you to interact with items in a particular order, use enemies as makeshift launchpads, or choose 
 alternative routes on the way home. It is here that the real appeal of Wario Land: Shake It lies. 
 While you're free to roam and explore levels at your leisure until you liberate your little pixie 
 buddy, once you've opened that trap, you'll need to make some tough decisions. Do you go back out 
 the way you came in? Do you take your chances on what may be a faster route to the exit, or the 
 one you think might have a great big diamond or sack of coins to collect? Levels are well designed, 
 and despite the fact that there only a handful of them in total, they are all suitably varied. 
 Each level also has between three and five achievements, which you can opt to complete if you choose 
 and which serve as a bonus for people who demand more challenge. These include collecting a set 
 amount in coins, finishing the level under a certain time, avoiding touching any of the level's 
 water, or not killing enemies. We ripped through the single-player story in about five hours using 
 a combination of exploration and speed runs, but the achievements and secret levels should more 
 than double your playtime. Also, given the fact that the game lacks multiplayer support, the most 
 value here really is for completionists and lateral thinkers.  

           You'd be forgiven for not paying attention to what's going on up front with backgrounds 
 like these.      

  The art here is a particular high point, although the game curiously forgoes the choice to support 
 widescreen gameplay. The gorgeous 2D backdrops are hand-drawn and produced in a watercolour palette 
 with bold lines. They're also so subtle that you'd be forgiven for missing them when you're focused 
 on the action. These are in stark contrast to the game's vibrant opening and closing animations, 
 which have been created in an anime style by Japanese studio Production I. G. and look great.  

 
  Wario Land: Shake Dimension is a fun action romp (dare we say with an occasional puzzle?) with 
 a decided nod to the past glory of the genre. However, its short, easy-to-finish story mode and 
 occasionally lackluster control system hamper what is an otherwise solid platformer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: just_nonplussed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  
  wario ware: the shake dimension
  -review
  
  
  this is a quick review of the game.
  
  
  the first impression is the animation. the shake 
 dimension (TSD) feels like a saturday morning cartoon. from the well-presented intro to the movement 
 and imagery in the levels, it is all quality animation and very slick.
  
  the second thing that hits you is the music. wario games have always had interesting music and 
 tunes that are often the opposite of mario's happy, bouncy tunes. some of them even border on the 
 melacholic and contemplative, and there is often some distortion there.
  
  in TSD they've got rid of some of the atmosphere of the portable wario games. so now it sounds 
 like a more funky, slightly jazzy wario - not the scruffy oddball from super mario land 3. TSD 
 is definately brighter and more joyful all around.
  
  this happiness and joyfullness extends to the gameplay. TSD is like a faster, less compelling version 
 of kirby, but with some sonic-style half pipes thrown in and more of a sense of speed, in the vein 
 of metroid.
  
  it's less compelling because at least kirby had kirby's chamelion-like powers to play around with, 
 while with wario it is more about his flab and how he can throw his weight around the level. it's 
 level design based around wario.
  
  everything is meant to be FUN in TSD, to the point where wario is basically invincible and the 
 uninspired enemies don't do anything to get in his way. it's like a playground for wario to go 
 berserk in. there is no tension.
  
  there are some cool things in the game though. the boss fights are generally fun, and there are 
 interesting methods of vertical and horizontal transport (aside from running) , such as tight ropes 
 that you can spin on, little mine carts that you can roll on, cannons you can shoot yourself out 
 of. it's all pretty pedestrian though.
  there isn't much incentive to play. wario is just 'greedy' and he wants treasure. that's about 
 it. you collect treasure and coins. then you use the coins to open other levels. this gets boring 
 after the first world (there are about 5) .
  
  another problem is that you have to use the wiimote. the wiimote is horrible to hold horizontally; 
 it is hard and has a scuffy bit of plastic that digs into your skin at the end of the controller. 
 it's made worse by the fact that to get the coins you have to 'shake' the wiimote. this is fun, 
 but it just gets annoying after a while, as your hand aches. no doubt there is some kind of masturbation 
 inuendo somewhere in there... but less overtly than in 'no more heroes', which had you shake vertically. 
 :3
  
  speaking of innuendo, there is a foxy female pirate in the game that is quite interesting, but 
 she abandons treasure hunting to open up a shop at the begining of the game.... so TSD's potentional 
 for innuendo is lost.
  
  wario is supposed to be more 'out there' than mario, but he comes off as uninteresting in TSD. 
 they could have targeted the game to an older crowd, and made wario TSD mature to really let his 
 character go.
  
  
  in conclusion it is a 'fun' game, if that's what you want. but why not just go and play better 
 platformers, such as yoshi's island or metroid zero mission.
  
  
  too much shaking.. too much aching.. ;p
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Wario land shake it is the newest wario land. This is the first home console wario land... well 
 there was wario world but that felt more like a spinoff to me. Anyways comparing it to wario land 
 three it just feels smaller.
  
  Gameplay- the wii gimmicks are good and enjoyable but the feeling that this game is straightforward 
 and not enough space in each will probibly never go away. Again comparing it to three where many 
 levels were open at once and multiple missions in each chapter and each land was huge it kinda 
 brings it back the second wario land. Well it's average in my opinion. 7/10
  
  Graphics- cartoonish! It's also new and nostalgic for the series at the same time. Anyways perhaps 
 the graphics aren't A+ but they are nice and the framerate is amazing. overall this is one wii 
 game that looks VERY nice. 9/10
  
  Music- It's not great but it fits in with the environment. For example in all levels you have to 
 escape like in 4. The music is playfull and feels like you need to escape. But you don't notice 
 anything. It's not catchy. It's decent and it fits. 7/10
  
  Control- do you need to ask. Gamespot was being stupid with the bad control emblem. 10/10
  
 
  Overall- This game is great but doesn't put up a fight to superior games in the series. If you 
 want to have fun with a 2-d platformer go ahead but if you want a game which is better and not 
 worse then it's older game you'll be sadly dissapointed. Please I ask you if you think im wrong 
 and this is the best game go and play the third then argue with me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greeno666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  With all the recent games in high definition with perfectly rendered graphics and lighting displays, 
 it's somewhat forgotten how the video game industry once began with simple side-scrolling platformers. 
 After all it was Super Mario bros. on the NES that ultimately led to re-launching the world's interest 
 in videogames and took Nintendo to stardom in a matter of days. And with all these fantastic looking 
 3D games surrounding us today, its good to see that a 2D game can still be astounding.
  
  Warioland: The shake dimension is a 2D side-scrolling platformer and takes the player back to the 
 gaming roots of old. Even the way you hold the Wii remote resembles how players used to grasp the 
 NES controller some 20 years ago. The game starts when the Shake dimension, a world that exists 
 inside a golden globe, is attacked by a large pirate called the Shake King. He imprisons the worlds 
 inhabitants (Merfles) , their queen and steals the worlds prized treasure, the bottomless coin sack. 
 One Merfle manages to escape and goes off to find help. In the real world, the golden globe is 
 stolen by Captain Syrup, who Wario fans will know as his archenemy and rival. Strangely she delivers 
 the globe to Wario's door and he's completely uninterested by the lone Merfle's plea. Until he 
 hears about the bottomless coin sack of course. And so your adventure kicks off.
  
  As you've probably guessed, it's called the shake dimension because you have to shake the Wii remote 
 from time to time, and it makes the game so much more enjoyable. After all, what's more fun then 
 jumping on an enemy's head and then shaking him until he gets dizzy and passes out. You also shake 
 small coin sacks (as well as big ones) until every last coin spills out. It's not all about the 
 shaking though; you also tilt the Wii remote from side to side when aiming throw-able objects, 
 which of course can sometimes include yourself. Not only that but thrusting the Wii remote downwards 
 causes Wario to smash the floor, sending objects and enemies flying. These motion controls are 
 mainly used to get through puzzling areas of the levels.
  
  Speaking of levels, every level is unique with a fantastic background soundtrack that you'll be 
 bobbing along to after a time. the level is also divided into 3 objectives. The main objective 
 is to reach the end, rescue the trapped Merfle (by shaking its prison cage) before running back 
 through the level to the start before you get locked in and game over hits you. The secondary objectives 
 include collecting all three treasure chests, found in each stage, and beating the level's missions. 
 These missions could be as simple as beat the stage in a set time, or as hard as beat the stage 
 without taking damage. Either way, there are tons of things to do once you've finished each level. 
 Even after you've beaten the end of game boss there is still a load of things to do before you 
 can call the game completed.
  
  The game is beautifully animated and looks like a cartoon. Each action Wario and his enemies make, 
 as well as the backgrounds, are hand drawn and coloured to perfection. With comical effects here 
 and there teamed with Charles Martinet's voice of Wario, you'll be smiling every time he gets crushed, 
 finds coins or even sets himself on fire. Not only that but the intro and outro cutscenes are all 
 in stunning anime, done by Production I. G., who were also responsible for the anime sections in 
 Kill Bill. And everything flows. Seriously it doesn't just look like a cartoon; it plays as if 
 it were one. 
  
  Although the game might not seem like it on the first playthrough, the game is challenging. Once 
 the game is beat, you still have secret levels to unlock and harder missions to complete. You'll 
 be screaming at the TV in aggravation when you get right to the end of a level only to fail the 
 mission you were trying to beat. Not to mention scouring each level to find those hidden treasure 
 chests. So this game is anything but easy and short.
  
  Summery time:
  
  Graphics  the visuals are stunning, with each environment hand drawn and slickly coloured, including 
 Wario and his foes. The bosses also look spectacular. And the animation flows like a dream
  
  Sound  a superb soundtrack that manages to encompass the stage your playing with a personality 
 of its own. In fact this game is worth picking up if just to hear the 'Launchpad Labyrinth' song
 
  
  Value  on first playthrough, you'll have it done in a week. But once that's out of the way you've 
 got to go back and get everything else. Keeping you busy for about a month!
  
  Gameplay  doing the side-scrolling platformer genre justice in every meaning of the term. Trust 
 me; you'll have to go some lengths to beat how this 2D game plays.
  
  Proof that you don't need stunning 3D or reflective surfaces to have what truly is an outstanding 
 piece of gaming. I don't do this often but I would say that this game really is a modern masterpiece.
 
  
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAGM5000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Wario hasn't exactly been top of the world lately. Anyone who stuck by WarioWorld probably gave 
 up around MoD, Which was, as gametrailers said, One Long Fart Joke. Apparently, though, someone 
 else has taken over since then, because Shake It! gives you a truly enjoyable experience.
  The story, as in any wario game, isn't exactly confusing: A bad guy has stolen some treasure (And 
 a princess) And you have to save it (and her) and win the day. It's Simple stuff and not really 
 needed anyway, but it's still a good gesture.
  The gameplay is about as simple as the story: Run around, get money, save the guy at the end and 
 run like hell back to the beginning. It plays quite a lot like The unofficial sequel to WarioLand 
 4. It does, however, throw around some new things in the later stages, like spinning polls, sub-War-ines, 
 and uni-buckets, and includes some missions and hidden treasure for the complete-ists. The missions 
 range from "get enough coins" and "get to the end before the timer hits ___," To somewhat annoying 
 ones like "Don't get hit" and "Don't kill any enemies," And the treasures are well placed through 
 the level. If you just run through the stages, you'll have the game done in around 6 hours, But 
 the missions, secret maps, and treasures add around 10-30 hours to that, depending on how good 
 you are.
  And you'll want to do the missions, because it unlocks the background music. And why is that a 
 good thing? because the music is so brilliant. In fact, the entire game has obviously been built 
 around making it look and sound as good, cute and awesome as possible. The music can change from 
 relaxing to energising in an instant, and it always fits the theme of the stage. The stages look 
 fantastic, the enemies look almost too good to actualy kill sometimes, The animation moves as smoothly 
 as a greased covered ice cube on a icy hill, Wario can actually be pretty funny at times and the 
 beginning and ending scenes of the story look like they're actually from an anime. I'm not kidding. 
 The entire look and sound of things will make sure you never get annoyed on a particularly difficult 
 mission. Case in point: One mission saw me running through the same part around 30 times, only 
 to find out I didn't complete it anyway. Of course, I was mad. I went on to the next level fuming, 
 started to calm down with the music, then saw wario's "landing from a spin" animation, where he 
 pulls a dramatic pose, and his fat belly bounces up, with matching sound effects. Something about 
 it just made me want to laugh, and suddenly I didn't want to smash my controller anymore. This 
 is about the first time I've ever seen a game unintentionally piss me off and then calm me down 
 immediately afterwards.
  in conclusion, Wario land: Shake it! Is sort of like the "Yoshi's story" of the wii: It's not challenging, 
 and it doesn't brake any boundaries, but somehow it still manages to be amazing to play and just 
 as good to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_Dan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Due to restrictions on Terms of Use, my original review is only available on the next page (spanish) :
 
  
  http://mariodan. wordpress. com/2009/03/01/revision-wario-land-shake-it/
  
  This is a translation trough Google Translate (too lazy to do it my self) 
  
  
  The Good
 
  
   Excellent graphics.
   Good Music.
   Maps have a good size to explore and a good number of objectives to fulfill.
  
  The bad
 
  
   It doesn't feel like a Wario Game.
   It can be very easy and short for some players short.
  
  Like any platform game the goal 
 is simply to avoid the obstacles throughout each level, defeat the bosses at the end of each world 
 and open the way to reach the final boss. If you've played Wario Land 4 this game will make you 
 very familiar, unlike any other platform game where you enter a level must be found a prisioner 
 and then return with it to full speed at the start of the stage before time limit. In addition 
 at each level could be found three treasures or valuables which will not only just to finish the 
 stage quickly if no one has to solve another riddle, full of pockets with coin and explore alternate 
 routes that may arise in levels. To finish each level has a number of challenges to overcome, how 
 to pass the level without damage, collect a certain amount of money, not to eliminate any enemy, 
 and so on.
  
  The game takes a little censor motion to implement actions within the game, we shake control to 
 give a blow against the ground to stun enemies and moving objects. When Wario has something in 
 his hands, like a sack or an enemy, we can shake it to get coins or garlic we recharge energy. 
 I personally this does not generate any kind of innovation in the game and can be tiring after 
 a while. But control over the character is excellent. 
  
  The game is entirely 2D and uses anime-style graphics very well prepared, with a good amount of 
 animation frames for what makes the game very visually appealing. But I have to complain about 
 some things, first appearance of the enemies are very soft unlike other games where Wario looks 
 strange, flawed, grotesque, bizarre or evil.
  
  The music of the game is good and varied, each level has a different theme but again does not look 
 like a game of Wario, is more focused on the level than Wario. If you've played Wario Land 4 or 
 Wario Ware Series, you will notice that the melodies are full of strange sounds and special effects, 
 which can be unpleasant for some (not I) , don't fit pretty well with the stage, but in the end 
 it just adjust the personality of the egocentric Wario.
  
  The main game can be completed in about 5 hours, collecting all the treasures and meet the secondary 
 missions you can double or triple the time depending on the skill of the player. Maybe not this 
 the height of a game like Mario Galaxy, but it is certainly a good platform game for the Nintendo 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 3:32 am PT
Review:  Wario Land: The Shake Dimension is a funfilled game for all ages. The aim of the game is to get 
 as much treasure as possible by finding sacks filled with coins and shaking them. Once you have 
 enough coins you can purchase maps to unlock new levels. 
  
  Now iv only played half of this game so my opinions are based on what iv seen so far. My husband 
 bought me this game a few weeks ago and i love it, we play it together and take turns on the levels. 
 If you have kids this is great fun for them to. The graphics are great, nice and colourful! The 
 controls are also great and wario has a variety of moves for you to try out with the wii remote. 
 I would have given this game a perfect 10 but i havent finished it yet. If you like the old school 
 mario platformers then you will love this game, i definatley recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Wario Land 4 for the GBA is one of my all time favorite platformers. It perfected the Wario formula 
 while capturing his trademark humor. So to say that I had high expectations for this game would 
 be a bit of an understatement. Thankfully Nintendo didn't dissapoint, and while it's not as good 
 as WarioLand 4, it's still a darn good platformer that not only stands out as one of the best games 
 on Wii, but a great way to get a new generation of gamers into 2-D platformers.
  
  Nintendo has succeeded here where many have failed. For one thing, In my opinion, this is their 
 best example of perfectly blending core and casual. Simply getting to the end of the level (and 
 then back to the beginning) isn't that challenging. But who plays platformers at a bare minimum? 
 For players who want a challenge, there are several, well, challenges to complete for every level. 
 And they're quite challenging. Completing these challenges will reward you- sometimes with challenging 
 (wow. is it just me or am I saying "challenging" a lot?) secret levels. It's a good set up that 
 adds a lot of extra challenge (crap! I did it again!) and replayability.
  
  Another area where it succeeds is "waggle". Now, the Wii remote is a pretty amazing little controler, 
 but many 3rd party "supporters" have resorted to mindless remote shaking. I must say though, despite 
 some initial skepticism, Nintendo manages to make shaking the Wii remote a lot of fun. Shaking 
 the crap (and coins) out of your enemies and seeing that hillarious "wtf" look on their face is 
 one of my favorite Wii moments. Thankfully, the game also makes good use of the Wii remote in other 
 ways. Tilt controls are great for aiming projectiles (or controling the sub-war-ine) as well as 
 aiming cannons. This makes for some great puzzles, and it's also fun in practice.
  
  There's a lot more to praise- the beautiful visuals, the tight controls, the awsome cut-scenes, 
 and superb boss fights. But there are some gripes that I have as well. Mainly, it didn't quite 
 feel "Wario" enough. In previous games if you were stung by a bee your head would swell up to insane 
 proportions and you'd float like a balloon. Set yourself on fire and you could burn down certain 
 doors. It was stuff like that that made Wario so funny and unique. The shake stuff makes up for 
 that for the most part but I still miss the old way. My other problem is with the music. Now, some 
 people like it, but I personally can't stand it. It almost never matches the level or scenery. 
 It's not even catchy. Sort of cheesey elevator music. Some people think it fits the games sillyness, 
 but personally I'm dissapointed, as the soundtrack was always one of the high points of past Wario 
 games.
  
  Other than that, though, I have no problems with this game. I was going to mark it down for being 
 too costy, but the price just dropped to $30 so you'd have to be a fool not to buy this. If you're 
 a fan of old-school games, or are just wanting to get into the world of 2-D platformers, Wario 
 Land: Shake it is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe71103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  This was a fun full of exiting challenges . THe controls are very easy to get the hang of and very 
 responsive. The challenges are not very difficult. The game is for everyone of any age and is very 
 addicting. Although i have not completed the game i have played enough to write this review. I 
 would highly reccomend this ganme to anyone looking for a fun game to play on the WII. So in ending 
 this rewiew all i can sum up this game in one word .Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun
  fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funThis was a fun full of exiting challenges . THe controls 
 are very easy to get the hang of and very responsive. The challenges are not very difficult. The 
 game is for everyone of any age and is very addicting. Although i have not completed the game i 
 have played enough to write this review. I would highly reccomend this ganme to anyone looking 
 for a fun game to play on the WII. So in ending this rewiew all i can sum up this game in one word 
 .Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun
 
  fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funfun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  wario is back and better than ever. This game is an adventure game with many puzzles. At first 
 the game is fun and good. Then after a while it feels to plain. sure wario has new moves it just 
 feels plain. What i mean by plain is nothing REALLY happens that is interseting. i do not know it 
 just feels that way. Anyway this game is alt least worth trying it is fun. plus there is diffrent 
 missions u have to complete the graphics are fair. It is a good platformer. The bosses are the only 
 things that are interseting. Plus the difficulty is just right. i like the story line and the ending. the 
 music fits in the place though it is plain i really like it. The boss music is great i really like 
 the second ones music. Many vechiles u can go in to which i like. but some are a bit hard to control 
 so i recomed it. The ending is kind of funny. any way in total a 8.5 is my score. Thanks for reading 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Positive:
  + 2-D cartoon graphics look very sharp
  + solid gameplay with some great elements new to the series
  + smooth controls that also don't 
 over use motion capabilities
  + tons of treasures and missions add a lot of replay value
  + full of that funny, weird Wario personality and style
  
  Negative:
  - main adventure is 
 pretty easy
  
  Wario Land was my favorite game from the original GameBoy, and I don't think I've ever enjoyed 
 a 2-D platformer as much as I enjoyed it. When I heard the series was going to Wii as a full retail 
 game, though, I had my doubts about how worthwhile it would be at full price. 2-D games have been 
 very overshadowed by 3-D in this generation, and now gamers (myself included) are starting to feel 
 that 2-D games are inferior to those in the third dimension. Does Wario Land: Shake It only further 
 push those assumptions or does it prove us wrong?
  
  Wario Land has a funny story, but it doesn't show up very often. Basically the Shake King has taken 
 over the Shake Dimension, imprisoning all the cute little residents, kidnapping the princess, and 
 taking the great treasure: a coin bag that always gives you coins when you shake it. The only one 
 to escape this horrible occurrence (named Merfle) somehow finds Wario in his own dimension, going 
 on with his normal daily life. Captain Syrup and Merfle enlist Wario's help in getting back the 
 land, the princess, and most importantly the coin bag, and that's the last you hear about the story 
 until you defeat the Shake King. Both the beginning and end cutscenes have the sheer comedy you 
 would expect from a Wario game, and the greedy hero takes nothing seriously and always loses out 
 in the end.
  
  The game progresses over the course of five areas, each with four levels and one boss. You have 
 to beat one level to reach the next, but you can purchase the next area if you want to and have 
 enough coins, so you can go through the game how you like. There may be only 20 main levels, but 
 there are also lots of challenging bonus stages and each level (bonuses included) has three to 
 seven missions and three treasure chests to find. I can guarantee you will feel inclined to go 
 back and try to do more in the game than just beat all the levels, and to get everything you will 
 have to play through each level a minimum of two times. So while there aren't a ton of levels, 
 the ones available are worth replaying.
  
  Each level is very well designed in terms of playability. Getting through to the end is usually 
 pretty easy, and after you reach the end of a level you have to get back to the beginning before 
 time runs out, which almost turns into a fun minigame, actually. If you find the booster near the 
 end of the level, you can take the fast way in which you are constantly running at high speed. 
 Getting back to the start fast enough to clear the level's mission based on time involves many 
 well-timed jumps, slides, and turns and can be quite challenging. So the levels are very well designed 
 in terms of playability, because you have to be able to get through the normally and then there 
 is a whole course set up for high speed. 
  
  The level design complements the gameplay very nicely. Shake It plays like other 2-D platformers, 
 you move left and right, jump, and all that, but Wario has always had the ability to charge as 
 well, and now he also has an earthquake punch that can be used to stun enemies, solve puzzles, 
 and other things. This is done with a shake of the Wii remote, a function that works quite well 
 and isn't over used. The Wii remote can also be shaken to get coins out of coin bags, which is 
 a nice feature in the gameplay. Motion control is also used for a few submarine levels as well 
 as in a boss fight, and tilting the controller to aim for throwing enemies and for shooting Wario 
 out of a cannon works quite nicely too. Overall the concepts, level design, and controls come together 
 very nicely for a great gameplay experience.
  
  Shake It may be fully 2-D, but that's not to say the graphics don't look really sharp. They may 
 not be stunning visuals like you see in Mario Galaxy, but it's about as good as you can possibly 
 make a 2-D game look. The objects and characters aren't extremely detailed, but they look very 
 smooth and sharp. The animations for all the actions look very nice too and add much to the humorous 
 Wario feel. The level backgrounds look great too, and if you take a look, things such as large 
 rocks will actually pop out in front of the level in some areas, but they don't obstruct your vision 
 at all. Shake It displays some of the finest 2-D graphics I've ever seen, and they really add a 
 lot to the overall experience of the game.
  
  Shake It sounds almost as good as it looks. The music tracks may not be the most memorable you've 
 ever heard, but they sound really good and fit their respective environments very well. The sound 
 effects are 100% Wario too, with funny sounds that have good quality. 
  
  In a world where 3-D is most often hailed as king, Wario Land: Shake It stands tall and proud. 
 It manages to be just as fun as most of the 3-D games out there and delivers an experience any 
 fan of the series or platformer aficionado will love. 2-D CAN be worth full price, you just have 
 to be willing to pay up.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 8.5
  Camera & Control: 9.0
  Value: 8.5
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roboms
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Let's face is, most games today focus on state of the art, as realistic as possible, groundbreaking 
 graphics. And usually the gameplay is sacrificed. Wario Land: Shake It takes a different approach 
 and finally does what most of us old-schoolers in the gaming community have been wishing for. It 
 focuses on a simple, fun to play, stylized direction in which players will most likely enjoy.
 
  
  I'll start with the look of the game. From first glance you'll probably be captivated by the visual 
 style Wario Land possesses. It's simple old fashion 2D artwork, like we used to see back in the 
 day of snes or gba, only beautifully enhanced with a hand-drawn frame by frame feel to it. The 
 game moves amazingly smoothly, just watching Wario's moving animations are sure to impress you, 
 with the lack of decent frame-by-frame animation seen in any 2D animation these days. The game 
 just looks smooth. The colors are vibrant and appealing and the backgrounds are much more than 
 a simple repeating pattern of mountains and clouds with eyes. It's just plain pleasant to look 
 at, and even if a simple 2D game isn't your thing you will most likely be impressed by the look 
 of the game, even if it is overly-simple to some.
  
  The story on the other hand isn't much of anything. I don't really blame the game, seeing as most 
 2D platformers lack a more in-depth story than having to save a princess or the world from destruction. 
 I know it's typical of a simple 2D platformer to be this way, but in this day I kind of expect 
 more, and this game would really be that much better with a decent story, but we're left with basically 
 an intro and an ending with nothing in between. 
  
  The gameplay is decent, actually its pretty good. It's got a simple control design of using the 
 d-pad to walk and your typical attack and jump buttons, but it goes a bit further with motion commands 
 and interactive abilities with in-game objects, such as swinging from ropes, and rolling yourself 
 into a snowball that keeps it from getting too boring. You can also use the motion sensing ability 
 of the wiimote to do a powerslam and a few other such interactions such as aiming where wario will 
 fire out of a cannon and other vehicle controls. I didn't personally have a problem with the controls 
 at any time, it was very responsive and i never really felt cheated or aggravated by some button 
 dysfunction. 
  
  Now the game's biggest flaw... difficulty. It's well... just not difficult. each level is littered 
 with a decent amount of enemies, only most of them can't even hurt you. For the first few levels 
 there are no enemies that can damage you at all. At one point remember missing an item and trying 
 to kill myself to restart and it was simply impossible to do. Most enemies just bump into you causing 
 you to slow down, or you need to use them to get a jump boost off their heads. As you progress 
 the enemies that can actually harm you do increase in number, but they never really seem to cause 
 much of a problem. In fact, I don't think I was killed once playing through the entire game, even 
 the bosses are a joke. You can easily run through the levels without much worry and probably finish 
 the game within a few hours, but there is a more difficult way of doing it which will keep older 
 audience a little more interested. Each level has 3 hidden treasures and a set of bonus achievements 
 which are optional to complete. These bonus achievements are actually quite hard in the later levels 
 so they give the game a bit more worth. However, there's also a down side to this, sometimes these 
 missions are just the opposite of the rest of the game and are incredibly hard and frustrating. 
 And another thing that get annoying is that most levels will have bonus achievements that you simply 
 can't complete in one go-through. For example, you'll have one mission that is to collect a certain 
 amount of coins, and another that asks for the final part of the level to be completed in a certain 
 amount of time, but if you go for the coins, you'll never make the time since the coins lie on 
 a much slower rout. So even if you are incredibly good at this game, you'll be forced to repeat 
 levels which I assure you will get annoying. Also, there are bonus maps on certain level that can 
 be found by shaking the wiimote at a certain point, but these points are literally impossible to 
 realize unless you've played the game before, or beaten it completely where they will then give 
 you a hint on where to find them. I guess this does prolong the life of the game, but once I was 
 done with it, I was kind of done. I beat every level with every bonus mission and treasure and 
 I gotta say, it was fun, I just wasn't captivated enough to go back and repeat already repeated 
 levels to get maps to new levels I was going to have to repeat. 
  
  All in all Wario Land: Shake It is an above decent game. It's refreshing to see a good 1st party 
 game made in the old school style without dishing out a new way to rake in all the cash in the 
 market. This game is simple, but what it does it does well. Beautiful look and feel, charming gameplay, 
 and decently ranged difficulty with the bonus missions. I don't know if the game is worth 50 dollars, 
 honestly probably not, I'd give it more of a 35 dollar price tag, but these days what game isn't 
 overpriced? It's nothing you need to pick up right away, so I'd wait for the price to go down since 
 the excitement of it being new and just released isn't really a factor in this title. I'd say its 
 the perfect game for just picking up and playing whenever you're bored and you don't have to think 
 about some crazy in-depth mission or storyline, or a good game to play with non-gamers or your 
 girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggie123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well Wario Land is back for a fifth time and better than ever. I own the gba games of Wario but 
 this one will always be the best.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are hand drawn and 2-D. I watched some videos on Shake It and I thought 
 they were really good, but once you play the game the graphics are so much better. This game and 
 Super Paper Mario has the best 2-D graphics on the wii
  
  Story: The evil shake king has stolen the princess and the bottomless coin sack. It is Wario's 
 job toget the coin sack and the princess back. The reward for Wario is the bottomless coin sack 
 so you know, with his greedy mind of his, Wario is going to take the challenge.
  
  Gameplay: In this 2-D platformer you try to get from point a to point b. With a little twist. While 
 your on your way you look for coin sacks and once you get you hands in them you shake it. There 
 are lots of puzzle you try to solve by shaking the wiimote. Once you reach the end of the level, 
 it a race between the clock and wario. There is alway a machine that makes you run faster to complete 
 the level faster. Even though there is always a running machine nearby you don't even need to use 
 them to go back to the beginning of the level. The machines are just there so you can try to get 
 a mission completed.
  
  Unlockabbles: Even though the story mode is only 5-6 hours there is plenty to do when your done. 
 In each level there is 3 treasures hidden in the level. There is also 3-5 missions in each level 
 you try to complete. 
  
  Good: graphics, lots of unlockables, amazing gameplay
  
  Bad: story is short ( but there is lots of unlockables) , can only play it for about 1 to 1 and 
 a half hours at a time ( more than that, it will starting to get boring) , no multiplayer 
  
  Overall Shake it s a great 2-D platformer despite the bad, and it deserves a 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  Wario land shake it is one awsome game
  great controls, super inpressiove graphics, great story line, and much more.
  But there are some 
 bad stuff in this game
  such as it's short and too easy
  but it has some awsome music and other goods
  And I just have to say this game is one great game 
 and you guys so go and give it a shot and see how this game is so superb!!
  LOL
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   you for 
 reading my review
  and have a good day and also go get this so awsome game
  
  thats all I have to say
  
  w a r i o l a n d s h a k e i t !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  WarioLand Shake It! is the fifth installment of the warioland series. Just like its predecessors, 
 even though its on the wii, feels like a handheld game. This game is way too shallow to be on the 
 wii, putting this game against Gears of War or Little Big Planet just make nintendo look bad. This 
 game goes on a unique 2-D Platformer style, you of course play as wario running and bashing everythin 
 in your way. Your main goal is to save these little fairies at the end of every stage and bring 
 them back to the beginning before the timer runs out. There are a total of 5 worlds each with 6-7 
 stages each and a boss. The game has a very nice soundtrack, you would enjoy most of the tunes. 
 The background are just marvelous, they were hand drawn and looks just great. The visuals themselves 
 are very smooth, but again it would be more impressive if it was on the DS or something. The game 
 has its moments here or there but for the most part its pretty simple. The game itself should last 
 no more than 10 hours but the real challenge is to get all the treasures and missions within each 
 stage. The controls can get really wacky, due to the fact of the sensitivity of the wiimote. It 
 can get extremely frustrating, at times I just want to throw the wiimote and kill goodfeel for 
 making such a terrible game. All and All this game is a so-so, some may enjoy it some may not. 
 Worth playing if it was a rental or you burrowed it or something, but for fifty bucks i'll reccommend 
 that you pass for now and wait for the price to drop till around 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Wario is an instant gratification type of guy, and his game reflects that. It draws you in and 
 holds you by the throat untill you get stuck.
  
  This is Cloudkirby's review of Wario Land: Shake It! (or shake as I like to call it)
  
  The 
 Bad:
  This game is so good that I have to get the bad out of the way before I go off on the good, which 
 will take me a lot of time to type.
  
  The only thing bad here is the music. The music is all done in the same style, with the same instruments, 
 and it gets repetitive. It didn't bother me much but my fieind noticed it 3 levels in.
  
  Another thing one might consider bad is that the story is too short. You could easily breeze through 
 the main game in a flash.
  
  The Subwarine Is just a pointless delay. I'd rather have standard obligatory water stages.
  
 
  The plot:
  the plot is one of the best I have ever seen. It's short, sweet, and gives you purpose without 
 getting in the way, there are only 2 cutscenes done by production IG (which are beautiful by the 
 way) and they give minimal plot.
  
  In a globe in a museum somewhere there lives the shake dimension. this demension is being overthrown 
 by the greedy pirate, Shay King (or the Shake King if you decide to go with that mentally retarded 
 name) . He has taken over and stolen the greatest treasure of all time, the Purse of Plenty (or 
 ,once again, Bottomless coin sack if you want to sound like a total retard.) He has also kidnapped 
 a Queen (real original Nintendo) , named Queen Merelda and all of her people known as Merfle's. 
 One escapes and goes for help.
  
  Meanwhile, outside the globe, captain syrup had seen this happen and decided she needed the Purse 
 of Plenty for herself. But she has far too much to do to get it herself and knows just what to 
 do (the suspense is killing me...) .
  
  Later, we see Wario being, well, Wario, when he gets a package (and while we are on the subject, 
 why does Wario live in a garage? What the hell happened to his castle!!! A little continuity would 
 be nice.) Anyways, the package gets to Wario and he decides to break it (there are 2 possible arguments 
 to why this is so. Either it's from Syrup and he want's nothing to do with it or the tresure is 
 on the inside and he is breaking it open, you decide) but before he gets the chance, a telescope 
 pops out (scaring the %$&% out of poor Wario) and Merfle pops out. Merfle goes off about how his 
 whole land is in danger (No recaps) and as usual Wario does not care untill he hears the magical 
 "T word" then he's all in.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is old school Wario to its core. Ramming, jumping, and status ailments. Some new things added 
 are the (obviously) Shake mechanic where you shake the wii-mote to shake things. the shaking is 
 usefull on tresures, enimies and Wario's newest (and coolest) move, the Earthshake Punch. The Punch 
 is the most useful move in the game, you will be using it often. I won't be giving an in depth 
 look at the controls so experiment with them (1/2 the fun)
  
  There are a lot of unlockables past the main game but those would be spoilers such as hidden levels, 
 treasures, and missions.
  
  Graphics:
  Wow, it's like playing a japanese anime. The animations are so fluid, best graphics on the wii 
 to date. No 3D game can come close to this.
  
  So Cloudkirby, you foot-in-diameter genius, is it a good game?:
  Exellent. A definite buy for 
 all wii gamers. Music and subwarine being the only issues, which are easily passed over. So... what 
 are you waiting for. Go Get It !! GET IT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: She_Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  A pleasant surprise. I don't know what I was expecting, but this was much better than I had given 
 it credit for.
  
  The moment I started this game, I had a flashback to when I received Donkey Kong Country. Both 
 were the same type of "3-D" side-scrolling game, with different things to collect, different secrets 
 to stumble upon, and, of course, positively stunning graphics. The levels in Wario Land are amazingly 
 detailed and absolutely beautiful. And beautiful isn't a word I use around Wario very often. 
 
  
  I noticed that some people weren't happy with having to replay the levels in order to accomplish 
 different goals and collect different items. With graphics and details as intricate as what Wario 
 Land offers, I welcome the opportunity to replay each level. It's a game you want to play again, 
 and in the end you'll be thankful that these little challenges exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3geogo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Wario hasn't been seen in many games, yet this one ends up working better that any other game could 
 have done it. Sure a 3D game is usually the better choice for any game, but with great level design 
 and spectacular animation and graphics, this game is one for any wii owner to look into. It's true 
 that the game is a little short and doesn't do much for a story line, yet with levels like these, 
 who needs a story. The best part is interacting with the environment and objects in the game just 
 by shaking the wii remote or by tilting it. Yes, this game actually uses true wii remote motion 
 controls. The majority of the game will be spent playing through levels and then getting money 
 for buying new areas it the main part of the game, but there are also great boss battles that make 
 the wait and possible frustration of getting enough money for new areas worth every bit of extra 
 minutes/hours spent to get to them. To add to that, this game does have some of the best and most 
 fun boss battles I have seen in games. The only problem with the game it that it's too short do 
 to only a few levels per area and then a boss battle before buying a new map. Yet, you can unlock 
 new "stuff" buy beating the game once, but I won't say anymore so I don't ruin anything for those 
 who want to get it. If you like platforming and some funny animations while playing, definitely 
 get this game for your wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  There was a time back in the mid nineties for me where the only game that would be in my Gameboy 
 was Wario land. I loved it, I was obsessed with finding every bit of treasure to try to get the 
 best ending. I still enjoy going back on occasion and playing through that game, it was pure greatness. 
 When I saw that they were making another Wario Land game, and it was going to be on the Wii I was 
 really excited.
  
  I came into the game thinking it would play very similarly to the other games in the series, neat 
 hats that work as power ups tons of treasure to be found and all around fun gameplay. Unfortunately 
 this game only has one of those, more on that later.
  
  First off I have to really give the developers credit, because the hand drawn graphics look really 
 really good. It has a such a cool look to it and I could not help but love it. The animations on 
 everything that appeared in the game were also awesome. But that is basically where the praise 
 ends, and the complaints begin. The gameplay, is relatively straightforward. You run, jump, shoulder 
 charge and butt pound your way to the cage at the end of the level. Being as fat as he is, wario 
 does not jump as high as Mario so most of the platforming is pretty limited. The levels themselves 
 are also pretty short, they can be blown through in about 10 minutes each if you do not look for 
 all of the treasure. And while the levels are short, they are made a little longer in the fact 
 that when you get to the end of the level you are forced to run back to the start. And after the 
 first 3 times, it really loses its charm. The game is just way too easy, the only time where I 
 ever died was on a boss encounter, but as soon as you figure out the pattern it is just way too 
 easy.
  
  The enviroments that you explore are also relatively limited and cliche. You get some plains, some 
 lava, a water level a train and a whole lot of caves. They are pretty cool to look at for the first 
 level, but when you are seeing the same backgrounds and fairly similar hallways level after level 
 it gets very annoying
  
  The sound is another department that is lacking, the grunts and snorts and yelps that wario let 
 out are full of character. But the music, is just so bland and boring I couldnt help but be disappointed. 
 It is so repetitive and does not fit the settings at all.
  
  As you can come to expect the story is not its strongest point. But that is fine because mario 
 games are meant to be played for the gameplay not the story. But unfortunately, this story is almost 
 too bad.
  
  Oh and how could I forget this. The shake, in Wario Land Shake it. It is so poorly implemented 
 I wish it would have just been left in the garbage bin. You shake the remote to shake bags, swing 
 on poles etc. By the end of the game you will have wankers cramp. Hell after about 10 minutes of 
 the second world I would have to take a break because my wrist would hurt really bad because of 
 all of the shaking. Again wankers cramp is not fun Developers stop overusing this mechanic of the 
 wii remote so much. Unless its for a game where, well you ya know. Nevermind.
  
  I did not hate Wario Land shake it, but it could have been so much better than it was. For every 
 step forward, they took two steps back and threw up all over itself. So skip this game, if you 
 are overly curious rent it. But do not spend 40 dollars on a game that should have been Wii Ware. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Great visual
  + Large variety of scenarios
  + High level of challenge for those seeking full completion
  
  Cons
  - Main quest is way 
 too easy and straightforward
  
  
  It is not such a hard thing to find someone who will tell you they prefer side-scrollers to current 
 gen games. 3-D games have absolutely brought many benefits to games and as a consequence to gamers 
 but some genres struggled to make a smooth transition from their side-scrolling origins to a completely 
 new perspective. Super Mario 64 obviously set the bar pretty high as one of the first platformers 
 to make the leap, but truth is the amount of good platformers produced after the gaming world became 
 3-D reduced a lot. Some characters, including Wario himself, who were successful in the 2-D realm, 
 have yet to appear on a quality 3-D platformer.
  
  When it comes to gameplay Wario Land: Shake It plays it safe and delivers everything you would 
 expect from an incredible Wario Land title but it may suffer some prejudice due to the fact that 
 it is a 2-D platformer on a current gen system. In this new installment of the series a strange 
 being who disturbingly wears the same outfit as Tingle appears and tells Wario about the evil deeds 
 of the Shake King who has takes the Shake Dimension and imprisoned its princess. While Wario doesn't 
 care much about damsels in distress he promptly goes after the Shake King once he hears about his 
 famous bottomless bag of money.
  
  Shake It plays very well mainly because of the Wiimote which is obviously a control that perfectly 
 suit side-scrolling games. The game brings all jumping, running and pounding abilities you encounter 
 on a platformer and also makes great use of the motion controls. The Wiimotes's capabilities are 
 used for a wide variety of actions such as hitting the ground to create some sort of earthquake 
 that will stun enemies, control different vehicles, aim and throw enemies or simply shake bags 
 of coins. None of the motion controls seem forced or irresponsive which is an incredible feat accomplished 
 only by a few companies on the system's lifespan.
  
  The amount of moves Wario is able to perform is already enough to impress but Wario Land is also 
 packed with a seemingly endless variety of scenarios. While most 2-D games have an entire world 
 based on a certain theme (such as Lava or Ice) , Wario Land savannas, jungles, swamps, volcanoes, 
 icy mountains, trains, Japanese landscapes and much more. Eventually you will stumble on a repeated 
 scenario but such a thing doesn't happen too often.
  
  Not only is the quantity of scenarios great but their visuals are just astonishing. The stages' 
 backgrounds have different layers of drawings and are one of the finest works of art the system 
 has seen so far. When it comes to technical graphics Wario Land can be easily compared and surpass 
 the Donkey Kong Country games, obviously considering the difference in the hardware power of each 
 system, and as far as art is concerned it is as good as the hand-drawn Super Mario World 2.
  
  Wario Land has incredible animations and whether you are playing through one of its stages 
 or simply watching one of the anime-like cutscenes you will feel like you have purchased a cartoon, 
 not a game. Wario and his enemies move with such a beautiful flow that chances are you will find 
 yourself doing certain actions just to admire the wonderful work done by the graphics team of this 
 game.
  
  The soundtrack doesn't deserve as many compliments as the graphics but by no means it is a bad 
 one. I fell like the game could have used one or two more remarkable tunes, those that stick to 
 your head after playing the game for a couple of minutes. Nevertheless the songs are all excellent 
 and very relaxing, as it is a characteristic of the Wario Land series. Some claim it could have 
 used more of the Wii's sound engine for a more epic orchestrated soundtrack, but doing that would 
 be a mistake since the game in question is a 2-D platformer and those thrive on simplicity.
  
  There is something that really hurts this game though. Its main quest is way too easy and straightforward. 
 Some of the last stages of the game may actually be challenging but on the first stages of the 
 game there are barely any enemies that will harm you and they lack traps that could cost some of 
 your health bar. Such a thing makes the game last less than six hours to those who won't look for 
 every single hidden item on the various stages. 
  
  Aside from six boss battles that are visually impressive and full of creativity the game has 33 
 stages which is a very good number but you only need to go through twenty of them if your goal 
 is to simply reach the end, the others are secret stages unlocked by locating secret maps. The 
 game really starts to shine once you start going after full completion. Each stage has three well 
 hidden treasure chests and some challenges that need to be performed. 
  
  Finding all the chests takes a lot of thinking since you will face some very interesting puzzles 
 that will truly show you how good the level creation of this game is, and performing all challenges 
 will take patience, skill and some luck. The variety of the challenges is very good, each stage 
 has a money challenge, which involves collecting a certain amount of cash, and a timed run that 
 requires you to leave the stage with a certain amount of time left on the clock. Besides those 
 there are also some very interesting ones like the usual "Beat the Stage Without Taking Damage" 
 or "Don't defeat any enemies". 
  
  There are so many different types of challenges I could actually write a full paragraph listing 
 all of them which goes to show the care developers had with the game for those who are "hardcore" 
 and will absolutely go after all of them. I just wish they could have used some of those challenges 
 or puzzles during the regular quest, instead of only presenting that when you truly explore the 
 stage after its secrets.
  
  As expected Wario Land: Shake It doesn't deeply revolutionize the 2-D platforming but aided by 
 the Wiimote and the Wii's hardware it undeniably brings a couple of fresh features to the table. 
 Is the game worth its full price? Yes it is, especially if you are a gamer that is always going 
 after full completion, which will probably lead you to more than 15 hours of gameplay, and have 
 always loved 2-D platformers.
  
  Actual Score: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boohooboo96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Why would someone not want to play Wario Land? There 21 unique levels with 3-7 missions and 3 strange 
 treasures in each of them. Not only that, but you can find secret maps that unlock special tough 
 versions of levels in the past! There even secret maps in secret map areas!
  That is 93 treasures and well over 150 missions that let you unlock music. There even 6 tough bosses, 
 each have missions as well. After getting all that stuff, you still can play just to enjoy yourself 
 and make fun of enemys or just make monkey sounds when you shake that poor defenceless Bandinero. 
 The treasures vary from difficulty depending where you are. One has you run on a bunch of bomb 
 blocks and then slide down just to get it! The missions are even harder, one has you get through 
 an enemy infested stage without getting harmed, another has you destroy all the bomb blocks, and 
 most has you get to the goal in a certain amount of time. Many of you will be satisfied with Wario 
 Land Shake It, with awesome gameplay, or the amazing graphics that makes it look like a cartoon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If you were to ask any random gamer who Wario was, they'd say "Oh, that guy with those minigames... WarioWare, 
 right?" While WarioWare was indeed a subfranchise of the pudgy little man, his roots are in Wario 
 Land, which... have seen better days. After the first four Wario Land games, Wario World and Wario: 
 Master of Disguise received lukewarm reviews; they weren't bad games, but not at the caliber of 
 the first couple or so. Wario then took up the mantel of WarioWare, putting a stop to his shoulder 
 charges and ground pounds and self-abuse of being stung by bumblebees and set on fire, and retired 
 to making minigames. Now, though, he's back to his old business doing what he does best: adventuring 
 across the world in a search for money. Unlike Wario World, the only other Wario game to have come 
 to a home console as opposed to a handheld, this game does not reject 2D gaming, but rather boosts 
 it, by making a great 2D platformer that feels both nostalgic and fresh at the same time.
  
  Story: You really shouldn't be going into this review expecting some heartwarming tale of courage, 
 bravery, etc. etc. etc. This game has two cutscenes (beautifully animated by Production I. G., but 
 I'll get into that later) , one at the beginning and one at the end of the game. The cutscenes do 
 little more than explain why you're leaping through a telescope and running across Mayan temples 
 and shaking little pirate-hatted monsters to death to obtain their garlic, only to have to rescue 
 small little creatures from cages then escape in a certain time limit before a juggernaut comes 
 along and shakes you to death. Basically, the "Shake Dimension" is this world that lives inside 
 a globe, which has been taken over by the Shake King (no background given) , who has captured the 
 Queen (who?) of the Merfles (the what?) . One of the Merfles escapes from the Shake Dimension, begging 
 Wario for help. Wario lazily picks his nose, ignoring the little sprite's plea, until he mentions 
 a reward in the Bottomless Coin Sack, a sack of coins that will never run dry. Now, Wario is a 
 very interesting character; he isn't good nor evil, just greedy. If it were the Shake King who 
 was offering the money, for example, Wario wouldn't hesitate to fight on his side. In fact, this 
 sense of a total lack of morals makes itself apparent in the cutscene at the end of the game. I 
 won't spoil anything, but basically Wario cherishes the sack of money far above the life of the 
 Queen.
  
  Control: This game has you holding the remote sideways, as you would if you were playing a NES 
 game on the Virtual Console. And rightfully so; this game is supposed to replicate a nostalgic 
 feel, and there's no point in a sidescroller if you have an analog stick and a million buttons. 
 Just like the game boy games, A (2) is jump, and B (1) is a running charge that demolishes blocks 
 and enemies. Implemented in the gameplay, though, is the Wii Remote's unique features (shaking 
 and tilting, to be exact) . Now some of these "gimmicks" work, and some don't. What I mean is that 
 while most don't even feel like gimmicks, there's still a large share that do. Shaking bags of 
 money and enemies won't break your wrists, but having to shake the remote to swing on a bar feels 
 ridiculous (especially in a boss fight that takes place entirely on bars, causing many broken wrists) . 
 Tilting works fine most of the time; moving a unibucket and steering a rocket ship feel like second 
 nature, as do tilting the remote to aim where you want to launch an enemy (or yourself, from a 
 cannon) . However, steering the submarine feels wrong, because you tilt the remote to choose your 
 direction, but use the D-Pad to accelerate/decelerate, causing it to feel very awkward to move 
 anywhere but forward. At the very least it feels great to run around; it's always a blast at the 
 end of each level to hop into an accelerator that will send you launching back to the start of 
 the level at top speeds, destroying anything and anyone in your way.
  
  Graphics: I really have to acknowledge and respect this game for its graphics. They're not 3D, 
 but that is its strength; the entire game is done in a cartoon-like 2D style. The Wii's modern-day 
 engine causes these old-school graphics to look absolutely beautiful. While there are a few backgrounds 
 that look modest and drab, the actual characters look fantastic, all being hand-drawn as opposed 
 to sprites. The level of detail put into these characters' movements is simply astounding (an article 
 in Nintendo Power had a small corner of the page completely dedicated to a frame-by-frame of Wario 
 shaking his ass as he enters a pipe) . The bosses look especially stunning, animated so beautifully 
 that you completely forget that you're playing a video game. All of the game's animations were 
 handled by the legendary studio of Production I. G., responsible for animes such as Blood + and 
 Ghost in the Shell, and I must say that they did a fantastic job, in both the lengthy cutscenes 
 and the overall flow of the game.
  
  Audio: I want to love this game's music. I really do. I mean, it all has this jazzy feel to it, 
 and occasionally there's a pumping rock tune here and there. Even though it's MIDI, it's all really 
 great music. The problem? It doesn't fit in with the game. At all. A funky piano piece plays as 
 your climbing an Aztec temple. A rocking brassy tune plays as you crawl through a volcano. I mean, 
 for most of the game, it just makes no sense. Now, granted, there are a few stages in which the 
 music makes sense (a desert stage and a haunted house stage, for example) , but for the most part 
 it just feels out of place. The final boss, though, has a cool remix of his theme from the earlier 
 cutscene. Overall, the music's great, just completely out of place.
  
  Length: This game really is rather short. It consists of five worlds, each having four stages and 
 a boss. However, beyond this short run-through there are many goodies to unveil. For example, there 
 are many treasures and awards scattered throughout each level that will taunt and tease those striving 
 for the 100% mark. However, the game's repetitiveness at points will eventually wear away at you, 
 making you glad the game ends before it gets stale.
  
  Replay Value: Like I said before, there are many things to go back and collect in this game: awards, 
 treasures, and maps leading to new stages with more treasures and awards. The game on its own is 
 pretty easy, but some of these little things can be near impossible to get, leaving room for both 
 the casual player to breeze through the game, and for the hardcore player to go back and wrack 
 their brain collecting everything.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Boss Fights: As I said previously, these bosses look downright fantastic. How they fight, though, 
 is a completely different story. The first few bosses are pretty easy to beat. As they progress, 
 though, they get tougher and tougher, until the fifth boss, at which point you have to be ultra-alert 
 in order to make it out alive (let alone survive the time challenges or all those other requirements 
 later on) . Unlike bosses some of Nintendo's more recent romps, these are not the typical "find 
 weak point, hit three times" fares. Once you find a weak point, yay, good for you, the boss finds 
 a way to cover its weak point. And they take FAR more than three hits. These bosses are in no way 
 the disappointments of those seen in certain Nintendo games [COUGH TWILIGHT PRINCESS COUGH] . They're 
 both tough and spectacular, epic and mind-boggling.
  
  Final Boss: This bastard took me around five tries to beat, and I think there's a good reason for 
 that: he's hard as hell! I mean, at first he just charges around, making himself wide open for 
 you to hit. As the fight progresses, though, he starts grabbing you and shaking you dry of coins, 
 shooting lightning at you, firing omega death rays... it's madness. However, once you finally beat 
 him, you'll be filled with a sense of accomplishment, one which is instantly turned to laughter 
 as you watch the closing cutscene.
  
  Extras: Like I said, there's a lot to go back and collect. I don't want to reiterate, so I'll just 
 wrap this up.
  
  Final Statement: Nintendo's in for a rough Christmas. All of the big franchises like Pokemon, Zelda, 
 and Mario are still recharging, getting ready to come back with humongous games in a few years. 
 Until that time comes, we have games like Kirby and this to keep us satisfied. While not a masterpiece, 
 this shows just what happens when a gaming company puts a lot of effort into this game. And it 
 shows; they were trying to make it appeal to everyone: old-schoolers, new gamers, casual gamers, 
 hardcore gamers, men, women, young, old; you get my point. What I'm trying to say is that, while 
 it does not necessarily appeal to everyone it attempted to, it still deserves some credit for trying, 
 and the final result of all of Nintendo and Good-feel's hard work is an absolutely stunning game 
 that is fun to play to boot. We can only hope that other companies take the hint and revert back 
 to their 2D platforming roots, because that is where the genre truly shines. I'm looking at you, 
 Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guy_of_pie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  I saw it on the 'coming soon' shelf at a game shop and wanted it instantly. When I got it, I was 
 not disappointed. As soon as I saw the plot, I knew the ending... or at least, part of it. I knew 
 Wario would ignore the damsel in distress and go straight for the treasure. It took me... nothing 
 to learn the game. It's that simple. But the gameplay is great! Only in the shake dimension can 
 you see a fat guy shake the feathers off a bird.
  
  The soundtrack is good, but not great. I learned where Wario's victory theme in SSBB comes from, 
 to say the least. Other than that, I have nothing to say.
  
  The treasures and missions are a great way to challenge yourself. I can barely do any of the missions, 
 and the treasures are hard to find. Whoever made this game is brilliant.
  
  But my favorite part of the game is the  levels! Quite a few 
 different paths open when you're making the return trip. You'll have to do each level at least 
 twice if you want to get everything.
  
  The bosses are expertly designed, the levels are unique, the main character is Wario-ish... It's 
 not flawless, though. It's short in terms of story, and the characters are pathetic save Wario. 
 The ground-pound controls are a teeny bit awkward... actually, that's all I can think of. I recommend 
 this game to any Wario fans out there, I believe it's got everything you're looking for in a Wario 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sux138
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  The best 2D graphics ever made and tons of secrets to discover, there's a lot to do in this game 
 and it is very solid! Each level on this game has an unique scenario, great animations, items to 
 collect, and goals to beat.
  
  You'll discover some secret levels, that are really secret so One's might finish the game without 
 finding any of them, i've played some levels over 10 times to find everything.
  
  the gameplay is extremely solid with simple and effect commands, also Wario has lots of moves.
 
  There's also the motion commands, which work well and never tires you. You can punch the ground 
 by pulling the controller down and shake the remote to get coins. You can also aim by tilting the 
 controler.
  
  The music is absolutely classic, i might just burn a cd just to hear them when i'm not playing. 
 Sound is also very solid: when Wario stars a level he says "let's goo!" "rock'n roll!" and other 
 funny things.
  
  Yes, the game has great sense of humor, even in the items description. There's so much detail in 
 this game, you won't find anything out of place.
  
  
  Just don't miss the game, it is fun, it is beautiful, and it works great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiggernauts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first put Wario Land Shake it for the Wii on I was immediately blown away by the impressive 
 visuals that I had in front of me. It was like watching a fantastically animated cartoon, and reminded 
 me of the visuals seen in games like The Curse of Monkey Island. Although while watching the great 
 opening cutscreens, you can't help but wonder why they chose not to include voice acting. Although 
 the only dialog was in the opening and closing scenes, it still would of been nice to not have 
 to read while taking in the beautiful art direction that the developers good-feel decided to take. 
 One thing that was a little annoying with the visuals was that this game does not run in true 16:9 
 wide screen. Although the boarders are used effectively to show you your missions and treasures 
 throughout the stages, it is still unacceptable for a "Next-Gen" title to displayed in 4:3. 
  
  Now onto the game play graphics, the visuals in this 2.5D side scroller are absolutely stunning. 
 All  and everything in between have been drawn and animated beautifully. All 
 aspects of the stages are drawn in multiple layers, creating a nice touch on the classic 2D side 
 scroller. There are many points throughout the game where you will look and the screen and utter 
 the word "wow" just because the attention to detail that has gone into making sure this game looks 
 as good as it possibly can on the Wii. The color pallet is vibrant and pops off the screen, and 
 the animations are very well done. It's nice to see that all small details where considered, everything 
 from Wario's attempts at getting into pipes that are just a little too tight, to the always funny 
 animation of an enemy being shaken. They even went so far as making sure there are beautifully 
 rendered heat waves in the desert. The elements in this game also create great game play challenges, 
 from the wind that effects your running and jumping abilities, too ice that causes you to loose 
 your traction, and again all beautifully drawn.
  
  At first I was slightly concerned that this was a 2D side scrolling game but after the first level 
 that is quickly thrown out the window and forgotten. Because while yes it is a 2D scroller, it 
 is defiantly not a left to right one path game. You will be going Left-right, Up-Down, back and 
 forth, then you will have to do this again in order to get out of the stage before time runs out. 
 Stages where well thought out in design, and also have a few nice puzzle elements. While these 
 puzzles will most likely not stump you in any way, they are a nice touch that add to the game and 
 are often times clever. You will also find all your favorite classic themed levels, fire/lava levels, 
 water levels, desert levels, ice levels, jungles levels etc. These worlds do a great job at reminding 
 of your childhood video game days, and why you really got into and loved video games to start with. 
 And it manages to use all these classic elements and somehow breaks the mold and shows us it is 
 still possible to make an original side scroller without being repetitive. This game also does 
 an incredible job at displaying your overall progressing. Doing this by having not only in game 
 mission updates, but by having also a main menu counter showing your exact percentage towards completion 
 of stages, treasures and missions. Too actually complete the main game it only takes approximately 
 5-6 hours, but where this game really goes the extra mile is with the missions on each stage. There 
 is huge replay value in attempting to clear the 3-6 missions available in each stage, as well as 
 finding all 3 treasures. Most of these missions are extremely difficult, and some of the best gamers 
 will have trouble completing all of them. Most will also not be able to be completed during the 
 same pass through of the stage, causing for multiple play through's. Anything from the consistent 
 missions of collecting so many coins, escaping the stage in a certain period of time, too the stage 
 specific missions of not taking damage, not killing a single enemy, killing all enemy's, etc. This 
 style of game play allows for gamers of less skill to play through the game and have the satisfaction 
 of beating the story, but also allows for experienced gamers something difficult to truly master.
 
  
  Character design in this game is also incredibly well thought out. All characters are original 
 and have there own tendencies. While the A. I in this game is almost non-existent, the difficulty 
 is defiantly there. This game easily compares to something like a Mega man game when it comes down 
 to enemies and bosses. There will defiantly be a moment or two that will cause you to get mad at 
 the game and have to re-do a section or stage. Boss battles are extremely well done, almost epic 
 in nature. It's a matter of finding the boss's pattern and doing the right things at the right 
 time, and this is not always easy the first few attempts at a new boss. But once you have it figured 
 out you can almost beat them without sustaining any damage. Also any game where you can violently 
 shake a penguin then throw it into a wall gets an "A" in my book.
  
  The audio in this game is incredible and fits the mood of the levels very well. Even at points 
 changing tempo based on the situation that your in. Although the soundtrack is not fully orchestrated, 
 this will hardly be noticed, if even at all. The level design combined with the sound track in 
 this game does an incredible job at immersing you into the game. And like all other aspects of 
 the game, no small detail was overlooked. Every action has it's own audio track, and you will never 
 get tired of shaking an enemy just to hear there little scream.
  
  Controls in this game where done in the best possible way that they could of been. You hold the 
 controller on it's side like the classic NES days and control using simplified "2" is jump, "1" 
 is dash, and the control pad is used to move Wario. It was also nice to see that motion control 
 was not just thrown into the game for the sake of showing that it's possible. The only times it 
 will be used is when you need to shake an enemy/money bag, or slam the ground and it is done with 
 a simple shake of the controller. I thought that this might get old, but it really doesn't. The 
 fresh game play and humor of shaking an enemy makes it fun every time. There are some other smart 
 uses of the motion control when throwing enemies, getting shot out of a cannon, controlling vehicles, 
 and this is done by simply tilting the controller left or right. All controls in this game are 
 easy to master thanks to an impressively well thought out and fun tutorial.
  
  Overall this is a game that must be purchased if you own a Wii. It is one of the few games that 
 utilizes the systems full potential, and is extremely fun to play. While there are a few annoyances 
 with the lack of 16:9 wide screen, and lack of voices during the cut screens, this can be easily 
 forgotten due to the pure fun that this game will bring you. Constant chuckles throughout this 
 game combined with stunning game play mechanics and a reminder to why you play video games is well 
 worth the price of admission to this great title. This game easily ranks up there with the best 
 of the best for the system, and it is nice to see developers putting the care into the graphics/art 
 design that games on the Wii need. You will defiantly not be disappointed with this game!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
