-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: We Ski
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/familyski/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mii support.
 Over 150 challenges to complete.
 You can have your photo taken with monkeys.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Balance board functionality is limited.
 Frame rate struggles to keep up in multiplayer games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 326 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Skiing
Date: May 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What We Ski lacks in high-speed thrills it makes up for with varied challenges, charming visuals, 
 and a great control scheme. 

  If you've come here hoping for confirmation that snowboards are featured in Namco Bandai's latest 
 Wii offering you're out of luck, because they're not. If you're here looking for an entertaining 
 and accessible skiing game, however, then you've come to the right place. We Ski affords you unlimited 
 access to the large Happy Ski Resort from the get-go, and while the game's unusual controls definitely 
 take some getting used to, the various events and challenges that litter the resort's slopes are 
 well worth the effort.  

  Before hitting the slopes you need to choose a character for yourself. There are well over 200 
 wannabe skiers on the game's roster, or you can use a Mii if you prefer. It's unfortunate that 
 you can't equip hats or goggles if you opt to ski as a Mii, but the same is also true of some of 
 the premade characters, and you're unlikely to miss the option until late in the game when you 
 unlock "special" outfits that incorporate headgear. Next, you should pay a visit to the ski school, 
 which, despite taking an unnecessarily long time to play through, does an excellent job of familiarizing 
 you with the controls necessary to snow plow, slalom, and stop without the aid of a tree. Advanced 
 lessons teach you how to perform air tricks, but these can be learned just as easily from characters 
 that you encounter on the Happy Ski Resort slopes later on.  

           Other skiers are an ever-present hazard.      

  Regardless of whether or not you're 
 playing with a Wii Balance Board (which can only be used to turn left and right -- you can't control 
 your speed the way you can in Wii Fit's skiing exercises) , you'll need both a Wii Remote and a 
 Nunchuk to play We Ski. For the most part you can think of these as the handles on your ski poles; 
 you move them up and down to dig your poles into the ground and skate along flat areas, you rotate 
 them to tuck the poles under your skier's arms and adopt a crouching position, and when you're 
 not using the aforementioned Wii Fit peripheral, you angle them to the left or the right to turn. 
 Buttons are needed to snow plow and to navigate moguls, and using the control stick is the easiest 
 way to stop, but save for those few functions and some of the more advanced air tricks, you can 
 get from the top of Lion Peak down to the bottom of Rabbit Road using nothing but hand gestures. 
 It's a great setup once you get the hang of it, and it's unfortunate that the Balance Board functionality 
 is so rudimentary.  

  With one perilous exception, all of the resort's 14 courses are classified as either beginner, 
 intermediate, advanced, or as being designed solely for air tricks. Every course brings something 
 different to the table, whether it's narrow winding corners, an especially icy surface, or scattered 
 trees. What all of the courses have in common is that you're never the only person skiing on them. 
 Other skiers not only make great obstacles but, when you see them standing around with yellow icons 
 floating above their heads, they also have challenges for you. There are over 150 challenges in 
 total, including trivia questions, food delivery runs, rescue missions, and more conventional elements 
 like races, slaloms, and mogul tournaments. It'll be a while before any of these are genuinely 
 challenging, but that's largely because the learning curve is so good that you're rarely asked 
 to do anything that previous challenges haven't prepared you for. It's also because, trivia questions 
 aside, We Ski is a mostly easy game. In fact, scouring the mountain in search of characters that 
 have tasks for you will often take longer than it does to complete them.  

  Fortunately, time spent exploring the slopes is rarely wasted. Your performance is graded every 
 time you complete a course, you can get your photo taken and added to your Wii's bulletin board 
 any time you encounter a photographer, and animal lovers will give you cryptic clues as to where 
 you can find the resort's elusive wildlife. Incidentally, the availability of these extras varies 
 depending on whether you're skiing at night or during the day, but the only other differences between 
 day and night are visual -- occasionally making the latter a little more difficult.  

  Skiing with friends can make aimlessly navigating the slopes a little more interesting, and if 
 you happen upon any challenges you can progress through the game exactly as you would playing solo. 
 We Ski supports up to four players in split-screen mode, though even when there are only two of 
 you playing the frame rate can go downhill fast if the slopes get busy. Some of the challenges 
 are more difficult to complete when your view is restricted in split-screen mode and there are 
 other players to bump into, while others are made much easier by the presence of additional players 
 who can work alongside you to achieve a common goal. If your friends prefer competing in traditional 
 events to exploring the resort, any races, slaloms, and mogul competitions that you've unlocked 
 can be replayed at any time via the main menu. They're fun for a while, but they get repetitive 
 more quickly than the other challenges that you find on the mountain because they're short, there 
 aren't many of them, and only the slaloms offer any significant variety.  

           Photo opportunities like this one don't present themselves very often.      

  While 
 challenges are scattered all over the resort, most of them can be found close to the ski lifts 
 where groups of skiers congregate. These locations are generally the only place that you get to 
 hear anything other than the occasional "swoosh" noises of your skis and the irritating gibberish 
 that serves as character speech, since the lift stations are equipped with speakers. Occasional 
 announcements about missing children and badly parked vehicles are a nice touch, but it's the soundtrack 
 that will make you smile if you're a fan of previous Namco Bandai offerings, since it's composed 
 of theme tunes from the likes of Pac-Man and Katamari Damacy.  

  We Ski isn't a game that will satiate your need for high-speed thrills, over-the-top stunts, and 
 fierce competition. Rather, it's a relatively sedate game in which you can have fun exploring, 
 taking part in friendly contests, running errands for other skiers, and posing for photos. If that's 
 something that appeals to you, then the Happy Ski Resort is definitely somewhere you should plan 
 on visiting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Personally, i really enjoyed, and continue to enjoy, this game. The reason for that is, this game 
 does not try to be more than it is, which is a great family friendly skiing game. The controls 
 are absolutely amazing, if you have ever skied before you won't find this THAT different from the 
 real thing. The game offers a great virtual ski resort ("creatively" called, Happy Ski Resort) , 
 with lots of different slopes to test your skills. Along these slopes there are tons of great missions 
 to complete, such as air tricks, mogul skiing, races, and generally finding things all over the 
 resort. Another great thing is you get to customize your character, with different outfits, skis, 
 stocks, gloves etc. There is also a Mii compatibility, so that you can use your own face to go 
 skiing. I'm really glad they put this in, because i personally think the characters in this game 
 look really retarded..
  But anyway, overall this is everything a family friendly skiing game should be, its simple, fun, 
 and has a certain charm to it. One bad thing though, in order to play multiplayer, you need to 
 use the wii remotes.. i mean, its not really an issue, since you probably wont have 2 balance boards, 
 but if a friend has one, sadly they cant bring theirs to play wii ski with you.. But this doesn't 
 take away the greatness of this little game. I recommend it to all who have a balance board gathering 
 dust in the corner of your living room... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aspirinhead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I moved to the Caribbean three years ago, and it's sad to say, this game is the closet thing to 
 snow skiing that I have right now.
  
  Great game for the Wii Fit and it's easy to learn and master. My wife even plays it. Controls are 
 a little touchy, but I'm sure I get a spastic, trying to do a 2X flip and a daffy.
  
  Graphics are as good as you can expect and the game is a little immersing so it blends together 
 nicely. Poor, if no soundtrack. Long winded conversations with quest givers. 
  
  Free-ride, race, mogul, slalom, are all available and free-ride has plenty of "quests" to fulfill. 
 Multi-player is fun but I have not used multiple fit boards yet (is it possible?) .
  
  Solid game, easy to learn, good multi-player, can use your Mii as your character, waiting for Shawn 
 White this Nov. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Well i thought it would be a little better. The good things are you can you can use your Miis and 
 you can ski where ever you want to. The bad things are that you sometimes can't find the spot where 
 you want to go. Like me i could not get to Shark skin and Snake pass. Well the graphics are good 
 (not the best) . The game play is good you really feel like you are really skiing. But there is 
 a hidden spot called snowman canyon it is very hard to do without loosing your balance. My favorite 
 is Bear claw you can go very fast, but if you run into a fence and you fall, and your perfect is 
 gone. If you have Wii fit you can use the balance board. You should use it when you are playing 
 by your self. It is a good game it is $30.00 bucks and you can buy it at game stop (that is where 
 i go) . I recommend it! You should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozaki11
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Fun game with the family and friends, but it is a little boring on your own as all you can do are 
 a few mini-games, also you can't unlock anything but outfits and hats etc.
  Its totorial is alright gets a bit boring becuase if you've watch the videos then you know what 
 to do but without doing them you wont lurn everything important, and you wont lurn jump tricks 
 without it!
  This game is also beter on the wii balace board and it is eaier, in a way, to turn and the jumps 
 are quite fun too.
  Overall the game is better mulitiplayer than single, there are some cool outfits and faces. it 
 is good on the balace board and some of the controls may be a bit hard to get used to. jumps and 
 racing friends are really good!
  
  :) life's for living not for playing games... but what the heck i'm still young!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshyjess
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I basically look at this game as two different games in one. On the one hand, when used without 
 the Wii board, this game is like any other skiing game you've probably played before, nothing special 
 about it. But, when you use this game with the Wii balance, it quickly becomes one of the best 
 ski games ever made. The Wii balance board is very sensitive to your slightest movement, and gives 
 you very life-like control and feel to your skiing adventure.
  
  Probably the best word I can think of to describe this game is "fun". If you're looking for a game 
 with state of the art graphics, and over the top tricks and moves, this is not the game you want. 
 If you want a game that is pure and simple fun, this is a great choice. 
  
  This game does offer a bunch of different playing modes, and unlockable items, but honestly, what 
 makes this game worth getting is the way it works with the balance board. No other ski game gives 
 you this kind of control. I highly recommend this game if you want a really fun, really realistic 
 type of skiing game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rusnock007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Great Game if you are looking for a game to go with the balance board it is a lot of fun it is 
 a little motion sensitive but other wise a good game and its fun for the whole family it is a good 
 game for the price at least the price i got it at to wrap the whole thing up i would say that its 
 a balance board- b fun- a
  price- a
  control (s) - c
  overall- b+\ i would reccommed that you buy this game if you are looking for fun , cheap price, 
 or game for the family bla bla bla bla bol bla bla bla bla bla bla bla ball go eagles booooooo 
 cowgirls
  its on anderson silva rocked irvin lets getit on ( just trin to fill in space ) need 50 more characters 
 think i got it need 6 more got it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kassy729
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say that I'm using the Balance Board with this game. I tried playing without 
 it and found that fairly unsatisfying, but with the Board it's just wonderful. Sure, they could 
 have added front-to-back controls with the board but I still have to give this game a high score. 
 It's easily playable but there are nice hidden challenges to it. 
  
  I really like the Freestyle mode best, it feels like a real day of skiing except I can skip the 
 lengthy chair lift ride and spend more time skiing. The mini-games are a fun diversion if you get 
 bored just swooshing around or want a little more challenge. It's nice how the course levels progress, 
 it seems like my boyfriend who is not a skier is enjoying the easier courses a lot while I (a casual 
 skier and small-time slalom racer in the past) am finding the hardest courses challenging enough 
 to be fun while ski-able enough to be relaxing.
  
  I wouldn't throw this in when I'm in the mood for hardcore gaming, but it's fantastic for cooling 
 down after a Wii Fit session (especially when you're not in the mood for the balance games on there) 
 or a long day. Sometimes I even take a break while working and just do a few runs, which really 
 injects some fun into my day and, more importantly, gets me off my butt for a few minutes. I have 
 played every day since I first picked it up, I guess that kind of says everything.
  
  An excellent effort for the first third-party game to utilize the Balance Board, that's for sure! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Strangely, I really like this game. I used to be a skier, but recently have not had the opportunity 
 to do any skiing. 
  Perhaps this is why I enjoyed this game. It brings back old memories and really makes you feel 
 like you are at a mountain resort. It is quite fun, although much easier than real skiing. At least 
 you dont freeze your *** off. 
  To me it manages to be fun without making great pretensions about itself like Wii Fit, which to 
 me takes itself much too seriously and is not really as much fun to play as this game.
  The game has several simple challenges which are given to you by talking to other "skiers" on the 
 slope. I did not really get into these, but some people I played with thought they were quite cool. 
 
  All in all the game can be finished fairly quickly, but it is fun to go back and "ski" again and 
 again as a simple and relaxing diversion from day to day stress and drudgery. It is nice to have 
 a game like this as a change of pace from some of the intense and demanding games out for other 
 systems. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
