-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: We Ski & Snowboard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/familyskiworldskisnowboard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent Mii integration.
 Loads of varied challenges to complete.
 Great, uncomplicated controls.
 Fun unlockables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited balance-board support.
 Lackluster audio.
 Snowboards add nothing new to gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Skiing
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This accessible snow-sports game doesn't improve on its predecessor as meaningfully as it might 
 have, but is a lot of fun nonetheless. 

  Less than a year after We Ski successfully opened its slopes for business, the aptly named We Ski 
 &amp; Snowboard remedies its predecessor's lack of snowboarding and also offers two brand-new mountains 
 for you to play on. Snowboards don't change the game the way they should, and there aren't many 
 new features to be found on the slopes, but there's plenty of fun to be had here for players of 
 all ages.  

           Turns out the lack of snowboards in We Ski wasn't such a big deal after all.      

 
  After opting to play as either a Mii or one of the game's customizable characters, your first 
 move from the main menu will likely be to attend the snow school. It's a slow process to play through 
 the numerous lessons, each of which cover only a single move, but by the end you'll have mastered 
 the mostly uncomplicated controls for everything from stopping and turning to landing huge jumps 
 and performing spectacular tricks. New ground tricks that can be used to be string together high-scoring 
 combos are a welcome addition, and they're easy enough to perform that, even when they're necessary 
 to complete challenges, the difficulty level doesn't ramp up too significantly.  

  There are separate lessons for skiing and snowboarding at the school, but if you go there expecting 
 the two disciplines to offer different gameplay experiences, you're in for a disappointment. The 
 animation and the names of the moves and tricks are different, but the controls and the performance 
 are not. In fact, the only noteworthy difference is that if you choose to play using the Balance 
 Board, you need to rotate the peripheral 90 degrees from its regular orientation when you use it 
 for snowboarding. Regardless of how you choose to go downhill, the Balance Board's functionality 
 is again limited to shifting your weight to steer left and right. It works just fine, but it's 
 disappointing that you can't control your speed or tricks in the same way.  

  After settling on a control scheme and learning how to play with it, you can choose to enter races, 
 slaloms, and various trick-related contests directly from the main menu or to explore one of the 
 mountains and participate in those events when you find them. The Jamboree Snow Resort is a lot 
 like We Ski's Happy Snow Resort, but its busy slopes offer more varied challenges than those in 
 last year's game. Artificial ramps, halfpipes, and grinding rails that look like the remains of 
 roller coasters appear alongside mogul runs and winding slalom courses, and an impressive network 
 of lifts transports you between slopes if you want to take in the view rather than use a map to 
 move around the resort instantly. Relatively speaking, Mount Angrio is an untamed wilderness where 
 challenges come in the form of wooded areas, rocky outcrops, huge drops from cliff faces, and even 
 avalanches in a couple of spots. The only way up the mountain is inside a helicopter or UFO, and 
 the only way down is on your skis or board.  

           The ride to the top of Mount Angrio is well worth the effort.      

  In We Ski, you 
 needed to explore the resort to find characters with challenges for you, but in We Ski &amp; Snowboard 
 the vast majority of them are waiting for you at the bottom of each mountain. As a result, exploration 
 is a little less compelling this time around, but there are still photo opportunities, hidden runs, 
 and secret characters to find if you take the time to search for them. On the flipside, not having 
 to search for challenges means that it's much easier, for example, to play through all of a mountain's 
 10 races back-to-back if that suits your interest.  

  Races that pit you against a handful of other characters are among the most enjoyable challenges 
 to complete in We Ski &amp; Snowboard. Longer races that span multiple slopes are the most interesting 
 because you often need to figure out the fastest route through certain areas before you can succeed. 
 Other challenges include trick competitions on halfpipes, moguls, and slopes littered with ramps 
 and rails, as well as various delivery missions that give you hints on where on the mountain you 
 can find your target and then give you a time limit to do so. Slalom events and missions in which 
 you have to collect items on your way down a slope are the most challenging, considering that they 
 invariably require some trial and error while you memorize the locations of both the slalom gates 
 and of the items you're aiming for. Overall, We Ski &amp; Snowboard is a more challenging game 
 than its predecessor, but it's rarely frustrating, and your progress is well rewarded with amusing 
 unlockable costumes and equipment.  

  It's not possible to go online with We Ski &amp; Snowboard, but you can show off your dinosaur-bone 
 skis, your flying-carpet snowboard, or your samurai snow in split-screen mode at home with up to 
 three friends who, as you explore the mountains together, are sure to be impressed by your unlockable 
 outfit. Split-screen play doesn't suffer from the slowdown that it did in the first game, but when 
 your peripheral vision is limited by the size of your screen area, it can be tough to keep track 
 of challenge objectives and of each other if you're trying to go downhill as a group. The quality 
 of the simplistic though charming visuals isn't adversely affected when you play in split-screen, 
 though choosing to ski at night further compounds the lack of visibility.  

           Jamboree Snow Resort's slopes are littered with toys.      

  We Ski &amp; Snowboard's 
 audio is functional but lacks the charm of the visuals. Sound effects, in conjunction with subtle 
 controller vibration, do a great job of giving you feedback when you're skiing on different surfaces 
 or pushing the limits of how sharply you can turn, but they're not enough to make the sound design 
 interesting. You occasionally hear conversations between other skiers as you pass them, and resort 
 announcements break up the monotony of the elevator music anytime you're near a lift station or 
 anywhere else on the mountain that there are speakers. The soundtrack lacks the theme tunes from 
 other Namco Bandai games that were present in the first game, which is a shame given that the Katamari 
 Damacy music in particular rarely fails to raise a smile.  

  If you already own We Ski, it's difficult to justify the purchase of We Ski &amp; Snowboard. The 
 new mountains are fun to explore and there are plenty of challenges to keep you busy, but the introduction 
 of snowboarding amounts to little more than a new set of animations and trick names. On the other 
 hand, if you've yet to sample the delights of We Ski, this is undoubtedly the better game of the 
 two.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
