-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wii Fit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/wiifit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Balance board is a great new peripheral.
 Exercises will help your balance and strength.
 Beats the repetitiveness of going to the gym.
 Some fun balance board games.
 Pleasant presentation throughout.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No way to create your own exercise program.
 You're forced to unlock most of the activities.
 Some games are rather shallow.
 Health and fitness assessments can be problematic.
 Board is sensitive, but you can still cheat at exercises.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.1, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,749 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Sports
Date: May 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wii Fit will help you work up a sweat, but it's not as smooth and fun a workout as you'd probably 
 like. 

  Wii Fit takes the whole concept of games as exercise to a new level with the inclusion of a balance 
 board peripheral that can tell you on the fly exactly how well -- or how poorly -- you're doing with 
 its various activities. As such, Nintendo is heavily marketing this innovative title as a mixture 
 of fitness and fun, and for the most part it works. It's a decent alternative for those bored with 
 the repetitiveness of going to a gym or too self-conscious to join a yoga or aerobics class. Unfortunately, 
 Wii Fit is hamstrung by some odd omissions (such as not being able to create your own program from 
 the available exercises) and questionable health advice, limiting its effectiveness both as a fitness 
 tool and as a game.  

           The Wii balance board is a nifty and sensitive peripheral.      

  At the core of the 
 Wii Fit experience is the new balance board, an elegant-looking yet surprisingly sturdy peripheral 
 which features several internal scales that can detect changes in weight and pressure as you're 
 standing on it. The board -- which is also quite hefty at roughly 8.8 lbs (4kgs) -- interacts wirelessly 
 with the Wii, and takes four AA batteries (which are included) . The board has four rubber feet 
 to help prevent it from slipping on smooth surfaces (and even comes with four extra feet that can 
 be used to raise your balance board higher should you have thick carpet on your floors) . Like the 
 Wii Remote before it, the balance board is intuitive to use once you get into an exercise or game 
 in Wii Fit, with its extreme sensitivity allowing it to pick up even the most minute shifts in 
 weight. Its sensitivity only goes so far, however, with the board able to take only 330lbs (150kg) 
 maximum weight, locking out the particularly robust from joining in on the Wii Fit fad.  

  Not that plus sizes need worry that they're missing out on a prime weight-loss opportunity. Despite 
 its moniker, Wii Fit isn't a total fitness solution, with its included exercises focusing more 
 on improving muscle tone and balance than on cardio and weight loss. What it does offer is a better 
 way to track your weight, body mass index (BMI) , and time spent exercising both within the game 
 itself and from any other external activities, giving users a clearer picture of how their health 
 is progressing over time. It's no more going to make you super-fit than Wii Sports is going to 
 make you a tennis pro, but it can provide a strong anchor for a more expansive fitness regime should 
 you have the motivation.  

  As a title focused on health, Wii Fit makes some fairly significant judgments about its users' 
 fitness. This happens right from when your Mii is first registered with the game; after inputting 
 a date of birth and height, you're asked to step on the balance board for a weigh-in (all guided 
 onscreen by a cartoon version of the board) . From the height and weight data, a user's BMI is calculated, 
 with the user tagged as underweight, ideal, or overweight depending on the BMI score. A simple 
 balance test then occurs (usually involving having to shift your balance to certain areas within 
 a time limit) before your Wii Fit Age is displayed in large numbers on the screen. Only one Wii 
 Fit Age result can be recorded daily, although you can practice the variety of balance tests as 
 many times as you want.  

  It's here where Wii Fit could possibly become problematic for some. Judgments such as BMI and fitness 
 levels usually come from doctors and health care professionals, not cartoon versions of a computer 
 game peripheral -- and Wii Fit frankly doesn't do a good enough job of explaining the science behind 
 its measurements. While BMI, for example, is a well-established tool for measuring a person's ideal 
 weight, Wii Fit fails to make players aware that variables such as muscle mass and age can significantly 
 affect a score (giving an otherwise healthy person with more muscle an overweight rating, for example) . 
 The title also throws the term "metabolic syndrome" around quite often, stating people with poor 
 balance and low health can suffer from it without ever explaining what it actually is. Although 
 most users of Wii Fit will probably not take the game's BMI or fitness age calls too seriously, 
 but there's bound to be some overanxious player who does.  

           Better be content with your body image before you step on the balance board.      

 
  In structure, Wii Fit is most reminiscent of the various Brain Training games on the Nintendo 
 DS, with the title broken down into a series of exercises that players can do regularly to improve 
 their health. These exercises are split into four different categories: yoga, muscle, aerobic, 
 and balance. The yoga and muscle categories feel the most like traditional exercise, with 15 yoga 
 poses and 15 muscle-toning moves to work through. Yoga poses range from the absurdly simple (standing 
 still and breathing -- yep, that's all) to the quite difficult and possibly lawsuit-in-the-making 
 shoulder stand. It's a similar situation with the muscle-toning section, with basic lunges mixed 
 in with more strenuous activities such as the parallel stretch and push-ups. Virtual trainers (you 
 can choose from either male or female) guide you through the yoga and muscle exercises, offering 
 praise or criticism depending on how well you're doing.     

  The aerobic and balance activities represent the fun side of Wii Fit with 18 games to choose from. 
 The aerobic games include hula hoops, Wii Sports-like boxing, step dancing, jogging, and more. 
 The balance activities are what most casual users of Wii Fit will first gravitate to, and include 
 ski jump, ski slalom, snowboarding (where you have to turn the balance board sideways) , a table 
 tilt game where you have to use your shifting weight in a Mercury Meltdown-style challenge, and 
 more.  

           Yes, you can cheat. But why would you want to?      

  You'll be anchored to the balance board for most of these exercises and activities, with the board 
 giving you on-the-fly feedback on just how well you're performing. Each activity features an onscreen 
 indicator showing you where your weight should ideally be placed, with Wii Fit assigning you a 
 score based on how well you've managed to keep your balance or shift your weight to the appropriate 
 areas. In this, the board is a remarkable piece of tech, with even the slightest quiver of your 
 feet registering as a shift in balance. But while the board is extremely sensitive when it comes 
 to weight, it can't actually track what you're doing with your upper body. This means you can easily 
 "cheat" your way through most of the exercises by simply shifting your weight to where Wii Fit 
 indicates it should be. It's even easier to cheat in the few activities where you don't use the 
 board at all. In jogging, you're supposed to either tuck the Wii Remote into a pocket or hold it 
 in your hand while running on the spot, but you can achieve the same effect by simply waggling 
 the Wii Remote.  

  But as with any form of exercise, you won't get real results by cheating. Wii Fit's list of yoga 
 and muscle exercises do have the potential to tone muscles and improve balance with regular use, 
 although with only 30 moves in total, it'll get old rather quickly. It's puzzling, then, that Wii 
 Fit initially locks most of the exercises, with time spent using the title the only way to unlock 
 them. New activities are unlocked roughly every 10 minutes of use, which means you'll need five 
 or six hours of Wii Fit play time before you get full access to all of its activities. And any 
 unlocked activity can only be played with the profile that gains it. That means if you have several 
 people registered on the one console, all of them would have to unlock the activities individually. 
 What's even more baffling is the lack of an option for players to create their own workout programs 
 by stringing exercises together. That means you can't choose, let's say, four yoga, three muscle, 
 and two aerobic exercises to create a tailored half-hour program. Instead, you'll have to select 
 an activity using the Wii Remote, perform it, jump back into the main menu, select another activity, 
 and so on. It's jarring, and certainly not the smooth workout experience many were probably expecting 
 from Wii Fit.  

  This strange lack of functionality extends to the "fun" parts of Wii Fit -- the aerobic and balance 
 games. There are scant few multiplayer options in this title, meaning players can't directly take 
 on family and friends in any of the games (two-player jogging being an exception) . Considering 
 Nintendo's strong social push with the Wii, this is a strange move. Thankfully, most of the games 
 are quick affairs, although it's still annoying to have to kick all the way out to Wii Fit's main 
 menu to select another Mii to play with. Some of the games themselves are rather shallow, too, 
 and will fail to excite most people after a couple of weeks. Perhaps the best game of the bunch 
 is the table tilt game, which becomes increasingly difficult and can really push your balance control. 

  Wii Fit's presentation is typical Nintendo, which is to say that it's clean and cheery for the 
 most part. The title looks best with its aerobic and balance games, with a player's assortment 
 of Miis taking centre stage. The character models used for the fitness trainers are rather low-definition, 
 however, and are functional rather than impressive. In-exercise audio is also bland in an elevator-music 
 type of way, although thankfully it's not the thumping dance music you hear blaring out of most 
 gyms. Online is nonexistent here, but the game does feature a Wii Fit Channel function which allows 
 you to check your progress and compare it to other Miis on your Wii without having to start up 
 the full game.  

   

           Table tilt: the best game in the Wii Fit bundle.      

   

  Wii Fit's included exercises do have the potential to positively impact your health, but 
 thanks to its lack of exercise options, poor support for multiplayer, and shallow health advice, 
 this title isn't a gaming fitness revolution. What it does do is serve as a great introduction 
 to the very impressive balance board, a peripheral which is already being lined up for use in other 
 games. But for a game that's being marketed so heavily on fitness and fun, Wii Fit is a little 
 underweight in both.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (113 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gh31477
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun. its not just fun but it also is a nice workout. this game is great for the 
 whole family and would be a great christmas present. you even lose a lot of weight if you play 
 it alot. there are games, yoga, aerobics, and strength exercises, so about something for everyone. 
 there is 40 games in total and you can have fitness tests daily. hope you like it. :) It is only 
 90 dollars which includes the balance board and also the game. please give this game a chance. 
 i really like this game and it is one of the most revelutionary games on the wii. also other games 
 are compatible with the wii balance board. so...... have fun. :) dfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgd fgdfgdfgdf 
 gdfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgdf gdfgdfgdfgdf gdfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgdfgg ggggg ggggggg 
 ggg gggg gggggggg gggggg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  Yes im a believer in the weight losing power of wii fit! But no im not overweight to start off 
 with i was 10 stone (1 week ago) now im 9 stone!
  Wii provides a variety of Yoga, muscle workouts, Balance games and aerobic exercises. Doing these 
 exercises adds up minutes to unlock more events.
  From jogging, hula hooping and even fishing with a penguin!
  But the point is this really is 
 WII FIT, it absolutely works, i had a few freinds with a problem with their weight and now after 
 a couple of months their happy with their weight.
  WII Fit tells your BMI, weight , fitness age. You set yourself targets of weight loss over a couple 
 of weeks and Wii fit will keep you posted.
  
  Also it's very nice to you, Always edging you on like your a superstar, and giving you real boost.
 
  60 seems like a beefy sumof money, but the Wii board can work on a lot of games and Wii fit is 
 an amazing game. You owe it to the wii to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mage32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:32 am PT
Review:  Hi this a mage32 review
  i am quite harsh when i comes to reviewing games so if i say anything is bad its terrible and if 
 i say its great you really should pick it up
  i am doing the review a few months after playing to get a better picture of replay and stuff
 
  and if i put anything wrong please correct me.
  
  this game doesnt have a story so i comment on that.
  the music is decent and the intructions 
 are easy to understand so well done overall.
  the actual gameplay is good and while its a excercise game you can still have fun with it and its 
 a great way to get i shape and its help me to control my weight and offers some great tips so if 
 you need to lose weight or tone up its awesome, if you dont it is virtually pointless since there 
 are games but only single player (apart from 2 player jogging but i doubt your friends would wanna 
 play that when they come round) , the best part is when you have a big party and you get a bit drubk 
 and then play the games thats whats funny.
  
  if your just getting this to get the balance board i would say its a solid investment since many 
 games use the balance board and some games would be lets say pointless with out it so it enjoyable 
 and for some extra money you get this game and for the most part i enjoyed it, until i could never 
 beat the guy at the press up challenge , and when the games started to get boring since it hardly 
 takes any time to unlock all the game has to offer.
  
  there is large variety of games some really tiring others quite fun and relaxing and getting to 
 chose your trainer and them constantly change their hairstyles and tips, it makes it feel more 
 a full game rather then some cheap gimic, so i personally enjoyed it but i would say only people 
 intrested in excercise or fitness should get this game or if you just want to know your bmi and 
 speaking about that it not very accurate since i weighed my self and got a bmi or 16.2 and then 
 held my labrador and got a bmi of 16 so it is not without faluts so beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I spent some time with Wii Fit and I assure you that this works marvellous! I liked it. If you 
 don't have time to prepare and go sport outside like gym, you should definitely try this at home.
 
  And also the games on the Wii Fit are all balance based games and they are full of fun.
  My wife enjoyed it very much. Actually, I bought Wii Fit for my wife. Later on, I didn't get myself 
 off Wii Fit. It is fun and easy to use. And also very secure!
  
  
  
  spent some time with Wii Fit and I assure you that this works marvellous! I liked it. If you don't 
 have time to prepare and go sport outside like gym, you should definitely try this at home.
  And also the games on the Wii Fit are all balance based games and they are full of fun.
  My wife 
 enjoyed it very much. Actually, I bought Wii Fit for my wife. Later on, I didn't get myself off 
 Wii Fit. It is fun and easy to use. And also very secure!
  
  
  spent some time with Wii Fit and I assure you that this works marvellous! I liked it. If you don't 
 have time to prepare and go sport outside like gym, you should definitely try this at home.
  And also the games on the Wii Fit are all balance based games and they are full of fun.
  My wife 
 enjoyed it very much. Actually, I bought Wii Fit for my wife. Later on, I didn't get myself off 
 Wii Fit. It is fun and easy to use. And also very secure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miller278
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:02 am PT
Review:  Ok wii fit is a game for the wii. It makes you excercise and get "fit". it uses the wii balance 
 board for its so many games and excercises in it. you do stuff like stretches and yoga and then 
 you get a rank about how you did. now you could either hate or love this game. i hate it. personally, 
 i dont see the point of running on the spot in your living room with your wii-mote in your pocket 
 watching your mii run in animated places, when you could go outside and do it there. the places 
 dont look very good either, you get an empty gym with a personality-less and a faceless instructor 
 that tells you what to do, and a talking balance board. i played this a lot less than ten hours, 
 maybe more like 40 minutes before i got bored. a lot of my friends really like this game but i 
 dont. this game does not take my fancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdeye70
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  When I was going to buy wii fit, i was so excited about it. But after 2 hours of playing it I felt 
 very frustrated, for the fact that there was no multiplayer and that the exercise where very boring. 
 The only part what i like about it is that its different and it is using wii balance board.
  
  Now what is with the price; I live in Finland and it cost here 108 ... Nintendo said that 
 the prices would be low for all of there products... How come I am not seeing this.
  
  The fun bit of the game is the balance games. They give an interesting touch to the game and make 
 it fun. It would have been fun if, for example, the ski jumping could have been multiplayer. It 
 is kind of weird that Nintendo shows in there advertisement that Wii Fit is a family game, but 
 then they put no direct competition.
  
  Wii fit is a disappointment and a rip-off. The only good part is the board, the game it self sucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This game keeps the record of your weight and it is a really fun way to exercise, if your a gaming 
 addict this will help alot. It also helps you improve your posture and certain body parts with activities 
 like Yoga, Muscle exercises that can prove exhausting, Balance exercises to improve your posture 
 and activities can be unlocked when you improved your grade in a certain "game" or when you played 
 for quite a number of minutes. You can also set a target weight loss and the deadline and this will 
 prove beneficial if your those lazy types or if you do not feel like going out this is also a "backup" 
 for  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a great way of exercising, but you have to play it often. If you don't play 
 it often, the game won't really help and it would be a waste of money. Sure, it's a great value, 
 but before you buy it... think about whether you're going to use it or not.
  The game comes with the Wii Balance Board which is an awesome accessory. It can also check your 
 weight and BMI when you play Wii Fit. The game itself is solid. You can do different kinds of exercises 
 and stretches. It's kind of easy to cheat, but what's the point of buying it when you're just going 
 to cheat? There are 40 mini games in Wii Fit that are pretty fun. You can do some running, yoga, 
 hula hoops, etc. I would recommend this game for those who are planning to use it regularly. I 
 still use it, but it can get boring after a while. It can get repetitive and exercising in the 
 gym is still better than Wii Fit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neelhtaky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  In the emerging array of fitness games, this one makes its debut. With simplistic graphics, and 
 easy to follow instructions  it makes a sound start, and shows great potential for a game to follow 
 to improve upon its downfalls.
  There is a growing market for fitness games, as all of you may be aware. They attempt to take the 
 hard, sweaty, back-breaking work out of exercise, and place it was a more relaxed, enjoyable result. 
 All at the same time attempting to provide the same effects; lean bodies, taught muscles and a 
 general level of fitness. There is much debate as to whether the Wii Fit is a credible exercise 
 regime, however it has many of its own merits and setbacks that makes it a valid game to those 
 in the gaming community. 
  
  The graphics are simplistic, making the step by step instructions easy to follow. Even whilst in 
 the game the clear voice instructions make it easy for the user to follow. These are both aspects 
 to such a game that requires a significant amount of detail  all of which the producers gave. 
 
  
  As those who have already played will know, the Wii fit offers several different core game play 
 types; yoga, aerobatics and strength-training. So, with all the exercise options they provide, 
 does it really work? The short answer is no. But that doesn't mean the long answer is the same. 
 It is important to note that 
  
  "Nintendo isn't claiming that Wii Fit will help people lose weight -- or even become healthier. 
 The company says it merely hoped to create a game that combines entertainment and the ability to 
 track progress with a healthy activity."  
 
  
  The game was not designed specifically to get your heart rate up to the same level that a bike 
 ride or jog will provide. It was also not aimed at people who are fit, either. Instead, the game 
 was aimed at the very stereotypical gamer  the one who sits at a computer or on the couch all 
 day and does barely any physical activity, promoting a basic stepping stone towards more extenuous 
 activity. 
  
  The basic lunges, push ups and even the games, often work off of the player's balance whilst they 
 play  giving them points regarding to how well they kept their balance and performed throughout 
 each activity. Thus this aspect of game play does not give the option for easy, medium or hard 
 levels, but in fact gives a continuous level of difficulty by letting the player try and beat their 
 own records. 
  
  Playing the game in this state-of-mind; not trying to beat the game itself but my own previous 
 scores, the game was somewhat challenging. Despite this, some of the exercises such as the lunge 
 and even the 'breather' as I found myself calling it, in which the player simply focuses on their 
 breathing under the yoga category, often scored near or on the 100% mark the entire time. Whilst 
 many of the exercises did seem too overly simple, the more one played the greater the challenge 
 came  to a degree. As more points were stored in the bank, more games and exercises were unlocked. 
 Good as this idea was, I often found that if you performed a particular exercise more often than 
 another, the harder difficulties were then opened for that exercise. With more of a challenge set 
 up for something that I was good at, I found myself neglecting those that I struggled with. Even 
 when I state that there was a challenge, it's also very important to note that teach of the activities 
 were still well within ease of completing. 
  
  Despite this somehow lack of any serious challenge that would keep me drawn back to the game over 
 and over, the game Wii Fit did have some positive merits that would give me cause to suggest it 
 to others. The game is more suitable to those recovering from injuries. Within a week of following 
 each exercise religiously I personally found that the game was easing the back pain that seems 
 to plague me. I have heard the same report from family friends who suffer from the same problem. 
 I have also heard many stories of Wii Fit helping people with limps and other similar symptoms. 
 I am not saying that this game is ideal for therapy; however from mentions I have heard this game 
 could hold its merits within that field. 
  
  One major let down that I found this game to have was quite a significant one; multiplayer was 
 non-existent pretty much. There was one game that allowed two users to hold a wii remote and run 
 with it, effectively racing along a track. However this game lacked any substance for me. The entire 
 Wii Fit game is designed upon the ideology that the player pushes themselves against their own 
 scores, and that of other players. Playing one or two exercises, just to go through the lengthy 
 process of signing out of your profile and in as another user was just not appropriate in the gaming 
 world; users want and need games that won't keep them waiting unnecessarily. For example, to complete 
 all the exercises that are first available, it takes roughly one to two hours. To do so much work, 
 just to sit back and keep another player company as they repeat exactly what you did just does 
 not work. They can perform the same basic exercises by following the on screen prompts, but they 
 do not register any points and thus become pointless to perform. In my opinion, what should have 
 been does is the option for two people to sign in on their own profiles and multi-board support. 
 This would allow for first player to select a particular exercise, and thus the two people that 
 performed that exercise will both get the same rating system and points added to their accounts 
 upon completion. 
  
  Overall, the game, although too simplistic and easy for a person that goes to the gym regularly, 
 still works well for many others. As always, whether or not I like the game is up to my own personal 
 opinion. I highly encourage all readers to read the reviews if they want, but to ultimately make 
 up their own minds. Just because 100 people dislike the game, doesn't mean you will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavadias1981
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 1, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  The first thing that most buyers will do is to be taken in by the hype of Wii Fit and thus do not 
 stop to use their logic. I wont describe the software as we all now know what it is but I will 
 give an accurate account of its serious flaws that I have encountered after using it since April 
 2008 of its release. These flaws of which I only noticed after an extended period of use because 
 initially I loved it.
  
  Wii Fit has been constructed very badly. It does not tailor make routines to suit each individual 
 user thus you have no idea what part you should be exercising and how frequently. This causes an 
 uneven development of the health of the body and can cause weakness is some areas whilst strengthening 
 others. It has a very low number of exercises and because of this you exercise the exact some area 
 each time. This does cause repetitive strain injuries. It does not include any warm ups and does 
 not tell you how you should do them. It just says to do it and for those who haven't a clue how 
 or for how long this can lead to injuries. It has the same music every time and the graphics are 
 very weak and bland. Everything is just white, including the trainer! This makes the whole thing 
 start to become very boring after a few months. BMI has been found to be very inaccurate at measuring 
 health and fitness and since this is the only way that Wii Fit measures it you are never given 
 an accurate account of your health development. And finally there is the price. Wii Fit costs  
 70 or more. This is because of the Wii Balance Board which I have found to be completely unnecessary 
 as ALL of the exercises can be done without it.
  
  To sum up. Do not be taken in by the hype as it does not appear to have been developed to actually 
 assist with fitness over a period of time but rather causes injuries and uneven development of 
 which is inaccurate to track in the first place. Don't even get me started on the ever yo-yoing 
 daily body test. Avoid if you can and purchase an exercise DVD or My Fitness Coach for the Wii 
 instead. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasondavies11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  it was great To its credit, the device is no joke. It very accurately measures your every subtle 
 movement and momentum nuance as you step and shift to and from on the Balance Board. It's much 
 more accurate than the WIi remote and it independently analyzes the input from your left and right 
 foot, compiling the data into something meaningful and potentially encouraging within the context 
 of the challenges, whether you're doing yoga poses, push-ups, or partaking in a host of mini-games 
 created specifically for the device. Nintendo has compiled some 40 different challenges spread 
 out across a list of categories including strength training, yoga, aerobics and balance board games, 
 a robust roster that we'll detail at greater length on the next page.
  
  But before we get to that, let's go over body mass index, or BMI, a measurement that Wii Fit relies 
 upon to determine your Wii Fit age (yes, same concept as Brain Age) and to analyze your daily progress. 
 It's also why Wii Fit has recently made the rounds in the press for reportedly labeling a child 
 "obese." We believe that Nintendo made a misstep in relying solely on BMI to gauge weight loss 
 success stories in Wii Fit -- the measurement was never designed to be utilized this way and the 
 results are oftentimes misleading. If you stand 5'10" and weigh 150 pounds, your BMI will fall 
 well within the standard and you will be labeled normal. However, the game doesn't account for 
 different body structures and muscle mass. It merely measures your weight and assigns you a label. 
 Fine, if you really are skinny or traditionally fit or even fine if you are truly obese. But what 
 about all the people who already exercise on a regular basis and have greater muscle mass to show 
 for it? Well, all that muscle counts for fat in Nintendo's title, a truth that creates potential 
 problems right from the start.
  
  Sadly, the game features no means to input this kind of data; it never even asks if you have a 
 muscular build and it certainly doesn't enable you to enter exact fat percentage numbers supplied 
 to you by an exercise instructor. Additions like these would have been extremely useful for those 
 who do make a habit of going to the gym and want to incorporate Wii Fit into their workout routine, 
 so hopefully Nintendo can make these options available, either in a future downloadable update 
 or in an official sequel.
  
  It isn't going to ignite the health industry ablaze, but where exercise is concerned, Wii Fit is 
 nevertheless the real deal. Critics who called the motion-filed antics of Wii Sports gimmicky will 
 have a difficult time making the same complaint of Nintendo's fitness effort, especially naysayers 
 who actually plant their feet and hands on the Balance Board and engage in some lunges or push-up 
 and side planks, or even some Tree or Warrior stands. As you try out the exercises and mini-games, 
 you will be physically challenged, your heart rate will spike, you will need to control your breathing 
 and yes, you're even going to break a sweat, particularly if you keep at it. We go to the gym on 
 a regular basis, where our regiment includes everything from push-ups to weight lifting, but we 
 woke up incredibly sore all the same the day after we first tried Wii Fit.
  
  The exercise in Wii Fit is on a whole less daunting than going to the the gym since Nintendo has 
 supplied you with virtual trainers -- male or female depending on your preference -- to take you 
 through the challenges. The on-screen guides lack realism (they don't even move their mouths when 
 they speak) , but they do their jobs successfully, showing by example proper form and timing during 
 your routines. They even react dynamically as the Wii Balance Board measures your input, offering 
 corrective advice on your form, your breathing and your timing. You would normally pay a high-end 
 fee for this type of personal training at a gym. Indeed, one of our co-workers who fancies herself 
 a yoga expert tried out a few of the yoga exercises in Wii Fit and immediately commented that they 
 were more enjoyable because of the on-screen guidance. Oftentimes she felt herself wondering if 
 her form was correct when she went to the gym, but she felt much more confident about her posture 
 and balance in the game.
  
  This is partly true because of the instructors, but also because Wii Fit shows your subtle movements 
 and shifts to you as you play, a highly useful addition. So when you're striking a yoga pose and 
 holding the form, an on-screen reticule will appear, which represents your balance, and you must 
 keep this reticule centered within a circle as you hold your posture. When doing push-ups, on-screen 
 meters will let you know when to lower yourself and rise again. You will see fluctuating circles 
 on-screen meant to illustrate when you should breathe in and out. And even when you're playing 
 mini-games, such as skiing or ski jump, you will need to keep that reticule balanced within the 
 sweet spot in order to gain proper speed down the slope. It's all very smartly designed and really 
 helpful as you workout, as you never feel like you're fumbling through the motions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  Over all it's great.... tons of unlocks and challenging routines. It will diffinently get you in 
 shape if you stick to it. I love the strength challenges. They have a way of making your arms feel 
 like Jello.... the balancing techniques are very hard at times exspecially if your doing some of 
 the yoga sessions. It's a fun game, also you can compare stats with people in your house hold. 
 Gives you goals to work on and you can create your own at the same time. Gives you step by step 
 instructions on how to do the routine, as well as letting you know when your slippin'. It's better 
 then just sitting there rotating your thumbs. this game actually makes you run around. The instructors 
 can get annoying at times... I havn't checked if you can turn them off yet though. They should diffently 
 have a online stat collector though. Just to see how you measure up to the rest of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccgman8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  You see the wii fit is fun! Yes its exercising game so you think you loose weight. well u may a 
 little but its meant to improve you balance and posture. all of the mini games r loads of fun. 
 The reason why i give it a 9 and not a 10 is because it needs to compatible with wifi. It would 
 be really cool to be able to compare stats to your friends and even the rest of the world. after 
 a while you may get a little bored with the exercises which is why wii needs to give it downloadable 
 content or an expansion pack. All around wii fit is very fun and gets the whole family active. 
 A must buy!
  The best exercise with out a doubt to compare your self to others and the most fun is the skiing 
 and the soccer heading. Also the tightrope walking is extremely competitive. So do yourself a favor 
 and stop listening to the people who hate it because they don't understand it and buy it as soon 
 as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Now i know this game was made for exercise. it can be a good exersising game the blance board is 
 a good idea .At first u like the game because everything is new. if is great for the family and 
 overweight people u can see results. The graphics are goods and the gameplay can be fun. U can also 
 learn from it. Now u might be thinking right know. Why did this person give it a 5. Well here is 
 why
  
  After u unlock everything it gets boring after a month. It takes like 3 days to unlock everything. 
 it gets very boring. The only good weight loss thing is the running thing. And u can just go outside 
 and acutally run. next thing is it is tooeasy to do . Some things u can easily cheat on. The music 
 is not that enjoyable. it is hard to do some cahallenges. Trust me if u depend on this game it will 
 be hard because it gets very boring. Also why not just do the exersices on the floor u don't need 
 wii fit. Get it if u want ,but trust me it will get very boring and u might never palay it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot has something against Nintendo. Seriously, that's the facts. Before looking at reviews 
 here, please pause for a moment. Family friendly, helpful more than amazing games are what Nintendo 
 is doing right now. You need to understand that right now, that's their thing. Like Looney Toons 
 and getting hit by anvils. That is their focus right now, because they realized it gets more people 
 to buy.
  
  Let's get down to the nitty-gritty. The game itself is innovative and creative. You set yourself 
 for a weight goal, do some balance tests, and are told your physical age. Sort of like Brain Age. 
 But more fun.
  
  Many games come packed in this... ahem... package. You have yoga, strength training, balance games, 
 and aerobics. After some time, you will unlock more, and get advanced modes. All of the games are 
 unlocked over time to get you used to what you had and then moving on. Obviously, others on the 
 Wii must unlock theirs themselves as well. It's only good for a worthwhile workout, to work towards 
 those goals! I must comment, though, that the stale surroundings of the yoga and strength training 
 games are beaten by the cozy surroundings of the aerobics running island or the balance game soccer 
 field. You'll find yourself pulled towards the aerobics a little more quickly.
  
  The fun of this game is that even without multiplayer, this game provides some fun family time. 
 I can't count how many times since Christmas we've all just gathered around to see who got the 
 newest high score. And no matter how many times I've seen the body test, I'm always nervously excited 
 to see what I get as my age.
  
  On another note, outside workouts are recorded on a log, so that can count towards unlocking games 
 as well. You know, if you'd rather go to the crowded gym.
  
  The key to this game is enjoying it in spirit. Don't think, "The games are all unlocked" or "these 
 games are not fun" or "this workout that I just did today is stupid and dumb and I hate your face 
 for making me do it." What you need to think is "This will make me more fit, no matter how much 
 or little." Knowing you will succeed if you continue to try... that is what you need to keep on 
 playing.
  
  And guess what? If you just keep thinking that, you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a great one to get for any reason. I don't know that i would get the bundle, but i would 
 definitely get the game and balance board. It's incredible, and trust me on this one; it works 
 if you do it right it really does work. (I played for like a day straight and i swear i was stuck 
 laying on the couch for at least a few hours. BUT IT WAS GREAT!!) On top of that, everyone plays 
 at my house. My mom plays, my sister plays... Heck even my GRANDMOTHER and GRANDFATHER play! It's 
 a great game for groups and obviously for any free alone time you may unexpectedly get. I would 
 recommend it to anyone. Like i mentioned before though, i probably wouldn't get the bundle though, 
 mostly just because of the price. It's great if you're a traveller and take you're wii with you 
 (I'm guilty of that one, but i manage just fine.) but other than that, you can save a few bucks 
 buying just the game and balance board. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamekid999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  wii fit is a great game that gives you a way to improve general fitness, stamina, stability and 
 most of all have fun. with all of this in mind wii fit doesnt actually make you that much better 
 at sports other than giving you increased strength ,stamina and stability however if you do yoga 
 its a great way to get better at yoga. its also really good fun and gives you a good fun game to 
 play with your family, especially when you can laugh how old it tells you that your family and 
 friends fitness age is. all in all this is a good game with only a few minor flaws. the rest is just 
 to fill up the annoying minimum character limit. aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa a a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPorkCity
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  When I received Wii Fit, I was essentially in it for the Balance Board, and ended up with the most 
 family-friendly crowd game yet. While not a multiplayer hit, it gets the entire room going, laughing 
 and holding their breath, as they watch the player (or players) rocking on the balance board. The 
 main draw, obviously, is the innovative Wii Balance Board, which is compatible with not only Wii 
 Fit, but a good 5-6 other games. The Board is absolutely spot-on, and while it may take some time 
 to get used to, you will undoubtedly get the hang of it after maybe 10 Fit points at most. (Fit 
 points are gained by doing the individual games & exercises, usually receiving 1-2 points per exercise) . 
 It's sensitivity is impeccable, detecting even the slightest movement or shift in weight. 
  The game itself is split into four sections: Yoga, Aerobics, Strength Training, and Balance Games. 
 My personal favorites are the Strength & Balance, simply because those are actually games, and 
 crack me up every time. The Yoga & Aerobics, while not as comically pleasing, are very calming 
 & your personal trainer (male or female, by choice) is great. If you happen to do a certain exercise 
 incorrectly, or you just can't get the hang of it, they will guide you through & make sure you 
 can understand everything. 
  All in all, Wii Fit is a very solid, and, at times, hilarious game (like during the soccer header 
 game, your Mii has to dodge a hit in the face by a cleat or *random* panda head) . The Balance Board 
 is the easily the most innovative peripheral for the Wii, and will satisfy your every craving, 
 from Ski Jumping to mastering the Warrior pose. (And for the record, my Wii Fit age is a resounding 
 21 years old.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Another game that I tried out at my cousins house over the break. I was not expecting much. I was 
 hoping it would be as good as the power pad with the Olympics for the Nintendo. 
  
  I was pleasantly surprised. You have so many different activities to try out its a really wonderful 
 and this would be a game you could play for 100's of hours. Having to unlock many of the games 
 is a great idea because it will keep you more focused and keep playing this game. A lot of the 
 activities are really well thought out and the controls are very responsive. A few of the activities 
 are hard to do, just because of the awkwardness of being on the board. Trying to do the push up's 
 and look at a tv that is hanging over mantel is just impossible!
  
  This game might not help you lose 50 pounds if you need to, but if you did this 15 minutes a day 
 instead of sitting in front of a computer or tv, it would not hurt.
  
  The only real knock on this game could be the overall price is just a bit too much for some people. 
 I can understand how that could cause some too not like this game. 
  
  Gamespot really needs someone else to review this game. A 7 is just uncalled for. I mean this is 
 not my type of game at all but it was fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayctravis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I like Wii Fit a lot. What people may not realize is it values balance and steadiness as much as 
 weight loss as a gauge for your fitness. The games are simple and fun, and you can quite easily 
 clock 30 minutes a day just trying to improve your ski-slalom runs. The only one that is really 
 complicated and weird is "rhythm boxing" which is like the step aerobics but requires arm movement 
 as well that is not explained very well. 
  
  Each minute of exercise awards you a coin which goes into a bank, although the game may take slightly 
 longer than the number of minutes it's worth. These coins earn you new games, activities, exercises, 
 and stamps you use to register a body test on your personal calendar.
  
  I only wish there were more step aerobic options. I think Nintendo or someone could release a step 
 game using the board with better and more varied music and slightly more complicated steps -- essentially 
 a fitness version of DDR.
  
  It's a great family game as all of your participating Miis gather in "Wii Fit Plaza" and the current 
 scores are charted together. Players who have not been playing doze off to sleep and the other 
 Miis discuss them in hushed tones behind their hands. Lots of polish, including the board reacting 
 slightly when you step on it, being able to tickle your Miis with the cursor, and date-appropriate 
 graphics, such as the balance board wearing a santa hat on christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game is not for hardcore fit people serousily I am fit so that doesn't mean anything where 
 is the fun excersing infront of a screen this game is not for me ok nintendo. i'm just posting 
 this review to rebel bring back the hardcore PITTT, PIKMIN, FZERO X and star fox serousily i need 
 a better game than this my parents made me play this game im only 58kg I don't need to lose weight 
 if you want excerise simple go outside and jog goooo for walks. People who eats takeway food everyday 
 buy this game expecting to be fit but they need to do more eat healty go for runs weights and go 
 to the gym it's just that simple you don't need a video game ti make you more fit you need a good 
 lifestyle. Oh well I gave it a 4.0 out of 10 -3 for what i said so overall it's 7.0 the game the 
 games are quite fun not for me though I don't need to play this game i neeed a star fox game or 
 a fzero x or ill kill myself no more self help games thankyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3rdWiiBro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Wii fit brings in the new "balance board". The balance board transfers your weight and balance 
 to play all different games and activities. There are balance games, Aerobics, yoga, and strength 
 workouts. The aerobics and balance games use your mii that you make. You are going for a goal at 
 a 2 week period or more. They want you to gain or lose weight to get your BMI (Body Mass Index) 
 around 22. Or, get your wii fit age down to an appropriate level. 
  
  The game also tells you how long you've played and your time stacks up without you knowing. The 
 wii board is very sensitive and it knows who you are by your weight, you will get mixed results 
 if you have someone else hop on while you are on your mii and have them do it if they weigh a lot 
 different than you.
  
  I'd say don't bother with yoga or strength exercises if you don't take it seriously. The balance 
 games are wicked fun, you ski, play soccer, escape in a bubble without getting popped, snowboard, 
 and get billiards into a hole in a table! The aerobics are a hell of fun, especially the step dancing. 
 It makes me laugh all the time!
  
  This is a great family item and there will be many more games coming from the wii that will be 
 compatible with the balance board in the future.
  
  I hope you enjoyed my review =]
  -------Th3rdWiiBro ---------
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke1138
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the other user ratings that the GameSpot review is too low. WiiFit is an innovative 
 way to get a surprisingly good workout.
  
  Using the feedback from the WiiFit, it's clear how you should be doing certain excercises, stretches, 
 and yoga positions. Everytime you do an activity, you get credits. After 4 minutes of excercise, 
 you just want to do one more to break the 5 min mark. At 8 minutes you want to go for 10 and so 
 on.
  
  The balance games are fun and you can keep doing them to unlock advanced difficulty.
  
  It 
 keeps track of your progress from a weight management perspective and has enough variety to keep 
 you interested.
  
  The WiiFit even makes suggestions on combining 2-3 different excercise together to form a complete 
 workout for your specific goal - e. g. strengthening your legs, tightening up your stomach.
  
  The step aerobics activity is really fun but only includes 2 different routines.
  
  Overall, 
 a great way to excercise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puroboros
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I admit I've only played this game for one day so far, so I'm not really entitled to review it 
 yet (so I'm not going to) , but IMO GameSpot gave a little too low score for this game, as I'm personally 
 really happy with the purchase and all in all find it 8.5-ish. So far yoga is my favorite but other 
 modes seem fun and beneficial too. :)
  
  One thing I like is how the balance board feels very precise and the game controls seem to be well 
 designed to work with it. 
  
  Sure there are minuses like lack of customizable personal training program - although there are 
 the 10 favorites (which don't necessarily make up for a best possible training regimen though) 
 but I would recommend the game for the yoga exercises alone..
  
  I hope many families will consider buying a Wii + Fit for Xmas instead of a random violent game 
 for another console with all graphics and no soul... :)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit works awesome.
  The Reviewer complains that you can not tailor a workout...
  The Favorites pretty much does that for you. Your 10 Favorite Workouts.
  
  I also did not have 
 a problem with Time Unlocking the Other Exercises. It eases you into the more advanced workouts. 
 I don't see how this is a Negative Point.
  
  I think GameSpot needs to Think about who they have Review what game... You don't get someone who 
 hates RTS games to Review an RTS game, etc. So why get an out of shape Tool to Review Wii Fit.
 
  
  My whole family has been doing the Wii Fit and Enjoying it. With the Exception of my Son who plays 
 Hockey 3-4 times a week. Although, he still enjoys the Balance Games for Fun Factor.
  
  The Yoga and Strength Training are my Favorites along with the Running which works very well to 
 get the Heart Rate up before your Workout.
  
  Of course you can cheat and get 5* rating and not get a real workout... but who would do that anyways... 
 cheating a workout would not gain you anything, so just cause you can... who would??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Wii-fit is amazing. It introduces hordes of people to the world of yoga and makes them concious 
 about their bodies and health.
  I have shown this game some friends and they all love it. exept for one who hates all physical 
 activity.
  Most popular are the balance and aerobic games. though you can't easily switch from one player 
 to another. the top ten results are saves and everyone wants to be the best at these things.
  I try to do some yoga and muscle exercises for 15 minutes each day and i do get some results from 
 that. after two months i have lower blood pressure and better posture. It also makes me more aware 
 about my daily rhythm and eating habits.
  
  Now the Chinese boy may have some points in his review, still a mere 7 is much to low. this was 
 not the first time a brilliant Nintendo-game is being ****** off by gamespot (Zelda, Mariokart 
 64) , while other much more violent games that all look simular get nines.
  
  Gamespot has a double standard.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patMANpv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well put together. The games and exercises are fun and will make you work. If 
 you use this game correctly and try to do the exercises like they show you, then you will get a 
 decent workout. However, it is very easy, and tempting, to cheat in order to get better scores. 
 If you can resist this urge you will have a good time and get a solid workout.
  
  This game offers many different types of exercises. Yoga, strength, aerobic, and balance games 
 are the 4 different categories to choose from. If you want to increase you balance and flexibility, 
 yoga exercises are the way to go. If you want a real workout, the strength exercises will give 
 you that. The aerobic exercises are just that, they will get your heart rate up and make you sweat 
 (especially the boxing) . And balance games are fun and work to increase your balance.
  
  The one complaint I have with this game is that it gets kind of tedious shifting between accounts 
 if you are playing with more than one person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peasantquest101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If you like trying to stay fit then this game is good for you. If you are buying it just for the 
 little games then it is a waste of your money. Its not a great way to lose weight or gain muscle 
 but it is a good way to keep track of your wieght and relize how poor your balance actually is. 
 I think it is fun to compare weight changes with other members of my family and have contests to 
 see who can lose the most or stay about the same the longest. So overall it is a good game, expecailly 
 if you have family members so that you can try to beat thier score, if you don't you wil probably 
 play it once and get bored with it quickly. If you are thinking about buying this game think about 
 a few things first. The price, if you want the balance board, if you have family members that want 
 to play, if you can fit in about 5 minutes every day to track your weight and balance, and if you 
 actually want to lose weight or gain muscle. My advice is to try it out at a friends house and 
 if you like it then buy it, i wouldn't be suprised if you bought it then regreated it the next 
 day. But i enjoy it and i try to find time everyday to fit in a few minutes to exersize and track 
 my weight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is from one of the rarest genres in video games, the "Exercise/Fitness Game". Although 
 when you think of exercise and fitness you don't think of entertainment, that trend is what Wii 
 Fit tries to break. Produced by Nintendo themselves they really pushed the use of the new Wii balance 
 board and the wiimote.
  
  Although the purpose of the game is to make exercise more entertaining and convenient, the game 
 also has a very hardcore workout if that is what you desire. Although there is no weightlifting 
 obviously there are lots of activities that will push even the seasoned veteran (Personally I work 
 out nearly everyday of the week from running, upper body, core, or lower body) this allows a wide 
 variety of possibilities. Some of the activities are push up contests, jogging, tight rope walking, 
 boxing practice, various yoga techniques, and also a large variety of games and exercises. They 
 are divided into four categories Yoga, Strength Training, Aerobic, and Balance Games these four 
 each have their own uses and entertainment.
  
  Personally I am not big on yoga, I am not all that flexible but even for me it is an amazing stretching 
 process to do before a serious workout. Balance games I find to be more of a fun category, filled 
 with various mini-games that although designed to improve balance are more of a form of entertainment 
 than exercise. Aerobic is for mainly for calorie burning, probably the most common reason to exercise 
 due to the wish of weight loss. A variety of exercises designed to keep you entertained while you 
 keep your heart rate elevated for a good balanced calorie burn.
  
  Strength training is the main focus of the workout in my mind being the bulk of the muscle challenging 
 exercises. Having a large variety of exercises to single out specific muscles or muscle groups 
 you can work out the muscles you think you need more work on than others. The ability to increase 
 reps will make you able to change from beginner to expert difficulty easily. Although all these 
 exercises and activities are the large portion of the game there are other features, including 
 a calendar for scheduling and recording workouts and such.
  
  Another feature I found very good and still use is the basic daily test, this tells you your posture, 
 weight, and your current BMI. This allows you to keep a day-to-day track of your workout progress 
 and allows you to see what is working for you and what isn't, it may just be my personal opinion 
 but if you do this everyday it will increase your chances to stay with your goal. Speaking of goals, 
 when you play Wii Fit it asks you to set BMI/weight goals in which it will tell you your progress 
 everyday and tell you how close or far you are from this BMI/weight goal. The "Wii Balance Board" 
 is what truly brings this entire game together allowing all these exercises and games to be both 
 performed and monitored. Although expensive the balance board is an amazing piece of technology, 
 not only is it a great scale worth its cost but also a unique pressure sensitive device that will 
 be used for many Wii games to come.
  
  After playing Wii Fit for a while you come to the conclusion that it is a tool to keep you interested 
 and give you the drive to continue. Nearly everything you could do without the balance board but 
 it wouldn't be visual and interactive giving you less motivation to continue and hit your goals. 
 I would rate Wii Fit a 8.6 out of 10 for an amazing attempt to make a game that can provide a sufficient 
 workout while still being fun. Although no workout game I would rate that highly this is the best 
 of its genre in my honest opinion, if you wish to get a fitness game this would defiantly be my 
 first suggestion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The Wii Fit is a nice little board designed for variety of things to do "physically". It comes 
 with the Wii Fit board costing around $140AUD. Clear some space so that you don't know your mum's 
 $500 vase of the shelf. Plug in the CD and away we go......
  
  Once in the Wii plaza, you can set up your own Mii which is sort of a copy of you for your journey.
 
  Once you designed your Mii you can do the body test to see just how old you really are and your 
 weight which is kept like a diary. Graphs tell you when your going up or down in BMI & weight. 
 Enough of the boring stuff, onto the fun bits.
  
  There are about 15 games to start with, as your play more, you unlock better games & harder difficulties.
 
  There are balance games to see how well you can stand on one foot, aerobics for stepping, jogging, 
 dropping marbles thru tables, and a whole heap more. My fav being the ski jump.. Anyway plenty 
 of things to do here and all in the name of getting you FIT... Spend hours doing this and it may 
 just work. Have fun...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid graphics and music, even if they don't stand out; Miis are somehow funnier than 
 ever; the Balance Board turns out to be responsive and fun; there's plenty of variety with the 
 mini-games and actual physical training; you can, in fact, break a sweat, especially as you progress; 
 measurements of body weight and BMI are fairly accurate; the game's more fun than monotonous work 
 outs at the gym.
  
  The Bad: It'll take a really long time to get "fit," let alone buff; almost no multi-player; a 
 few mini-games are gimmicky; actually pulling out the Balance Board and unlocking things is a nuisance; 
 the weight thing might hurt your feelings; the Balance Board talks to you, which is kind of... 
 creepy.
  
  Wii Sports, as we all know, was completely revolutionary. Not only did it come along with the Wii, 
 so there weren't any extra expenses outside of getting the system, but it proved that video games 
 could still appeal to the casual audience and hardcore gamers simultaneously, by being intuitive 
 and avoiding utilizing too many buttons. Parents and friends who have never given games a shot 
 before all willingly played Wii Sports, made their Mii (with humorous results along the way) , and 
 Nintendo, for that reason, has sold more Wiis than the PS3, 360, and PSP combined. They've done 
 the same with DS due to games like Brain Age, Big Brain Academy, and Nintendogs, for that matter, 
 not to mention the new Zelda that appeals to a broader audience than ever.
  
  So everyone had the system. Wii Play came along and sold like hotcakes by coming along with a Wiimote, 
 which were hard to find at the time. The game wasn't particularly great, but at least a fun diversion 
 for a little while. However, the second game in the franchise was ultimately disappointing relative 
 to its predecessor.
  
  Wii Fit, on the other hand, makes up for it. It may take $90 to shell out for the game and Balance 
 Board combined, but the U. S. is so eager to lose weight while avoiding dumping money to do so that 
 just the idea itself became hugely appealing. Therefore, the game was highly anticipated before 
 it came out, as a video game sequel generally is.
  
  You'll be using your Mii again, like in every title of the "Wii" franchise, to represent you on 
 screen. You'll be learning from a trainer, which is when you won't show up on screen, but in many 
 of the mini-game diversions, you can see yourself portrayed skiing, snowboarding, running, tightrope 
 walking, swinging your hips to keep a hula hoop up, hitting soccer balls with your head, or what 
 have you.
  
  First, however, you'll be talking to a Balance Board that seems to have hands and feet... Which 
 is more than a little disturbing. But that's ok, since it's only used on a few menus. He'll have 
 you select a Mii, then do some balance tests to determine how skilled you are right off the bat. 
 You'll probably not do fantastically, but it doesn't change the game to suit your needs. It'll 
 also tell you how to improve your center of balance to avoid slouching (which teens are prone to 
 do) , and show your center of balance on loading screens, a very smart idea from the big N.
  
  You may be a tad better than average if you play a lot of sports or work out anyway, but it'll 
 give you a "Fit Age" regardless to tell you if you're better or worse than you should be.
  
  Here's where Wii Fit's first problem is naturally going to come into play: it tells you your 
 BMI, your weight, and worst of all, whether you're underweight, normal, overweight, or obese. It 
 should be taken with a grain of salt, of course, because it's a video game, but I personally found 
 that it judged my weight pretty accurately, and the rest of my family and friends agreed.
  
  But as you can imagine, complaints have already come in of children crying when it calls them 
 overweight. It's a shame that people either won't admit they're overweight (or underweight, in 
 some cases) , or can't live with it. I can't say how I'd react, having been given a "normal" score, 
 but that is kind of what Wii Fit is for, to help you out. No one's been called underweight on ours, 
 so it probably tells you to eat normal amounts of food from the healthy food groups equally, etc. 
 For overweight users, it suggests avoiding overworking yourself, because then you'll overeat. Instead, 
 try working out just a bit, at least to break a sweat, and then eat normally and healthily. That's 
 pretty good advice coming from a talking Balance Board. Again, though, take it with a grain of 
 salt. Muscle weighs more than fat, so if you work out a ton and don't feel that you should be getting 
 that score, there's a good chance that you don't have anything to worry about.
  
  On the upside is the first part where the game shows an extremely amusing part with the Miis. You 
 tell it your height, and your Mii grows or shrinks accordingly. That was in the Mii Creator, but 
 it's somehow funnier here, being more accurate than a bar you move back and forth. And with weight, 
 it shows you looking normal, insanely thin, chubby, or presumably, fat. Again, this could hurt 
 your feelings, or you can just laugh about it, especially if the bit about being muscular making 
 you overweight is the case. Again, it's there for laughs, not to judge you.
  
  So, now that that's over with (easily the most controversial bit) , it lets you set a goal- you 
 can decide how much weight you want to lose or gain in a set amount of time. It'll later tell you 
 if you succeeded, which I've done with the one goal I've now completed (I set it for a few months) . 
 Of course, your "Fit Age" will probably vary a bit, because some of the balance games will probably 
 seem easier than others for you.
  
  The game itself is where it's at though. It's kind of nice to see if you're changing at all (and 
 it'll remind you that people tend to weigh more after eating) , but it's now that you can change 
 that- or you supposedly can.
  
  The mini-games are split into four types: yoga, strength training, aerobics and balance games. 
 You can probably already tell what you're going to be playing and enjoying the most.
  
  Yoga is probably not the one, unless you're an adult female. Not to be discriminatory, but those 
 are the statistics. Some of these actually do what yoga's supposed to do. You'll be stretching 
 in a lot of ways, which can feel good and relaxing, and sometimes does that crazy yoga thing where 
 you stretch something you didn't know you had. On the other hand, some of them feel completely 
 useless. I kid you not, one of them just has you breathe. I can't honestly say why it's in there. 
 The tree is the one you see in all the commercials though- where you stretch your arms above your 
 head and put one foot against your other leg. This and a few of the others actually feel like they're 
 improving your center of balance, or giving you a legit stretch, which is nice to see.
  
  For every minute you do an excercise, you get points that go toward unlocking new mini-games. It's 
 cool that it keeps track of how long you've played at every sitting (especially when your parents 
 want you to only play an hour, and you never keep track of the time) , but it's annoying that you 
 can't do most of the activities at first. It's a good idea to unlock a greater difficulty for each 
 mini-game if you do well on the first difficulty, but unlocking other mini-games is annoying.
 
  
  Strength training is one that will probably appeal to the dad of the family, and is probably the 
 one that'll actually get you to break a sweat. It does a very good job with push-ups, sit-ups, 
 planks, and the numerous other excercises in there. The biggest annoyance here is that in certain 
 positions, you can't look at the television, so you can't tell if your center of balance is right, 
 which it's judging the whole time. On the plank, in particular, you can't see if you're leaning 
 forward or backward enough.
  
  Wii Fit generally does things right, but with little drawbacks like this. It'd be better if there 
 was any reason for other people to be involved with your training, to tell you if you're doing 
 it right, but there's no multiplayer to be had, except in one mini-game: running.
  
  It's in the aerobics section, as you can imagine. You're not supposed to jump or run on the Balance 
 Board, so instead, you run in place with the Wiimote in your pocket. You can also hold it in your 
 hand, but we've already learned that it's not as effective that way. It gets you to go at a steady 
 pace, instead of as fast as you can, a good idea on the part of the developers. But this is all 
 the multiplayer there is, and when Nintendo's trying to appeal to everyone, multiplayer is the 
 best way to go. Wii Play was plagued by this too, with only two player available in the mini-games.
 
  
  Other aerobics games get you moving, and focus on your balance in a lot of places. The hula hoop 
 game is here, where you are in fact swinging your hips (which looks stupid, but there's no way 
 to avoid it) , the Step, where you move off and on the Balance Board in different directions, in 
 time with the beat (also kind of lame) , but there's also the really, really fun skiing and snowboarding. 
 These are a little different from the actual sports themselves, but they get you to lean forward 
 and turn realistically, and you do increase your speed leaning forward. It takes getting used to, 
 but it does make you feel that you're getting better. I snowboard, for example, but it's different 
 on Wii Fit. It is similar though, so it's not about to ruin the experience for you. Aerobics are 
 probably the games that will apeal to everyone the most, and fortunately, they're pretty fun.
 
  
  Aerobics and balance games are the ones where your Mii is actually involved. It's a shame your 
 Mii isn't in yoga and strength training though, since your cartoon entity livens up gameplay a 
 lot. At least it's on the menus and half the mini-games.
  
  Balance games are where it gets a little gimmicky. This is where younger audiences will probably 
 go to the most. One of the cooler ones is shifting your weight to header soccer balls, while avoiding 
 flying shoes and... panda bear heads... But there are some really lame ones. Moving your weight 
 so different balls (not a word from you) move through holes in a board isn't particularly cool, 
 but at least the heads of random Miis off your system (generally the ones of people who are in 
 Wii Fit) is a nice touch. It's kind of up in the air whether the balance games are awesome or just 
 sort of stupid. But they too count for Fit points, which go toward the next mini-game to be unlocked. 
 That means playing balance games unlocks yoga poses sometimes, which is a bit of a mixed bag, but 
 I prefer it that way.
  
  The graphics, meanwhile, are generally passable, but nothing special. The trainer in yoga and strength 
 training is bare bones, and pretty boring, so that would generally dock points a tad, since it 
 seems that Nintendo didn't feel like putting a ton of effort in there. Of course, they knew they 
 didn't have to for the game to sell, but that's not generally how Nintendo works. The Miis, on 
 the other hand, look better in this game than on the menu or in Wii Sports and Play, for some reason. 
 Maybe lighting effects is it, or just looking more 3-D, but they look better for it.
  
  The music is reminiscent of Wii Sports and Play- not really groundbreaking, but at least it fits 
 the tone of the area of the game. It's calming in yoga, kind of a steady beat in strength, and 
 changes to fit whether you're doing well or poorly in the balance and aerobics games. That last 
 is a nice touch, at least.
  
  All in all, it's obvious that Wii Fit sells like crazy, especially in America, where we have a 
 very overweight society, partially because we rely so much on cars to get around, as opposed to 
 Japan and Europe, where bicycles, or at least trains, are more common (I say trains because at 
 least it can give you a bit of a walk to your house) . Plus, McDonald's has been proven to clog 
 your arteries like none other, as does all fast food, leading to us being us. Nevertheless, we 
 do have one of the most athletically extreme countries too, which you can see in the Olympics. 
 That's not to say everyone else sucks, there just seems to be a larger focus here. There are extracurricular 
 sports left and right for kids at least, and many for adults in the forms of a few sports, and 
 at the gym.
  
  Wii Fit does Americans the pleasure of being able to work out in the comfort of their own home, 
 so you can have easier access to it. Plus, after you pay for the game, you won't have to keep paying, 
 as is the case at the gym. For that matter, it's often more fun than the gym would be.
  
  Of course, the biggest question is: does it actually make you fit? Yes and no. If you work your 
 ass off, doing about a half hour a day (the game itself tells you to take a break at that point) , 
 and don't just do the balance games, so you work up a sweat, then you can probably do so. You'll 
 get toned, at least, so "fit" is definitely a better word for it than "strong." The trick is, as 
 with any other fitness training, to stay motivated. That's a little easier here, but not a ton.
 
  
  That's a bit up in the air. As for whether it makes you strong- alas, probably not. I suppose if 
 you do the strength training for a long time you may see some improvements, especially if you do 
 the upper difficulties, but the weight room is where you're going to get benefits in that area.
 
  
  Should you buy it? As of this writing, it's unfortunate that there aren't many games that actually 
 utilize the Balance Board. It's intuitive and detects your motions pretty well, but again, there's 
 only one major game to use it for. Still, I'd suggest it. It may cost $90, but again, everyone 
 can get into it. Well, your immediate family can; friends not so much, since again, it's single 
 player focused.
  
  And as a bonus, Nintendo assures us that the Board will be utilized more in future. When you don't 
 have to start dragging it out just for this one game is when you'll probably have a lot more fun 
 with Wii Fit. There's a Wii Fit channel, even when the game's not in, but having the Board in the 
 middle of the living room probably isn't going to go down well with the parents, regardless of 
 how much they play it.
  
  We Ski is the first third party title to actually use it, so that's kind of cool. Ubisoft finally 
 seems to be realizing that they can't just make half-ass games on Wii and expect them to sell, 
 so they appear to be upping their game. Maybe, just maybe, they'll quit with the shovelware, the 
 exceptions being Rayman Raving Rabbids and Prince of Persia: Rival Swords (although that was too 
 expensive for a port) . The next Rayman will utilize it, and Shaun White Snowboarding looks pretty 
 freaking cool. And apparently skateboarding games are going to start using it, which will be very 
 cool to see. Nintendo, meanwhile, is probably looking toward a certain giant franchises of theirs 
 to put it to good use...
  
  Wii Fit is a much better addition to the "Wii" franchise than Play, and is more or less on par 
 with Sports. Therefore, especially if you have parents or a large family, I'd recommend it, partly 
 because it's fun, and partly because it'll be involved in things to come on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plo1234
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  It's a great game for those wanting to lose wait for others it will be plain boring. Having the 
 game myself i think the balance games and the aerobic exercises are more the kids section of the 
 game. None the less it's a decent game i give it a nine if people actually want to lose some pounds 
 but for others its ok. Ok theres one thing that you benefit even if you hate the game the balance 
 board theres already two games that involve it (that i know of) and proabably alot more to come 
 so get this game if you like fitness. Ok now the quality of some of the games is not that good 
 but the graphics are pretty good i mean come on using mii for half of the graphics is pretty cool. 
 Now personly i don't need to lose any pounds or something put for people who do you probably will 
 not like this game at first but you will adapt to it and end up having alot of fun and shedding 
 of some pounds.
  p. s. this revwiew was done by a eleven year old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joserocks11
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  wii fit got pretty boring after 15 minutes and was dumb when I leaned left it went right. Come 
 on, I mean you've seen how Nintendo has made sweet games in the past 20 years they should at least 
 try a little bit more in making this game. I thought a little bit of it was fun though so I'm not 
 totally bagging on it. It helps you in a way like learning how to do a new exercise or something. 
 I have a question... did anyone that played it ever lose weight? Now my wii fit just sits in a 
 corner of my downstairs game room. No one ever plays it but I think in the future when one of my 
 family members is bored they will someday come around to use it. h; hu ytytt hjh jhjjh hj; j hi hi 
 j hi ih 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLover243
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I spent $90 on this game thinking it was going to be great...... and at first it was!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 It was really fun tilting your body to play games!!!!!! I did my daily body test every day for weeks! But, 
 after a while it gets boring. I haven't touched it in about 3 months. A little advice.... DON'T BUY 
 IT JUST TO SIT IN FRONT OF YOUR TV AND COLLECT DUST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You may want to get it to 
 go to complete your "Wii" collection (such as Wii Sports and Wii Play) but it's not worth it!!! Unless 
 you think that you can really stick to it and lose weight DON'T BUY IT!!! I bought it for the fun 
 balance games and was disappointed, so maybe if you buy it for exercise you can stick with it but 
 i sure 
  In my opinion it is not worth my hard earned $90 for a game I played for....... well, not that long!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Bought this is a gift for my Mom, expecting that she'd like it for 20 minutes, then I'd have to 
 return it for her a week later, but was shockingly surprised when I stepped on it and thoroughly 
 enjoyed myself. Now I work out about 2-3 times a week, so I thought this would be some useless 
 "RUN! JUMP! PUSH UP!" exercises, and although all three of these are some of the activities you 
 will do, it works muscles you never knew you had. It's actually a great "semi-workout", and I try 
 to step on Wii Fit 2-3 days a week for about a half hour at a time. Some of the sit-up activities 
 have actually helped improve my abs, which I have difficulty toning. Very great equipment, I'm 
 contemplating moving my Wii console into my workout room! Definitely worth the $89. If you own 
 a Wii, you gotta pick this one up. It's not as gimmicky or one-trick as Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalDeath101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of exercise and an avid runner, one thing lacking from my routine was a tracking 
 system of some sort. I had considered the Nike+iPod extension but never settled on it as I don't 
 always have my iPod with me when I run. The Wii Fit allows you to measure yourself daily and monitors, 
 weight, BMI, and Balance improvements day to day, graphing it out for you on an easy to read scale. 
 The Strength and Yoga exercises are where the real training is, as when you are asked to do push-ups 
 and planks in Wii Fit, you are very much so doing pushups and planks in real life. The aerobic 
 exercises are not sufficient replacements for real world cardio, but they are a good way to cool 
 down after a run or even warm up for a run. My favorite part of the Wii Fit is the Time bank, it 
 keeps track of all of your Wii Fit activities and even has a feature that allows you to enter external 
 work-outs, gauging their intensity and logging it accordingly. This feature really makes tracking 
 my entire exercise regimen in one place a fun endeavor and watching the graph fluctuate as I improve 
 my balance is always fun.
  In a nutshell I'd say the Wii Fit is indeed a major accomplishment and fun all around, but it is 
 not a do-it-all exercise program. Anyone looking to truly improve their health should have an exercise 
 regimen external to the Wii Fit. The game does offer some excellent health suggestions from dieting 
 to exercise.
  
  On GameSpot's review:
  Major negative over-tone to the entire review, something tells me the reviewer was unhappy with 
 his BMI. Constant mention of cheating was a bit silly, as most any game these days has cheat codes 
 or other hack methods.. not sure why that's any more relevant to this game than any other. Not 
 sure why i bother reading them anymore.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_hodgson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is a fun game that can be enjoyed by almost anyone.
  I was greatly that the exercises that you do are actually worthwhile and its the same as doing 
 them anywhere else, except on here its more enjoyable.
  The way it gives you your BMI, Weight, and tells you if your overweight, underweight etc is remarkably 
 of a good standard and amusing.
  I found myself sometimes playing this on my own, even though it is more enjoyable with friends/family.
 
  Even a serious gamer can enjoy this just like i did.
  Some down points now:
  
  Once you unlock all the balance games etc, and played them for a while, it can get boring.
  Once 
 you dont play it for a while, its sometimes hard to get back to playing it.
  
  Overall a fun game that is worth getting...
  (If you want to pay put 70)
  But its worth it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkmacs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by other Wii titles and think that this game is inaccurate or just for fun. The 
 Wii balance board is a revolutionary piece of equipment and very accurate. It WILL get you in shape 
 and keep you in shape. I was already at a perfect weight according to wii fit so decided to stick 
 to muscle exercises. After about 4 weeks I went from a bit of a flabby stomach to a six-pack. It 
 is suitable for people of all weights and heights so don't be afraid to buy it. It even tells you 
 how much weight to lose or gain every two weeks. Worth its price tag and a must-buy. It needs commitment 
 though and not a usual fun game. It is fun, don't get me wrong but in a different way. It's not 
 a game you invite friends over to play but is fun by yourself. YOU pick deadlines for what weight 
 you want to be in a few weeks yourself and you are free to pick which exercise you want to do. 
 The trainers can get annoying once you get used to exercises though and can't be switched off. 
 Not all exercises are as enjoyable as others and there are a lot I don't do anymore. They are the 
 only down-sides though and is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  WiiFit proposes innovative gameplay mechanics that can be relatively addictive but is too remote 
 from any gaming genre to specifically categorize it. For the primary and elite generation of gaming, 
 the face of a new genre "fitness" didn't counsel a way too lose, tone or build in any way. Various 
 flaws are basically the points WiiFit will have to unlock.
  
  First off, the introduction of the balance board is a genuine innovation that right off the bat 
 manages numerous working titles. Flaws however, mutualy build together to the point where it becomes 
 too noticeable that the game collapses. It's fun for a while, and then comes the next batch of 
 games, that's Nintendo's motto and slogan at heart.
  
  Now onto the flaw's we've been talking so much about. The primarily upsetting flaw is the idea 
 that muscle weighs more than fat, and that the balance board doesn't have the brains to diffrenciate 
 between the two. In other words, the day muscle men become couch potato's on a short notice is 
 the day they buy WiiFit. Next up is the easy way to cheat in nearly half of the minigames, which 
 seems dumb but to impress your friends, many will do. Sometimes the game can be confusing as well 
 and if you've eve had the feeling it was the game that made the mistake, beware of this piece of 
 tech.
  
  Finally, this game just serves as an introduction to the balance board but serves all types with 
 it's limited but lengthy services to the body. The minigames are categorized into four categories 
 such as strength, aerobics and yoga to serve the numerous population out there. Once again, it's 
 fun for a while and then gets boring again so make sure you know you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  *** WII FIT ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Some fitness merit
  -Great introduction to the Wii Balance Board
  -Solid controls
  -Good variety of workouts and 
 games
  -The entire concept is innovative
  
  THE BAD
  -Some of the balance games are boring
  -You can't customize the workouts
  
  OVERVIEW
  Wii 
 Fit is the new and innovative fitness game for the Nintendo Wii. This game also comes with the 
 latest accessory, the Wii Balance Board. There is a nice variety of activities to do like Yoga, 
 Strength Training, Aerobics and Balancing games. A few are available from the beginning of the 
 game but most of them have to be unlocked. Wii Fit uses "Fit Credits" that are earned by playing 
 the game (1 minute = 1 credit) and are stored in your "Fit Bank". These credits not only keep track 
 of how long you've played the game but are used to unlock new activities. I would have to say that 
 at first I was skeptical in that if Wii Fit actually had some fitness merit but after playing and 
 sweating, I now believe that there is some fitness value here. Wii Fit isn't the "silver bullet" 
 when it comes to fitness but it is definitely a fun way to start getting in shape.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  At the beginning of the game you and your friends will have their Body Mass Index (BMI) 
 calculated. The BMI is calculated using your height and weight. This part of the game can make 
 you feel a little uncomfortable because if you're overweight your Mii will increase in size and 
 display the words your overweight on the screen. After the BMI test you'll be prompted to complete 
 a balance exercise which calculates your Wii Age. Your Wii Age lets you know if your physical body 
 is on par or weaker than your real age. Your BMI and Wii Age can be updated daily at any time. 
 Now, once you and your friends have completed this part, the game will let you set a goal for yourself. 
 For instance, if you wanted to lose 10 pounds over the next 3 months it will track this for you 
 based on each time you weight in. This is a great way to keep track on how well your training is 
 going.
  
  Wii Fit uses a variety of controls but the main device is the Balance Board. The Balance Board 
 is incredibly accurate in determining body movements by shifting your weight. Wii Fit also utilizes 
 the other motion devices like the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. Each control method is fun and easy to 
 use in this game.
  
  Now I'll run through the different types of activities you'll find in Wii Fit. Yoga combines breathing 
 and stretching techniques which aims to strengthen and relax the body. Before you start any of 
 the Yoga poses you will have the option to practice first. Wii Fit lets you select a female or 
 male trainer to assist you in learning and correctly performing the activity. Some of the yoga 
 skills you'll learn are deep breathing, spinal twist, "half-moon" pose, and the shoulder stand.
 
  
  The strength training exercises involve many of the everyday exercises you are use to seeing. These 
 activities are aimed towards building muscle tissue. Again just like Yoga, a trainer is there to 
 help you correctly perform the exercise. Some of the strength training activities include push-ups, 
 lunges, squats and leg lifts.
  
  Aerobics is designed to improve your flexibility and cardio-vascular fitness. The idea here is 
 keep the heart and lungs performing at higher levels. This section is probably were people will 
 get fatigued the most. Also, you'll use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk in some of the activities. Some 
 of the training activities include jogging (Wii Remote acts as a pedometer) , step aerobics and 
 rhythm boxing (Wii Remote and Nunchuk are used to throw punches) .
  
  Lastly, we have the Balance Games. The idea here is to work on your balance while playing some 
 fun games. You may not notice at first but playing these games can wear you out which is a good 
 thing because you're getting fit. Some of the games you'll see here are ski jumping, snowboarding, 
 tightrope walking and soccer heading.
  
  Many of the activities in Wii Fit are not only rewarding but fun to do. Unfortunately, you don't 
 have the ability to customize your workouts which can make it a pain switching between exercises. 
 Also, you're restricted to the length, in time, of the exercise which is defaulted by the game. 
 That and the fact that some of the balance games get repetitive and boring after a few plays decreases 
 the replay value a bit.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are just fine in Wii Fit. It looks a lot like Wii Sports in regards to the visuals. 
 Although I will say that the island scenery, in the jogging mode, is really nice.
  
  SOUND
  The sound effects, voice acting (trainers) and music are fine in Wii Fit. Nothing too 
 special here except that the Yoga music is very calming.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Wii Fit is a good game for the entire family. Whether you're holding the tree pose, jogging in 
 place or ski jumping there is some fun to be had here along with burning a few calories. I recommend 
 this game to anyone because the game is fun and the balance board is exceptional. So, lets get 
 fit, Nintendo style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  First things first: I'm a PC game player almost exclusively. I haven't owned a console and put 
 it to serious use since, well, the Atari 2600. I bought the Wii for two reasons: to get my wife 
 into gaming and for the Wii Fit. So far, the Wii Fit has been a very satisfying success.
  
  There are four main sections to the game: yoga, strength training, aerobics, and balance games. 
 Yoga and strength training are the most legitimate exercises, with fifteen different types of exercise 
 each. These two groups have a personal trainer (male or female) explaining and demonstrating the 
 moves for you before letting you do them yourself. The aerobics and balance sections are more game-like, 
 although the aerobics activities definitely get your heart pumping and the sweat flowing. These 
 two sections also make heavy use of the Mii characters, which is entertaining in and of itself.
 
  
  You begin with only a handful of exercises and activities available, but as you start putting time 
 into working out, you unlock more positions and moves. It's a great motivator, since you'll want 
 to keep working out to see what else is available. The activities seem to increase in difficulty 
 and intensity at a nice steady pace, as you unlock more challenging moves and the option to do 
 more reps for previously opened ones.
  
  The balance board peripheral is able to sense how well you're balanced for all the activities, 
 and is remarkably sensitive. The designers did a great job thinking out how all the activities 
 would work out in practice, and the game can tell a lot about how you're doing based on your center 
 of gravity. In fact, on one occasion, I was doing something, lost my balance, and had to put my 
 foot on the ground to regain it. The game immediately called me out: "You put your leg down, didn't 
 you?" I had to chuckle at that. It's great to be able to get continuous feedback about how you're 
 doing, instead of doing it alone and hoping you've got it right.
  
  As many have said, you can cheat on most of the activities if you want to, but if you are, you're 
 a pretty pathetic person, and wasting your time and money pointlessly.
  
  The graphics in the yoga and strength training sections are pretty basic, but more than sufficient 
 to understand the poses and exercises. The aerobics and balance section have pretty whimsical graphics, 
 but they look nice as well.
  
  The sound is decent, with verbal instruction for the yoga and strength portions, and silly and 
 catchy tunes for the aerobics and balance sections.
  
  It is true, the Wii Fit system isn't perfect, since you can't program a series of activities continuously, 
 and must instead select them one by one, stopping in between each to move on to the next. Still, 
 the delays are minimal, and you can do quite well if you're focused.
  
  One of the best parts of the entire system is the ability to do daily body tests, which tell you 
 how much you weigh, your BMI, and your Wii Fit age. The most useful part of this is the graph, 
 which shows your progress towards goals of your choosing. I'm always making goals like this, and 
 wanting to keep track, but being able to have it up on a TV screen, all neat and organized, motivates 
 me like nothing else. The fact that you can also record out-of-game activities on your exercise 
 chart is also great motivation to actually DO other physical fitness activities outside of the 
 game. I have been on and off into yoga for almost a decade, and this provides great motivation 
 to do it and add the time to my daily workout chart. This might not motivate everyone, but for 
 a guy who's been keeping virtual score for decades, this is the just the thing.
  
  Overall, the Wii Fit is as useful as you make it. If you're just looking to goof off, you can certainly 
 do that, but if you're serious, this will definitely be a key component of your exercise regime. 
 I will make one other note. As someone with a lot of experience with yoga, I found most the yoga 
 and strength training exercises familiar, and understood what they were trying to achieve. For 
 someone with little or no experience in those areas, it might be well advised to look some things 
 up online to familiarize yourself with them before diving into this "game." Still, I can heartily 
 recommend the Wii Fit for anyone that has a strong desire to get into shape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the Wii Fit game delivers what it sells. 
  
  If you are getting the "game" to loose weight, then I can say that it works, as long as you do 
 30 mins a day, don't eat junk food and don't cheat while doing them! The "fun" games are the balance 
 ones, the others are kind of hard to do, even harder if you aren't into sports.
  
  If you are getting the game to just have fun, then I suggest you don't get it. It is not just a 
 game and only the balance exercises and some aerobic ones are fun to do. The Yoga and especially 
 the Muscle exercises aren't fun, they are what they say they are, training programs!
  
  After saying that, I would like to say that Wii Fit, is a "game" that will excite people that like 
 sports, or that have a goal to loose weight or get stronger but will not work for others that are 
 more of the couch potato type! 
  
  For what it is and says it is, I have to say that the Wii Fit gets a 9 from me! I love it, I love 
 sports though!
  
  Hope you find this review helpful
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OldGamerBroad
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  As a 40-something female who still games both on PC and console, I needed something to get me up 
 off my fanny and moving again. I used to be pretty hardcore on fitness, but life got in the way 
 and I got way out of shape. No time for a gym, and exercise DVDs bore the living you-know-what 
 out of me. That's where the Wii Fit comes in. I'm very, very competitive, so the ability to get 
 higher scores than the last time is a big plus. I love the step aerobics and the balance games. 
 The strength and yoga *is* a little bit on the boring side, but I can't figure out any way to make 
 them any more fun, so I'll take the so-so with the fun-fun.
  
  My only gripe so far is trying to keep the board clean. I think I'll spring for one of those covers 
 for it next time I go to town to shop.
  
  Who knows if I'll actually lose weight, but I can guarantee I'll get some muscles back. Even if 
 it's just from lugging the board around, because it's not the lightest thing on the planet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When you first step on the Wii Balance Board, the feeling is simply indescribable. Your first thought 
 will probably be, "WTF am I supposed to do?" (literally) But within mere seconds of you handling 
 the nifty new Nintendo gadget, I guarantee using the Balance Board will become second nature. Why? 
 Because the Balance Board, in all actuality, is nothing more than a bathroom scale that measures 
 your natural balance. Nothing more, nothing less. And with that simple description, you're probably 
 also thinking "Why would I pay $90 for a bathroom scale?" Technically, you're right to question 
 that, but allow me to explain why this overpriced weight-loss "program" may or may not be worth 
 your ninety dollars.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about the Balance Board, is that it's much more sensitive than you 
 would ever imagine it being based on video demonstrations and observations. The tiniest shift in 
 your balance is detected and replicated on-screen, which will seem frustrating at first, but will 
 come to be appreciated by about the second time you use the Balance Board. Obviously, the more 
 sensitivity the device has, the more options opened up for future game titles that might utilize 
 the Balance Board. Additionally, it allows for an unusually accurate collection of data with the 
 Wii Fit software. I've already come to trust the weight number Wii Fit gives me more as compared 
 to my real scale that I use. This alone says quite a bit, if you ask me.
  
  But don't be confused into thinking that Wii Fit is only weight tracking software, because it's 
 actually more concerned with your overall B. M. I. (Body Mass Index) rather than your weight. In 
 the event that you don't know what your B. M. I. means, then let me explain it in this way... your 
 weight, height, etc. are all tiny components of your overall B. M. I. Your B. M. I. will tell you how 
 healthy you are as a whole. According to Wii Fit, my B. M. I. hovers around 17.00 and 17.34, which 
 is categorized as normal. Be aware that if you are bit on the heavier side, you will be categorized 
 as overweight, so if you have any issues with seeing it in writing, then I'd stay far away from 
 Wii Fit (don't expect it to bluntly call you "fat" however, as certain news articles have portrayed 
 Wii Fit...) .
  
  As a whole, Wii Fit delivers seemingly accurate data regarding your B. M. I. and weight. It displays 
 all of your progress on a neat and well organized graph that shows not just your B. M. I. and weight, 
 but time clocked in to Wii Fit as well as your averages of your "Wii Fit Age" (yes, just like in 
 Brain Age) . All of this data is calculated by a daily Body Test that takes less than five minutes 
 to complete, but be aware that if you don't take the test at roughly the same time each day, your 
 data is likely to be inaccurate due to tiny changes in your body throughout the course of a day's 
 time.
  
  But enough about the data recorded in Wii Fit, the exercises and mini-games are most likely what 
 you'll be buying this for. Unsurprisingly, the exercises are mostly very simple, but surprisingly 
 more complex in other areas at the same time. The exercises/games are split into four categories; 
 Balance Games, Aerobics, Yoga, and Strength Training. Balance Games are self-explanatory, which 
 consist of about nine different mini-games using the Balance Board. Unfortunately, if you're hoping 
 for a variety of different mini-games, you'll probably be disappointed. Most of the mini-games 
 you unlock throughout the course of the game are either more of the same from the ones that you 
 start with, or just plain boring. Don't expect a whole lot of game time from the mini-games alone. 
 Thankfully, the exercises offer a much broader and more interesting variety. Yoga offers everything 
 ranging from breathing exercises to a "Sun Salutation" exercise. No, I didn't come up with some 
 of the names of these exercises... but I sure wish I had. Meanwhile, Aerobics offers some fun game-like 
 exercises that are more cardio-based. You'll play a fun (and entertaining to watch) hula hoop game, 
 a DDR-ish mini-game (elder style) , and of course a basic option of running in place with the Wii 
 Remote slipped into your pocket. The category that will undoubtedly give you the best workout however, 
 is Strength Training. It includes everything from push-ups, to jackknife crunches, to squats. By 
 the time you're done with your thirty minute session, I guarantee you'll have not only broken a 
 sweat, but be panting for breath depending on how fit you are. 
  
  With all of this in mind, Wii Fit offers a more than effective array of exercises. Nevertheless, 
 while I'm impressed with the exercises and their effectiveness (at the very least you'll see improved 
 posture and balance as a result of the exercises) , I'm not impressed by the poor incentives and 
 weak variety offered in the game. The presentation gets the job done, but is bland and uninteresting 
 considering what could have been implemented. The music is stale and less than memorable, and chances 
 are you'll be left questioning why you paid $90 for a program that's simpler than a $10 pilates 
 tape. I won't lie, Wii Fit is a load of fun with or without friends around (personally I don't 
 want my friends/family watching me exercise...) , but the pricetag is the issue here. Even $80 might 
 justify the purchase a little bit more, but $90 is a stretch. Yes, you'll have the Wii Balance 
 Board for future titles that utilize it, but it still has yet to be seen how many titles will even 
 use it. We've seen how quickly Nintendo's peripherals fade out (Where are the Zapper titles?) , 
 and I can't help but wonder if this one will fade as well. 
  
  In the end, I would easily recommend this game if you're looking for a fun way to lose a few pounds 
 or get in shape, but if you're a gamer looking for a quirky experience with lots of mini-games 
 included, then I wouldn't bother with it. The bundle is quite impressive, however, and I am very 
 pleased with the quality of the Balance Board. If more future titles use the peripheral, then I 
 would at least recommend the game for the Balance Board alone. It's sensitivity and expected Nintendo-quality 
 build is sensational, and fun to just show off to other people. Whether you're a hardcore or a 
 casual gamer, you'll find something here to enjoy... but chances are the latter will get the most 
 enjoyment out of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredGoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports introduced us to the Wii Mote and Nunchuck, The Legend of Zelda: Links Crossbow Trainng 
 introduced us to the Wii Zapper, and now Wii Fit introduces us to a fine piece of technology The 
 Balance Board. The game was hyped for quite sometime about it being the perfect mix of fun and 
 excerise. is the game just a bunch of posturing, or is there some real muscle behind it?
  
  The Wii Balance Board is shaped like a household body scale, with a plain white top and light grey 
 bottom. It uses four AA batteries as a power source, which can power the board for about 60 hours. 
 The board is wireless and contains multiple pressure sensors that are used to measure the user's 
 center of balance, the location of the intersection between an imaginary line drawn vertically 
 through the center of mass and the surface of the Balance Board, and body mass index.
  
  The Board is much like the Wii Mote in the way that its very inicative and gets people off the 
 sofa and actully moving around as aposed to just sittting there pressing some buttons. The Board 
 is at most parts very reliable and if you get somthing wrong you can never really blame the board 
 because about 95% of the time it actully is the users fault. One fault is that it has a limted 
 weight limit of 300 pounds so if your that heavy, hit the tredmill first. One thing to keep in 
 mind before purchusing Wii Fit is to make you will have enough room to play all of these games, 
 you don't want to raise your hands into a ceiling fan of kick a priceless vase on the floor.
  
  Now onto the game itself, when you first start off Wii Fit you are introduced to the adorable 
 mini Balance Board who will beone of your trainers so to speak as you go through Wii Fit. Then 
 you choose your Mii, enter your height, date of birth and then taking a series of balance tests. 
 Measuing your body mass, center of balance control. The game then gives your your Wii Fit age, 
 and urges you to either plan to lose weight or gain weight depending on yor situation. It's clear 
 that the game can't replace a doctor so it's best to take your Wii Fit age not to seroiusly. 
 
  
  After that you finnaly enter the game so top speak, the game's modes are split up into 4 catagorys. 
 Yoga and Muscale are the only modes which actully feel like proper excerises, the other modes are 
 balance and areobics which are like mini games rather than fitness workouts. In true video game 
 fasion, you only have a small number of exferises and games to choose from and the rest need to 
 be unlocked, which dosn't make a whole lot of sense and is sure to annyoy people who bought the 
 game to use as an excersie machine.
  
  You may be skeptical and pass it off as just another gimic that dosn't really do anything, but 
 don't be fooled, there are some proper excerises here that when done properly do make you feel 
 the burn. Yoga concertrates on holding a diffrent array of poses, some may look easy when showm 
 by one of the two trainers, but when its your turn, you regret saying how easy it is. Some of them 
 require you to stand on one leg while others just require you to breath. Muscle workouts is where 
 you will feel the most burn and belive me, theres alot of it. They range from squats, to press 
 ups, lunges, jacknifes to a mean presss of push ups and side ups. While doing both of these the 
 trainer will be talking to you as your going through it coaching you along as you go. At the end 
 you will be rated and be given some advice from the trainer, which is good if you keep at it. 
 
  
  The mix of Arobic excerises is abit mixed when excerise comes to mind, the jogging and hula hope 
 excerises make you build up a sweat but the step dancing and rythm boxing do little to get the 
 blood pumping. Balance games is the area where you'll find the most "Game" parts to Wii Fit, there 
 are some fun games here like one of them is where you head footballs while avoiding Football shoes 
 and mascot heads while another has you litteraly sit still for as long as you can without moving. 
 (Harder than it looks) These games don't give you much of a workout but it shows people what the 
 Wii balance Board can do and shows good potential for future games to come especailly in the Snowboarding 
 and Sking games. 
  
  Wii Fit's Graphics are just like all of the many other "Wii X" games, there standard and do what 
 they have to do get the job done. It has its own style of graphics and at times can be quite good, 
 Its cool to see your Mii in all of these diffrent situations, but thers no hding the fact that 
 not much effort went into making the game the next Mona Lisa. The balance board is very cute and 
 is nice twist and is always a joy to see. The Yoga and Muscle training however don't get much seeing 
 too either, the area you are in is trying to make a peacfull tranquil place, and it may achive 
 that but it still looks awfully bland and the male and female instructors also don't make it easy 
 on the eyes. While they look more fleshed out animationy than that of Mii's they are still very 
 bland. 
  
  The sound for the game is mostly a joy to listen to, the voice acting, miniamal while it is does 
 a good job of showing off the diffrent postions. However the male trainer can feel like he dosn't 
 know what he is doing at times. Other little things is when depending on what time of day it is 
 The Balance Board will say good evening and Good morning which does make you smile, and when the 
 Board tells you to stand on him you'll hear him say a little Ow which is quite comical.
  
  Musically the game dosn't do that bad either with some peacfull tracks when doing yoga dn some 
 nice upbeat tracks while doing Step Dancing and Rythm Boxing.
  
  Wii Fit isn't just a bunch of games, it gives you a whole lot of data too. Everyday your urged 
 to do a daily fitness test much like Wii Sports, the game will then give you a new Wii Fit Age 
 and then lumber you with a bunhc of graphics, scales and tips to help you improve. This is very 
 handy for people who plan to stick at it and track there progress. It also enables you to download 
 The Wii Fit channel which lets you take a test and track your data without the use of the disc. 
 
  
  Unfortantly with a game that was emphasid in ads to have the faimly have fun with you this is non 
 exsistant, with the exception of 2 players jogging everything is solo and is a shame because it 
 would have been nice to do everything with sombody. 
  
  The replay value for the game is exceptionally good due to the games to unlock and the daily fitness 
 tests do keep you coming back. also the fact that you actully doing excerises makes it even easier 
 to pick up and play.
  
  However all of this comes at a price, a rather big one at that, all toegther the game and Balance 
 board can go as high as 80 ($160) so it isn't the most cheapest excerise ever since you can do 
 quite alot of them with a 10 DVD. So if your having doubts as to whther it will end up gathering 
 dust in the cupbaord after 3 days then do not buy it.
  
  Wii Fit is a good way to show at what the Wii Balance Board can do and shows alot of potential 
 for games to come, it dosn't exactly make excerise fun but it isn't far off. It isn't exactly a 
 full on excerise machine, but it isn't either a full on game. But never the less, it does a good 
 job at making you feel the burn, and having fun doing it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  In Wii Fit it is all about losing pounds.
  
  Underweight-You need to gain some pounds
  Normal-You can gain or lose pounds
  Overweight-You need to lose some pounds
  Obese-Stop eating 
 sandwiches
  
  Minigames:
  Arebics-Running, Hula Hoop, The basic step, and Boxing
  Yoga-deep breathing, chair, and the Warror (There is more.)
  Strength Training-Plank, Jacknifes, 
 and push ups (There is more.)
  Balance-table tilt, Snowboarding, soccer heading, and Lotus Focus (There is more minigames)
  
 
  Body Test:
  You have to take some minigames then if you do good your Wii Fit age will be closer to your age 
 if you do bad it will be farther away. The difficulty is very easy the time spent 10 hours-less 
 and don't believe the hype.
  
  This is why I rate this game 8.0 outta 10. I don't think Nintendo should make another or anybody 
 should really by it only if you need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I got it on the first day it came out and I did not know what to do. So I made a channel and thought 
 I could do exercise with it but I can't only a body test. It tells me im normal but I seem overweight. 
 I guess that's just because im tall but anyway the exercises are fun. They have yoga, strength 
 training, snow boarding and more. My favorites are push ups, snow boarding, and free run 30 min. 
 the graphics are not that good but there still okay. The body test is good and it gives you a wii 
 fit age which is pretty cool. You will only play it for an hour or two a day. But when you work 
 out you won't stop. You'll just keep on playing the games. You have to play some to get some, as 
 in when you play games you'll unlock some. But it is easy unlocking the exercises. Anyone who has 
 not played it. You are going to have to play it. Buy it and you will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercurynrw
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  I'm a personal trainer, so I had my doubts when it came to how accurate this game could be when 
 it came to measuring fitness levels. I must say that I am impressed with some of the exercises 
 and games ability to truly work you muscles, balance, and even get your heart rate up. This is 
 a very good effort by Nintendo to jump into the new world of video gaming meets fitness. However, 
 any initial attempts at new ventures into gaming development always result in areas lacking, and 
 Wii Fit is no exception.
  
  The biggest problem I had with Wii Fit came right off the bat, when it did it's initial body measurements 
 of me. I'm a 27 year old personal trainer and professional wrestler who works out 6 days per week, 
 eats healthy, and overall is in very good shape. Because the Wii Fit calculates BMI instead of 
 body fat percentage, there is now way for it to truly get a good reading on your fitness level. 
 BMI is based on age, height, and weight only. Someone like myself who has a good amount of muscle 
 mass, when measured by BMI, will be overweight to obese. I'm far from both, but the Wii Fit doesn't 
 know the difference because all it registers is my weight compared to height. All in all this isn't 
 something to take too serious, but I see it from a developing standpoint as a major oversight, 
 and one that should be worked on in future gaming fitness attempts. 
  
  Once you get past the initial body measurements, the game is very fun. The exercises, which focus 
 very much on balaance, are challenging, and will assist you in developing more strength, tone, 
 and balance. Just don't expect to become super fit with just Wii Fit, because you are limited to 
 15 exercises per category. This program is however a great way to supplement a workout routine, 
 because it will help you improve your abilities, especially in the balance department.
  
  All in all Wii Fit is a worthy first attempt at a new idea in the world of gaming, and one that 
 everyone should at least try. If you are someone looking for a fun way to get into exercising, 
 then Wii Fit could be a great tool for you to start down a path to good fitness. Just don't rely 
 on it as you're only method, or you will be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Are you a chubby overweight dude with little desire to go outdoors and join a gym? If so then Wii 
 Fit might be just the game for you, a way to lose weight and stay in shape within the comfort of 
 your own bedroom. For 70 you get a copy of the game and a balance board peripheral packaged in 
 one of the lovely pure white boxes Nintendo loves to use. Hell they even throw in the four AA batteries 
 to sweeten the deal!
  
  
  
  Rather surprisingly the board does not feel like a flimsy piece of plastic but has a serious quality 
 to it, which I am guessing might be needed depending on the body weight of the person using it 
 (hey I'm not judging as I am pretty heavy myself!)
  
  Popping the disc into the Wii you are created with an option to create your Wii Fit profile. You 
 can use any of the Mii's stored on your console or you can create a new one or play as a guest 
 (if you are even virtually shy) . Next up? A Body test. urgh. Once you enter your birth date and 
 height the balance board measures your weight and calculates your body mass index. You then are 
 either classed as Underweight, Ideal, Overweight or Obese. Not surprisingly I was in the overweight 
 class. Nothing I didn't know already.
  
  
  
  Your ideal weight isn't shown on screen unless you hit a specific button so you can spare yourself 
 some embarrassment if you have friends or family in the room. If you are borderline paranoid, you 
 can even set up a password so people sharing the console can't check out how much of a donut you 
 are.
  
  Once the BMI has been recorded you then take a series of balance tests, so drinking a bottle of 
 Jack Daniels beforehand is not recommended. These tests involve shifting your weight left or right 
 on the board so you stay within certain parameters on screen or trying to remain steady while standing 
 on one leg. When this has finished your BMI, age and balance test results are combined to calculate 
 your Wii Fit age.
  
  It all seems relatively scientific however I noticed some fluctuations running the test multiple 
 times. Despite the obvious discrepancies it is fun to compare Wii Fit ages and it is a cool way 
 to track your progress, just like Brain Training you get to stamp your calendar each day you complete 
 a test. Graphs detail how you are progressing and how close you are to reaching set weight loss 
 targets. It is extremely gratifying to reach even a simple target so I can see this being a great 
 incentive to using the game.
  
  
  
  Training is set into four categories, Yoga, Muscle Workouts, Balance games and Aerobic Exercises. 
 These are designed to improve your posture, tone muscles, burn fat and improve your balance. Initially 
 only half the exercises in each category are available, the amount of time you devote to them is 
 stored in a virtual piggy bank and the more minutes you earn the more exercises you get to unlock. 
 It is an interesting concept within the context of the game and works very well. Clearly there 
 has been a lot of thought put into the whole procedure as even if you suck at the exercises you 
 still get rewarded for putting in the effort. If you begin to master the exercises then you unlock 
 higher levels for the relevant tests as well as getting different stamps for the calendar.
  
  Wii Fit Yoga is all about stretching your body and maintaining your balance (which sounds a 
 lot easier than it really is) . The balance board is obviously used to measure your ability. Muscle 
 workouts are exactly what they say on the tin. You have to bend a lot, lunge, and do press ups, 
 this can be extremely intensive so care should be taken not to get into it all too quickly.
  
  I found the Yoga exercises to be the most interesting as you can literally feel your muscles 
 stretching as you work. It also helps to increase body movement over time. There are 15 exercises 
 in the Yoga and muscle exercises group to unlock and 9 in the aerobic and balance sections.
  
  
  
  The Aerobic and Balance sections feature Mii's rather than the trainers which populate 
 the other two modes, The Mii's look a lot better and bring a more friendly look to the game, the 
 trainers look like robots!
  
  One of my favourite exercises is actually jogging through the Nintendo park, however this doesn't 
 use the balance board, you put the Wii remote in your back pocket and it acts as a pedometer! The 
 whole atmosphere of this exercise is top class, with assorted Mii's and characters all waving at 
 you and cheering you on.
  
  Another nice touch is the fact that regular players get priority as background characters. So the 
 last people who have been playing the game get to interact with the person currently playing the 
 game. For example these people will be throwing the hula hoops to the current player. 
  
  
  
  Table Tilt is another fun exercise and works like 3d Marble Madness in that you control 
 the tilt with your weight and the balls bear the faces of your friends, this is extremely addictive. 
 Other memorable exercises include Ski Slalom and flying penguins.
  
  Multiplayer works great, you obviously can't all jump on the balance board simultaneously, however 
 you can take turns which is a lot more fun than I reckoned it would be.
  
  This leads me into the all important question "will I stick with Wii Fit or get bored of it quickly?". 
 It is going to be hard to answer that for everyone, if you are the kind of person who got bored 
 quickly of Wii Sports Tennis then it is possible this will end up gathering dust. If however you 
 really want to get in shape and hate going to the gym this is a good place to start motivating 
 yourself. It will never be as beneficial as actually going to a real gym, however even over the 
 course of two weeks playing for an hour a day I noticed some benefits to my body and fitness level. 
 The fact you can track target levels and see how your performance improves over the course of time 
 is a great benefit to keeping the interest level high.
  
  
  
  A great product featuring moments of charm that Nintendo do so well, it is reasonably priced considering 
 the high quality of the board peripheral and comes highly recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete0427
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion I really enjoy this game. It works your body on balance and your center. It also 
 works on toning and building muscle. I think this game adds more to a workout. Instead of running 
 on a treadmill or riding a bike you play a game that works you out. It also can tell you if you 
 are doing it right, well, wrong, or bad. The more you work out the more points you get. The more 
 points you get the more exercises you can unlock. I feel that adds more to the game and makes me 
 want to continue to work on it. Which gets me a better workout. It is a good game to get in to 
 a habit of. The more you want to play the more exercise you get. Which we all know we need more 
 exercise. I feel it is challenging for me but fun at the same time. I feel like I can continue 
 to get better and better at this game which keeps it intresting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aximill12345
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  First off, I have mild Cerebral Palsy. It is not too much of a hassle, but my balance is a bit 
 off and my right side is very weak compared to my left. 
  
  Now gaming has usually been a great place for me to compete. Controllers of all shapes and sizes 
 are easily manipulated by my usually gimpy hands. 
  
  But then DDR came out. I barely squeak by on easy. Guitar Hero is not as bad, but I am just now 
 making it off of Easy with much trepidation. 
  
  So far on Wii games, it has not been too difficult. Metroid was the biggest threat in the holding 
 my weak arm at the ready all the time but I got used to it. 
  
  Wii Fit however, I approached with a mix of hope and fear. Hopeful in the potential excercise (I 
 am just under overweight on the BMI) but very cautious about falling and injuring myself. 
  
  Well a few falls later and five pounds lighter, Wii Fit is not that bad. I still struggle with 
 Yoga, but the strength and aerobics are great. Some of the challenges are fun to do with others 
 like the hula-hoop and ski jump. 
  
  The piggy bank, where you earn credits which open new activities, is an understandable and practical 
 concept for unlocking, but it was very tedious to do the same excercises multiple times prior to 
 unlocking new items. It was not so bad on WiiSports, but here, it limits the initial appeal.
  
  I'm on track for losing my 20lbs, and balance has improved. I finally found a physical game 
 where I do not competely blow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willsi100
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Wii Fit, the game with so many positive reviews and so much hype brought a long with it.
  Me, I didn't think much of it all after 2 weeks of using it.
  Im no where near overweight, but 
 neither am I a fitness freak. Im just a usual 18 year old guy.
  The lack of exercises in this game is the just the start why not to get this game. There are many 
 flaws within the game as well which will leave you slightly frustrated.
  The running is probably the only workout that will actually push you if your a normal sized person.
 
  The muscle workouts will be at first, but the levels don't go up high enough to push someone after 
 they have done the basic levels for a while.
  The fun part of the game, which is why it gets a 5 out of 10 from me, is the balance games. These 
 will be fun to play with a friend, to see who can get the higher score, and even with your family. 
 Anyone, any size, any weight (presuming its within the limits of the wii fit board) can play these 
 games with ease.
  But with that said, I don't think it is worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I heard a lot of mixed reviews about this game so I was a little iffy about getting it, but I figured 
 it wouldn't be that bad because at least I could play some skiing games, so I went out and bought 
 it, and to my suprise I LOVE IT.
  
  This game has everything you need to get in shape, or stay in shape. It will actually help you 
 work every muscle in your body. Of course it isn't some miracle quick fix game, you have to work 
 at it at least every other day. Whats really nice about this is that it keeps track of your BMI 
 and Weight for you so that way you can see your progress along the way. You can do aerobics (spelling?) , 
 balance games, yoga, or strength training. Each category is good for different things.
  
  I highly suggest that everyone get this game because it can help people lose weight, build muscles, 
 or simply have fun with friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bouskill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  We've been wanting Wii Fit for a while now. 
  
  Finally got the game, amazing experience. Just plain fun, and good for you. I've done a proper 
 aerobic workout on it, and the balance games are great to play in between the excercises.
  
  When playing the balance games it would be good to have a 'Change Mii' icon so that you can 
 play head to head on the ski jump for example instead of having to go all the way back to the main 
 screen and select another player.
  
  My boys (aged 5&3) love it and are learning good balance skills - it's a little difficult for them 
 at the moment but because it is active based they are picking up the idea of leaning side to side 
 to affect the outcome on screen. It really is a family favourite.
  
  I love it, now if only my wife would get of the step class and hula games I could have another 
 go.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirdguyingreen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The family and I have been waiting for this to arrive and have not been disappointed yet. The games 
 are fun for the kids and allows them to have fun while working out. Adults enjoy the different 
 varieties of exercise.
  
  Disappointed in the the body analysis though. The system calculates your weight and uses this information 
 along with your age and height to determine your BMI. The fact that the system calculates the kids 
 and I as overweight was a little disheartening since there is little fat on either one of my daughters 
 yet the system tells them they have to loose 10 lbs. My daughters are not even 10 yet and a computer 
 is telling them that 70 lbs is considered over weight just baffles me.
  
  Other than the inaccurate body analysis the family enjoys the entertainment value of the WII Fit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Since the Wii has first hit our shelves gamers and owners are so impressed by the new endless opportunities 
 game developers have at their will to use and design with the Wii's fanatic structure.
  
  So Wii Fit is a game that aims at the customer to get fit whilst at the same time have fun. Interesting 
 enough as today's media and older generation claim video games give no exercise value to anyone 
 who plays a video game for hours on end. In terms of Wii Fit it attempts to create something that 
 can work for both a child of 13 years old and a mother of 42.
  
  In terms of the game itself it requires a wii balance board and ofcourse the nun-chuck and wii-remote 
 itself. You start your weight-loss program by selecting a Mii and going through various tasks such 
 as a balance test, COG (Centre Of Gravity) test which then leads to your BMI revealed. The way 
 this is done is that in the board itself lies Scales which measure your weight. You then go through 
 the Wii-Fit age which kinda sucks as with all "Age predictors" they either tell you something good 
 or really bad and question the point! for example one day you could be 23 years old and then 6 
 hours later you could be 41!
  
  In terms of the games, work-outs et cetera they are split into four categories: Yoga which focuses 
 on tightening muscles and relaxing etc, muscle workouts which helps tone your body , balance games 
 enable you to gain good balance and posture through fun mini-games and aerobic which focuses on 
 the user burning fat and shredding those calories. The games are all very good and the more time 
 you play the more you unlock as well as difficulties et cetera.
  
  The real problem with Wii Fit is mainly does it make you fit , does it save so much work and effort 
 then spending $3000 on a big work-out machine you know, when you buy this game consider one thing 
 do u really wanna lose weight or do you just wanna play games. It costs 70 here in England as 
 well so a bit pricey as well as it being VERY VERY LIMITED IN STORES we phoned Woolworths, Game, 
 Blockbusters and even Amazon and they all said we are limited in stock we will keep you up to date.
 
  
  My final note for Wii Fit is yes it does create yet another unbelievable gaming experience but 
 at the same you have to ask is yeah catching fish is fun but will it make me lose weight in time 
 for that big wedding next week? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  If you're trying to build a six-pack, Wii Fit isn't exactly what you'd be looking for. It can get 
 you good posture and slightly better fitness, but I wouldn't say it shines in helping you lose 
 weight and build abs.
  A lot of people purchase Wii Fit so they can lose weight. If that's why you're buying it, I'd advise 
 you to save your money. The only time your BMI will change is if you weigh yourself at different 
 times of the day. It may take away half a pound or so, but it won't help you drop a dress size. 
 However, if you're buying it to get good balance and get a bit more fit, you can go ahead - it 
 proves to help lots on that.
  Getting the Wii Fit routine into your life can be difficult, and you can only manage to do it everyday 
 if you always have spare time in your life. But it is much easier to get into than going for a 
 walk everyday, as all you need to do is switch on the Wii and spend 15 to 30 minutes on it each 
 day. A lot of the introductions are drawn out and spend a lot of time loading, so it'll be a good 
 few minutes before you're really exercising.
  I have good things to say about the results of Wii Fit, however. Not only does it make you fitter, 
 it also gives you fantastic qualities in exercise too, like stamina, balance, rhythm and flexibility. 
 The yoga and muscle workouts are a bit boring - but the Aerobic Exercises and Balance games can 
 be a lot of fun. Some of these include dancing, hula-hooping, headering footballs, skiing and sprinting 
 for up to ten minutes. A lot get you all hot and sweaty, which IS good, but others just make you 
 itchy and irritated and are a waste of time. 
  Wii Fit will cost you about eighty euro, and I won't say it's a waste of money because it isn't. 
 If you work at it and do at least fifteen minutes a day, you will find yourself fitter and more 
 balanced. It builds good posture, and even gives you your own Fit Age after taking certain tests. 
 It can be useful if you make a proper routine, and soon you'll find that it'll change the way you 
 exercise - a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is something of a mystery to me. I don't know whether to review it as a piece of hardware, 
 as a game, or as an excersize mechanism. I'm not in shape, I'm not obese, so when I got Wii Fit, 
 I was really excited. I saw it as an opportunity to help sexyfy through fun and games, something 
 a gym membership doesn't bring. Unfortunately, as a gamer, I found it fun for the first few days, 
 then just got completely bored.
  
  For those who don't know, Wii Fit ships with a balance board, which detects movement and shifts 
 in weight. The board works fine and is hands-down the reason to buy Wii Fit. Though the only other 
 game that utilizes the board right now is We Ski, a mediocre skiing game that most people don't 
 care about, it's something to buy simple for the promising future it has. Right now, a Spiderman 
 game has been rumored to use the game; a new WarioWare game has also been rumored to be coming 
 out, one that uses the balance board. Also, the popular Skate franchise will expand to the Wii 
 and will use the board. Are these reasons worth the price of the board? Not necessarily since none 
 have been sampled yet. It's like buying a PS3 at launch for the promise of MGS4. The game might 
 be great, but buying the system so early in advance isn't necessary. I'd recommend waiting before 
 buying Wii Fit if you only want the game for the board. It's possible that the board will be released 
 separately, without the gimmicky weight loss game.
  
  Anyway, back to Wii Fit itself. Fundamentally, Wii Fit is a collection of mini-games designed to 
 get the user fit and skinny. Some of the games are really fun; the best ones can hold your attention 
 for up to half an hour at a time. However, there are also a lot of duds on the disc. If you don't 
 care for yoga, for example, an entire fifth of what Wii Fit offers will be meaningless to you. 
 The games on Wii Fit are comparable to Wii Sports. Both Wii Fit and Sports gained fame for their 
 innovative ways to play, but Wii Sports was much more in-depth, even in its light atmosphere. Also 
 working for Wii Sports was the fact it was free. It's hard to say how much Wii Fit would have cost 
 by itself, as if the balance board came standard with each Wii, but if it was a retail price of 
 $30, then it would be acceptable. Packaged with the board for $90 seems a bit pricey, especially 
 since we don't know now if the board will prove to be worth the price of admission later on.
  
  As for a weight loss tool, Wii Fit may actually work. Some of the games will do virtually nothing 
 for your weight, but some absolutely will. Wii Fit isn't the miracle fat people have been waiting 
 for in order to get skinny, but it might serve as some motivation. The game obviously won't bring 
 gym-quality results, so a lifestyle change is necessary to truly lose weight. At best, Wii Fit 
 can motivate you to be more active and change your eating habits, but that is at best and odds 
 are that won't happen. If you're someone who felt determined to diet in the past, only to give 
 up shortly thereafter, Wii Fit will do the same. It's not the best solution for people who want 
 to lose weight, a gym and calorie counting is.
  
  Overall, Wii Fit is fair. The game itself isn't anything particularly special, and the balance 
 board at the moment isn't really worth purchasing right now. If you like mini-game compilations, 
 and still play Wii Sports by yourself after a year and a half of Wii-owning, then you'll love this 
 game. For everyone else, the gimmick will wear off and Wii Fit will be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfwren
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  It's not a trip to the gym but there are lots of fun games, yoga, strength training, and "aerobic" 
 activities. It's fun and keeps me moving. You can unlock more activities and more reps/minutes 
 as you play. You get a piggybank of your hours playing the Wii Fit game. You can also add activities 
 that you do other than Wii Fit to help track your activity level. The balance board weighs you 
 (accturately according to my scale) and will calculate your BMI based on your height and age. It 
 will also give you your Wii Fit age which seems to be based both on your BMI and your ability to 
 do well on the balance games. My husband and I have been playing the game about every other day 
 or so since it came out and it seems like it will work to help us stay more active.
  
  The drawbacks are the "activities" are short, at least until you unlock more. The free step is 
 great and you can watch tv or a movie while you step. I really like the Wii Fit and if you're looking 
 for a competitive way to help you move than this will help. If you want a traditional game or workout 
 then get another game or go to the gym. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubepad
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  The other day I actually saw six Nintendo Wii units for sale. It was almost as cool as seeing a 
 unicorn eat a banana, which was only half as cool as seeing Master Chief perform a rectal exam 
 on a UNSC grunt (yes, I do have photo evidence) . ANYWAY, Wii Fit seems to have become the newest 
 impossible-to-find Nintendo gadget. Luckily my kind, humble, pie-baking mother was cool enough 
 to procure one for me during her daily hunting/gathering/shopping trips.
  
  After using the sleek new unit over the past few days, I must say that I'm quite pleased. Wii Fit 
 does an excellent job at creating awareness of videogamers incorrect posture and lack of balance. 
 It starts by running a Body Test and calculating your BMI (Big Massive Insides) and COB (Collossal 
 Outer Blubber) ... or maybe it was Body Mass Index and Center of Balance. You can also view your 
 weight. Everyone I've seen weigh themselves seems to come in at about 10lbs underweight. How considerate 
 of Wii Fit! Now I can eat a 30-pk of delicious Sven's Danishes without feeling guility. Hooray! 
 It could just be the carpet, but in this case ignorance is bliss.
  
  Moving along, you have the choice between YOGA, STRENGTH, AEROBIC, and BALANCE workout categories. 
 Each category contains roughly 10 different individual exercises. You are scored on each exercise 
 based on how well you maintain your Center of Balance while performing the action. This is done 
 by keeping a dot, representing your balance in the center of a random shape like a circle or dodecahedron (well 
 no shapes that cool) . After completing the exercises you are given a score and receive either a 
 heart-attack or Credits that can be used to unlock new, usually more difficult routines. My favorite 
 of the categories is YOGA. Stretching and posture is an all too overlooked component to a proper 
 workout. If you're like me, you concentrate too much on either weight lifting or running through 
 the streets wearing primate masks with wreckless disregard to stretching. This is what makes Wii 
 Fit a great supplement to a good exercise routine. It's also fun to try to make your friend or 
 family member mess up at their favorite pose with random comments like, "Inhale through the nose, 
 exhale out the rump."
  
  The other categories will give you a good workout, but if you are looking for a serious challenge 
 Wii Fit is only a piece of the fitness puzzle. The best part is that Wii Fit gives you good visual 
 feedback and the trainers help you out with encouraging statements like "You must be strong" and 
 "You need to go to sleep because it's 4:00am (joking) ". Being able to set goals and track your progress 
 while competing against friends and family is also great incentive to hop on board. The balance 
 mini-games can be fun, but they're not a substitute for a "real" game.
  
  As a game, Wii Fit is only worthy of a 7/10. The workouts and health benefits make the package 
 a 8/10. The Balance Board, as a peripheral is very well constructed and garners a 9/10. Total it 
 combines for a smooth 8/10. I am looking forward to playing We Ski and Skate It using the Balance 
 Board. Hopefully, developers will see the massive popularity and include, at very least, some mini-games 
 that utilize this nifty new contraption. Overall, I am very pleased with the quality of Wii Fit. 
 Good luck finding it. Make sure to look under rocks and up in tall trees. Also, don't forget to 
 search through the elephant dung at the zoo. YOU NEVER KNOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenkenshin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I wouldn't get this for the sole reason of good exercise, because the activities available 
 are limited and very simplistic to really give you much of a workout above & beyond what you can 
 do without it. However, it does manage to make exercising a little more fun, so if you're looking 
 for a little something to compliment your current exercise and perhaps motivate you to do something 
 more, it's worth a try.
  
  This has it all, from aerobics and yoga, to standard workout tasks such as push-ups, sit-ups, leg 
 lifts, etc. within strength training. The balance games side of it is more like just a step up 
 from Wii Play with the balance board, so although it adds some entertaining diversity from the 
 bland exercises, it also seems relatively useless on a fitness standpoint. I still can't help but 
 feel it needs something more though if you really want an exercise program out of it, maybe along 
 the lines of interactive mini-games that truly test your fitness level by making your character's 
 survival depend upon how strong or aerobic you are. There's little motivation to improve beyond 
 doing the same fitness tasks over and over. Aside from the capability to easily cheat on a task 
 as mentioned in other reviews (which I don't know why you would do with such simple tasks) , the 
 only benefit to succeeding in the same task over time is slightly more advanced levels of the same 
 task (i. e. more reps, longer distance to run in place, more time on the countdown before you complete 
 a task) . I just can't help but feel they could've done a little more to a very basic fitness-game 
 experience. If nothing else though, you get the balance board, which on it's own adds a lot to 
 the Wii and will be an excellent control method for future sports and action games to give you 
 more of a workout then Fit will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrolics
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Break a sweat with Nintendo's Wii Fit, the unique new work out game that lets you lose a few pounds 
 while having a good time. Your personal trainer will teach you different yoga posses, good posture, 
 and tips to improve your health. this game isn't just work (out) and no play, Wii Fit comes with 
 a handful of mini games you can play such as: skiing, soccer, hula hooping, etc. The Wii balance 
 board is used as a scale and a controller, it picks up the pressure of your feet and is used for 
 mini games and balance tests. Wii Fit allows you to take daily body tests, based on your balance 
 and your real age it presents you with your Wii Fit age. I think Wii Fit is a unique fun and productive 
 game but doesn't give you amazing results, but does gives you some results. Over all I give Wii 
 Fit an 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is Nintendo's first game to use a brand new accessory, the Wii Balance Board. First things 
 first though: Is the balance board worth the 90 dollar price tag? Like most Nintendo branded hardware 
 it is well put together and very solid and very stable. It runs off of 4 AA batteries and is is 
 easy to sync to a Wii as the Wiimote. Under the battery cover is a red sync button exactly the 
 same as the one of the Wiimote, and after that you only need to tap the power button on the bottom 
 side of the board. The trouble is that you can only sync one balance board to one Wii at a time. 
 This means with titles such as We Ski can only let one person use the board at once. This further 
 increases the ever growing need for proper online support in games such as We Ski.
  
  But this isn't bundled with We Ski. This board comes with Wii Fit. As soon as you boot up Wii Fit 
 you create your profile using your Mii that you create from the Mii Channel. You enter your height, 
 and the year you were born and the game will measure your BMI (Body Mass Index) as well as measure 
 your weight. But picky moms fear not, the game hides your weight unless you click the in game button 
 to show it. After that you complete several balance games and are given your Wii Fit age. This 
 is essentially how old your body is. The closer your Wii Fit age is to your actual age the better. 
 After your body test you get into the bulk of the game: Training. Training is split up into four 
 categories: Yoga, Strength, Aerobics, and Balance Games. Yoga is a series of stretches and poses 
 designed to encourage proper breathing and sometimes increased metabolism. The strength exercises 
 include push ups and squats and help your body gain extra strength and these are exercises that 
 you can do anywhere and don't necessarily require the board. Aerobics are used to get that heart 
 pumping and these exercises are exceptionally good for your body. You will break a sweat with these 
 exercises. The balance games are fun mini games that are just basic tech demos for the balance 
 board hardware. That's not to say you won't enjoy them because you will.
  
  The graphics in the game are incredibly simplistic but fit in with other titles like Wii Play and 
 Wii Sports and the Mii Channel. A wide variety of colors are used, the most prominent of which 
 being green. There's not much else to say about the graphics. They're what you expect, but nothing 
 mind blowing. The sound is pretty mediocre being a simple soundtrack. The male and female trainers 
 who guide you through yoga and strength exercises are voiced well and easily guide you through 
 all the steps of each exercise. There really isn't much else to say about it.
  
  You will want to play this over and over again to maintain a steady workout. Though admittedly 
 it's not enough to just play Wii Fit, you have to control your diet and all the other stuff so 
 those expecting a miracle game will be disappointed, though it is a good start.
  
  On the down side of Wii Fit there is some occasional trouble is picking up on your body when playing 
 on carpet. But this is usually resolved by removing and extra rugs you have under the board and 
 a basic layer of carpet won't affect the game too much.
  
  I want to pay special attention to the Wii Fit Channel, an optional channel that requires 106 blocks 
 for install. Using it you can preform the body test but when you choose the training option you 
 will be asked to insert the Wii Fit disc. This is more than a simple way to do a quick check up 
 on yourself, this is the ability to start a game up and then have the game load certain things 
 as you already play. This could be used in future games to cut down on load times. Shortening load 
 times by installing files onto a hard drive is something that Sony's PS3 has been doing but this 
 actually starts up the game and boots up the rest while you play. A little more research into this 
 and load times will forever be a thing of the past. Never thought a simple Wii Channel could be 
 such a big deal did you?
  
  All in all the balance board alone is worth the 90 bucks and provides a fun and refreshing experience 
 and further shows that the Wii is capable of providing brand new experiences years after release. 
 Although the balance board is much less revolutionary than the wiimote which is why you will not 
 feel the same euphoria experienced when you played your first frame of bowling in Wii Sports but 
 a little work on the software side and the Wii Balance Board will be the next standard controller 
 for Wii and will prove much more successful that the short lived Wii Zapper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I dont care what the critics or anyone else who hates this game says, this game is stinkin awesome. 
 It gives you a great workout in my opinion, and it has so many fun and great games. you start out 
 with some and then you have to unlock them and that makes it even more fun as a challenge to try 
 to unlock them all. It makes it altogether more fun. The wii balance board makes this game. without 
 the wii balance board I wouldnt want to play the game. (oh and did you know that the balance board 
 is also compatible with we ski!) My favorite games are:
  soccer heading
  Ski slalom
  snowboard slalom
  that game where you are a penguin and have to get fish
  and rythm boxing
 
  I also like the strength and yoga too.
  
  It keeps up with how many minutes or hours that you work out a day and how much you do altogether.
 
  and it has a cool BMI Calculator thing that tells you if you are underweight, normal, overweight, 
 or obese. It is very acurate though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironraven24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  
  Summary:
  Wii Fit Is an exceptional game, in general alot of the mini games could be a game of its own in 
 fact., now lets get right down to it. Wii fit is a exsercise tool said to help you improve posture, 
 lose weight, and basically encourages you to get healthy. Now ive been hearing alot about this 
 game and that itcannot be a sole exersice tool to depend on, that is true for the most part!
  Mix Wii Fit with an exceptional diet and you could lose quite a bit of of your waist belive or 
 not. with my 12 days of having this game i have lost about 2/3lbs soley on this game. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Wii fits gameplay offers Yoga, Strength Training, Areobics, and Balance games 
 to help you improve your bodys health. The Yoga and Strength exersices represent most of the actually 
 said work out part and are less fun but are much harder and work your body a whole lot. The Balence 
 games represent the very fun side of the game and is said to improve your posture and balance.
 
  Areobics represent a little bit of both, they a great for burning fat and working your body and 
 most of them are very fun. The Body test tests your balence measures your left/right balence and 
 weighs you to indicate if your underweight, normal, overweight, or obese. known as BMI (Body Mass 
 Index) though many flaws with this BMI system it can still help you tell if you are overweight 
 or under weight
  
  
  Overall This game is pretty exceptional at helping you lose weight on its own especally if you 
 are Obese. Mix Wii Fit in with a better diet some runnig or jogging and you should lose alot of 
 pounds and have Wii Fit support the fun whilst doing so. 
  
  
  Note- I am tracking my Wii fit progess over the summer if you are interested just go to my profile. 
 Also I will have much more in depth reviews in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Now, I do agree with the reviewers insight about the no customizable exercise program for your 
 needs. There is a favorites section, I have yet to look into that yet. You might be able to put 
 in exercises you like and go with it. 
  
  I would like to see the ability to transition into other exercises easier, but who knows what tomorrow 
 will bring for WiiFit.
  
  I do like the aerobics section, you can do a 30 minutes free step which allows you to pick your 
 pace and also gives vocal commands so you can watch something else while you exercise. There is 
 also jogging that works with the wiimote and you are able to get some pretty good cardio out of 
 it.
  
  The yoga and strength training are increasingly challenging. Now, if you are Mr. Fitness, then 
 you are probably not going to see the workout you want from this game. But if you are a stay at 
 home mom, this is a good way to get a decent workout, track your progress, and have fun at the 
 same time.
  
  The balance games are fun for everyone, it's a must for a party. Not to mention, I have found my 
 posture and balance improving with use of time.
  
  I think WiiFit is definitely worth the money, and have already suggested it to my friends as a 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Wii Fit is a surprisingly fun and effective game. It's very accessible to the casual player and 
 can help everyone work up a sweat. I'm in pretty good shape myself but the Wii Fit was still able 
 to make me sore after using it.
  
  The game only has a few downsides that keep it from being a near-perfect addition to your collection. 
 One is that you have to unlock exercises as well as the number of repetitions or difficulty level 
 of each exercise. I understand that maybe the Wii Fit wants to help ease people in to harder exercises 
 and longer durations, but it's a bit too delayed.
  
  The primary downside, however, is the speed (or lack thereof) in which you can do successive exercises. 
 One of the primary keys to a good workout is keeping your heart rate up. But between exercises, 
 you have to listen to the trainer rate your performance and then navigate through the menus to 
 select your next exercise. This is fine when you're wanting to evaluate your performance and see 
 how you're doing on any given exercise, but Wii Fit would have tremendously benefited from including 
 the ability to skip the trainer's commentary and string together a series of exercises to help 
 you move from one to the next seamlessly.
  
  Despite these flaws, the Wii Fit is still a good way to keep a little more active in your home 
 - especially if you have children whose hobbies aren't always the most physically demanding (like 
 me as a kid) . The Wii Fit won't give anyone a Bowflex body, but anything that gets you moving in 
 today's sedentary society and can do so in a fun way is a good addition to anyone's home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrism262
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  1. It is possible to enter your physical activities that you participate in that having nothing 
 to do with Wii fit. I really liked this idea because then you can track all of your physical activities 
 in one spot and correlate your whole "big picture" to your current weight/BMI progress. The big 
 flaw here is that you can only enter data for the current day. If you miss a day you can never 
 go back and enter the missed information. To me this is a HUGE design flaw and prevents me from 
 wanting to bother entering any information at all. It is not realistic for me to get into Wii Fit 
 every day that I do significant physical activities.
  
  2. I really like the variety of activities. There is something there for everyone. Most activities 
 are very short though, like 3 minutes down to less than a minute. If you put in 30 minutes with 
 Wii fit, you will find that 5 minutes of that was wasted just navigating the menus to pick activities. 
 To me it seems like a major design flaw to have left out the ability to create "workouts" that 
 string together various activities. For example, the ability to choose certain activities in a 
 certain order, and it would just go from one to the next until you've done all of them. You could 
 change it up by having it choose a random activity from a certain category. That way each day you 
 might do the same warm-ups and cool-downs but the meat of your workout you'd let be randomly generated. 
 There is a ton of room there for allowing flexibility to turn this into a useful workout program. 
 The ability to create multiple work-outs so that you can define one heavy on yoga, another that 
 has more cardio, etc. would be useful too.
  
  Personally I find that very few of the activities are fun, but I view Wii Fit not really as a game. 
 I'm totally fine with the activities not being centered around entertainment since I didn't view 
 that being it's purpose. I understood Wii Fit to be a hub for physical activity tracking and progress 
 monitoring. Without the ability to do that, what is it's purpose since it really isn't that fun? 
 
  
  At least the balance board shows hope of being an interesting peripheral for other games. Provided 
 of course that developers make better use of it than in the first example I've tried - We Ski.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nausicaa33
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  While Wii Fit provides a good first step for those who want to begin an exercise regime, it lacks 
 the oomph to be a true tool for total fitness.
  
  I was very excited about the release of Wii Fit, as I've felt out of shape for a while, but didn't 
 have the motivation to do something like pay for a gym membership. The idea of being able to get 
 into shape in the privacy of my own home without buying some bulky piece of equipment or a ridiculous 
 video was extremely appealing. That said, readers of this review should be informed that I am reviewing 
 Wii Fit based on its effectiveness as an exercise tool, NOT its fun factor as a game.
  
  Having used it for a couple of weeks now, I would say that Wii Fit has a few major design flaws 
 that could have been easily addressed:
  
  1. The timer does not accurately depict the amount of time you've actually been exercising.
  
 
  It rounds up, which I guess can make you feel good about having exercised for half an hour. The 
 reality is: a lot of the exercises last for a minute and a half but credit you for 2 minutes. This 
 may not sound like much, but 30 seconds X 1 hour of supposed workout time = 30 minutes of falsely 
 rounded up time.
  
  2. The amount of time you spend navigating menus and waiting while the trainer talks significantly 
 drives up play time.
  
  I'm annoyed to find that while the workout timer in the game reads that I've been exercising for 
 an hour, the clock on the wall reads that I've been playing for an hour and a half to two hours.
 
  
  3. There is no programmable workout option.
  
  I think it would have been a cakewalk for an option to be included where people can choose a series 
 of exercises and set them to run in order without the tedium of exiting out and navigating menus 
 between every exercise. As each exercise starting screen also gives you an overview of which areas 
 of the body you'll be targeting, it would also have been very helpful if people could have requested 
 that Wii Fit put together exercise regimes for them that work specific areas, like abs or upper 
 body.
  
  4. The scale is NOT dependable.
  
  When I first purchased this game, I had to leave on a trip right after. I stored the balance board 
 sideways, as it came in the package, for a week and a half. When I started playing the game again, 
 it said that both I and my boyfriend had miraculously lost 8 lbs. (neither of us had been exercising, 
 and I am pretty positive I lost no weight at all in that time) . Over the course of the next few 
 days, the game reported that we were gaining back this weight we never actually lost at the rate 
 of about 3 lbs per day. Why would Nintendo package and ship the balance board in such a way that 
 even short-term storage renders it inaccurate?
  
  5. Having to pick up and set the Wii-mote down constantly is just plain annoying.
  
  This complaint 
 ties in with the inaccurate clock and no programmable routine problems. Having to constantly pick 
 up the wii-mote, hit the a button to start an exercise, and set it down again just saps some of 
 the fun out of an otherwise decent exercise session.
  
  
  All of these complaints aside, it is undeniable that I am now in better shape than I was 3 weeks 
 ago thanks to Wii Fit. Though the Yoga and Balance sections focus more on finding your center and 
 improving flexibility, there is no question that doing the exercises in the Aerobics and Strength 
 training sections will cause you to work up a sweat. I can't remember the last time I did a push-up 
 before I had this game, but I do them every day now, and I feel a lot better about myself!
  
  Wii Fit should not be considered a substitute for a real-life aerobics class or going to the 
 gym. Its design flaws assure that is is nowhere near as rigorous as either of the aforementioned 
 activities. However, it is not without merit, and if you have not been exercising at all, it WILL 
 get you into better shape (provided you play it regularly) . Playing this game has increased my 
 desire to start a more effective exercise program, and in that respect, I am very happy to have 
 purchased it. Until I find a gym that I like, I will continue to play this game on an almost daily 
 basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is a stellar success over in Europe and Japan. It's innovative controls and concept are 
 making it the #1 fitness craze of the year. Move over Atkins Diet, Wii Fit is here! However, I 
 do not think it will sell very well in America. Why? Well flat out... we Americans are LAZY. We'd 
 much rather sit on our fat butts stuffing potato chips in our pie holes than stand up and get a 
 bit of exercise.
  
  Exercise is exactly what the Wii Fit will give you too. It starts off by explaining about how balance 
 and posture are very important to your health. It then goes through a humbling set of tests to 
 tell you how fat you are. I did find it amusing to watch my Mii actually take on a more appropriate 
 shape to reflect the real life me. 
  
  The mini-games (called balance games) are just as fun as Wii Sports, but lacking in any sort of 
 multi-player type modes that I could see. Then again, you'd need a 2nd balance board for that kind 
 of game. The Yoga, Strength Training, and Aerobics training is great. It litterally starts you 
 off with very begginer type things and slowly progresses you through the tortures of a regular 
 workout. You even get your very own digitized work out nazi to push you through your sets and reps. 
 As you ache and groan from using muscles you never knew existing the workout nazi's voice happilly 
 motiviates you forward with such grabbing phrases as "Good Job!" and "keep it up!"
  
  With the Wii fit you can and will lose weight and get in shape. It just needs one thing from you.... DEDICATION! 
 As with any other exercise program, you MUST do it on regular basis and stick with it in order 
 to reach your goals. A quick little 1/2 hour session of Ski Jumping followed by a large pizza and 
 a 2 liter of Pepsi are not gonna help you lose any weight at all. 
  
  It's a step in the right direction though, the workouts are very short for the most part. The onscreen 
 directions and aids make the time go by quickly. Pretty soon you'll have an hour's worth of sweating 
 done and you won't even realize it's been an hour!
  
  All in all, Wii fit is a good deal at $90 USD. Way I figure is $60 for the balance board and $30 
 for the game. If you're really interested in using a game to get in shape and shed a few pounds, 
 this is MUCH less expensive than joinging any gym or purchasing some sort of home equipment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidslush
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is a must own for anyone wishing to improve their overall health.
  
  While the Wii Fit game itself will not give you that rock hard model body, it will help you track 
 and record your way to a healthier lifestyle. Bar none, this game and balance board is the best 
 scale and tracking program I have ever tried. 
  
  The games are innovated and really do work up a sweat and burn calories, but I doubt it will be 
 enough to complete curve any seriously overweight people. However, it is a start in the right direction. 
 Often times, people just need to get started in the right direction. 
  
  Exercising is said to be an addictive activity. Through Wii Fit, a player can get just a sample 
 of some the "feel-good" exercise feeling. Hopefully, they will continue to what they started by 
 going for a job/walk around the block or something to continue.
  
  Overall, I am pleased with my purchase. I can't wait to see what developers have in mind for owners 
 with the Balance Board, more interactive games is a contributing factor to buying the Wii in the 
 first place! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Sorry, but I guess that I expected that a game entitled "Wii Fit" would actually evaluate and monitor 
 changes in your aerobic fitness level. WRONG, WRONG, WRONG. The game does have a lot of useful 
 exercises that could improve your fitness level, but the fitness evaluation tool is totally worthless.
 
  
  One person I know scored a fitness age in the 30s one time ane near 60 just 2 weeks later. I guess 
 he aged 30 years in two weeks !!!!!.
  
  SPOILER: The fitness evaluation tool consists of only a small balance testing mini game that does 
 nothing to truly evaluate strength or aerobic fitness. It does not even measure your heartrate. 
 Apart from this, which to me is an unforgivable weakness, the game is quite adequate and contains 
 many useful exercises in several categories such as strength, aerobics, balance, flexibility, etc. 
 The exercises are somewhat fun and could definitely help someone who is relatively sedentary to 
 improve their fitness. However, I doubt that the exercises would improve the fitness level very 
 much for one who is already fit.
  
  In summary, the game is not really terrible, but it is shallow, not a lot of fun, and does not 
 accurately evaluate or monitor changes in your fitness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad1x2
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Let's start the review by saying this: Wii Fit alone will not make you loose 100 pounds or look 
 like Jay Cutler.
  
  Now that's out of the way, it is a great investment. The advantage this game has over most miracle 
 weight-loss programs is 1. It is fun and 2. It shows you detailed methods on how to do the exercises. 
 It might be hard to do some of the exercises if you haven't been very active but after awhile (assuming 
 you use it daily) it will get a lot easier.
  
  One problem is with it's BMI calculator. It uses your weight and height to determine if you are 
 overweight. Muscle weighs more than fat, so if you hold the office record for the bench press you 
 will probably get an overweight rating. But then again, if you are ripped you probably don't need 
 this game for yourself anyway and it is better suited as a gift for your girlfriend or wife.
  
  Overall, it is a good game that I enjoy adding on to my regular workout routine as well as 
 a game my wife would like to use. If you are normal or slightly overweight I would recommend it 
 but I would recommend adding some regular exercise in the gym to help. Chances are, some of the 
 people who say this game is a waste of time are overweight themselves and need this game more than 
 most others. Finally, it is easy to cheat on this game; especially in the jogging parts. But if 
 you choose to cheat, blame yourself, not Nintendo. It's your health that you are cheating, not 
 anybody else's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravkeen
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Wii Fit is pure genius a system that makes working out fun. Wii Fit is fun for the whole family. 
 The only question is will it help make a difference in losing weight I really don't know that answer 
 yet. But I will let you know in the time to come. Wii Fit is very education the system tells you 
 healthy tips on good way to help you keep fit. It also has a lot of games and exercises to make 
 you sweat. But there a lot of people that say you can cheat on the system. But all I got to say 
 on that is you're not cheating the system the only one your cheating is yourself. Because no one 
 really cares if you cheat. But if you really do the exercises you might see some change in your 
 life. But if you haven't purchased the system yet I will tell you buy it you will not be disappointed 
 if you want to make working out fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIKESCHRAGER
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I've had my WiiFit since it came out on the 21st of May. It was kinda boring at first; the running 
 seemed like it gave you the most exercise. But i can say now that it has made exercise an important 
 part of my life.
  
  I started WiiFit with high hopes. At this point i have all of the exercises unlocked and i've done 
 them all at least twice. I can say, without shame, that i do yoga daily now. If for some reason 
 i am unable to play WiiFit as much as i like one day, I find myself compelled to do some of the 
 exercises i remember from the game.
  
  As an example, yesterday after i got off from school i came home and immediatly turned on WiiFit. 
 I played for 33 Wii-Fit-minutes. Afterwords i was tired and accidentally fell asleep till 10pm. 
 At that time it was too late for me to play WiiFit, so i started doing some of the yoga poses i 
 remembered.
  
  WiiFit is a great motivator for a more active life style and i am grateful i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  I have been excited about Wii Fit since the first day I heard about it. I have always wanted to 
 trim down a bit and maybe add a bit of muscle, but I've never really had the motivation to go to 
 the gym, or especially to go out running everyday. So, in steps Wii Fit. I have pre-ordered video 
 games in the past to be mailed to me (most recently GTA IV only to be MASSIVELY dissapointed ... 
 check out my review here if you're interested) , waited in line for a console (the Wii) , and even 
 purchased games on the day they came out in the stores (I want to say the last one I did that for 
 was Hitman: Blood Money ... I won't bother counting Zelda: Twilight Princess because that was a 
 launch game and I was there for the Wii. However, if it came out like a week later, I would've 
 been in line for that. Anyways, I'm drifting ... where was I?) , but this is the first game I've 
 ever waited in line for at a store before they opened. Ironically, it's not really a "game" at 
 all. Wii Fit comes with a game disc and a Balance Board that can detect shifts weight and balance. 
 While standing on the balance board (for a vast majority of the exercises) the user performs various 
 yoga poses, strength training exercises, aerobic events, and even balance games, with the board 
 registering shifts in balance and giving a score for each event. Now that I've passed the obligitory 
 "explain the game in question," on with the review!
  
  Wii Fit plays very well. It starts off by giving you a body test. It asks for your age, gender, 
 and height. Taking these into consideration, it asks you to hop on the scale where it will measure 
 both your weight and your center of balance. Wii Fit tries to make you more aware of your center 
 of balance because, as it will explain to you, an improper center of balance can lead to problems 
 because uneven amounts of weight are on each of your legs. It will then determine your Body Mass 
 Index (BMI) from your weight. Personally, I think that BMI is the absolutely wrong way to tell 
 whether a person is in good physical condition because it is based solely on weight and does not 
 differentiate between fat and muscle. However, this is just a small flaw. I prefer to take my measurements 
 to get my body fat percentage. One little fix to this could be the ability to enter neck, waist, 
 arm, chest, and leg measurements when and if Nintendo makes Wii Fit 2. Chances are that if you 
 are just getting in to working out, you may have trouble doing some of the exercises, and especially 
 the yoga poses, correctly. However, your virtual trainer is always on screen showing you how to 
 do the exercise properly and, as time goes on, your form should improve. There are over forty activities 
 to choose from: fifteen yoga poses, fifteen strength training activities (twelve exercises and 
 three challenges) , nine aerobic activities, and nine balance games. There are only a few of each 
 that are unlocked from the beginning, but everything becomes unlocked as you earn "Wii Fit credits" 
 (which you get for each activity you do) , regardless of how well you do on a yoga pose or the push-up 
 exercise. As you do each strength training and aerobic event, more repetitions or minutes are unlocked 
 for them. As mentioned above, I have never been one to work out on a daily basis. However, in the 
 first week alone, I cleared 7 hours and 16 minutes worth of credits, despite missing a day where 
 I had a lot on my plate. In that time, I also dropped a pound-and-a-half and I look forward to 
 my body test and exercises every day. There is even a graph that tracks your activities (with the 
 option to add other things like time from running outside or playing a game of baseball) , your 
 weight, and your BMI.
  
  As can be expected if anything is known about titles like Wii Sports and Wii Play, technically 
 superior graphics and sound are not the focus. Much like these titles, Wii Fit doesn't really do 
 anything special. I feel that the sound stands out the most in the yoga section. There is a very 
 calming ocean-like sound to signal when to breathe in and out and this can have a very relaxing 
 effect.
  
  So far, after nine days, I have logged in just over ten hours of Wii Fit credits and I don't see 
 any reason why I would stop anytime soon. Even when I eventually reach my goal body fat percentage 
 (15% ... currently hovering at about 18%) , I will use Wii Fit to stay in the best shape possible 
 (and maybe focus on the strength training more than the aerobics to try to tone) . People have many 
 reasons for not going to the gym: time, motivation, money, etc. With the automatically updated 
 and easily accessible graphs, the ease of involving some friends or family members for a little 
 friendly competition, and the one-time price tag of $90 instead of the monthly costs of going to 
 a gym, you should find Wii Fit to be a very nice addition to your gaming family and one that could 
 help you drop those extra pounds!
  
  A few quick notes about working out: if you are concerned about ANYTHING related to your health 
 (i. e. bad back, heart condition, never worked out before) see a doctor about what activities would 
 be safe for you. Drink PLENTY of water ... especially if you're not used to working out, the activities 
 (in particular the aerobics) will really dehydrate your body. Don't expect Wii Fit to do it alone 
 ... if you're not already, start eating healthier. You don't necessarily have to cut back on everything 
 all at once, but even something as simple as a side salad instead of fries or chips can make a 
 marked difference when combined with a routine.
  
  Actual score: 8.3
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchy9178
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm not exactly a fitness fanatic but I do try to make a solid effort to keep in shape. My 
 exercise routine involves biking for around an hour on average of about 5 to 6 days a week. 
  
  Despite the relatively lukewarm critical reviews I wanted to give this game a try because I 
 wanted to see if using Wii Fit would actually motivate me to expand my fitness regime and perhaps 
 even make me more fit. However after two weeks with this game unfortunately I can say that it doesn't 
 really live up to it's title in the way you think it would. Let me explain.
  
  The notion of fitness Wii Fit promotes is not really the same idea of fitness a typical person 
 would have when they hear the word fit. When I hear the word fit I thinking about burning fat, 
 increasing stamina and building muscles. *Alot* of sweating and aching. 
  
  The Wii Fit version of fit has more to do with balance, flexibility and rhythm. This involves alot 
 of falling over, working on your coordination and discovering how far and long you can strech your 
 body parts. Yes for some people this type of fitness is fitness but for alot of people who want 
 to simply want shed a few pounds/kilos it's not quite what you are looking for or need for that 
 matter. Yes there are muscle and aerobic exercises but I wouldn't call them completely representative 
 of what is involved in building your cardio and muscular fitness.
  
  The aerobic exercises are not actually effective as they should be if you want to see true results. 
 Most of the stuff can be done without Wii Fit. Take for example the Hoola hoop. Why don't you just 
 buy a couple for a few dollars? Or jogging. Why not get out of the house and jog outside which 
 is completely free. Steps. Just go up some stairs. Many of you might point out that it's more fun 
 with the balance board but if you need a balance board and some cute graphics to motivate you then 
 you are probably not actually serious about getting fit.
  
  Balance exercises are even more shallow because most involve tilting your weight around the balance 
 board. Although they are amusing they belong more in a mini-game collection. Having a perfect centre 
 of gravity is not a fitness priority for most people as merely keeping in shape is hard enough 
 especially if you're a busy person. Their inclusion in Wii Fit to makes the total package less 
 convincing as a serious fitness application.
  
  On the other hand the Muscle exercises are quite effective especially if you are just starting 
 your fitness journey. They help you realise just how much stronger you should be and would also 
 complement well with some resistance excerises you'd get by using weights. 
  
  I can't say much about Yoga because I'm not really into it but I found them to be less felt tacked-on 
 than the balance and aerobic exercises.
  
  I believe the best part of Wii Fit is that it keeps track of your progress namely your weight, 
 BMI (even though my dietitian believes it's a not a completely accurate in determining what your 
 individual ideal weight should be) and your fitness age (according to Wii Fit) . In the two weeks 
 I've had this I've booked more time doing the daily tests than the exercises. If you do any regular 
 form of fitness I'd suggest at least doing the test because tracking your progress is a good way 
 to get motivated.
  
  I'd go on about graphics, presentation and audio but there's nothing really to say. It's clean, 
 tidy, intutitive and true to the Nintendo style. Besides, I don't think too much emphasis should 
 be based on these aspects because is marketed and should be evaluated as a fitness application 
 more than a 'game'.
  
  So from someone who does some regular exercise I'd say Wii Fit doesn't offer anything revolutionary 
 or anything you couldn't do elsewhere. For fitness junkies - don't bother. For beginners I'd say 
 give it a go but keep in mind that there are probably more effective and less expensive ways to 
 reach your fitness goals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is actually my second review for Wii Fit. The first had some problems. Well, I thought it 
 was fine, but gamespot decided that I was internationally attempting to make Wii Fit owners angry. 
 
  So apparently I can't put my old review on here.
  I would like to apologize to anyone I did make angry, all 1 of you. I think the Wii is a good idea. 
 I think the new Wii balance board thing is a good idea. But Wii Fit seems to be more of an example 
 of what the board can do rather than a game intended to be fun.
  Like I said before, I like garlic. I like Chocolate ice cream.
  I like exercise. I like video 
 games. But they were never intended to go together. And when you try, it turns out pretty disgusting. 
 Trust me, don't do this at home.
  I tried Wii Fit and liked it for the first half-hour. Yes, I love FPS and other opposite-end-of-the-spectrum 
 games, but Wii Fit was disapointing after that first 30 min. To shallow I think. The exercises 
 were diverse, but like any game, you can cheat. Another problem I noticed was the size of the board. 
 Good for little kids but I am 6 foot and 150 lbs. Yoga was easy but the jumping and lunging exercises 
 dumped me off onto the carpet. Fortunately, this was a friend of the families Wii, so I played 
 it for three hours total and will never have to see it again.
  Anyway, that's my opinion. You can't rent it, and I wouldn't buy the board so don't get it. We 
 Ski looks more promising but we shall see.
  Oh and one last thing. I really can't see anyone getting fit with this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 2
Date: May 27, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  The whole point of a video game is so that when you are tired you can hrow yourself into a chair 
 and relax, not run around ,make cracks in the ceiling of the room below and get yourself even more 
 tired. This game is an insult to the Wii console. It is a great console, but all these developers 
 are trying to take advantage of it to make dreadful sports games.
  
  Nothing really works properly. It has shaky graphics and appauling prensentation. You have to unlock 
 practically every and the weight and fitness assements don't work. I played this game for about 
 one day, until I realised it was secound hand for a reason (I bought for a discount) .
  
  If you want to get fit. Just go to ther gym or get excercise, don't pay the ridiculous 69 for 
 it. I might pay 4 for it. Wii Fit is probably the most overrated game ever made for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phanstar330
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit
  
  Nintendo's latest bait to get the non-gamers into gaming, or at least into Nintendo gaming. Is 
 it a game? Yes, I say it is. It is also one of Nintendo's most genius moves yet. 
  
  I recently watched a video of Miyamoto discussing Wii fit on the Nintendo Channel. He mentioned 
 how Nintendo was trying to find new ways to bring families together and get them interacting. It 
 sounded like more canned lines being dished out to sell games to the older generation. Now that 
 I have played Wii Fit I can honestly say it is true. The game is fashioned and modeled in a way 
 that makes it very obvious that it is intended to get everyone involved and competing and having 
 fun. The game opens up in the Wii Plaza where you can see every registered players Mii warming 
 up. There you can compare progress on the chart or select your Mii and get ready to weigh in and 
 start training.
  
  You are presented with a few choices of activities from the following categories: Yoga, Strength 
 Training, Balance, and Aerobics. The more time you spend with Wii Fit, the more activities you 
 unlock in each category. You don't have to achieve a certain score in a particular activity to 
 move to the next one or to unlock the next thing to try. This is the genius of the game. You are 
 free to pick exactly which activities you want to play and focus on the areas you want to focus. 
 You can tailor your time spent with the game exactly the way you want it. Some people may struggle 
 with a Tree pose, or Plank Push Ups. Not a problem, they can do Half Moons, or Torso Twists instead.
 
  
  Basically Wii Fit is just yet another package of mini games for the Wii. The difference is the 
 quality of this one is on par with any high profile release by the big N. Interactivity as well 
 as balance board features set this apart from a standard yoga or aerobics DVD. When striking your 
 yoga poses the balance board monitors your center of balance. This is helpful when trying to maintain 
 your pose properly. Some of the other more fun and worthy activities are Hula Hoops, Rhythm Boxing, 
 Skiing, and Jogging. Jogging does not use the balance board at all. Really, you are just running 
 in place. Somehow the virtual park and seeing your fellow Miis come and go just makes it way more 
 fun. 
  
  Will it get you fit? Well as with anything in life, you get out of it what you put in. In Wii Sports, 
 you can play tennis sitting on the couch and barely shaking the Wii remote. The real fun and feel 
 of the game comes when you hop up and get into the motions. Wii Fit is similar, I'm sure there 
 are ways to cheat the balance board or fake your way though an activity. However if you play along 
 and get into the game, I'm sure you'll have a great time and burn some calories while doing it. 
 Wii Fit is not going to solve America's obesity problem, but it is an incredible, innovative, and 
 fun toy that gets families off the couch and moving a bit. I highly recommend it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckiesrule
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Just got the Wii fit today and played with it for hours. This is an awesome little device. I was 
 amazed at how sturdy the construction is, up to 330 lbs! It can handle big guys like myself. 
 
  
  The BMI and weight feature is a little depressing if you are a naturally big person. I have a large 
 frame and used to play high school and college football, and at 6'1" and 270 lbs I am not in tip 
 top condition for sure, but I am certainly not on the high end of obese (which is the rating that 
 the Wii gave me) . If you are a normal sized person- you will probably not notice this, but if you 
 are a big but athletic person - you may be a bit offended. Just remember BMI is only useful for 
 people with an average frame unless you do the military style waist and neck measurements. Unfortunately 
 Wii Fit does not allow for the neck and wrist measurement and goes purely by your height and weight 
 measurements.
  
  Aside from the fat little 'me' they gave me, I had a blast with the games and the exercises. The 
 yoga poses are pretty hard and require really spot-on balance. If you haven't tried it, you wouldn't 
 believe me. My wife and I were both enthralled by the balance games. She was awesome at the hula-hoop 
 game and I was good at the tight rope and balance board ball game. 
  
  The little piggy bank lets you unlock more features - so you have to work to be able to play the 
 whole game. But fear not- after 15 minutes I had unlock two of the other exercises. 
  
  The workout you get from this is really pretty remarkable. For one- you really have to focus on 
 form because the balance board measures your every move and makes you stay within the limits to 
 get a good score. It takes practice, but when you get the poses right, you can really feel the 
 burn in your legs. Poses like the 'tree' and the 'warrior' pose are really cool and physically 
 challenging. I have good balance as a former skier but the yoga did make you focus on the posture 
 and form.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone. if you are on the heavy side (but under 330 lbs) you could 
 really benefit from just a little extra exercise a day. It makes you aware of your body. Don't 
 take the BMI to heart if you are a big person - just remember that it is something to work on. 
 I know that even when I was at my wrestling weight of 200lbs my BMI was still high. At 6'1" 200 
 lbs is not that big. But, even though this one feature on Wii fit is a bit flawed, I still think 
 that it is fun, gets you off the couch, and has lasting appeal. I can't wait to see what games 
 come out in the future for the new balance board!
  
  Another winner by Nintendo. Good Luck finding one in the stores right now! They are hard to find.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleftwain99
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I am a hardcore PC gamer that is eagerly awaiting Fallout 3 and Spacecraft 2. That said. I recently 
 picked up a Nintendo Wii and the WII fit. I was amazed at how much fun and how strenuos the Wii 
 Fit was. My routine starts with Yoga to loosen up and then Aerobics to get the blood going. After 
 that some strength exercises and then I play some balance games as a reward for the work. The system 
 is a blast to work with even after my BMI test produced a short dumpy character with an obese rating 
 (my wife thought this was a riot) . Yoga goes from sumple to extremely difficult very quickly and 
 the jog around the island wore me right out. I find my self with more energy and just feeling better 
 every time I use it. If the gym is just to boring and you can't seem to get outside then check 
 this system out. A lot of fun with new surprises every time I use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybeastman
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy Wii Fit. I've been trying to go to the gym more regularly but there are always too 
 many reasons not to go. This "game" is really helping motivate me. I doubt that using Wii Fit alone 
 is going to get anyone into great shape, but it doesn't hurt. It really does get you moving and 
 work up a sweat. If you are looking to really get fit I would recommend combining Wii Fit with 
 another work out regiment. I use Wii Fit on the days that I don't have time to go to the gym. Putting 
 in a good 30 min is enough to get your heart pumping and keep you moving on those days. But make 
 sure you do other exercising too. I look forward to more games using the balance board, and hopefully 
 a Wii Fit Vol. 2! I think another version could really help work out the kinks. It'd be great to 
 be able to put together a whole workout routine instead of having to go back to the menu between 
 every exercise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaLugiGuy
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  When I heard about Wii Fit, I was a little self-conscious about the game, but I was impressed at 
 the Balance Board. A little while ago, my cousin brought the game over and I decided to check it 
 out. Not that my expectations were high, of course.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This game is just plain boring. There isn't any technical problems, no serious flaws. It's just 
 BORING. When you start up the game, you are put through some tests by an animated Wii Balance Board, 
 just to check your height, weight, centre of gravity etc. It then gives you your Fitness Age ala 
 Wii Sports. It isn't very accurate though for non-adults. After the tests are done, you can start 
 the exercises. The Yoga and Muscle Workouts provide the same amount of entertainment as watching 
 paint dry. The Balance and Aerobic Exercises play just like a low-quality version of one of those 
 too many minigame collections on the Wii. The games vary from being stupid like a game where you 
 step on and off the Balance Board in rhythm like a poor man's DDR to just being frustrating like 
 a game in which you have to move some balls into a hole.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are generally dull and unimpressive. There is one place where I like the graphics 
 and that is in the Jogging game where it was fun running around the island where the game takes 
 place.
  
  SOUND:
  Entirely forgettable. Expect for the trainers British accent.
  
  OVERALL:
  Casual gamers may be able to squeeze some enjoyment out of Wii Fit. But for hardcore 
 gamers, it's just a dull tech demo for the Wii Balance Board and would be a completely unnecessary 
 addition to your game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Wii fit is one of the most innovative games I have ever seen on the Wii. It kind of plays like 
 Brain Age but focuses more on your body than on your brain. Wii fit begins with you telling them 
 your height and then just doing some execises to determine your weight and your actual age that 
 your body is right now. Then you put in how much pounds you want to lose or gain and just put it 
 in then you start training to reach that goal. I don't really see the big deal as to unlocking 
 stuff because, in my opinion, it makes it more fun than just all of it just being there on the 
 first day. The Wii board is sensitive, but still allows you to teach, but if you are a honest person 
 and really want to lose weight, you would give it your best shot. Wii fit doesn't make you have 
 a fantastic body but at least it makes you fit like its name suggests. I would reccomend that everybody 
 should at least try out at this very innovative game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentDan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  I'll make this sweet and simple. Wii Fit is a fun addition to your healthy lifestyle, but it doesn't 
 replace real diet or exercise. You WONT lose weight playing Wii Fit alone. You'll still need some 
 intense cardio, like running or swimming, or a strict diet. However, with a strict diet muscle 
 loss can sometimes be part of your weight loss if you aren't doing good enough strength training 
 exercises. This is where Wii Fit shines. Wii Fit's Yoga and Strength Training exercises WILL help 
 you build strength and stay toned. I'm in the US Air Force, so I'm no stranger to push-ups, but 
 even by my standards the Wii Fit's Push-Up routine cought me by surprise, and even I started to 
 break a little bit of a sweat.
  
  So in conclusion, Wii Fit is a great title for any health conscious Wii owner. Just don't expect 
 it to replace your fitness plan, because Wii Fit alone wont keep you entirely in shape. Some form 
 of diet or cardio-heavy exercise will still need to be a part of your life if weight loss is a 
 main goal of yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HARRYericPOTTER
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Well, for 90 U. S. dollars, it's not that bad. As I stated above, you can definitely feel the exercises 
 working your muscles, and after you've "played" for about an hour you even feel more fit than you 
 did before. It works well enough, but not quite as well as advertised. The game is just simply 
 too limited, and doesn't feel very professional at times. However, after your abs and arms are 
 burning from push-ups and side planks, that aspect really doesn't matter all that much.
  
  The graphics are trademark and copyright Nintendo, very Mii oriented. The aerobics and balance 
 games look the best, but the trainer models look a little rushed and not as intuitive. They're 
 voices are comforting though, and you can choose a male or female trainer.
  
  The balance board as a whole is an awesome new addition to the Wii console, and it detects weight 
 and balance exceptionally well. However, while weighing yourself in the game, you'll notice fairly 
 quickly that it's somehow annoyingly accurate.
  
  I personally gave the game a 7.5, it's half way between good and great. Don't expect more from 
 this than you would get from a personal trainer (and if you can afford one, go for it) , but for 
 the price, it's a FUN alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcianxx
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Good variety of exercises and keeps them fun and you motivated. Too soon to tell if the workout 
 will do anything for weight loss / strength. 
  
  Nintendo missed out on a couple of simple features that should have been included. One is that 
 after you put in all your info and set your goals the program should be able to design a workout 
 for you (you can choose 20 - 30 - 40 min or however long you want) . With this you should have the 
 option not to to certain exercises that really do not appeal to you and the system would replace 
 it, for example i am horrible at yoga and they could replace it with a balance exercise. The program 
 should learn and track your progress and increase reps / distance etc over time.
  
  Another simple feature would be to design your own workout, to set up 10 or so exercises in a row 
 to do so that between each one you do not have to stop and point. This would also improve the overall 
 exercise and you would be able to keep your heart rate up increasing the exercise potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svdbygrce02
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my Wii Fit on launch day and opened the box as if it were Christmas. After reading 
 the reviews and watching the somewhat corny videos of Wii Fit over the past 6 months, I was excited 
 to break into something that even 5 years ago I would have never imagined I would be experiencing.
 
  
  Packaging: A 
  The Wii Fit is merchandised along the lines of the Wii, but with green and white rather than blue. 
 I read in an interview this was done deliberately to promote health and wellness, as green represents 
 life and growth.
  
  Graphics: A 
  Standard Wii graphics here, making full work of polygonal Miis, colorful backgrounds and cartoony 
 characters. The animated Wii Fit board is cool as are the animated personal trainers. Nothing revolutionary 
 but the graphics are very polished, as is the Nintendo standard.
  
  Sound: A 
  The music is repetitive but doesn't get annoying. The sound effects are top notch, especially during 
 the breathing exercises. I really like the audible feedback given to the user. Sounds that warn 
 you about getting out of balance or cheers from the crowd to motivate you. Once again, nothing 
 spectacular but fits well with the product and very polished.
  
  Gameplay: A+ 
  This is where the revolution begins. Nothing like this, short of DDR or some other rudimentary 
 touch sensitive products have ever been experienced. I am so impressed by the level of immersion 
 in Wii Fit. Sure, anyone can join a health club, (I have a membership to one myself) but Wii Fit 
 actually creates excitement to be healthy. Through games, the virtual personal trainer, and the 
 ability to log and graph progress, the Wii Fit creates a healthy excitement for the entire family. 
 The game play is perfect, with exercises starting out easy and gradually increasing in intensity 
 and duration. Nothing else comes close to this level of interaction between man and machine.
  
  Value: A+ 
  The Wii Fit simply stands as one of the most revolutionary and immersive machines 
 ever invented. Leave it to the pioneers of the industry not to follow but to innovate and actually 
 stride toward promoting health and wellness. I find Wii Fit to be well worth the extra money over 
 a regular game, and look forward to many more opportunities to share good times and good health 
 with my family.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toy11toy
Rating: 6
Date: May 22, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Now Wii fit is not a game that will help u lose weight just get that out of your head but the game 
 dose have a good collection of mini games. the marble game works well and the balance board works 
 well its like an very much improved rolling rocker from the 80"s. but this game will not make you 
 "fit" but it will set you on the right path and with the help of a good diet and balanced life 
 style. wii fit is a good way to get off your butt and play a good but not great mini game collection. 
 this is a improvement over wii sports it will probable keep your attention longer. sure it tells 
 you hey your overweight but with all of the above it can set (set underlined) you in the right 
 direction of fit. I have to recommend this to people who like mini game collections but to the 
 hard core you might not like this game i do not own wii sports but i have spent a lot of time with 
 it so i have a good idea. All in All with a high price tag for a mini game collection with a wight 
 sensitive board, not much depth its 50 50 some will like some wont so be sure you want wii fit 
 before you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmvince
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  A video game where you work out? I can't imagine something so uncomfortable - because the only 
 time I play video games is when I'm bored, tired, and definitely DON'T want to work out. I do work 
 out every other day and I'm in very good shape just doing pushups, situps and some weight lifting 
 with dumbbells. A video game where you work out though? I can see people who are so hyped up over 
 the Wii that they will think this is "next-gen" or "revolutionary" when it's just plain stupid. 
 The wii is a great console, don't get me wrong, but a work out video game? If you wasted your money 
 on this, then I feel bad for you because I know this game's playtime for me was less than 20 minutes 
 before I got bored. You get a MUCH better work out with good old fashion dumbbells or body-weight 
 exercise because the last thing you want to worry about when/if you are ACTUALLY working out is 
 pressing buttons on a controller. I'll give this a 2.5 only because it probably took Nintendo a 
 while to design the hardware, whereas the coding of the game is a joke and is very very far from 
 revolutionary or next-gen. You might as well go play guitar hero (NOT!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charmed_star
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I got mine on launch and I LOVE IT! Gamers should understand that though it has mini-games in the 
 Aerobics and Balance sections, Wii Fit is technically not a game in the traditional understanding. 
 It's a fitness "tool" with gaming elements, which IMO, makes it fun and keeps you involved, and 
 your movements (reflected by your chosen Mii) creates actions and results that you see in real 
 time. It starts you off by taking a reading of your body: inputting of your height and age; evaluating 
 your balance and determining your weight. When done, your Mii transforms -- it's something to see 
 and it had me laughing hysterically as my waist expanded.
  
  You have a choice between two trainers (a male and a female) and you can workout for as long (or 
 as short) as you like. And the completion of an exercise gives you credits that compound to open 
 new workouts. You are also given the option to repeat any one as often as you like. What I like 
 is that you are not forced into a specific "regiment". With over 40 various exercises (some with 
 varying levels of expertise) , you can mix and match, avoiding any exercises you may dislike (like 
 push-ups, for me) and repeat the ones you like. I couldn't stop "playing" it and worked out for 
 2 hours. And out of curiosity, I weighed myself the next morning and had lost 1 pound! You can't 
 beat that.
  
  You can add other family/friend Mii's, though it is setup to be utilized by one person at a time. 
 The board is sturdy and comfortable to use (it uses 4 AA batteries which are included) , and works 
 in conjunction with your remote. The interface is user-friendly and well-done, especially for gamer 
 newcomers who aren't familiar with gaming menus, etc. Wii Fit has a calendar that keeps up with 
 your daily routine, in addition to your BMI and weight so that you can evaluate your progress (or 
 decline) . There is a weight limit of those who can use the board, so be sure to make note of that 
 before purchasing it. 
  
  NOTE TO GAMERS: You should not expect Wii Fit to be an action, RPG, platformer or some other genre 
 of videogame, but instead need to realize that it's a gaming "tool" that was made for a specific 
 purpose. And for all intents and purposes it succeeds, while also making it fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustXilo
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I think most people got this game or anticipated it thinking that it was going to be some revolutionary 
 game that would suddenly make all people want to work out. You can't really think of Wii Fit as 
 a game. It has game elements in order to keep you entertained so that you want to keep coming back 
 but in the end it's designed for fitness.
  
  The best analogy is to think of Wii Fit as Brain Age only for physical, instead of mental, fitness. 
 In the few minutes I played it last night I really enjoyed my time. I attempted approximately seven 
 of the different exercises and while I can already see that they will get ridiculously repetitive 
 I know that that's true for any workout regimen that you might fine yourself doing. The whole point 
 is to help you get in shape. It's not a bowflex or a treadmill or a personal trainer. It's a balance 
 board, some stretching techniques, pushups, etc.
  
  As a new father, I don't have much time to spend focusing on one thing at a time. Wii Fit is quick, 
 easy, and I can pause in between each workout without worrying about where I left off because I 
 can start anywhere without a problem. My fiance is going to use it to help lose those baby pounds 
 and it gives her something to do when she's stuck in the house with the baby all day.
  
  All in all, I'm glad I spent the money on it and unlike many of the other Wii titles this one will 
 actually be used in my home instead of being shelved a few days after buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I got the Wii Fit with pretty high expectations. But my expectation wasn't that it was going to 
 actually help me lose weight. It was that it was going to help and make losing weight a bit funner 
 and more motivating. Which is exactly what it does.
  
  Most people always want to lose a little bit of weight and is probably the main motivator for buying 
 the Wii Fit. The best way to describe how the Wii Fit does this is to say it is like a personal 
 trainer and tracker. You set a goal with it, mine is to lose 22 pounds in 3 months. It keeps track 
 of it and lets you know how you are doing.
  
  The Wii Fit gives me a reason to get on and actually do different exercises. Not only is working 
 out a lot funner with the Wii Fit, but it has a good range of different activities to do so you 
 don't become really bored. Anyone who has a Nintendo DS and Brain Age will understand what I mean. 
 You want to log in everyday and do the few exercises it has.
  
  You won't lose tons of weight from this alone, but now that I have Wii Fit and a plan in place 
 and a sort of daily routine, I'm now setting to go jogging everyday again with my dog. The Wii 
 Fit also lets you input activities you do, like my jogging, so you can keep track of that also.
 
  
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who needs that push to exercise or is looking for more ways to 
 lose weight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyb12
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  First off, the game weighs you every day. Some people might find that annoying but I'm like a friggen 
 stick so I don't care (lol) It did however run a lot of tests and said I was about a weak as a 
 stick also. It comes with tight rope walking (and yes you have to bend your knees if you don't 
 want to fall off easily) I liked the running game, it doesn't even involve the board! Just put 
 your wii remote (not the nunchuck) in your pocket and run in place. This is more of a work out 
 game than it is a "video game". It is however fun (as long as your don't have people around to 
 laugh at you) I don't really like the strength and yoga exercises as well. Because they aren't 
 really games. It has you do push ups (with your hands on the board) stuff like that. 2 people can 
 run at the same time and the tracks can be pretty long (if desired) If your on the fence about 
 the game I would wait for the price to go down. I doubt this game is going to keep me away from 
 my xbox360 forever (the wii is my parents console) but its kept me away for a day at least! (and 
 thats saying something because I hated wii play) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan267
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  and more. This game has good graphics and good music. Game play is really good. Graphics 10/10
 
  
  The graphics are really good for the Wii. The jogging looks crystal clear. You can see lines where 
 air planes have been, you see your friends run with you when you jog and you have people wave at 
 you. The trainers look really good. Music 10/10
  
  Classic music. Ok but plug in your i-Pod and boom.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Fun... thats all. 
 Then you can do some yoga which is really fun. Then you can work out doing some lunges and the 
 Half-moon pose. So fun. Buy this game. $90. Not much when you see what is has in it. It does take 
 4 AA batteries. They are included and it is rated E.
  
  HI HI HI HIH HIH Ikijkjaklkfjbkjk k i i i ii i i i i ii i i ii i i i ii i i i i ii i i i i ii i 
 i i i i i i ii i i i i ii i i i i i ii i i i i i ii iiiii i ijfklkj jak jgf dfkjakg ajgk ajgk fgajgf
 
  
  Sorry testing my keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Wii fit is interesting, and it is not for everyone. Specially, for the hard core players. I wanted 
 to get this because I work out a lot and it will juts add some umph to the routine. But anyway, 
 If you think about it a lot of awesome games can be made with this wii balance board. I for one 
 am happy that I got it.
  
  So, for one thing the box is huge. Obviously when you open the box it has the balance board and 
 the game. When you turn it on, you will have to do some balance thing and then tell it your height 
 and then it will bassicly go from there. I think it's amazing how it calculates your BMI, that 
 is pretty impressive. 
  
  But anyway, there are a lot of work outs and games to do. It makes you laugh and does make you 
 sweat which is GOOD. I usually play Wii Sports boxing, and that in it self is a work out.
  
  So, would I recommend this game to someone? Yes, is it for everyone? No.
  But it does work.
 
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Lets get it out there, using nothing but Wii Fit isn't going to shed the pounds that much. But 
 using Wii Fit combined with regular exercise, well that's probably going to help you out in the 
 long run.
  
  Wii Fit uses the balance board to do four different things. Yoga, strength training, aerobics, 
 and balance. You're not going to find anything out of the ordinary in yoga. Strength training is 
 obviously to tone your muscles. Aerobics is meant to get your heart rate up and burn calories. 
 And balance... well I don't know how balance is going to help you in the long run. The game seems 
 to have a love affair with posture and is the first thing it talks to you about and then keeps 
 talking to you about. 
  
  If you do a lot in Wii Fit every day, you will definitely work up a sweat. Yoga is a lot harder 
 than it seems, and you'll probably find yourself swearing at your trainer when he tells you that 
 you're balance is a bit off (thanks to your leg being jammed behind your back and your arms going 
 to places you never thought possible.) Strength training is more doable, except push ups. Unless 
 its the first thing you do, you're probably going to have sweaty palms, and you're probably not 
 going to be able to keep your hands on the balance board. 
  
  A good thing Wii Fit is for is keeping track of your weight and body mass index. At the very start 
 of the game it takes your weight and bmi and lets you set a goal to try and achieve over another 
 set amount of time. This visual aid will definitely help you try and achieve your goals due to 
 its ease of tracking.
  
  Over all, Wii Fit isn't a game, and it isn't a god of health. But like I said, I'm sure if you 
 combine this daily with other exercise, you will definitely get more in shape than you were before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DutchRoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  As much as I hate to say it, Wii-Fit is indeed a nice concept.
  The included games/exercises are ok, but keep in mind that it's just a simple set of games to demonstrate 
 the capabilities of the board and get you off your bottom. :-) (Simplicity like with the Wii-Sports 
 and Wii-Play)
  
  Good: 
  - Yoga exercises really hit the spot
  - The little balancing games are fun for all
  
  Bad:
  - Very boring personal trainer (and 
 odd looking too)
  - Running on the spot seems really daft to me
  - saving coins/minutes of play time to unlock new games/exercises
  
  Personally I do not think 
 it will get you fit by doing only this for 30 mins a day, it does help however. What I would love 
 to see, are the games that will make use of the board.
  There is a video on the website of Ubisoft, hinting at or making fun of the board.
  http://rabbids. fr. ubi. com/article. php? content_id=7666
 
  
  I hope to see news about games using the board on here soon, Tony Hawk style games and the like... 
 I suspect the Wii-Ski will be boring quickly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kensaku
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I understand why the GS review gave it a 7.0. From a gaming perspective, the game doesn't offer 
 that much as far as technological advances and depth. I understand that the BMI isn't the perfect 
 measuring stick for one's health towards fitness. I understand that there are several discrepancies 
 between what it's hyped up to be and what it can really do for you.
  
  But, from my experience with Wii Fit (Japanese version) , it deserves a higher score than 7.0.
 
  
  My father brought back a Japanese Wii from Japan along with Wii Fit. His intention was to set it 
 up at home and have his two grandchildren (my nephews, 7 and 11) use it while they're over. 
  
  They're over every day because they don't have a mother and because of that they have suffered 
 severe psychological issues. My brother, their dad, is a single dad who works a pretty inconsistent 
 schedule. I'm always busy with work and have little time to take the kids out. The only time I 
 see them is when I make my weekly visit to my parents' home. My father still works and my mother 
 is a painter. They are in their late 60's, yet they are taking care of two adolescent boys while 
 English is their second language. We have all tried to make the best of a very difficult situation. 
 Sometimes we succeed but often times the situation is volatile.
  
  One of the problems we've had is that the family lacks a common interest for when we're at home. 
 The kids are too undisciplined to have a normal sit down dinner with the family, they hog the tv 
 and watch cartoons, and/or go off on their own in the yard. All of this is fine except they come 
 from a broken family and we feel it's important to incorporate "family time" that involves something 
 everyone enjoys. Not all of these issues directly stems from their family situation but it is related. 
 Them being undisciplined is a major issue.
  
  So, in comes Wii Fit. Wii Fit has brought that common interest for everyone in our family to enjoy. 
 This is something that is desperately lacking within our family (with the kids) . I think the GS 
 review doesn't emphasize this attribute enough. This was one of Miyamoto's keys for creating the 
 game. In the case of my family, you have two grandparents who have never played a videogame in 
 their life, two boys who are mental (somewhat figuratively and somewhat literally) , their dad who's 
 work schedule doesn't allow him to have free time to do anything, their uncle (me) who's work schedule 
 won't allow him to spend time with his nephews, and friends and families to come and participate 
 in something that's comical, yet so engaging and ingenious that you wonder: what took so long?
 
  
  Wii Fit is one, if not the only, game that has transcended genders, ages, and language/culture 
 and brought them together for a good time. Sure, there are a million activities in this world that 
 can do the same, but to be able to do it given the day-to-day strain of the working class society 
 is something worth noting. Being able to get away from the typical eye-straining, zombie killing, 
 button mashing games while working up a sweat a little is an added bonus, despite not being able 
 to lose weight like Jared (http://www. subway. com/...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_D7
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  My Wiifit review
  
  I don't think Wiifit on its own is going to get anybody in shape. But it's more fun than regular 
 excersise and if you added it to something else to keep in shape like lifting weights, walking 
 or going on a excersise bike ect, then I think it is beneficial and promotes a healthier lifestyle. 
 But buying Wiifit isn't enough, like any excercise you need commitment. Already a lot of people 
 are no longer using Wiifit, it was just a novelty for them and to much hard work, to much like 
 regualr excersise for them (boring) . If you want to lose weight eat less and walk more, it worked 
 for my brother, add Wiifit to things like that if you wish, it can only help I guess. Or it may 
 be the first step in changing the way you think about your body and your general health, so I guess 
 there is nothing wrong with Wiifit, it probably just shouldn't have been called Wiifit as it will 
 make people believe it's going to drastically change their lives, when on its own it's not. Being 
 fit and staying in shape is hard work and requires a change in attitude and eating habits, and 
 serious commitment. It comes from within, Nintendo can't make you fit, only you can.
  
  Onto the games, I've seen some silly people sayy there are 4 games in Wiifit, what they mean is 
 there are 4 categories, and all together about 40+ activities in these 4 categories. The 4 categories 
 are
  
  Yoga
  balance games
  aerobic exercises
  muscle workouts
  
  You can only access a lot of the activities after playing for a certain time or achieving a certain 
 rating on a event.
  
  I wouldn't think the balance games would make you fitter, but the muscle workouts and aerobics 
 should work as they do push your body and get those muscles working and your heart rate up. Some 
 are very hard, some easy, and your scores for each game can vary alot and do not seem accurate 
 sometimes. I was told after my first abs workout that I had great abs, yet I have a belly on me... 
 best not take the results to seriously, just try to have fun with it. As with any exercise, you 
 need to put in the time to get results, there is no quick fix. No free rides as they say, if you 
 want to get fit expect to push your body, it's not easy, and many people will not find it fun.
 
  
  Some of the workouts such as yoga and muscle workouts really don't seem to need the Wiiboard very 
 much as it's basically a instructor on the screen telling you what to do and you copying him or 
 her , more like a excersise video than a video game. It's the balance and aerobics sections that 
 use the board something like Wii sports, and are more fun and kid friendly, but again, not sure 
 if they will make you fit, only time will tell. Things like snowboarding, boxing, jogging, are 
 kinda fun, but this is a exercise tool first, people seem to forget that and go in expecting to 
 have a laugh with it like Wiisports, it's a lot more serious than that so it's best you know that 
 now before you buy it and complain it's not like Mario Galaxy or something,. 
  
  I'm just starting using Wiifit and have put in about 25 minutes a day for a week. Used daily or 
 every other day, I guess it will help people to feel better about themselves, and may help them 
 to look into other, more serious ways of keeping fit and living healthy. The Wiiboard is a quality 
 piece of kit, heavy, can take a pounding, accurate. the Wiifit software is full of graphs and stuff 
 for you to keep track of your daily progress and your weight ect. If used properly and regularly 
 I could see people getting a lot out of this, even if they don't lose much weight or get very fit, 
 I'm sure it will keep them interested and get them thinking about their health more. Which is only 
 a good thing.
  
  I'm glad I bought Wiifit, just don't buy it expecting miracles, it's not a video game, it's more 
 serious than that. Does it work?, I don't know, only by putting in the time will people find out, 
 and the results will vary greatly depending on other activities you do in your life, and what you 
 eat ect. There is nothing wrong with adding wiifit to your daily routine, but on its own I don't 
 think it's going to get anyone fit. If you want to lose weight, watching what you eat is more important 
 than using Wiifit. If I had to score this thing I would give it around 8/10, it's well put together, 
 and is the best you can do with a fitness video game I guess. Just don't expect it to be a miracle 
 cure for anything, as it's not. If you are trying to lose weight or get fit I wish you good luck, 
 I know from friends and loved ones ( my girlfriend is very overweight) just how hard it is to lose 
 weight, and how much of a effect being overweight can have on your happiness and confidence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  You see ads with people wearing lots of white, living in big white houses, standing on a moderate 
 sized board. I thought 'Hmmm thats lame' though when we got it and tried it out, it does make you 
 sweat, it is moderately fun and better once you buy it you dont have to pay a membership fee all 
 the time, and pay a personal trainer, instead you get a strangely white guy or girl telling you 
 what to do.
  The game/not game actually did improve my balance and when you first try a lot of the balance exercises 
 you over shoot your weight and go too far left or right, some games arent hard in balance, but 
 some arent that easy either.
  Then came Yoga, which i found to be my own personal immortal enemy. Doing 'the tree' didnt look, 
 but when you balance needs to be in the yellow zone i can say it isnt my 'cup of tea' as it told 
 me.
  Then there were Aerobic exercises, things like running and such, which people will manipulate like 
 with jogging, just moving the Wiimote allows you to run, though when i got my friend actually do 
 it, he couldnt even do half of the short course. So sure do that but whats the point in getting 
 the game if your not going to try.
  Then there were Muscle Exercises, that were actually quite difficult, push ups arent hard but when 
 you have to hold them there it isnt as easy as being in constant motion. 
  
  No doubt this game is for everyone, and in places it isnt necessarily fun, but although people 
 are saying, that wasnt fun, really how do you suppose that you can make Jackknives, Push ups and 
 5 minute jogging, Mario Material, Nintendo has done a good job at Wii Fit while leaving much room 
 for improvement in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Years ago, the myth of video games that make you exercise may have seemed to be futuristic such 
 as 50 years from now. But since the release of the Nintendo Wii and many games for it, you can 
 now partly exercise.
  
  One such of those games is Wii Fit, the first game that could actually make a change to your lifestyle. 
 The effects of the many exercises really start to show, in many ways, causing some of your muscles 
 to strain and tighten.
  
  Many video games in the past Nintendo systems won't even make you fit, except make you fatter and 
 unfit. The Nintendo DS is one such example, all you do is wave a stick around on a so-called Awe-Inspring 
 2-inch touch screen which makes most people addicted to the device.
  
  Yet, the Wii has better detail and because of Wii Fit you actually get to exercise. The first-time 
 you go on Wii Fit, you are asked to take a simple Body Test (measures your COG (Centre of Gravity) 
 and BMI (Body Mass Index) ) consisting of simply standing still and letting the Balance Board do 
 it's thing.
  
  After that, you can set a personal goal to lose or gain a couple of kilo's over a set time limit 
 (max. 6 months) . You can change your goal at any time by simply mucking around with the settings. 
 When you've completed that, you are asked to take 2 simple balance tests.
  
  When you have finished all of that, you can start exercising. Yet all the activities aren't unlocked 
 and you have to exercise and say in 10 minutes you unlock a new activity. If you get good at a 
 certain activity, you can unlock an advanced level or more reps.
  
  YOGA is the first set of exercises where you have to imitate poses that your trainer does (male 
 or female trainer, you can change your trainer at any time) and some of them are very hard. They 
 really improve posture and can tighten your muscles.
  
  MUSCLE WORKOUTS is the second set of exercises which is set to workout your muscles including push-ups 
 and many streches and advanced body manuevers. They really add a sweat to your forehead and your 
 muscles get tired for working out.
  
  AEROBATIC ACTIVITIES is the thrid set of exercises which are really games. The first is Hula Hoop 
 followed by Super Hula Hoop where you constantly have to move your waist to keep the hoops spinning.
 
  The second activity is Step Basics followed by Step Plus and eventually leading onto Free Step 
 (have to step up and down for a set amount of time) . You have to step up and down on the Wii Balance 
 Board in syncronization with the other Miis on the stage.
  The third activity is Jogging, 2P Jogging and Free Jogging (have to run for a set amount of time) . 
 You can choose either Short, Long or Island Lap for the Jogging, you can also bring a second player 
 along.
  The fourth activity is Rythym Boxing where you have to punch in according to the music, also it 
 is the only activity that includes the nunchuk.
  
  BALANCE GAMES is the fourth set of games that include Heading (heading soccer balls by leaning 
 left or right) , Ski Stalom (leaning left or right to pass through the gates) , Ski Jump (squatting 
 and extending at the ramp to jump) , Table Tilt (leaning to pass balls in a hole in a table) , Tightrope 
 Tension (walking across a tightrope and jumping to avoid obstacles) , Balance Bubble (moving your 
 Mii down a river in a bubble) , Penguin Slide (sliding down an iceberg to catch fish) , Snowboard 
 Stalom (turning the Balance Board sideways to snowboard through the gates) and Zazen (keeping the 
 candle still whilst meditating) .
  
  To sum it up, Wii Fit is a great game that really makes you sweat. I am very glad that I know have 
 an alternate source to exercise than running laps of our local park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Wii Fit is a videogame purely based on getting and maintaining a great physical shape by means 
 of minigames and basic exercises. 
  
  Pros: This game does promise a new found fitness if the activities are performed regularly and 
 properly. It's lasting appeal can be limitless. (although I was sick of it quickly) It is fairly 
 innovative and deserves alot of credit for that alone. Has over 40 activities
  
  Cons: Poor Visuals, No variety in music, Definitely not worth the money for enjoyment, Balance 
 board is just a gimmick.
  
  Final Comments: Wii Fit will attract an older generation of gamers that are looking forward to 
 getting into shape. This game will not attract the average gamer who is looking for a fun, addictive 
 game (I am one of these people)
  So don't think that it looks fun just because it is really good idea. It really is not that fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digilobe
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This is completely different approach, and very challenging for Nintendo.
  I won't say Wii Fit is the typical video game. If you're looking for the game like Super Mario 
 Galaxy, Wii Fit is definitely not the game what you want. Plus, if you regularly go to the gym, 
 you don't have to buy this game. And, it is not recommended for active people, and core game players 
 either. 
  Wii Fit has lots of light entertainment and some good exercise. I was interested in Yoga pauses 
 in the first place, but other muscle workout, and balance games were fun too.
  Especially, I have a terrible posture, and not-so-strong legs, so Wii Fit gives me a bit of discipline 
 every time I play. In fact, I have already started losing my weight slightly since I played with 
 Wii Fit. I can see what's going on in the graph very easily, and how young my body is in Wii Fit 
 Age. They are the good things.
  The downside is the balance board is a bit too sensitive, and we can't create our own exercise 
 programs. 
  So far, Wii Fit is such a good product to keep you alive in real life. It makes you refreshing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukezebedee
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  im the first to admit that i am a little overweight. you can put it down to too many takeaways, 
 too many video games or even the fact that my job makes sure that i sit down on a chair for 8 - 
 10 hours a day not getting any exercise. 
  ive wanted to start going to the gym for a few years now but as soon as i put time away to go every 
 morning - my wife had a baby. talk about bad timing! 
  
  ever since nintendo announced wii fit i was very excited but equally sceptical. 
  video games 
 combined wth a gimmick like fitness training etc sounded like a disaster - even for nintendo. these 
 days everybody wants to look their best and be healthy. so i finnally got wii fit and i must say 
 that i am very impressed. anyone looking to buy a new, fun game should really try somewhere else. 
 sure it has the usual mini games but you will get bored very quickly.
  but if, like me, you would really like to get yourself into better shape and try and loose a few 
 pounds (in my case i wanna loose just over a stone) then wii fit is absolutely perfect. 
  
  you start off with small short exercises to get you used to a routine and the methods, then after 
 a few days things start getting tougher, like every form of exercise there is only so much you 
 can do in a day. so you will really only use wii fit for upto an hour a day. i have been using 
 this for a week now and not only have i lost 4 pounds (its better than nothing) but i really do 
 feel more fitter. yesterday i was too busy with my kids and work to use it and i felt guilty and 
 really bad for not keeping my routine, which made me want to double my efforts today. 
  
  so good job nintendo, for helping a busy/lazy/normal person like myself to start thinking about 
 my health and my fitness. the fact that its on the wii as appossed the a "workout dvd with fitness 
 mat" which you can normally buy just makes it more attractive to buy. 
  
  if you want to loose some weight and cant find time to go to a gym then you cant do better than 
 wii fit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Like Subway sandwiches, the Atkins diet and Mr. Motivator, Wii Fit claims it can get you fit and 
 exercising to a routine that suits you. Which it can, surprising, and very accurately too, but 
 what I feel it comes down to at the end of the day is how fun the experience is, as, let's face 
 it, videogames have to be in order to win you over and keep a sustained and entertaining experience. 
 Wii Fit is partially fun but not a "game" I would that I would go out and spend 65 on.
  
  It is a very clever piece of kit and Nintendo are successful in that sense but it is the latest 
 addition to the Wii line up that stinks of mass market appeal and casual gaming. First off it will 
 measure you're weight, centre of gravity and give you your body mass index, which is all and good 
 but takes far too long. Yes, it helps you create a specific exercise program for you but with every 
 new person that comes to use Wii Fit you have to spend half an hour putting in their details and 
 finding this BMI. So, it's not a game where a group of mates can jump into there and then and play 
 some cool minigames - like Wii Sports.
  
  This can grow annoying, and worryingly, the new Rayman Raving Rabbits uses the Wii Board specifically 
 for it's minigames, so are all the party players going to have to find there centre of gravity 
 before we can even start every time we play? Just a thought.
  
  The exercise genuinely improve your stamina and fitness level and you will see improvements in 
 your body as you play. It's a shame thought there are only four minigames, all of which are no 
 comparison to early Eyetoy titles. Wii Fit is not a game. It is a fitness aid and in looking at 
 the title I think that is what it has to be regarded as. I don't think it's worth spending 65 
 on as instead I'd suggest weights or even just a yoga mat, it's cheaper and can be done a lot easier 
 with friends. Wii Fit will sell **** loads and in all honesty that's because our nation wants to 
 be fitter and grab onto the next "cool thing". Overall, Wii Fit is an expansion of Nintendo's world 
 domination of the casual market but I honestly see you having more fun with a bike or something 
 more exciting than Wii Fit's boring monotiny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad0404
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  So what's 70 buy you these days? A Wii Fit that's what - well actually a Wii Board and the game 
 Wii Fit.
  
  First up what's in the box - 1 board, check - 4 batteries, check - 1 manual, check - 1 game, check.
 
  
  The board itself is one of the most solid peripherals I have ever seen released for a console - 
 it has a weight limit of 150kilos so it'll have to be to take that much weight - for those in the 
 UK that don't get kilos that's around 23 1/2 stone!
  
  Don't try and sync the Wii Fit to the Wii staight away it won't work. Instead plug the disc in 
 - the Wii will be updated first. And then you can run the game it's at this point you can sync 
 the board and your wii. 
  
  So a quick run down of what it entails. You jump (not littereally, you never jump on the board 
 in real life!) on the board, enter your height and age and give and tell it roughly how much your 
 clothes weight. It'll then work out your BMI, Weight and also where your center of balance is.
 
  
  After that you get a short balance exercise and then your 'Wii Fit Age' mine for the record was 
 61 (I'm 36!)
  
  You then get an option to decide how much body mass you want to loose and over what period. Once 
 this is set and you've chosen either the male or (sexy) female trainer you're away.
  
  The 'game' if you can call it that is split into four catergories: Aerobics, Muscular, Yoga and 
 Balance.
  
  Aerobics is Hoola Hoops and Stepping that sort of thing.
  
  Balance features things like Heading Balls, Rolling Marbles and catching fish with sliding penguins.
 
  
  Muscular features what you would most closely associate with normal exercise routines like press 
 ups.
  
  And finally Yoga teaches you several yoga positions which are harder to do that they might first 
 look/
  
  Alll of the games we have tried so far are great fun you unlock more as you spend more time using 
 it, racking credits in the piggy bank as you do so. They are challenging and utilize and large 
 verity of different styles to get you moving on the board. 
  
  You're supposed to spend 30mins each day with it and it moans at you if you don't!
  
  You can 
 also retest your Body any time you wish, although once a day should be sufficient. Each time you 
 do this you'll be presented with a series of test from which your Wii Fit age is derived. Some 
 of the test aren't quite as clear as they could be with their instructions.
  
  Overall I am really impressed with the board and Wii Fit and it's even had my wife play with it 
 for 30mins while I was out working on Saturday night which is something that has never happened 
 before! 
  
  However, having sung it's praises the 'game' does have one big problem when playing it you 'log 
 in' as yourself do your games etc and then log out and someone else logs in. There's no way to 
 really set up a proper two player competitive experience a la Brain Academy which has several multimplayer 
 modes.
  
  I'd like to be able to challenge people at a series of events like a mimi wii fit olympics but 
 you can't do it It's such a glaring omission I've downgraded my score of the game.
  
  Phil
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technocactus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Wii Fit is the latest innovation from Nintendo, and an ultimately disappointing one. Based around 
 the idea of using the Wii to help get fit, it all works very well, except for one problem; where 
 is the enjoyment?
  To start off positive, we'll look at what's good about Wii Fit. It certainly is innovative, and 
 you'll never have played anything like it. Some of the games, particularly the ones associated 
 with balance, can be enjoyable, and many of the games are unique, some even playing like old-school 
 games with a twist. If indeed it can help with fitness, that will be good too.
  However, there are some negatives. The most blinkeringly obvious is the price. At 70 (to be honest, 
 I don't know the American price, but it will probably be pretty steep) , it's about twice the cost 
 of a normal Wii game. The content of the game itself seems to be lacking in any real substance. 
 It has a Brain Training-style body age calculator, but this is so random the Wii Board's monitoring 
 use doesn't extend past scales and basic calculations. Once the gimmick wears off, Wii Fit will 
 not be a great experience for multiplayer, unlike the superior Wii Sports, and so has been marketed 
 by a single-player experience. However, there is a problem with this. What is there to keep the 
 player coming back. There's an assortment of games, none of which are good enough to keep you coming 
 back in themselves. One of the major draws should have been body age, but that is so dependent 
 on your talents for that particular game that you may as well judge by how well someone can play 
 Super Mario Galaxy. And I can weigh myself without an irksomely squeaky little board, thanks very 
 much. Also, its value for fitness is highly questionable, and you'll get less out of Wii Fit than 
 spending a quarter of the time doing real exercise.
  In conclusion, Wii Fit is misguided. Its design means it can only ever be a single-player experience, 
 but it can't do that well enough. I wouldn't recommend purchasing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gendif
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  It's not that I disagree with that entirely, I know i'm hardly skinny, but It told my entire family 
 that we were obese and could suffer from 'Metabolic Syndrome'. (No explanation as to what that 
 is, ofcourse) .
  It has a nice selection of rather fun games that usually centre around balancing on the aptly named 
 Wii Balance Board and also has some workout and yoga of all things.
  My younger brother became obsessed with unlocking (Yes, unlocking) the games and beating the high 
 scores, My Dad is currently the best on the ski jump despite everyone attempts to topple him. So, 
 it's another family title and the addition of scoreboards for every sing action lead to good motivation. 
 Will it get us all fit? Maybe, hopefully. 
  That said the workouts and yoga just dont seem so inspired. They show you how to perform the actions 
 but with only limited feedback to the game there's no guarantee you're doing it right. I did my 
 best on the pushup and sidestand workout and scored low, no surprise, but when my brother got on 
 and messed it up completley with his legs and arms all over the place his score was through the 
 roof. Needless to say I was not amused.
  The idea to have you unlock new games and exercises based on the amount of time you spend on the 
 regime is a take it or leave it thing. On the one hand it could give you the motivation to soldier 
 on knowing that your reward will be a greater variety of ways to soldier on or you could just ditch 
 the project because you couldn't be bothered. Kind of like going to the gym I suppose then, eh?
 
  
  In conclusion I think wii fit will do well, it has its heart in the right place and the technology 
 of the balance board seems pretty smart. The games are fun and there is a definite urge to keep 
 going with it. Not one to be played alone i'd say but that's not something new as we all know the 
 wii is a rather family orientated machine.
  Who knows, this time next year the gyms could be out of business... but I wouldn't bet on that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatrats
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Have just bought Wii Fit on release day and I was certainly not disappointed. Syncronising the 
 board to my Wii console was easy and only took a few minutes. The board is good quality and very 
 sturdy.
  
  Anyway lets get to the games. There are four different types of games Yoga, Balance, Aerobic and 
 Muscle. The games are very different and there is something for everyone. The Yoga is relaxing 
 and I wanted to fall asleep after completing my first session. You have a trainer on screen who 
 acts as your mirror image so just follow the trainer and you can't go wrong!
  
  The Muscle games are quite hard going to be honest so if your fitness is not up to scratch I would 
 recommend trying this one after a week of using the game. 
  
  he aerobic games are really innovative and fun, definitely more interesting than going down the 
 gym and exercising alongside stick thin women with loads of make up! The Step Aerobic game is the 
 best out of the lot and the music although tedious grows on you after a while. The jogging game 
 is a fun addition but I recommend starting on the Short Run option. You'll thanks me for this!
 
  
  My favourite section though has to be the Balance section where you can ski, ski jump, head footballs, 
 balance on a tightrope over a 300ft drop (harder than it looks!) and much more!!! 
  
  This game has it all and all sizes, shapes and ages can take part, loose weight and above all have 
 fun!! The weight limit of the board is 23st 8lbs just so you know.
  
  This game is worth the money and just 15 minutes a day could change your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ropami50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Wii fit is an excellent game. It excels in Nintendo's usual simplistic approach with it taking 
 a few minutes to set up and a few more to take the beginners test. In some ways it is very similar 
 to Brain training you stamp each day and take the test. The graphics are similar to that of Wii 
 Sports, but there are many more games. Hula Hooping is so much fun and after the yoga poses you 
 can really feel it. The price is quite reasonable for a game and excellent peripheral. The whole 
 game posesses Nintendo's charm. It is perfect for people who do not do a lot of excercise, it's 
 better than sitting on your bum. The jogging game is very fun with friends, but you might as well 
 as walk out the front door. The voice of the balance board is exremely annoying. But do not let 
 these few things put you off they do not affect the majority of the game. Overall it is a very good 
 game which I am sure will do as well as predicted. This is a must buy for wii owners and must eventually 
 have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanollie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  I got mine today and synced it all up. The Wii board feels very strudy and solid. I thought there 
 might be a problem on the carpet but it was fine. I'm guessing if you have really deep carpet you 
 may have some trouble.
  
  You get yourself set up and can do lots of things. You can set yourself goals on weight loss if 
 you want. You can even hide all your details from other users, so all you weight conscious ladies 
 out there your other half won't see any details. me and my husband got on the bored individually 
 and it weighed us we fell about the floor laughing when our mii's expanded there waist line what 
 a laugh!!!.
  
  I've yet to try it out fully but from quickly using it I think it is going to be great. The board 
 feels safe and the games, training games look fun.
  
  So if you want to look after yourself while having fun this is the game for you. Even if its just 
 5 minutes a day the game will track this and hopefully you will reach your goals!
  
  Though I would always view this as a compliment to my fitness regime, it still can make you quite 
 fit from doing it daily!
  
  Jogging is hilarious! You pop the Wiimote in your back pocket and the faster you jog on the spot, 
 the faster your character runs! iwas absolutley puffed out when it had finished and i could not 
 stop laughin!!.
  
  Plenty of games and many to unlock. I like how you can track your progress with your friends and 
 family to keep that competitive edge to the game; encouraging you to keep playing!
  
  Simple game layout, easy to follow... no wonder the rave reviews are flooding game magazines and 
 newspapers alike!
  
  Amazingly well designed both the Balance Board and game. Try it and see
  
  
  Nintendo have 
 produced yet another ingenious product well worth the money.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
