-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wii Music
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sim/wiimusic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wide variety of instruments.
 Easy to pick up and play.
 Fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not worth full retail price.
 Gameplay is too simple.
 Not enough game modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 640 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 20, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wii Music is fun and charming, but it's also simple and shallow. 

  Wii Music is fun. It's fun even though you don't actually play music. It's fun even though it's 
 not really a game, and it's fun even though it's not a good value, either. Very young children 
 (from 3 to 6 years of age) will probably get the most out of conducting an orchestra, waving controllers 
 to mimick playing steel drums, and using their Miis to make a goofy arrangement of the Super Mario 
 Bros. theme song, but even a group of adults can get a few hours of joy from Wii Music before the 
 novelty wears off.  

           Yes, that's a NES controller being played.      

  There's a wide variety of instruments to play in Wii Music: drums, guitar, violin, trumpet, saxophone, 
 timpani, harp, electric and upright bass, steel drums, banjo, handbells, and many more. Each of 
 these instruments is played by one of four simple motions. Guitars are played by holding the Nunchuk 
 as you would the neck of a guitar and then moving the remote in a strumming motion. Wind instruments 
 are played without the Nunchuk; just hold the top of the remote toward your mouth and press the 
 1 and 2 buttons to change notes. You can raise and lower the remote to increase or decrease the 
 volume. Violins are a little more complex; you hold the Nunchuk out from your shoulder and then 
 move the remote back and forth like a bow across strings. Drums and keyboards are played by waving 
 the remote and Nunchuk up and down. A more complicated drum set is available if you have a Wii 
 Fit Board as well (it acts as a pedal) .  

  Once the game's host is done driving you crazy with his gibberish, you're free to play some music. 
 One of the more interesting things to do is jam with CPU-controlled musicians known as tutes. You 
 start off alone, and as you establish a rhythm, you're joined by a percussionist, a bassist, and 
 eventually a few other musicians. You don't have much control over what you're playing -- though 
 you can decide how often you play a note and add some flair by holding down a button -- but somehow, 
 some way, the results sound pretty good. If you want to play a "real" song, you can choose from 
 a small list that includes a few familiar Nintendo themes and pop tunes, and then play along with 
 them. You can do this alone or with up to three other people; if alone, you can go back and play 
 each part so eventually every instrument is played by your Mii. Once you've finished a song, you 
 can save a video of your performance, and (using a limited number of options) create your own album 
 cover.  

  If you're looking for something a little more structured, there are three minigames to choose from, 
 all of which can be played with one to four players. Mii Maestro places you in the role of conductor. 
 It's your job to keep the orchestra together by moving the remote up and down in a steady beat. 
 This is easy, but it's fun to go through the five available songs a few times. In Handbell Harmony, 
 you're given a set of colored bells, one mapped to the Nunchuk and the other to the remote. When 
 your color hits the time bar, you swing the appropriate controller, and  voila , you're playing 
 handbells. Given that you're able to speed up and even increase the complexity of each song, this 
 mode does offer a fair bit of challenge. The last minigame is Pitch Perfect. This mode tests your 
 ability to recognize different pitches. It starts off easy by asking you to pick which two instruments 
 out of three are playing the same note, but as you progress, you'll have to put together four-note 
 chords, arrange a large number of musicians in proper order to make a song, and other fairly difficult 
 tasks.  

           Your parents will be so proud when they see you leading an orchestra.      

  That's 
 about all there is to Wii Music. It's hard to explain, but there's a certain joy that comes from 
 waving the remote around in a carefree manner and hearing the music that plays as a result. The 
 game is charming and can be fun for short periods of time, but unless you're buying it for a young 
 child, it's difficult to recommend as a purchase because older children and adults aren't likely 
 to get more than a few hours of entertainment out of it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bimble
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  I picked up Wii Music with my four-year-old niece in mind. I need things to distract her, you see, 
 because otherwise she leads me around the house giving me commands like, "Put this necklace on," 
 and, "Let's play school. You sit down and I'll tell you what to do." I've been trying to find games 
 she would like, because so far the only games she likes run on Windows, which means she takes over 
 my gaming computer to play them. And there are only two games she likes anyway. One is Purble Place, 
 which came with Vista, which she calls "Muffin Man" because of a cake-making game. The other is 
 World of Warcraft, which she calls "the girl game" because the best she's figured out to do with 
 it is instruct me in creating a female avatar for her ("Now change the hair color") , including 
 naming her (she types "Dwhkkuxz" and declares it reads "Hannah") . Then she makes her new girl walk 
 around in a starting area. She's figured out how to occasionally get into combat (and seems to 
 enjoy deciding who lives and who dies - "That dog is nice, we leave him alone. I'll kill that other 
 one") , but it still isn't a game she can quite play to its full potential.
  
  But I digress. This is about Wii Music. I decided on it because some reviews I read made it sound 
 like it could be the sort of freeform game that I could drop her in front of and she could have 
 a fun time with it. She's been taking dancing lessons and has always been into music and singing, 
 so it seemed like it might be a good fit. Little did I realize that, while I think it might be 
 something she'll enjoy, it's something I'll enjoy too. It's one of those rare games that has stuff 
 in it to appeal to a variety of ages, though ultimately I think the game will have the most lasting 
 appeal for people who would like creating their own mixes of other people's tunes.
  
  Wii Music isn't Guitar Hero, or really like other rhythm games I've played. It's more like Apple's 
 Garage Band program, in game form. The core of the game is Jam Sessions, where you select an instrument, 
 a part (melody, harmony, chords, rhythm, etc.) , and a song, then "play" your instrument during 
 the song kind of any way you'd like. The game plays a metronome sound to help you with the beat, 
 but doesn't judge or score you on whether you keep it. When you play your instrument you aren't 
 choosing the pitch, just when the instrument makes a note - the game takes care of what note is 
 played based on where you are in the song. So when you play a guitar instrument you make the motions 
 of strumming the guitar to determine when it's played, but you don't push buttons to pick your 
 notes - just to control whether or not a note is sustained, or to play a chord instead of a single 
 note, or to add vibrato.
  
  It is, in short, a creative effort more than a game where you're looking to score points. After 
 the session ends you can replay it to see how it sounds, and you have the option of saving a video 
 of your performance (which you can share with friends online, if you're especially proud of it) . 
 You assign a score to the video when you save it, but that's solely to help you remember how much 
 you liked it, not something the game uses to determine any unlocks. So the meat of the game is 
 that you play instruments during different tunes, and try to add your own individual style to the 
 performance, and then decide how much you like the result.
  
  This sounds simplistic, and it certainly can be. One option when starting a jam session lets the 
 game randomly pick a song, a style, an instrument, and a role for you, and then you just hop in 
 and see what happens. Very simple. But it can be a lot more complex than that. When you set up 
 a custom jam session, where you select the song, instrument, and role yourself, the style isn't 
 assigned for you, and any backup the game makes just plays a traditional accompaniment (and yes, 
 you can have multiple players on multiple instruments for a jam session, which seems like it would 
 be a lot of fun) . Once you've finished playing in that one role, however, you can go back and overdub 
 what you've done so far into the same tune, with you playing a different role. It lets you create 
 your own absolutely unique take on the music. There are even tutorials that teach you what types 
 of rhythms determine a style (jazz, swing, polka, reggae, rock, etc.) , so when you go in and play 
 the different roles in a song, you can apply that knowledge to completely change the composer's 
 intent. Want to play La Bamba in a classical style? Or Ode to Joy as a march? Go for it - all it 
 takes is the time and will to get the rhythms right, and then hop into the harmony and melody and 
 freestyle in a way that goes along with your chosen approach.
  
  Playing the instruments isn't as much fun as it could be if you were creating your own notes, to 
 be honest. There are different ways to hold and use the controllers for different types of instruments, 
 but they boil down to moving to play notes, or pushing buttons to play notes. There's some fun 
 in playing air guitar or air violin, but it can get a bit confusing if you're familiar with an 
 instrument and they don't quite emulate it when you're playing it with the Wii controllers. The 
 violin style, for example, uses the motion of moving the bow to determine volume - the actual notes 
 are played when you push a button on the "neck". For someone who played violin, that gets a bit 
 confusing (since I'm used to the bow motion being what plays and starts a new note, while the neck 
 just determines pitch) . I guess the instrument playing adds a bit of variety and makes it more 
 like a game, but at times I kind of wished I could just push buttons on a regular controller to 
 get the same effects.
  
  There are three minigames in Wii Music to go along with the jam sessions. They're kind of fun, 
 but a real mixed bag. One has you in the role of conductor for an orchestra, setting the tempo 
 by waving the baton controller, and sometimes pushing a button to emphasize some notes. You get 
 points from keeping a consistent tempo, I think. Unfortunately for the music buff in me, the "conducting" 
 consists solely of waving the baton up and down - real conducting involves more motion of the baton, 
 with the beat of the piece determining the pattern of motion. So it's kind of fun, but not for 
 long - there's only so much excitement one can get from just trying to keep a beat by waving up 
 and down. The second minigame has you playing two colored handbells during a tune (one for each 
 hand) , playing each at the right time as the colored bell symbols scroll across the screen. Classic 
 rhythm game stuff, not bad. The third game is for the music buffs, I'd say, since it's an assortment 
 of exercises in quiz form. The questions include picking the musician playing the highest or lowest 
 pitch out of a group, or picking out which instrument in an ensemble played the wrong note, or 
 shuffling players around to make them form a specific tune. I certainly wouldn't ask my niece to 
 play it, but I had fun with it.
  
  There's also a lessons section of the game, mostly there as a tutorial for the game, but as I mentioned 
 previously it includes a section on different styles of music. The first basic lesson introduces 
 you to the instruments and jam sessions, and you're forced through it the first time you start 
 the game. The second lesson teaches about overdubbing, and it's that one that includes advanced 
 topics for about twenty musical styles, letting you play each role in a tune to see what sort of 
 rhythms set that style. It seems like a good way to learn about styles if you're looking to learn, 
 to be honest.
  
  The game does unlock new instruments and songs as you play it. Some unlocks come from the minigames 
 (just completing them, it doesn't appear to be based on your score) , while others come as you save 
 more videos from jam sessions. Since none of the unlocks appear tied to a certain performance in 
 minigames or the like, they should all eventually be accessible to just about any player, whatever 
 their musical talent. There are 50 songs in all, and a ton of instruments on top of that, including 
 a variety of pianos and guitars, all sorts of traditional band and orchestral instruments, and 
 some stranger ones (like cat and dog sounds) . The songs range from classical music (Ode to Joy, 
 Carmen) , to pop music (La Bamba, Daydream Believer) , to traditional tunes (Frere Jacque, Twinkle 
 Twinkle Little Star) , to video game music (the Zelda and Mario themes) . Combine the variety of 
 music with the variety of instruments and you have a lot of potential for entertainment if you're 
 someone who would enjoy getting creative with familiar songs.
  
  I can't say for certain that this will distract my niece for long, but it has distracted me more 
 than I thought it would. The instrument playing takes getting used to, and I'm a bit annoyed at 
 having to save poorer efforts in order to unlock new instruments and songs, but I enjoy just being 
 able to hop into a jam session with a computer-controlled backup band and play however I feel like 
 playing. It's like a musical, family-friendly Grand Theft Auto, where the most enjoyment is to 
 be had when you just abandon the script and wander randomly around town making your own fun. Well, 
 or not. Maybe you get the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  BUYER BEWARE!!! Its pretty much like this, if you have little kids, rent it, if not, don't even 
 think about it, this has to be one of the worst games i have ever played, this should've been a 
 tech demo, not a retail game at $49.99 Come on nintendo, what in the world were you thinking?!?!?!!?
 
  you're better off buying a real instrument and practice on that, this game sound effects are not 
 very real, not a good music sim
  you will hate this game within the 1st 10 minutes,
  again, kids will love it, but for $50 you could get much better games, if they really want to play 
 music, have them take a class in school, because this plain sucks, I HATE YOU NINTENDO for releasing 
 this game, all you are tryiing to do is make a quick buck, I'm so sick of all the garbage coming 
 out, another crappy game is Dead Rising, I mean what the F!$!
  Thank God I have connections, because I would be pissed off to just rent this game, I definately 
 would want my money back from just a rental, I feel sorry for the poor saps who bought this stupid 
 game, yea its music and yea its different, so what, if you're curious rent it, seriously, but don't 
 buy, it totally isn' t worth it!!!!! Mr. Miyamoto must have been on something when he made this 
 game, and he's a gaming God, what the heck happened here!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumboy96
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game can a be a great game... for famalies. Basically to start off there is no real story 
 or purpose. Just, play music and have fun doing it. You choose a instrument from bass, percussion, horn, 
 etc... and play music. You can either practice to discover more about the instrument, Jam where 
 you basically make a band with your family, or play with tutes, the AI's in the game" or you 
 can do challenges, to unlock new instruments, and songs. But some instruments are like a dog suit, 
 a cat suit, and a cheerleader? But the highlight is the drums, well, for other people, since I 
 play drums I was all hyped to play this, but I discovered you need the balance board wich comes 
 with Wii fit, which costs $90.00 which I don't plain to invest in. Overall Wii music is ok game 
 with flaws, but if you want hours of fun with your family you can't go wrong with Wii Music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticklife123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  Don't buy wii music. There is alot of hype about how many instruments and how much different ways 
 you can make you'r music but this is not the way to go, if you really want to experiment get you'r 
 friends to dig out their old instruments. The game has so little tunes, i think only 2 of them were 
 recent, the beat doesn't matter because whatever you do you will make the song fine, it doesn't even 
 matter if you made a mii throw up on stage it would blend into the tune because the game is all 
 fixed. Even if you miss about 15 beats and play a tune it is still perfect. it is not fun to compose 
 a really big piece because it still suvks the life out of you as you play. There is an array of 
 instruments but the only real fun mode is innovate which puts a tune behind you as you play. The 
 mini games are awful, there is only about 6 levels in each and they can be passed without getting 
 more than 1% on each game. The mii maestro is triing and you don't feel you are actually controlling 
 anyone. The handbell harmony confuses you by making other people play the other beats and the pitch 
 perfect is not suitable for anyone that doesn'tkbnow much about music. There isn't much to unlock 
 and what you can unlock is rubbish and available by doing something simple likemaking a video. A 
 total dissapointment... do not buy this game!!!!!
  Thank you for reading my review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me guess. You don't like the idea of Wii Music because you don't think it takes any skill. 
 It looks too cutesy, and it's a poor representation of playing actual instruments. Fair enough. 
 And it's quite possible that you will hate this game. But consider this- Super Smash Bros. Brawl, 
 one of the most critically acclaimed Wii games, doesn't take any skill. Neither does Mario Kart. 
 Playing a Guitar Hero guitar is nothing like playing a real guitar. But we all love those games. 
 So why is Wii Music hated on? It's honestly because people aren't giving it a fair chance. I'd 
 like to clear up several misconceptions about the game.
  
  The first thing people keep on saying is that this game is "shallow". It's completely untrue. Wii 
 Music has over 60 instruments (most of which have to be unlocked) . Over 50 Songs- each of which 
 is divided into six parts (melody, harmony, percussion, etc) - each of which can be played with 
 any of the 60+ instruments. On top of that, each song can be played in about a dozen different 
 "styles" (electronic, rock, pop, Japanese, etc.) . It's also worth noting that you can make your 
 own styles. If that wasn't enough, you can change the tempo (ranging from really really slow to 
 crazy fast) . Oh, and most importantly, you can overdub. For example, you can play the drums to 
 a song, then go back and play the bass, then go back and blah blah blah until you've recorded all 
 the parts to the song. That's a lot right? I'm not done yet. The best part of Wii Music is that 
 you're not tied down to playing only specific notes. Now, obviously, if you just go in and wave 
 your arms like a monkey it's going to sound like crap. A surprising amount of skill is needed, 
 believe it or not, to make it sound good. But you can add in your own little guitar/drum/cheerleader 
 solos and truly make the song your own. 
  
  Another big complaint is that "it's just Rock Band for three year olds". If you think that, then 
 you clearly don't understand what this game is about. Wii Music, as you might have noticed, is 
 nothing like any music game out there. Rather than focusing on high scores and perfection, Wii 
 Music is really about making music, and being creative. Wii Music is like the musical equivalent 
 of LittleBigPlanet. Yeah, it's a music game, but it's really about customization and making the 
 songs your own. For example, I'm really into doing orchestral renditions of songs and putting electronic 
 beats (turntables, beatboxing, galactic drums) to them. 
  
  You thought I was done with depth didn't you? But I'm not. There's more. There's four basic ways 
 to hold the controler. There's a position for playing drums and piano instruments, one for playing 
 wind/brass instruments, one for playing guitar/bass, and one for playing string instruments. It 
 sounds shallow, but every time I play I discover something new about each instrument. The reason 
 people don't know about it is because the game doesn't tell you- you get to discover it on your 
 own. There's 60+ instruments, but they each have their own individual qualities. I'm also surprised 
 at the amount of people that don't know that you can turn the notes on when you play a song! Pressing 
 the minus button while jamming will bring up the music notes (similar to guitar hero) so you know 
 when to play. It says it at the top of the screen but some people couldn't figure that out! Sad.
 
  
  My only complaint is in the mini-game department. There's a whole lot of quality but very little 
 quantity. Mii Maestro (my favorite) has you conducting an orchestra. It's really addicting (esspecially 
 with friends) but there's only five songs- a real downer. The same is true of Handbell Harmony- 
 a great mini game. It's like guitar hero but with handbells. It's really challenging, but again 
 there's only 5 songs. Shame. The other, and most challenging mini game is Pitch Perfect. It's sort 
 of like a music themed WarioWare game. There's a lot more levels, but it's not as fun.
  
  Bottom line: please give it a rent- at least. It may not appeal to everyone, but even if you don't 
 think you'll like it, give it a try. It saddens me that sadistic self-indulgent fools like Game-Informer 
 are turning people away from such a quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  Wii Music was one of the most hyped games of the last months. It does bear the "Touch Generation" 
 blood, and the family fun is kinda granted. However (there's always a "however") , that doesn't 
 mean you'll have fun forever with it. Something that really caught my attention was the fact that 
 the game doesn't have a "free play" mode. You can't create your own music, you're always bound 
 to the few available songs. Let me put it like that: I wanted to play Harry Potter's theme song 
 on it, so I chose Swan Lake and simply played HP's song on it. It would be great if even that was 
 possible. The game changes the notes according to the chosen song, so even if you play with the 
 right timing, it won't be the way you wanted it to be.
  
  On the other hand, being able to build any song of the list with the instruments you want and then 
 record a video is amazing. I myself have recorded about four different versions of The Legend of 
 Zelda and all of them are different.
  
  You may want to innovate, making something like a flute solo or anything like that, but just don't 
 step too far from the notes line or you won't have a nice result.
  
  Well, if you're rich and buy every single game you see, buy it. If you aren't, think twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Wii Music was announced during E3 and gaiming events, I think it was gonna be a launch game because 
 of the Gameplay videos during the Wii was still in devolpment and also seeing the Wii in action 
 during the Gaming events back in 2005-2006.
  
  Gameplay- Really stright foward for any gamer but it's mostly repetative for some instruments like 
 you would need the nun-chuck for playing the drums, or the piano or if your Mii charcter is dressed 
 as a dog. Some brass instruments like the trumpet or flute is mostly pressing the 1 and 2 buttons 
 on the Wii Controller.
  
  There are other minigames on Wii music where one of them is simular to Guitar Hero you are mostly 
 ringing 2 coloured bells more of childs version of Guitar Hero for younger children. Anothor mini 
 game is a Pitch Recognition test which can be tricky you are mostly listening and reconising music 
 notes if they sound bad or good more of a guessing game.
  Best part of Wii Music is the orctrestra where you'll be playing classical music and you also play 
 Nintendo Theme music like The Legend of Zelda or Super Mario Theme which are good for Nintendo 
 fans at least.
  
  Graphics and Sound- If you have played Wii Sports or Wii Fit you can use your Mii charcter to play 
 instrments or if you made more Mii charcters on the Wii they can also appear almost anywhere if 
 your doing an orctrestra or in a band. The Charcters for Wii Music look the same as the Mii charcters 
 but there heads are like Pac-Man/ South Park charcters type if you think about.
  
  Most music you'll be probably be doing alot if your a Nintendo is the Zelda theme, Mario theme 
 or F-Zero theme and try getting a good score on orctrestra. But you can play other classical music 
 with what ever insturment you want. There is also Jamming mode where you can use what ever insturment 
 you like and just play
  
  Overall- If you have a Wii Fit you can use it for playing the drums and also make your own music 
 video which you can use to send to your friends if you have Wi-Fi for your Wii.
  
  To be honest Wii Music would been alot more fun if it was released during the launch of the Wii 
 back in 2006 along with Wii Sport. But also Wii Music is abit disapoiting because I thought that 
 most gamers play any music like Final Fantasy Music or Sonic the Hedgehog theme or even Mario Galaxy 
 music.
  But most gamers will find Wii Music disapointing but it's mostly aimed at kids mostly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombie_Phoenix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I don't exactly hate the game, I just think it's worthless. Six year old's will love it, 
 but that's just because they'd be able to jump around making random sounds that kinda sounds like 
 music. Admittedly , making a video of the Legend of Zelda theme with me playing all six instruments 
 was pretty cool. And having a guy in a dog or cat suit woof/meow to make bass sounds was interesting. 
 Other than that, it was pretty much rubbish. Sorry. Wait a year or so until it's five bucks, because 
 that's exactly what will happen. To be fair, it was a great idea that was poorly executed and over 
 hyped. Maybe one day something like this will be great, but so many of the instruments are either 
 to simple to play, making them boring. Just as many were too difficult, making it frustrating. 
 And the training takes too long. Way too long. And not enough songs. Now I'm just rambling. Sorry 
 I will stop rambling once i regrow the brain cells I lost while playing this. OUCH!! Sorry, 57 
 more just popped just because I'm writing this. Painful, just like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madrak_Arakeen
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Often I find myself having to make this singular point: Wii Music is not a game in the traditional 
 sense. It isn't even a game in the rythym-game sense. In other words, this is not Guitar Hero. 
 Going into this title with that mentality will likely frustrate you.
  
  The disc provides a user with a simple interface to generate remixes of many different tracks. 
 You can try to recreate perfect covers for these titles, but you're missing the point if that's 
 all you're going for. In fact, the tutorial encourages users to be free-flowing, and play whatever 
 piece is in front of them how they choose. You want to add a note here and there? Do it. You want 
 to have a player rest at a certain point though the ledgers don't call for it? Do so. You want 
 to replace a part or rip it out altogether? Go for it. That's what this title's all about: freedom 
 of expression in a simplistic form.
  
  But even in its simplicity, there is an amazing amount of depth (yes, depth) to what you can do 
 with a given instrument. While you don't control the precise pitch of the notes played, you control 
 the volume and delivery. If you have a balance board, you can add in a full virtual drum set for 
 a more rich percussion backdrop while learning how to play real drums in the process. And with 
 a wealth of different instruments and 50 tracks to choose from, with 16 different preset styles 
 for each, you have an incredible number of options. This doesn't even count the randomly generated 
 quick jams available for each track, which go beyond the presets with additional style variants.
 
  
  You can save any of these performances in a video, and then remix further incarnations with the 
 same parts played prior. Imagine plucking a well-played bass cello part from a prior performance 
 and plugging it into another in a different style. Or try adding a jazz saxophone to a tumultuous 
 high-tempo rock tune. Even the addition of something silly like a black belt's kiai to a tune could 
 change a tune in just the right manner to suit your style.
  
  It is deeper than many realize, especially when you start collaborating with your friends. You 
 can jam with 3 others simultaneously and whip through the mix process much more quickly when working 
 from scratch. It's especially rewarding when your team's project comes together just right, and 
 you're able to share it with others. It's one of my kid's greatest joys, I swear. I admit, not 
 allowing the balance board to be used in "multiplayer" is sorely missed, but that's what the video 
 data is for; to save for later reuse.
  
  Those who write this game off after a single hour of play are not seeing the bigger picture. If 
 you give the title a chance and dive a bit deeper than that "hardcore" comfort zone, you can mine 
 a wealth of warm memories. It is a lot of fun, if you can just keep an open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayrob706
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  A good idea with no substance, this was more of a developers game into a genre that is hard to 
 break into right now. Rock band and Guitar Hero have set the standards pretty high and people will 
 not accept anything less. Having several different instruments to play is a different idea, but 
 I could possibly teach a new-born puppy to play this game in a couple of weeks. Not much of a learning 
 curve at all. The developers of this game should definitely go back to the drawing board and change 
 the price or maybe make it a game for the VTech motion or something. Great game for someone maybe 
 3-9 years old. I want to make that suggestion to the game makers for this game or any others just 
 like it, take that approach PLEASE!!!!!!!!! Just target a smaller (younger) audience that will 
 find the game fun because it could also be used as a learning tool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanz774
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  A game that actually lets you play instruments realistically without actually needing the guitar 
 piano or dj turntables. Wii music will have your brain rotting trying to pick the next instrument 
 and the next song. Wii music consists of 4 sections Jam which allows you to improvise also to do 
 a quick jam or even a custom jam. A lesson section to teach you the jam basics or even to master 
 a specific type of music. Games section where you can open your own orchestra or do a hand bell 
 harmony with such songs as o Christmas tree and buzz buzz buzz. Or a pitch perfect section that 
 will have your brain thinking with 8 levels of music questions. And finally a videos section where 
 you can view your own music videos that have been made from quick jam or custom jam in the jam 
 section. Whatever your style is Rock Pop Jazz Classical Hawaiian Latin reggae Tango Japanese electronic 
 or Marching band you'll find it all here in wii music as you explore over 60 instruments and 50 
 songs including such classics as wake me up before you go go jingle bell rock twinkle twinkle little 
 star and more have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thegoldshadow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game to learn about some more instruments and mess around. You can definetly get hours 
 of fun with it, or come back now and then and have a blast. The instruments sound great, even though 
 you do really get to rock out. Its fun and you can play some actual songs. Once you unlock most 
 things its pretty cool. You have tons of instruments to play at least 60 and there are quiet a 
 few songs. It is good for playing in groups, I had a good time with some buddies. If you think 
 you might like it try it. You wont get 30 hours out of it in a week though. If you like to play 
 music then I think you should atleast try it. People give it to low of scores I think it is a good 
 enjoyable game. You can be a child, teen, or adult and still like this game. Try it out atleast 
 and you wont be dissapointed. It can take a bit to unlock everything but the instruments are really 
 cool and you can learn some new genres of music. So try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Unlike the company's previous console and handheld forays, where every new game ended in a "64" 
 or "Advance," Nintendo saves the "Wii" prefix for special occasions. Games like Wii Fit and Wii 
 Sports all share sort of a similar premise -- catering to the casual with pick-up-and-play mechanics 
 while presenting new gameplay experiences meant to pique the interest of the hardcore. Wii Music, 
 on paper, should be able to have the same sort of reach as the aforementioned titles... I mean, 
 what's more universal than music?
  Instrumental-Wii
  
  At the forefront of Wii Music is its extremely diverse assortment of instruments -- you start out 
 with a decent selection of a few dozen, but the final tally runs upwards of 60. Staple instruments 
 like drums, piano, and guitar have a good four or five variations each, but there's still more 
 than enough room for important brass, woodwind, string, and percussion instruments. There's all-American 
 tastes ranging from jaw harp to beatboxing. International instruments like India's sitar and Japan's 
 taiko drum are also well-represented. And then there's the just plain bizarre modes of making music, 
 like with barking dogs and cheerleaders. All of the above can be played with just a Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk.
  
  The methods of control for these various instruments are actually quite ingenious. Despite the 
 extreme diversity of instruments, there are really only four different ways you'll be using your 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk to play them. Guitar-style instruments have you holding the Nunchuk as you 
 would the neck, strumming the Wii Remote as you would a pick. With string instruments like the 
 violin, you do almost the same thing except you need to press a button to make noise. Woodwind 
 and brass instruments have you holding the Wii Remote vertically and pressing the 1 or 2 button. 
 For drums, pianos, and most of the bizarre modes of making music, simply swinging the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk up and down will produce music. Drums can be spiced up with the addition of the Wii 
 Balance Board, which adds the ability to play the hi-hat and floor kick drum to the standard set. 
 Some instruments feel more real than others, and while everything lacks the tactile feedback present 
 in Guitar Hero and Rock Band, its easier to pretend you're playing a violin by closely mimicking 
 its motions than say, a saxophone by pressing buttons on a controller. 
  
  A Mixed Tape
  
  Wii Music's most predominant mode is the Jam Session, wherein you pick the band, song, instruments, 
 location, and bring it all together to create a performance. The first step is picking a tune. Wii 
 Music has quite the eclectic song list. You've got classic songs everyone knows like "Twinkle Twinkle 
 Little Star" and "Happy Birthday". There's a few pop hits in the mix, like "Wake Me Up Before You 
 Go-Go" and "Every Breath You Take". And for the Nintendo fan, you've got the classic Mario and 
 Zelda theme songs. In my opinion, there's far too many international songs that I've never heard 
 and have little to no interest in trying to creatively interpret -- have you ever wanted to play 
 "From Santurtzi to Bilbao" with your friends? If so, they might be Spanish folk singers from the 
 late 1800s. Hardcore fans might be disappointed with the lack of Nintendo tunes. Besides the aforementioned 
 songs, the only other song from the 8-and 16-bit era is the F-Zero Mute City theme, as the rest 
 come from more modern-day titles like Animal Crossing and Wii Sports. Where's the Punch-Out theme? 
 Kid Icarus? Heck, we play enough Mario Strikers Charged in the office... we'd love to hear that 
 theme. The lack of Nintendo tunes is doubly offensive when you consider the fact that this game 
 is the reason there's probably no Nintendo tunes in Rock Band or Guitar Hero (both Sony and Microsoft 
 have allowed songs from their hit IPs God of War and Halo grace 3rd party music games) .
  
  I also have to take umbrage with the unlocking system for the songs in Wii Music. You only start 
 out with a handful of songs (and its not the best opening set, either) , and unlock the first batch 
 by saving music videos, which isn't something you'll find the pick-up-and-play casual crowd and 
 the memory-conscious WiiWare fiends probably won't cotton to. After that batch, further groups 
 of songs are unlocked by taking music lessons. While they only take 20 to 30 minutes to complete 
 and you do learn some valuable things about the game and music in general, they can be frustrating 
 and tedious, just like a real music lesson. From there, more songs are unlocked by playing through 
 Wii Music's minigames. While that's not a problem in and of itself, the songs chosen as unlockables 
 via this method are perplexing. After saving handfuls of music videos and slogging through music 
 lessons, I still couldn't find the Mario or Zelda theme songs. Turns out they were hidden in Wii 
 Music's minigames. Hiding two songs that should have been available from the outset is just a plain 
 bad move. Imagine if a band took their biggest hit and made it a hidden track on their latest CD 
 or buried it away on their website. That's what it felt like to have to excavate the two most iconic 
 Nintendo songs.
  
  Once you find a song, you pick from a handful of cute stages, each populated with Miis and overflowing 
 with fun background activity. After that is the most important part, where you determine how your 
 song will ultimately end up. You'll pick one of up to six parts, using one of many instruments, 
 apply a new style to the song if it behooves you (craving a Latin-styled Zelda, perhaps?) increase 
 or decrease the speed, and add or remove parts. Once the song begins, its up to you to interpret 
 it however you want. I highly recommend turning the song guide on as soon as the song starts, as 
 it will allow you to play the instruments in time with the song. Frankly, it should have been automatically 
 turned on -- playing without it is almost like playing Guitar Hero without the note scroller. Unless 
 you have that on or just happen to be bursting with musical skills, you're almost always assured 
 a giant mess of musical instruments played incorrectly. If you're playing with friends, the chances 
 of a catastrophe are made greater. If your song turns out better than Shaw's spastic drumming, 
 you can save the performance as a music video, complete with an album cover featuring pictures 
 of the Mii performers. You can edit the video to feature new performances and remove unwanted ones 
 and send them to your other Wii Music-owning friends. We have no doubt, however, that we'll start 
 seeing some of these videos hit YouTube and other video-sharing sites.
  
  Off-Stage Antics
  
  The mini-games and alternate modes are a mixed bag. Beyond the mandatory 
 lessons, you can try Jam Mastery lessons, which offer insight into playing each of the different 
 styles skillfully. It uses the same lesson layout, however, so expect to be equal parts educated, 
 frustrated, and bored. You can also take drum lessons, which require the same amount of rhythm 
 and practice it takes to master the real thing. It's not quite as taxing (or rewarding) as playing 
 real or Rock Band drums, but it's easily the most musically-controlled instrument in Wii Music.
 
  
  The minigames in Wii Music are quite an eclectic batch. First there's the Mii Maestro mode, made 
 famous by Shigeru Miyamoto when he first debuted the Wii a few years ago. If you really want to 
 feel the music, this is the minigame for you. While all you really do is wave the Wii Remote with 
 a tempo to match the song, the fact that you're determining the speed an intensity of a giant gaming 
 orchestra makes it very easy to get caught up in the music. It's a shame there's only 5 songs to 
 play, though. Handbell Harmony is almost the opposite in terms of scale. You play as one performer 
 in a handbell performance, which means you play one note every few seconds. While very minimal, 
 there's still a level of tenseness, as you've got to play your note in perfect time to stay in 
 time with your group. And then there's Pitch Perfect mode, which tests your ear to pick the correct 
 note being played, or placing notes in the correct order to play a song. All three are good in 
 short bursts, and are, unfortunately, painfully low on stages and song amounts, and lack the ability 
 to save performances.
  
  Tired and Inspired
  
  Wii Music is probably Nintendo's most well-meaning game ever. It wants to teach players about music 
 in an entertaining way, and it wants the player to express their knowledge in creative ways. Unfortunately, 
 Wii Music's gameplay crosses in between chaos and creativity too often, unless you let the game 
 guide you to color in the lines. Playing almost any instrument in the game requires a bit more 
 practice than say, swinging a bat bowling a ball in Wii Sports, which mires the game in a muddy 
 territory between pick-up-and-play casual and memorizing and practicing hardcore. When you're able 
 to successfully balance the two and create wonderful music, Wii Music can provide an experience 
 you've never felt before. Not in a music game, not in any other Wii game.
  
  
  Overall
  
  The Good: An amazing assortment of instruments, the ability to apply different styles of playing, 
 drums and orchestra modes are an unexpected treat.
  
  The Bad: Extremely high learning curve, poor song selection, difficult to create decent-sounding 
 tunes without the game holding your hand, unlockables are poorly distributed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok I will give this 2 reviews to try to be somewhat reasonable for the game. I would rate it as 
 a 1/10 basically because as a 28 year old male, who likes reasonably challenging games this is 
 not it. I really do not get this game at all. The skill level is really 0, and then no other level 
 of difficulty that I could see. Sure the game has plenty of songs and many instruments, but its 
 all the same. You do not need any skill to play any of the songs, or any of the instruments so 
 what is the point? 
  
  My 7 year old cousin had a lot of fun with this game. The difficulty level was just right for her. 
 She loved swing the remote, and hitting the a button and getting a good score. She was very excised 
 to try a new instrument, and a new song. I would guess she will play this game for 50 hours before 
 tiring of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stilts214
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  where to begin.... oh yeah IT SUCKS!!! this game, no, this abomination and insult of everything 
 electronic is hardly worth the fifty clams. you might as well go on ebay, buy all copies of dragonball 
 z bodukai (about 1 penny each.. do the math.) and construct a mighty throne of failure out of them. 
 or, buy yourself fifty cheeseburgers off of the McDonalds dollar menu. you'll get the same ammount 
 of pleasure, sans the muscle damage and tendinitis. the teidus action of waving your arms around 
 like a 10 year-old with ADHD is exactly as mentioned before.. tedius. if you wanted to duplicate 
 the results of this game, you might as well just go body-build. at least thats being somewhat productive. 
 unlike this foul example of just how much Nintendo really cares about their hardcore fans. YOU 
 HEAR ME IWATA?!?! MAKE A GOOD GAME!
  
  excuse as i go play a much more satisfying and overall better game... sonic unleashed. *winces* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonaces
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  For those of you people who gave it a bad rating, you need to understand that its not about hardcore 
 music or fake instruments, its about expressing your felling to the music you play! Sure the music 
 you play isn't accurate to the notes you want to play but come on this game is a must for all music 
 lovers like me. There are a lot of modes like were you can conduct a music like the always dramatic 
 legend of Zelda and go to the Mii channel to make your experience of the game much more fun. Instruments 
 in this game inspires all music players from percussion's to string instruments that just gives 
 them the urge to try a new instrument which can actually make the music we have today more exciting. 
 The concert plays makes you feel like your in a real concert and remember, its about expressing 
 your feelings to music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is the lamest I have ever seen. it is like guitar heor and rockband but they have aten 
 all the drums, mic and guitar and left you to play with pretend instruements. It's just plain hordendous. 
 I don't get it all where is the game I don't see any real challenge or gameplay elements is. it's 
 wooo fake instruements nooooo game woot that's what the fans of the series are like. I have 2 ideas 
 for wii music 2 idea 1: cease the game develpment imediately 2) shut down your factories forever. 
 Serousily Nintendo what were you thinking releasing this montrosity you could of done a worldwide 
 relase on a good new Sparkling new F-zero x game, Pit or goood ol' litttle cute pikmin but noooooo 
 you have to make cow manure instead. The sounds on the game is unbearable the sound that my cat 
 makes when it hisses is way more pleasent than this game serousily for your own safety ditch the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarandLui
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Wii music is great for little kids, but for kids like us, it's okay, if you get used to it. The 
 songs are childish but you can have some fun having your mii play over 60 different instruments. 
 From trumpets, drums to even cheerleading and barking like a dog. :) The jamming is okay and but 
 not so bad, i guess. A cool feature about jamming is that you can record it, make a cd jacket for 
 it, and make it into a music vid. There is a staff above it and you follow the notes and do it 
 at the right time, but you can mix it up!
  There's also other minigames, like conducting a band with a steady beat, playing the handbells 
 with your friends. Overall, it's pretty good.
  But i had it for only like 1 day.... so i'll edit this review as i keep on playing to see if i'll 
 get  i rate Wii Music a 7/10 SO FAR. THX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akiak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  All you stupid hardcore gamers. All you want is common normal games. No one can appreciate new 
 stuff or fun ideas.
  
  If you really play the whole thing you'll realize the possibilities there are in this game. From 
 playing a dark version of Super Mario to a Classic version of Material Girl.
  
  You'll soon learn new techniques that'll bring you to hanging songs completely making your dreams 
 come true.
  
  Plus, to really enjoy this game, make some fun Miis or get 'em from the Mii Contest Channel.
 
  Who doesn't enjoy Dexter playing an electronic song with his robots, or the Simpson family band? 
 And with over 60 instruments, 50 customizable songs and more, who can't like this game?
  
  And after a performance, you can save it as a video and then you can actually design your own sleeve 
 for it in tons of fun ways. Then you can share them with friends via Wi-fi with friends.
  
  Wii Music offers a lot overall but the organization of the game made most players think it sucked 
 from the beginning so play through it completely and you'll discover what this little masterpiece 
 can really offer.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo21
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Wii Music was so cool when it first appeared years ago. Nintendo dropped the ball on this game. 
 It could have been a classic.
  The graphics are very colorful as you expect from a Nintendo game.
  The controls are responsive 
 enough to keep playing. The balance board is an extra addition but not enough. The replay value 
 is the worst beside unlocking everything there's no need to play after. Great for kids under 4. 
 For the Price 50 is outrageous this should have been less than 20. Nintendo has Guitar Hero, DDR, 
 Sing it, Rock Band in the music department to compete with. Come with something that's similar 
 or add to it._______ ______ __________
  ________ _______ ______________ __________ ________ ___
  _________ ______ _______ ____ ___________ 
 ______ _______ ______ _______ __-____ _____ ____ ------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaryness
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Despite boasting the same friendly interface that made Wii Sports and Wii Fit so popular, Wii Music 
 comes off as pointless and dull. The crux of the game involves "jamming" with friends or CPU-controlled 
 characters. There are dozens of instruments to select from, but they all fall into four basic categories: 
 guitar, percussion, horn, and violin. You hold each instrument similar to how you would in real 
 life, and playing involves shaking or pressing buttons to the beat. The actual notes are played 
 automatically, so your control is limited. You can sometimes improvise by squeezing in some extra 
 notes, but that usually sounds bad. Wii Music is an example of Wii motion controls at their worst. 
 They are so loose and semi-automated that you never really feel as if you're playing an instrument. 
 There's little satisfaction to be had, and the boredom sets in quickly. The "jam sessions" are 
 pointless, and the three game variations are weak. Mii Maestro lets you conduct an orchestra, but 
 all you do is move the wand up and down. Handbell Harmony lets you ring bells to a melody, but 
 unless you have a group of people to play with, it's pretty shallow. Perfect Pitch is a series 
 of music puzzles that require you to arrange notes by pitch or determine which instrument is out 
 of tune. It's about as enjoyable as a multiple-choice test. The song selection isn't anything to 
 write home about, and having to play Twinkle Twinkle Little Star throughout the extended intro 
 is absolute torture. Sure you get "Zelda" and some familiar classical tunes, but when "Do Re Mi" 
 is one of the better songs, you're in some serious trouble. I was confounded by the fact that Wii 
 Music offers so many options for replaying performances or saving them as "music videos". Sitting 
 through them once is bad enough! After an impromptu jam session, I asked my friend for his thoughts 
 on Wii Music, and his response was simply "Burn it." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  As one of Nintendo's rabbid fans, I thought I would chainsaw this game into a billion pieces. But 
 surprisingly, Wii Music passes the Cloudkirby test, with hovering colors.
  
  Tonight, Cloudkirby has a good time with Wii Music.
  
  This review will go a little differently, 
 instead of looking at the game as a stand alone, I am going to compare it to Rockband, a game I 
 reviewed last night.
  
  With Rockband, it was a simple course in following instructions. "Press the colorful buttons and 
 hit the strum bar when the notes hit the slots", wash, rinse, repeat. With Wii Music, it lets you 
 choose a song, an instrument, then sits back and watches to see what you do. The overall result 
 is something that can best be described as, "More fun than the gameplay in Rockband". This is the 
 kind of freedom I like in games, playing my music, my way. I also like how it used a list of songs 
 I actually freakin' knew, instead of a bunch of rock ballads out of pure obscurity.
  
  There are 50 songs, and more than 50 instruments, So song customization is like ordering a sub 
 at subway AKA Awe-inspiring. You make your song, instrument by instrument, running through a song 
 a number of times, each with a different instrument; you can then save your cover, and watch it 
 over and over again, depending on how good you are.
  
  It's this type of freedom in a music game, I have been looking for. Obviously, fans of Rockband 
 and Guitar Hero are going to hate this for it's lack of challenge, but the freedom you are given 
 makes up for it in my book. And if you are looking for a slight challenge, there are three minigames 
 that test your prowess of music, but those are just minor add-ons I hate.
  
  The bad: Obviously as a game critic, I need to find some negative points.
  There are some minor 
 instrument recognition issues, but nothing to big.
  some songs aren't really played that well in the first place.
  Character customization goes about 
 as far as you'r Mii, but it's still better than rockband's because I can get my character to look 
 like someone I would like him to look like, and not a bum with ripped jeans.
  Once again "Kingdom hearts syndrome" shows us it's ugly head with lengthy tutorial sections, which 
 slow down the songs for key points, so its kinda hard to play it perfectly (but luckily, you are 
 not constrained by that.)
  
  So Cloudkirby, you cool composer you, is this a good game.
  It's fun. a game I will be enjoying for more days to come, what with the amount of customization 
 available. This is the same thing that happened to Psyconauts, everyone should at least give this 
 game a try before final judgement. I mean hey, I liked Wii Music and I'm an insta-gratification 
 gamer. If I like it, it can't be THAT bad.
  
  This is another review in "Games that are better than...'"ya know what, I'm gonna drop that phrase, 
 Its getting old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has continued to proclaim that this was their big holiday game of 2008, in spite of a 
 great deal of... negative publicity. Wii Music was going to follow in the footsteps of the absurdly 
 popular Wii Sports, Wii Play and Wii Fit, whether we liked it or not. Well, the former two only 
 became such unusual hits because of how they were bundled with hardware and became easy to love 
 when played at short bursts at social events, prompting party-goers to yearn for a Wii of their 
 own (and only to get sick of their new purchase minutes after.) I have no personal experience with 
 Wii Fit, but I'll give it the benefit of a doubt being that it has somewhat honest intentions (but 
 make no mistake, as a certified personal trainer, I very much look forward to reviewing that fitness 
 fad.) But with no bundled hardware, Wii Music has only the E3 video of doucheman to motivate people 
 into running to their store to check in on the latest craze.
  
  Perhaps I shouldn't review Wii Music as Nintendo's straight-faced answer to the likes of Gears 
 of War 2, Resistance 2, LittleBig Planet, Fallout 3 and the like. Though doing so would result 
 in me rating the game an "EPIC FAIL" out of five stars. No, maybe I should look at Wii Music's 
 potential for just straight up fun, for that's what all games should aim for.
  
  Except it's still something of a failure there too.
  
  So when you boot up the game, a very 
 annoying instructor who looks like a hybrid of Bach and a Muppet, explains the game's basic mechanics 
 in a very long-winded tutorial that feels like he's less trying to explain the gameplay mechanics 
 as much as he is trying to justify the game's existence. In a nutshell, you bang the Wiimotes to 
 play piano and percussion instruments, bang one remote while you hold out another to play guitar-like 
 instruments, bang the Wiimote horizontally to play violin, and alternate pressing the one and two 
 buttons while supposedly holding the Wiimote near your mouth to play wind instruments. Imagination 
 is the watchword here, as the game is banking on you closing your eyes and imagining yourself jamming 
 in an orchestra to not notice that the remote only picks up the motion of the Wii moving in general. 
 You're essentially playing Guitar Hero without the five buttons and just the flipper; that's what 
 playing Wii Music is like.
  
  The only instrument that grants the player control of what note they're playing is drums. If you 
 actually thought the E3 demo was impressive in its use of the Wiimote technology, well you're in 
 for a gross disappointment. You actually control what part of the drum you hit on by what buttons 
 on the controllers you hold, not by some kind of sophisticated Wii controller technology. If you 
 have the Wii Fit balance board, you could use that as a kick pedal, but that feels like such a 
 petty use of a $90 adaptor.
  
  Otherwise, all you're really doing is moving remotes around and making loud noises. Unlike Rock 
 Band, Guitar Hero, Dance Dance Revolution, Singstar, Amplitude, Frequency or any actual music game, 
 you're not trying to match notes with the song playing in the background. Rather, the game automatically 
 matches whatever notes you're playing with the song itself, with the sole variation being how many 
 times you opt to play notes and make the song sound like more of a mess. I think "cluster****" 
 is a good way to describe any composition you can conceive. Jam mode is the game's main mode, where 
 you and 5 other musicians play a song. The game gives you an unusual-yet-useless amount of variety. 
 Unusual in that you can re-dub any instrument with multiple playthroughs, create an album cover, 
 and record a full-blown music video that can be sent to other Wii Music owners. Useless because 
 no one owns Wii Music and no one should announce that they own Wii Music. Also useless because, 
 despite a large variety of instruments that includes everything from cow bells and "guy in a dog 
 suit barking" to "galactic drums", the audio quality of each instrument is so poor that when so 
 many instruments are mixed together, they all blend together poorly and leave the song sounding 
 like an old ring tone. Though I guess some people dream of creating their own ring tone version 
 of "Wake me up before I go-go."
  
  I should talk about the setlist itself; a combination of classic music compositions, children's 
 bedtime songs, 60s-80s pop songs and Nintendo game theme songs, begging one to ask the question 
 "why do I want to play these songs?" Nintendo did the exact same thing with the Donkey Konga games 
 on the Gamecube, focusing primarily on free-to-use tracks. Other music games feature a hybrid of 
 classic and contemporary hits, as well as often-solid tracks from little-known acts. Nintendo's 
 choice of music here comes off as the equivalent of Marge Simpson trying to fit in at Lollapalooza.
 
  
  Wii Music isn't a game, it's a toy. One that should be marked as targeted towards people aged 3-5. 
 Little kids might have some fun with Wii Music, but like any flashy toy, it'll be quick to be discarded 
 for the next big toy. Anyone with a semblance of an attention span will otherwise get bored of 
 the game before the tutorial ends.
  
  Pros : Mildly amusing mini-games. In particular "Mii Maestro", where the motion of the remote dictates 
 the gusto that the orchestra plays their music.
  
  Cons : Only five songs for Mii Maestro.
  
  1  stars
  
  Shiguru Miyamoto has apologized 
 in the past, for claiming that Super Mario World and Super Mario Sunshine weren't up to par. The 
 former I don't understand, the latter I kind of see why. But he should be busting out a U2-calibur 
 "I'm sorry" parade to gamers for Wii Music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Call-Me-Snake
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  before you even think about playing this game you must realize that this is not a game it is a 
 music simulation that it just meant to be picked up play a couple fast songs and sat back down. 
 there is no story and no levels you just play songs you cant fail even if you try to so this will 
 appeal to those who are not quite as good at games like the hardcore gamers. this is a multi-player 
 game even though you can play by yourself it is just not as fun. there are 3 modes jam mode, minigames 
 and mii mistro. my favorite part of this game is the amout of custombility to the songs you play 
 a song with whatever instrument you want you can make ode to joy a rock opera if you want to. basically 
 if are enterained by the simple things then this game for you.. hardcore gamers beware. this is 
 really fun game just do not expect to much out of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrZoidberg1295
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  This "game" has no reason to play. This is just a noise maker. All you do is mimic the motions 
 of the instruments. It takes no experience, after the first time you play this game you will never 
 want to play this "game" again. This is another Nintendo casual game ment just to please over-protective 
 mothers. What ever happened to Pikmin 3, F-Zero Wii, and Kirby Wii? Nintendo has lost its hardcore 
 gamer. They know if they give idiotic casual gamers games they have to put little effort into, 
 they will make millions of dollars. Anyway, I recommend you don't buy, rent, or even play this 
 game. Don't degrade yourself. When your mother gets this game for you for Christmas just because 
 she thinks its cute, move out. Tell her to get a musical game that actually takes effort like Guitar 
 Hero or Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  To start out, Wii Music isn't like Guitar Heroes or Rock Band, it's not trying to be, but what 
 it does is give you a basic understanding of how music work, with some fun songs, that help you 
 start your musical career. In Wii Music you won't find any of the real music, like what you find 
 in the others music games, what you do find is a much simpler version of the song, something you 
 may find in music class, or maybe in public domain list. This is great if you are a kid or maybe 
 a beginner in music, and you just need to learn things like melody and harmony, you can use Wii 
 Music trainer in the game, and he will teach you. You start off very simple by just playing very 
 basic rhythms and slowly, maybe even too slowly you will learn to change pitch in the game, and 
 speeds. 
  This is where the game has it problems, there isn't much left after you go through the training, 
 you can have a Jam Section, or you can have a custom Jam, where you can pick the instrument and 
 play along to some shallow, but popular songs. There are a few modern songs, but again, they are 
 done to be very simple, and easy to play. After just a few hours you will have these tones done.
 
  What unique about this game is the fact that, because it's a Wii, you use the motion of the controls 
 to play the instrument, if you playing the drums then you use the controls as your drum sticks. 
 If you're playing the horn then you hold one of the controls as if it's a horn, then you use the 
 buttons to play the music. Some of it works very well, but a lot of it just don't feel right, and 
 you soon realize that this game is only going to take you so far.
  Wii Music will be great for young kids, they will enjoy the Wii Totes, they are the band that will 
 play along with you, and for the most part are pretty good, but if you are looking for a Rock Band 
 substitute, this isn't it. This is a much lighter, easier to learn that will be great for beginners, 
 and especially for the young.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  What I find annoying when reading user reviews of wii music, is that it seems everyone made the 
 mistake to think this game was going to be another Guitar Hero clone. People should know by now 
 that the only games Nintendo make clones of are their own games. So first of all, let's have a 
 look at what exactly Nintendo meant for this game to be. From reading some Miyamoto interviews, 
 I got the impression this is what they wanted wii music to be:
  
  1. A game that anyone can play and enjoy.
  2. A way for those who are not skilled at playing 
 instruments to express themselves through music.
  
  So did they achieve it? I'll have a look at the two points individually.
  
  1. It is definitely 
 not a very complicated game to play. You mostly just use four different stiles. Piano stile (drumming 
 with the remote and nunchuck) , violin stile (Press B and hold for a tune and move the remote as 
 though you are playing a violin) , guitar stile (using the remote to play) and flute (simply press 
 and hold the 1 or the 2 button) . In addition to that you can press A or B on some instruments to 
 change how they sound, and by shaking the nunchuck, you can make a little wah-wah on the guitars. 
 So I do belive it is a game that everyone can play with no problem. The tune is already there when 
 you start, so you just got to follow the rhythm. Frankly, there are some problems when playing 
 it. If you miss a tone by just a little hundred of a second, it will sound aweful, so it's not 
 quite easy for the youngest kids.
  
  Can everyone enjoy it? Well, it's not appreciated by the hardcore gamer demographic. The lack of 
 challenge is probably what they dislike. The game doesn't even give you point for your performance. 
 The three mini-games are the only thing that measures your skill, and they are fun, especially 
 being the maestro of an orchestra, but it's not enough. The only thing they've done to include 
 the hardcore gamers, is to offer some nostalgia with game tracks to play. If you're a fan of Nintendo, 
 you'll appreciate playing F-Zero or Legend of Zelda, but other hardcore gamers won't have much 
 to look forward to.
  
  2. "A way to express yourself through music." When reading that, wouldn't it be natural to assume 
 that you could make music in the game? Well you can't, even though I don't doubt it would be possible 
 for Nintendo to make such an option with a game like Wii Music. It would have been great if (with 
 some work) you could play any song whatsoever, even songs you have made yourself. Nintendo even 
 said that wii music was to be considered more of an instrument than a game. On what instrument 
 can you only play 50 songs?
  
  The songs won't appeal to hardcore gamers either. Because at that point (as well) , Nintendo have 
 gone with the "E for everyone" approach. There is next to no rock and no metal. Most of the songs 
 are child songs or songs that everyone has heard. The first 8 are "clasical" such as "Swan Lake" 
 or "Eine kleine nachtmusik" followed by no less than 22 "traditional" like "happy birthday to you" 
 or "the flea waltz." Then there are 13 "popular" like "Every Breath You Take" or "Woman" and 7 
 video games songs including the main theme of wii music itself. If the track list is not to your 
 taste, it's a bad chance you will enjoy the game. If you want the complete list, you could check 
 it out on Wikipedia or something.
  
  So what did Nintendo mean by saying you could express yourself? Well you have a lot of freedom 
 when it comes to how you play the game, and that's the big strength of wii music. You can play 
 any of the eleven music stiles they recommend, or make your own stile. You can use any of the 65 
 instruments (that is when "cheerleader" and "Cat suit" are considered instruments) and record over 
 what you've done. So you can play single player and still play all six members of the band using 
 your Mii. Besides using whatever instrument you like, you can speed up or slow down the tempo, 
 and you can also make a slightly different rhythm. You can experience with the music, like turning 
 F-Zero into a funeral march or Bridal Chorus into a rock song. It feels great to affect the music 
 in the way you like, and for those who, like me, have unskilled fingers when it comes to instruments, 
 it feels really great to play all instruments in a band then watch a music video of it.
  
  So the game offers lot of fun, but also has a lot of disappointments. Apart from the ones already 
 mention, I'd like to mention that there is no microphone, so you can't sing. I goes since Nintendo 
 couldn't make it easier to sing, they wouldn't have that included, which is rather sad. The ridiculous 
 thing they used to replace it, was an instrument called "singer" using flute stile. The singer 
 don't sing any words, and it sounds more like a rabbit from Rayman Raving Rabbids than a singer.
 
  
  Despite a lot of flaws, Wii Music is a good, charming and fun game. I don't regret buying it, and 
 if Nintendo should make a sequel where you could make music as well, I wouldn't hesitate to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerman235
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, to tell you the truth I never wanted to play this game in the first place so I'll explain 
 how I even got to playing it.
  
  Story starts off with my girlfriend. She happens to be a sophmore in college who is studying as 
 a music major. The second she saw this game she went crazy. I tried to explin to her from my "superior" 
 hard core gamer knowledge that this game was going to be a load of crap. Well I went with her and 
 rented it and then we plus 2 friends attacked Wii music. 
  
  Now for the review
  First off the game is exactly what you thought it was. Alls you do is wag the wii remote to the 
 music (or not to the music if thats your fancy) and wa-laa! wii music. But I found there happened 
 to be some fun involved in this. My friend Tessi had a blast playing as the non-instrumental options 
 such as dog suit, cat suit, and cheerleader. The sound coming out of the t. v. from these options 
 was, lets put it lightly, horrendous, but something weird happened. We all started laughing. There 
 is other options and I'm not going to explain them all but because of its little quirks, and how 
 your friends will react to acting like idiots (because lets face it thats what the wii is all about) 
 I reccomend that you rent this game for a night of fun. Now reread that sentence. RENT. this game 
 isn't worth the price, but for a 6$ rental its a lot of fun wiht a party of four. Just use wii 
 music the right way, by renting it and you have a great game for a short time! I am also giving 
 this game a 7 based on the assumption that you will take my suggestion and only rent this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  It's been 2 years since this title was announced at the Nintendo E3 2006 Press Conference when 
 Shigeru Miyamoto came onto the stage and conducted an orchestra on the game. This game should have 
 come out as a launch title or a year later but after 2 years later it's finally out just to amuse 
 myself.
  
  There are 50 songs and 60 instruments to play but the only problem is that is if you want to open 
 up most things, you have to go to take lessons and the song in those tutorials is Twinkle Twinkle 
 Little Star.
  
  That really get's me on my nerves!
  
  I liked doing the Orchestra because it's a lot of fun and there are only 5 pieces to conduct with 
 the Wii Remote:
  
  Twinkle Twinkle Little Star - The little kids will like to conduct this
  Carmen - The Overture 
 of this magnificent opera
  Ode to Joy - Beethoven's Great Symphoney
  The Four Seasons - A relaxing Italian piece
  The Legend of Zelda - Everyone will want to Conduct 
 this piece
  
  I think that this game will attract a lot of kids and not a lot of adult gamers and for me some 
 things still remain unfinished.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adenton7
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  basicaly you only push any button and it does not matter the tempo that you doit in. that is just 
 boring and does not make up agood game. to make a good rythem game there has to be levels of difficulty 
 like on guitar hero or rock band. i was looking forward to this game thinking that it would be 
 a rythem based game, but it is not. that was very dissapointing to me. i need a challenge and other 
 people want a challenge. a game gets very borring very fast if there is no challenge. i do not 
 even know what the maker was even thinking. i know it was made for conection with kids but they 
 can still make it fun for older gamers. i mean with guitar hero you have several different dificulty 
 levels that challenge you and make you want to play so you can get better. i mean yea wii music 
 has like 50 or so instruments that you can play but so what if there is no rythem in a game that's 
 genre is rythem then we have a deffinate problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambo100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii Music has a wide range of music, stages and instruments to unlock and play. Unfortunatly, It 
 only take under an hour to unlock them all making it too easy. The extra minigames get boring after 
 time.
  
  The way you play makes it fun to impovise but there is no real difficulty, Its just a large sandbox. 
 Chosing to play with freinds makes it so much more fun though. The abbility to save and send video's 
 is a nice touch.
  
  The Graphics are the normal Nintendo, Clean and Colourfull. You miss out on the Drums if you don't 
 have a Wii Ballance board, If you do have a Ballance board you get to have a very nice complete 
 tutorial on how to play.
  
  All this game needs is a bigger range of game modes and the abillity to download more songs, There 
 should also be more too unlock too, and if there is more to unlock it shouldn't be unlocked so 
 easily by completing tutorials but instead for game accuracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  The good: simple basic controls make the game fun
  The bad: That Gibberish host, too simple
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 5/10
 
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Average Score: 7/10
  
  The Wii has more games than the 360 and PS3, but it doesn't have the games that are for both the 
 PS3 and 360, exclusively for each. Wii Music is a so and so game, but at least you'll have some 
 fun with it.
  
  You basically start when a gibberish host keeps saying many words in his annoying high pitched 
 voice. I know it's the Wii, but at least have some voicing. Even the 64 could do voicing. Anyways, 
 you can choose from drums, guitars, and other instruments to play with. The controls are responsive 
 and simple, and at the same time make the game worthwhile to play. Graphically, the game lacks 
 originality, and the music simply isn't really that good. making music is good, but the music outside 
 of making music sucks, if that makes sense
  
  Wii Music isn't much to offer, but it's fun for a while. It's biggest and most fatal flaw is that 
 it's too simple. Compared to other Wii titles, this seems a little lkukewarm. But unless you can 
 afford loads of guitars, drums, pianos, etc., Wii Music might be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jashah17
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok i am going to say this straight up. I do not own a wii. My grandmother owns one so when i get 
 out and visit her i end up playing wii with her. When my grandmother bought a wii i was shocked 
 she had always said video games are a horrible waste of time yet she is always playing wii sports, 
 play, fit, and even better games like Zelda. So when she heard the hype around this game mainly 
 E3 she wanted it. I can not wrap my head around how this is a game. I played it with her and it 
 was one of the most boring crappiest gaming experiences of my life. She was pisst she actually 
 spent money on this game. Nintendo seemed to put alot into this. During E3 this was what they were 
 excited to show the world and you know what they actually released it and its not a positive oulook. 
 I hope nintentdo learns a lesson from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Wii music is a perfect 10 for 10 in my opinion (And various other friend's of mine opinions) . It's 
 moderately difficult, yet oh so fun! I've spent less than 10 hours on the game, but I can already 
 tell that I'm in for 30 or more hours of joy and fun! And Wii Music is HIGHLY addictive, easily 
 addictive, and amazing!
  
  With a selection of MANY MANY instruments, and a ton of songs, as well as lots of venues.
  
 
  Wii Music is fun in more ways that just making music, you can make music videos as well as play 
 little mini games with up to 4 people! Yes 4 people can play, and it's so much fun to make a band 
 out of whatever instruments are your favorites and play some classical, video game, or oldies tunes!
 
  
  So in conclusion, Wii Music is fantastically amazing and I say that with high regards and in much 
 confidence! Have a great time playing with your friends and family in this highly addictive new 
 title for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12341234j
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Luckily i didn't buy this game my friend bought it who sold it on eBay the same day he bought it. 
 I almost did though because i had faith : (. This game was made so simple so that anybody could 
 play it. Well.... what they really did was make it so simple that nobody wants to play it. The only 
 thing that would be a plus about this game is that people that cant play games like guitar hero 
 could play this on but whether or not you have rhythm the music in this game just sounds like noise. 
 People who don't know these songs very well wont even be able to recognize the song its so bad 
 just watch the videos its sounds horrible. If you have a 2-4 year old child then this might keep 
 them entertained for a couple of minutes since they probably don't know the difference between 
 music and noise yet. Your better off saving your 50! BUCK! (yeah this sorry excuse for a game is 
 actually full price) and humming the song and pressing random buttons on the Wii remote for free. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloKittie
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  At first I was excited about this game, since I'm a big fan of music. But after about 30 minutes 
 of game play, I was quickly disappointed. The song selection, in my
  opinion, was not very good at all. And the game section was surprisingly short, and VERY easy. 
 Unlocking songs is fun, but other than that it left me wanting more. The maestro mini game, to 
 me, seemed very difficult to control. And the bell mini game is way too simple.
  
  But not everything about this game is bad. It has some good potential for a party game. The jam 
 sessions are fun to mess around with. And since it seems that it is impossible to really do bad 
 on a song, you can play any way you like.
  
  Overall it's a fun game for the family to play, but a little too simple for my taste. I think they 
 could have done a lot more with it.
  
  I give this game a 6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting to try this one out since the first wii commercial, that showed a dude acting 
 like a maestro and another drumming away with the wii remote and numchuck.. but once i played it, 
 it was fun at first, but quickly grew boring.. with all the time they took on this game, you'd 
 think they'd do a better job.. There are a lot of instruments, and many ways to arrange them in 
 different songs, but it still isn't entertaining for too long. Playing by yourself is completely 
 useless, gets old fast. There are not as many songs as i thought there would be as well, and most 
 of them get really annoying depending on what instruments you are using.
  There are a few other game modes besides arranging music though, one of them is mini games, like 
 mii maestro, hand bell harmony and a game that test your pitch recognition.. the maestro one i really 
 liked actually, its one of the little things that didn't get enough attention in this game. it's 
 fun and challenging, even though the controls aren't that great.. there are only 5 songs too, so 
 that's kind of a let down.. the other 2 mini games are ok, but nothing special. i guess this game 
 is really meant for smaller children, or to be a party game. i haven't tried either of those yet, 
 so maybe it will have its moments in the future.
  Now that i got all of the downsides out of the way, its time for the one thing in the game, that 
 i actually really thought was pretty good. The drum set using the balance board mode (or whatever 
 you call it) . This was really fun, and although the controls could be better, they are not at all 
 bad.. you really get the feel of a real drum set, and the lessons actually teach you some pretty 
 cool beats. too bad the jam mode with this drum set doesn't provide a view from the back of the 
 set.. it would be a lot easier that way..
  Well then, to put it quite simply, this game is not THAT good, but it can have it's fun moments. 
 if you like music, im sure you can really relate to it and enjoy it, for a while at least. if you 
 have the balance board it has a little extra value, but really, overall this game is a big disappointment.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rino321
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  the game has many instruments but the way you play then is very unrealistic and very simple. it's 
 good for little kids , but for big time gamers the game will seen boring and unrealistic. The game 
 has many instruments but some of them are not even instruments like a dog (?) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the game has many instruments but the way you play then is very 
 unrealistic and very simple. it's good for little kids , but for big time gamers the game will 
 seen boring and unrealistic. The game has many instruments but some of them are not even instruments 
 like a dog (?) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the game has many instruments but the way you play then is very unrealistic and very simple. it's 
 good for little kids , but for big time gamers the game will seen boring and unrealistic. The game 
 has many instruments but some of them are not even instruments like a dog (?) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the game has many instruments but the way you play then 
 is very unrealistic and very simple. it's good for little kids , but for big time gamers the game 
 will seen boring and unrealistic. The game has many instruments but some of them are not even instruments 
 like a dog (?) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the game has many instruments but the way you play then is very unrealistic and very simple. it's 
 good for little kids , but for big time gamers the game will seen boring and unrealistic. The game 
 has many instruments but some of them are not even instruments like a dog (?) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  the game has many instruments but the way you play 
 then is very unrealistic and very simple. it's good for little kids , but for big time gamers the 
 game will seen boring and unrealistic. The game has many instruments but some of them are not even 
 instruments like a dog (?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zutolor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Wii Music wasn't that fun at first, I had 2 friends and my brother to play with me but then we 
 got board and decided to play something else. The next day (today) we played it again we did not 
 have that much fun (me, my brother and one of my brother friend) but than when we tried the minigames 
 (hand bells, etc, etc) and we had some fun then when we unlocked some new songs ( Super mario bros 
 theme, loz theme) we had lots of fun but there are some flaws with the game ex, you can NOT use 
 the wii balance board with multiplayer for the drums so that sucks and why play wii music when 
 you can play Rock Band Or Guitar Hero those games is not 100% kid friendly but at least it has 
 some difficulty to it, but the problem with rock band is that it coast 150$ and wii music coast 
 50.
  So over all this game is fun but thick about it 
  you can be playing Rock Band For 100$ more but Rock band is a better game if you plan on getting 
 wii music but you have 100$ extra but it still will be lot's of fun.
  
  Music 8/10
  Graphics 7/10
  Game play 6.5/10
  difficulty 2/10
  price 7/10
  overall 7.5/10
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  In this game you pick your mii and you play instruments. But you first start off in the game as 
 a lesson so you just play instruments like the trumpet, Piano, Violin, and the drums. THe lesson 
 is easy and after the lesson then you can play along with these little puppets things called the 
 tutes. You also start off with some songs like Ode to Joy and other classical songs. With not that 
 much instruments. To get more instruments, songs, and unlockables you have to complete some stuff. 
 There is conducting a band which you can use the wii mote and knuchcke to control the band. There 
 are also these bell thing like when a bell symbol comes you shake the wiimote or knuchcke. The 
 last thing of these minigames are a pitch perfect which is a little hard to do if you are a beginner 
 of the game. The game has over 60 instruments.
  
  Instruments: 
  
  Woodwind: NES horn, Flute, Clarinet, saxphone, the recorder, and the bagpipes.
  
  Brass: Tuba, 
 Trumpet, and galactic horn, 
  
  Drums: Rock drumset, Jazz drumset, reggae drumset, latin drumset, basic drumset, ballad drumset, Galactic 
 drumset, snare drums, bass drum, takio drums, congas, Galactic congas, and Djembe drum.
  
  Piano: Regular Piano, Galactic Piano, toy piano, and harpischor.
  
  Strings: Electric Guitar, 
 harp, Acoustic guitar, uklele, galacitic guitar, banjo, sitar, shaminsen, electric bass, upright 
 bass, galactic bass, violin, and cello.
  
  There are many more things like there is a singing one where you just move the wiimote up and down. 
 After you complete a song then you can make a video for it and you can also make a jacket for it. 
 
  
  The good of the game is that there are really fun songs to play. Alot of instruments to play. Minigames 
 are fun and very challenging.
  
  The bad of the game is that there is not enough gameplay in the game.
  
  I think this is a 
 game for everyone to play. And surprisinly this game is amazing. I rate this game 9.5 outta 10.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lomovsky
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Sure, it can be simple but what it does (GREATLY!!) is that it allows for ANYONE, even a boring 
 mundane person to come alive (just pick an instrument) and be interested to "play", to hear the 
 different sounds and be willing to "act it out".
  
  I know people who got poor rhythm skills. This will be a challenge for them! See? It also makes 
 the experience attractive, interesting, FUN! & visually captivating by the superb animation and.... using 
 our personally designed Mii characters!
  
  I just had some DRUM lessons using the Balance Board. Wow! The board made me sweat and now it can 
 be used in Music??? AMAZING!! and YES! the experience was just super! So far, I finished 6 lessons 
 and it's been educational and FUN FUN FUN! The 6th lesson is already quite difficult... I wonder 
 how hard it's gonna be in the next 12 lessons!
  
  All in all... I LOVE Wii MUSIC!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Dark-Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The game provides people with opportunity to play instruments without the pressure of really messing 
 up. People tell me that the game sucks and is awful for core gamers. The thing is ... maybe it 
 wasn't meant for you in the first place! the game makes people feel like they are a musical genius 
 rather than in guitar hero where the game makes you feel like a retard when you cab't play songs 
 you never heard of or there too old to remeber (Barracuda! come on) . Don't get me wrong I love 
 guitar hero but WII Music makes me feel smart to other people and I enjoy making music or fixing 
 old ones. A lot of people won't agree with me and I accept that but really thinking would you spend 
 tons of hard work mashing buttons only to fail in front of your friends or would have something 
 comforting and stylish that creates friendly laughs to "you suck" laughs. I feel retarded choosing 
 the road less traveled hear but Nintendo always makes stupid games amazing like "DE BLOB" so keep 
 an open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caneida
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  It's not actually a bad game at all unless your a gamer that likes GTA and Halo games. In other 
 words, likes to kill or shoot things etc. People who only like a certain kind of game might not 
 go for it but you need to give it a chance to judge it. If you like all kinds of games and are 
 open to anything, try it out, you might like it. It's about having fun, not about, I'm better than 
 you at this song. You can play it many ways but aside from that, when your in a band, your a team, 
 you play this together to make the best of it. So before you start saying it's bad, give it a chance, 
 it may surprise you. I actually liked it because I felt free to do many things in this game. I 
 did a drum solo for the first time as well. I maybe wasn't that good, but i was able to have fun 
 playing drums. So, you just have to get the feel for it, or maybe even be open to this new game 
 that is a bit different from the rest. You can be any age to play it, you don't have to bum out 
 because your 15 and your all about being cool or something. Just give it a go.
  
  To tell you the truth though, even though you can't play whatever note you want, you can make one 
 million things out of anything you play. In improv, I did a really fun jazz solo. Improve is a 
 great addition to the game. You play anything you want, (I played something Russian on a piano 
 randomly) and the tutes (the CPUs that play to back you up) guess it or know what your playing 
 and they join in and so on from there and you can keep playing however you want. Soon, the whatever 
 your playing, or maybe the notes just sound to great, that you'll feel like an expert at what your 
 doing.
  
  p. s. Great way to work out, My arms are very sore.....
  
  If you don't understand why people like the wii, well I can't really tell you since you don't understand. 
 One who understand nothing, will never understand anything. Until you learn to understand, well, 
 I'm afraid you'll never know the answer, but I'm sure you don't want to anyway. But every one has 
 their reasons right. But I'm really surprised at the people who don't even understand at all why 
 some or certain people like this game... it's very obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarpay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  This is the most entertaining and creativ music game i've ever played! 1 song and 1000 and 1000 
 variants. You choose the instruments, type, number, the style of the performance.... etc. The conductor 
 minigame is just amazing too. Of course the best part is the drums. It's really difficult to play 
 it, and you must practice a lot to enjoy it. The sound of the drum is good. You can choose 4 different 
 kit (casual, rock, jazz, electric) . By pushing the z, c, b buttons and analog stick you hit different 
 drum in your kit.
  With other instruments you can play alone, jamming, and play in a band. Every instrument has an 
 own playing methode, so i don't want to analize all of them, but the essece is moving the wiimote 
 and nuncak, or pushnig the buttons in rythm.
  I don't want to compare it any other "music" game, beacause it's totaly different. Its not abuot 
 pushing buttons as it appears on the screen...
  On the other side... Some of the instruments sounds like an effect in an old electronic piano. The 
 sound of the electric guitar is too bad. 
  
  By summarising pro and cons it's a very recomended game for wii owners! Good playing with it alone 
 or in party too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
