-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wii Play
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/wiiplay/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Makes good, pervasive use of Miis.
 Comes as pack-in with Wii Remote.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of structure.
 most minigames are novel for only a short time.
 good minigames are hurt by a lack of gameplay options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.1, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 4,776 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Party
Date: Feb 12, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Few of the nine minigames that make up Wii Play have much staying power. 

  Nintendo's move of packing in Wii Sports with every new Wii sold in the US proved to be a genius 
 move. Though it was little more than a simple collection of tech demos, Wii Sports can perhaps 
 claim some of the credit for the system's immediate mainstream appeal because it provided built-in 
 proof of the kind of fun, accessible gameplay the Wii was capable of. Less than three months after 
 launch, Nintendo follows up with Wii Play, a similar collection of minigames that lacks that athletic 
 theme as an anchor. Those looking for more of what they got out of Wii Sports will undoubtedly 
 be disappointed because the quality and lasting value of the games aren't as high. There are a 
 few keepers in there, but for the most part the novelty wears off quickly.  

          Wii Play is one of the most Mii-heavy games yet.     

  Possibly the best feature in 
 Wii Play is the game's prominent and pervasive use of Miis, the simple, caricatured avatars native 
 to the Wii. When you first boot up the game, you're asked to choose a Mii to play as, and from 
 that point on you'll see a variety of Miis -- those that reside in your console's Mii Plaza and Mii 
 Parade, along with more-generic Miis produced by the game -- everywhere. Considering the paucity 
 of games that employ the Miis, it's a welcome bonus in Wii Play.  

  There's not much structure to Wii Play beyond the individual games. At first you'll have access 
 to only one of the nine games, and you'll have to play it and then each of the following games 
 you unlock before you'll gain access to all of them. You start off with Shooting Range, which is 
 basically Duck Hunt with fewer ducks, and in it you use the Wii Remote as though it were a light 
 gun. The game consists of several rounds, during which you'll pop balloons, shoot clay targets, 
 juggle tin cans in the air, and, in the final round, prevent marauding waves of UFOs from abducting 
 Miis. The controls are good enough, but the game is not particularly dynamic. The passing references 
 to light-gun classics like Duck Hunt and Hogan's Alley are a nice touch, though they kind of make 
 you wish one of those games had been ported directly.  

  After that you'll gain access to Find Mii, which is similar in concept to Where's Waldo, though 
 on a smaller scale and with faster pacing. With the clock ticking, you'll be challenged to pick 
 out matching sets of Miis from a small crowd, identify Miis that are out of sync with the others, 
 and find a Mii that you had identified as a "favorite" several rounds earlier. It's not particularly 
 challenging, and it takes its sweet time in turning up the difficulty by having the Miis run or 
 swim around the screen and limiting how much of the screen you can see at once. The biggest problem, 
 though, is the limited number of Miis that are ever onscreen at once.  

  Considering how much physical fun the tennis portion of Wii Sports was, you might be expecting 
 more than you'll be getting out of Table Tennis in Wii Play, which doesn't require you to serve 
 or even try to score points. Your only objective here is to rally with the other player for as 
 long as you possibly can, which requires you to just keep up with the ball by moving the paddle 
 side to side.  

  Pose Mii is likely the most abstract minigame in Wii Play, and it also happens to be one of the 
 least fun. As bubbles containing silhouettes of your Mii in one of three different poses fall down 
 the screen, you'll use the Wii Remote to move your Mii around the screen. Your goal is to pop the 
 bubbles before they reach the bottom of the screen. You press the A and B buttons to cycle through 
 the different poses and twist the Wii Remote to line up your Mii with the positions of the silhouettes. 
 There's a little strategy here because you'll see specially marked bubbles that, when popped, will 
 cause all the other bubbles onscreen to freeze in place. Things get tough as the bubbles start 
 falling faster and at crazier angles, and the game mixes up the types of silhouettes it throws 
 at you more quickly, but it's also repetitive and not particularly fun.  

  Laser hockey requires almost no explanation, because it's just air hockey with a glowing neon motif 
 where you use the Wii Remote to control the paddle, twisting it to hit the puck at different angles. 
 Still, this is one of the better games in the package, due largely to its strength as a two-player 
 game and its conceptual simplicity. The visual style of Laser Hockey is also simple, but the clean, 
 sharp look makes it easier to focus on the action. Billiards is also pretty self-explanatory and 
 fun. It has you aiming your shot with the D pad, then aiming at a specific spot on the cue ball 
 before pulling the Wii Remote back and then pushing it toward the screen, like you would a pool 
 cue. Though it takes some time to get control over the power of your shots, the controls feel pretty 
 good, and it's slick how you can control the spin of the cue ball. The problem with Billiards is 
 its lack of gameplay options -- you can play a game with eight balls where you have to sink them 
 in numbered order, and that's it.  

          Billiards is well thought-out, but many of the other games lack its depth or physical novelty. 
     

  Fishing has you going after what appear to be construction paper cutouts of fish in a pond the 
 size of a kiddy pool. It's a neat idea, but it's hard to get a good sense of depth, and it can 
 appear that your lure is in the water when it's really far above it. The game's arts-and-crafts 
 visual style is really the best thing it's got going for it. Charge is another game with a cute 
 visual style but not much in the way of gameplay. In a world where everything appears to have been 
 hand-knit, your Mii will ride a cow down a winding path, knocking down scarecrows and hopping over 
 vaulting gates. You control the cow by holding the Wii Remote sideways -- you steer the cow by turning 
 the remote from side to side, move faster by tilting the remote forward, move slower by tilting 
 it back, and jump by quickly lifting the remote up into the air. This kind of control scheme was 
 novel when the Wii first came out, but by now enough real, full-featured games have used it for 
 Charge to not really matter. Lastly there's Tanks!, the one game in Wii Play that you can play 
 with the Nunchuk. It's quite reminiscent of Combat for the Atari 2600 and has you piloting a tank 
 around a field apparently constructed out of wooden building blocks, dropping mines and firing 
 shells at CPU-controlled tanks. The Nunchuk definitely makes it easier to move and shoot at the 
 same time, but even without it, Tanks! is decent, simple fun.  

  It's not all bad, but Wii Play doesn't hold up as a stand-alone retail game. Nintendo seems to 
 be aware of that, because the only way you can get Wii Play in North America as of this writing 
 is as a pack-in with a Wii Remote. The continued scarcity of the Wii Remote, and the fact that 
 the Wii Play package is retailing for only $10 more than a remote by itself, makes the game's shortcomings 
 easier to overlook. Regardless of price, Wii Play probably isn't going to hold your attention for 
 long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (337 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  Wii Play's 9 mini games don't offer much staying power. I must give Nintendo props though, their 
 "anyone can play" presentation has succeeded here in finally allowing me to convince my non-gamer 
 girlfriend to play.
  
  Nevertheless, Wii Play has no value to me as a single player game, it is only used when company 
 comes over. And even then I use it as more of an ice breaker because all of the games get boring 
 pretty quick, but are extremely easy to learn.
  
  As well as the over simplicity of the games, each one in itself is over rather quickly, not really 
 allowing you to carry on for too long with even one of the games you actually do like. The game 
 does have some value though, as is comes with a Wii Remote so essentially you get the game for 
 around $10 when you factor in the cost for another Remote. Without the Remote I would not be happy 
 at all with the purchase. But since it does get played on a fairly consistent basis (though not 
 for very long at a time) , it is not a total loss.
  
  The controls are good, which is another reason why this game is good at warming up newcomers to 
 the system. It gives you a good feel for the motion sensing part of it.
  
  Graphics are overly simple but thats fine, this compilation is definitely not about the shiny.
 
  
  Sound is good, nothing special but also nothing that makes you want to clean your ears with an 
 icepick.
  
  The game uses your Mii's which is always nice.
  
  A quick rundown of each game follows:
  
  Shooting Range - Probably the most fun one here for 
 me. I owe Nintendo a big debt for this one as my girlfriend loves it and we have a lot of fun playing 
 it. The game is just like it sounds... Shoot the targets that appear for points. Every once in a 
 while bonus targets appear awarding extra points. The problem is you will get to the last stage 
 within 3 minutes and you can't to anything but start over and play the exact thing again.
  
  Find Mii - This is a game where it will ask you to do things such as picking Mii's out of a 
 crowd or picking the one who is running the fastest. This one seems to continue on for as long 
 as you have time on the timer. Unfortunately the timely isn't very long at all. Not very much fun 
 to be had here...
  
  Table Tennis - Just like it sounds. Aim the Remote left and right to move the paddle into position, 
 tile it forward and back to go farther and closer to the net. Quite a simple game with not much 
 staying power.
  
  Pose Mii - Basically you each start with an icon of your Mii on front of you. This icon can have 
 3 poses. Bubbles drop from above with outlines of the different poses. The object is to cycle through 
 your poses (a button) , and twist the remote so it lines up to match the bubbles and then move the 
 icon onto the bubble for a match. It gets more difficult as time progresses and the person in the 
 end with most points wins. I wouldn't even bother showing this game to anyone over 12 years old.
 
  
  Laser Hockey - A close second for funnest game in this compilation. This is just basically a slightly 
 jazzed version of Pong, but the neon electrical theme and funky music make it fun. Whack the neon 
 puck back and forth till someone squeaks one into the others net. Score only goes to 8.
  
  Billiards - A simple game of pool, and in the top 3 for this title. Aim, pull back on the Remote 
 and thrust it forward to shoot. All this game really does is make you want a fully developed Billiard 
 game to play.
  
  Fishing - A very simplistic game meant for the young. Hold your remote out in front of you and 
 position your hook near a fish to get it to bite. Once it nibbles yank backward to pull in your 
 catch. But watch out for those little fast ones, they are -50 points! Every once in a while a big 
 fish will appear offering major points; be the player with the most when the time is up and you 
 win.
  
  Charge! - Control a cow as it runs down a racetrack. Tilt the Remote forward to speed up and pull 
 back to slow down, jerk upward to jump. As you race down the track you can bump each other as you 
 each try and collect points by hitting scarecrows and such. 
  
  Tanks! - This is the least played mini game for me. It's not very fun and it's over quite quickly. 
 You control a little tank and have to get rid of enemies by either shooting or dropping a mine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_pride99
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, the main reason most of us bought this game was for the controller. At least that's 
 why I bought it and I figured I may as well get another fun game to get addicted to like Wii Sports. 
 This is actually NOTHING like Wii Sports. It seemed to me the only game with any replay value was 
 Pool and even that got old after just a few games. Most of the other games have no real point to 
 them, Kiddy Fishing?? What is that all about. The only games on here with any potential are Pool, 
 don't get me going on that again and Table Tennis which doesn't even allow you to compete against 
 an opponent, instead you try to hit it back and forth as many times as you can before you want 
 to yourself shoot yourself. I would strongly recommend that you not buy this game if you haven't 
 already. After all it just hit the 10 million mark so its likely you already have it...
  
  I picked this game up five or six times, dreading it each time. Finally I gave up on it realizing 
 I was never going to enjoy the game (s) . I love having the extra controller but this is a purchase 
 I wish I could do over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allie2590
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a simple collection of mini games that make good use out of the Wii's motion controls. 
 There are 9 mini games to choose from, each making different uses out of the Wii Remote. This game 
 sounds simple, and frankly, there isn't much to it.
  
  Wii Play is a good game to start out with when you first buy your Wii console. It comes packaged 
 with a Wii Remote, and each mini game comes with a tutorial to help you become more comfortable 
 with the Wii's controls.
  
  This game can be fun to play with a group, but it doesn't offer much for a single player. Because 
 there are few game play options for each game, the novelty wears off quickly. If you are an experienced 
 Wii player, I don't recommend this game unless you have a bunch of friends who are into gaming. 
 However, if you want to get a little more with your next accessory purchase, why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenh6696
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:14 am PT
Review:  Sorry to all the people who like this game, but I think this game has a lot to improve. First, 
 the music: it's to simple, include more instruments. Second, the games: some games have small glitches 
 and have to be played at a certain angle for the cursor to move on the screen.
  Sorry to all the people who like this game, but I think this game has a lot to improve. First, 
 the music: it's to simple, include more instruments. Second, the games: some games have small glitches 
 and have to be played at a certain angle for the cursor to move on the screen.
  Sorry to all the people who like this game, but I think this game has a lot to improve. First, 
 the music: it's to simple, include more instruments. Second, the games: some games have small glitches 
 and have to be played at a certain angle for the cursor to move on the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The Miis are back and just as fun; the Wiimote comes along; all the games are two player; 
 a couple will keep you coming back for awhile; it'll reel in the younger audiences.
  
  The Bad: Half the games aren't memorable or very much fun; you're not sure if the game was worth 
 the extra $10; it'll reel in the younger audiences.
  
  Wii Sports quite literally caused a global phenomenon, getting teenage couch potatoes off their 
 feet and their parents to play a video game at the same time. Wii Play is presumably a 'sequel', 
 which will immediately garner interest amongst the crowds who own a Wii and the crowds who can't 
 find one.
  
  The thing people focus on most when getting Wii Play is the Wiimote that comes along with it. And 
 with good reason; a remote is $40 to start with, and hard to come by, so that and a sequel to Wii 
 Sports must be a steal for just $50, right?
  
  Well... Yes and no. Wii Play has some fun mini-games, some not-so-fun mini-games, and not half 
 the replayability its 'prequel' has.
  
  You'll be using a Mii to play the nine assorted games, and, of course, you can use the same ones 
 straight from Wii Sports. This is a pretty good thing, since the Miis didn't have much use in any 
 other game but Wii Sports as of the release. Plus, they're pretty funny, kinda cute, and family 
 friendly.
  
  There's an arcade style shooter game that's kind of fun to compete with a friend in. It has a bit 
 of replayability to get high scores, shoot the ducks, cans, and aliens (yes, you read right) , and 
 you're pointing and shooting in a quick, responsive way, something people instantly thought of 
 with the Wii's announcement. This game, like all the others, is two player. That actually causes 
 the fun, but it's too bad that none of them are four player to be more involving for the family 
 the way Wii Sports is.
  
  The graphics aren't particularly good or bad, like in Wii Sports, but this game is decidedly more... 
 flat. There's less in terms of 3-D everywhere, excluding the Miis themselves, who still look the 
 same. So, I suppose, you'd call the graphics worse.
  
  The music is just as much background noise as ever, not good or bad. It's not catchy, and you won't 
 be coming back to the game enough to recognize the menu music like in Wii Sports.
  
  Wii Play is often like this: Wii Sports, just not as good. None of the games really get you active, 
 and none are much more, if any, more addictive than the shooter above.
  
  The tank game, I can't even remember what it's called, is just straight up not fun. Shooting missiles 
 at other tanks sounds fun... But the controls are annoying and it's difficult to get the hang of, 
 by which point you don't care.
  
  Finding Miis in a crowd is rather dull too. Again, it's nice to see the Miis somewhere other than 
 the Mii Plaza, and you'll recognize the ones you've made in the crowds, but the game is more likely 
 to frustrate you than get you hooked.
  
  That's the fine line of difficulty games tend to tread: it has to be challenging to keep you trying 
 and make you feel rewarded, but not so much that it just frustrates you and makes you throw the 
 controller through the TV, which'll cost you a lot of money. I suggest switching to Geico to make 
 up for the lost money, or just not playing games like that.
  
  Wii Play can't quite find the balance there that Wii Sports did so expertly. Some games are just 
 too easy, and some are just too irritating to bother with, especially when there are so many games 
 that are so much more fun out there, just a couple months after the Wii's release.
  
  Fitting Miis into a bubble is lame. It's not hard, except maybe to a five-year-old with poor motor 
 skills (which is why it's rated E for kids 6 and up) , so that won't keep you coming back. And it's 
 not really that much fun, just dull. i've played it like two times and have never bothered going 
 back.
  
  But don't let me get you thinking that there's absolutely no fun to be had. Billiards is like real 
 pool, except it lets you know where the balls are going to go. The challenge is hitting the ball 
 hard enough, and the game also has the plus of being familiar, unlike the Mii bubble shape game.
 
  
  It's games like this that'll get your parents playing; at first, it's always good to have something 
 to relate to in a game, like your Mii or a sport you know of. All the games in Wii Sports had that 
 benefit, but only Billiards really has that feeling. The controls are even responsive, moving the 
 remote like you're really playing pool.
  
  Cow racing is... an odd idea. It's actually pretty fun, plus as zany as it sounds. The controls, 
 like in all the games, are fortunately responsive. It feels like a racing game moving your cow 
 around, holding the Wiimote sideways. Racing your friends is actually one of the best parts of 
 the overall game.
  
  Fishing isn't bad, but a little faulty because the controls are a little oversimplified. You'll 
 tilt the remote down to put the fishing line in the water, move the controller around to bring 
 the hook close to the fish, and pull up to get the fish out when it's hooked. The game sometimes, 
 though not often, thinks you aren't tilting the controller toward the water, and you end up losing 
 a big catch to your friend. It's fun and, as ever, will bring you back trying to get a high score, 
 but if you've played Twilight Princess... You get my point.
  
  Laser hockey is more or less like air hockey, hitting the puck back and forth with a hook doohickey. 
 It'll remind you of hockey, at least, or maybe soccer. And it has that same sense of competitiveness 
 a sports game has.
  
  Ping pong isn't bad, and it feels more or less like ping pong, but you'll be thinking while you 
 play that it'd be way more fun to play Wii Sports' tennis. Kind of like how ping pong is the lame 
 version of tennis in real life (that was a joke if you're a major ping pong fan...)
  
  So the main good points of the game are the shooting range, billiards, the cow game, laser hockey, 
 and fishing. That's most of the mini-games, fortunately, and they're pretty fun. You'll probably 
 avoid the others like the plague, and the ones that are fun won't keep you coming back for more 
 once you get a high score you're proud of.
  
  So is this game worth $10? Technically yes, but you should probably just get a Wiimote on its own 
 by now, as they're more available, and you aren't really missing out if you don't have this one. 
 And those $10 are half of what you need to get a Wii Points card, which will get you stuff with 
 worse graphics but way, way more fun.
  
  And once you have that Wiimote, you can have another round of Wii Sports with more players, more 
 fun, and get those parents to slowly, ever so slowly, improve at gaming, until they're not scared 
 of Zelda anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farqual1988
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  This is just another game in a long line of rubbish "party" games that feels like it's just been 
 slapped together just to try and encourage people to buy a new remote. Wii Sports gets a lot more 
 done in terms of introducing you to the remote and it's many features.
  
  The only real decent mini-game (and that's basically what they are - really small games that have 
 no depth) which makes use of the Wii remote is the Shooting Range. Probably because it's the most 
 action based one. But none of them really have any staying power.
  
  Of course, I'm probably looking in too much detail at this. It's clearly made for children. But 
 I'm only giving my opinion, and if your someone who's had a Wii for a while now and are over 14 
 years old, just buy the remote on it's own. This will ruin your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game most people buy for a wii conttroler. Thats why I bought it but it is a great 
 game. Theres 9 miny games to play, and my favorite is shooting Range. But the best part is the medals 
 you get for doing good. Theres Bronze, silver, gold, and the best platium. The mutiplayer is also 
 quite enjoyable and you youse your miis from the mii channel to play most of this game. My least 
 favorite is probly lazer hocky which I think is the hardest. But the easest is probaly fishing. 
 I also like to say what the **** is up with the charge game its wierd. I also like to point out 
 that you can poke your mii or yourself and they get a little to happy. So overall buy it with your 
 wii. Oh yarh the controll is decent and the sound is good but it gets repeditive. And heres all 
 the games shooting Range, find your **** mii, table tennis, pose your mii, pool, lazer hocky, crappy 
 fishing, wierd ass charge, and tanks. and the secret game is called **** mii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  I was humbly suprised at the addictiveness of this game. It is fun, appropriate, and easy. Its 
 a great party game, and I like playing it with my sister. After a long time, however, it starts 
 to get a bit boring. Now lets talk about my review deck sentence. I am only saying it is better 
 than wii sports is because it is more addicting. Once when I was playing wii sports with my best 
 friend Nik, we played it for 2 hours. The next time he came over, he said he never wanted to look 
 at it again, where as in wii play, he (or I) never got sick of it. So, the bottomline is, if you 
 are a fan of highly addictive party games thats great when you have friends over, than you should 
 definetly buy this baby. But if you prefer 1 player on the wii and you hate party games, than leave 
 it on the shelf. Bye for now bye for now bye for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopyed
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  To be honest this is a shocking game with incredibly boring mini-games but just keeps its head 
 above the water with an average 5.0 because of the free wiimote.
  There are nine games witch I have listed from worst to best 9th being the worst and 1st being the 
 best.
  9th, Cow racing (or Charge in america) : Cow racing is the worst were you ride a cow and knock down 
 as many scarecrows as you can shocking controls and after one go you can move on because that the 
 best it has to offer
  8th, Find mii: Find mii is exactly what it meens you have to find the mii in a crowd once again 
 boring but at least the controls are better to use!
  7th, Tanks: This is where you blow up tanks in before they blow up you would be fun but I get confused 
 with the controls so for me it sucks out the fun for me!
  6th, Billiards: Umm yeah its billiards and its boring thats it
  5th, Fishing, It actually pretty 
 fun untill you have gone on it for ten minutes
  4th, Pose mii: This is actually really fun but just a little bit too hard to go on the medal table.
 
  3rd, Laser Hockey: This got the bronze because this is really fun just wierd controls
  2nd, Table Tennis: Its just too hard to go on as gold
  1st, Shooting range: Its fun
  
  Now 
 the games only gives it 3.0 out of ten but the free wiimote give it the worthy 2 points and only 
 buy it if you want the free wimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Yeah so I mostly got this game because of the extra Wii remote that comes with it, but the game 
 alone isn't worth $50. Only get it with the remote.
  
  Anyway, the minigames are kinda fun. There is a shooting range, a find-someone-in-the-crowd game, 
 a matching positions game, table tennis, a laser version of pong, billiards, fishing, cow racing, 
 and tank fights. These don't outdo wii sports by any means, but they have their charm. The better 
 games are probably the shooting range, billiards, cow racing, and the tanks. The other games are 
 just okay. Two people can play at a time, so multiplayer is a go. 
  
  Overall, get it for the remote. The games are a nice bonus. Still the games can be fun so everyone 
 could enjoy this. The game is actually ment to teach people how to use the wii remote in different 
 ways. Anyone who likes simple yet fun minigames will like this. Anyhow, enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjaxNeron
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while because I got it for about 50.00$, as the Wiimote alone was only 
 about five dollars cheaper, so I decided, "five dollars for a game, good deal!" and bought it. 
 This has to be one of the worst games for Wii. The game doesn't even compare to Wii Sports or Wii 
 Music, even though Wii Music was terrible, too. My little cousins love it; my friends and I dislike 
 it. It's also unbelievably hard to play any of the games because the Wiimote doesn't aim where 
 you point it.... I mean, it's fun for the first 10 minutes when you're exploring each game, but 
 after you've played them once, you've played them too much. It's a good idea gone bad... Parlor 
 games would make a good game, and I love games that use the Wiimote interactively as opposed to 
 just using the D-pad to move and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonGal711
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this, I was kinda upset that someone spent money on this for me. While 
 it was fun, there wasn't really much to the games. Sure you can get sucked into playing certain 
 ones, but others I never played after doing them once.
  
  However, a few weeks ago, my friends and I starting playing this game as two teams with three people 
 on each, and boy was it fun. The games were short enough that everyone could have a turn without 
 one session really out weighting the others. And, if one turn got longer, we could easily up the 
 amount of time another pair got without it being a massive difference. Plus, with a die as our 
 guide for choosing, it made it a surprise for what we were about to play so no one could say it 
 was an unfair match up.
  
  I wouldn't exactly say this game you should rush out and buy so you can play, there are far better 
 ones out there, but don't just dismiss this one because it isn't a high rating. If you have little 
 kids, or a bunch of friends that enjoy odd games, this can be a big hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Shooting Range is fun because you use your Wii Remote like a gun and shoot balloons, targets, frisbees, 
 cola cans and UFOs as they fly by. Table Tennis rules because it is even better than the regular 
 tennis on Wii Sports. I like how you can control where you are moving because you can't in regular 
 tennis on Wii Sports. I like Laser Hockey because it is like regular air hockey but the puck is 
 like a laser bullet, and the sticks are like... Darn, what are they like? They look like staples. 
 I like fishing because it doesn't require much guts and it is really easy, even just catching the 
 king of the pond, which gives you the most points. Charge is fun because I have never thought about 
 holding the Wii remote sideways and turning it back and forth, left and right to do different actions 
 and actually run INTO obstackes instead of avoiding them. Tanks is cool because you get to fire 
 missiles at the enemy tank before they shoot you down. I dislike Find Mii because i found it difficult 
 and I don't understand how to discard the "odd" Mii. Pose Mii was dissapointing because it was 
 specifically the game I was looking forward to but ended up being the hardest and stupidest. Billiards 
 is supposed to be the most phinominal game on Wii Play but ended up being the second most dissapointing 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaman321
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  when i first looked at this i thought it wasn`t going to be that good, BUT the first game proved 
 that this is great! there are nine individual games that gradually get harder. they are each considered 
 levels1being the easiest and 9 being the hardest and most complicated.
  
  level 1: target shooting
  1 player and 2 player are pretty much the same. in the first level of 
 this game you must shoot different colored baloons. careful! some balloons are overlapped by other 
 balloons. The second level is a bit easier but your probably not going to be able to hit all of 
 the targets they are like normal targets in archery they appear anywhere on the screen instead 
 of floating up to the top and out of sight, they stay there but disappear soon after. gold targets 
 if hit give you a large amount of points the purple targets have faces of you or your opponent 
 only shoot ones without your face on them
  level 3 the targets are flying this time! i couldnt tell if they were frisbies or china. they fly 
 away from you no bonuses or anything really
  level 4 Recycling!
  all you must do is shoot the diet Wii soda cans untill they shatter and you probably wont be able 
 to shoot them all down
  final round 
  6 miis (all of them the mii your using) are standing in the field calmly then catastrophy strikes 
 as alien ufos come to abduct your precious miis shoot them before they fly off and make them into 
 alien frieks
  
  Level 2 picking from the crowd 
  
  there are some cool enviroments for this game basically your trying to pick certain miis from a 
 crowd click the wrong mii and you lose time
  
  level 3 ping pong
  like real ping pong you have to grab the paddle andmove it towards the ball to return it try to 
 return it no matter what
  
  level 4 pose mii
  now you musttwist the wii mote and change poses to pop bubbles you cant let them get to the bottom 
 it get harder andthe backround changes each level
  
  level 5laser hockey
  
  your wii motes curser is the puck great to play with freinds
  
  level6 billiards 
  takes 
 some time to get used to but is great to play with friends
  
  level 7 fishing
  like real fishing but without the guilt of hurting a live fish
  
  level 8 cow riding 
  
 
  the objective is to ride a cow knocking down scarecrows
  
  level 9 tanks 
  
  overall the most action packed andfungame of them all!... your in an elite tank the objective destroy 
 every other tank in sight without being destroyed yourself im working on a strategy guide for tanks 
 only i think i got a good start too!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  So, the Wii is all about bringing people together through gaming. Yet it only comes with one Wii 
 Remote. How are you meant to make friends with just one Remote? Well, you could buy another Remote 
 on its own for 29.99, or for an extra fiver you can get one with Wii Play, a collection of mini-games 
 designed to help you get to grips with the Wii's control system. But is it worth those extra pennies, 
 or would you be better off buying a Remote and putting the leftover money toward another Nunchuk?
 
  
  Of the seven games initially available here, Pool is the most enjoyable and also the one with the 
 most detailed controls. It takes a while to get used to the striking motion but once you've got 
 it sorted the level of precision combined with the ability to add plenty of spin to the cue ball 
 means you can unleash some pretty satisfying trick shots. With two players it's great fun, as it's 
 always better making ridiculously flukey pots when there's someone there you can rub it in to.
 
  
  
  Advertisement: The shooting game (called, ingeniously, Shooting) has loads of clever ideas built 
 into its five-minute gallery. Instead of merely shooting the targets you need to avoid hitting 
 targets with your Mii's face on them, keep tin cans up in the air by juggling them with your bullets, 
 and stop little clones of your Mii getting kidnapped by spaceships. Oh, and there are ducks in 
 there as well, of course. With up to four players competing at the same time it gets extremely 
 competitive and is an enormous amount of fun.
  
  Also surprisingly more-ish is Find Mii, a Where's Wally? kind of game. It starts simple by asking 
 you to match two out of nine Miis, but it becomes ridiculously tricky with you having to find two 
 people looking the wrong way in a crowd at a tennis match, or picking three lookalikes as a group 
 of people cross a busy street. This is done against the clock and as you complete each task you 
 get a small time bonus, so speed is the key. Thankfully, the Remote is so accurate you're not going 
 to waste precious seconds lining up your target. 
  
  Strike A Pose
  Pose Mii is the hardest of the games, not in terms of control but in terms of the pressure it puts 
 on the player. A number of bubbles with silhouettes on them fall from the top of the screen and 
 it's up to you to pose your Mii to match the shape of the shadow, then rotate them so they fit 
 over it, bursting the bubble. This is fine until the silhouettes change constantly, so you have 
 to keep pressing the A button to toggle your Mii's pose while trying to line them up with the bubbles. 
 It's frustratingly hard yet oddly addictive and we kept coming back to it determined to beat our 
 high score.
  
  
  
  Laser Hockey is likely to be dismissed as a Pong clone with flashy neon effects. And at first glance 
 you'd be right. However, the fact that twisting your wrist will turn your bat gives it a whole 
 new level of physics and will make the game much more enjoyable. As a single-player game it's lacking 
 (games like this are always dull against a CPU opponent) , but don't forget that Wii Play comes 
 with a Remote - it's there for a reason.
  
  Fishing has you dropping your line in a pond and pulling out paper fish. It's simple and pleasant 
 enough but perhaps a bit basic (there are only four or five kinds of fish) , and at times the controls 
 can be a bit vague. Still, it's a decent little fishing game.
  
  In every mini-game package, though, there's always a weak link. Here it's Table Tennis, which has 
 you keeping a rally going for as long as possible. It's good fun but once you hit a hundred shots 
 it stops and you're told that you've won. Had it let you keep going to try and get a high score 
 it would have been great but instead you'll soon have five high scores of 100 points, then you'll 
 probably never look at it again.
  
  Unlocky In Love
  Still, that's six enjoyable mini-games and one that's half-decent - and that's not all. There are 
 also two games that are unlocked once you reach a certain score. If you don't want them spoiled 
 then just skip to the verdict section now. Still with us? Good. Tanks is pretty self-explanatory 
 and sees you bouncing bullets off walls in an attempt to hit your opponent, while Charge! has you 
 holding onto a wild bull (with the Remote on its side as if you were holding its horns) and trying 
 to steer it into the path of scarecrows. They're both also great fun, and round off an excellent 
 package that offers a very diverse range of Wii activities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is like what we saw in Super Mario 64 DS and New Super Mario Bros, It of course has minigames. 
 The Laser Hockey Game is great, just that sometimes you'll accidently be forced to hit it into 
 your own goal, giving the other guy a point. Well one of the games which is a favorite of my family, 
 is The Little Shooting Gallery. In Tanks, you die in one hit from another enemy tank. In Pool, 
 you have to hit the target ball. In Table Tennis, they'll sometimes ask you to hit the ball 100 
 times in a row! Though the Fishing Game is pretty nice. And the game where you have to match poses 
 in a bubble before they fall off the screen is fun, great music, plus great pictures of different 
 animals they use as a background. Though I considered this game "Mixed Reactions" since there are 
 good minigames, and there is bad ones.
  
  Wii Play gets a 7 out of 10 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this game is a pretty good deal to buy with a wiimote. It's a good Wii begginer game as well. 
 Sure there is only 9 things to do, but some are actually fun. It gets boring after a while but 
 what do ya expect from a $10 game?
  
  You can improve all your scores and go for the best medal in each of these games too like in Wii 
 Sports. And yeah I'm running out of things to say already because this game may last a few weeks 
 then your pretty much done except for that rare play it for the hell it of reason.
  
  If you're not interested in a decent game you can play for several hours then don't get this. Just 
 pay $40 for a Wiimote if that $10 for a game will just kill you, at least you can use your new 
 Mii characters and everything.
  
  Well I'm about 60 some characters short so I'll just type this line in and see if it will do :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Well, I first got this game when I got the Wii, and I loved it. Gamespot is SO underrating this 
 game... It DOES have replay value, and tanks is awesome, but that funny cow racing game is cool 
 also. The medals are nice, they give you a good sense of how well you're doing. The Mii shape game 
 could use a little work, and a four-player tanks game and cow race would be fun, but this game 
 is cool. This game also makes very good use of the Wii's motion controls, and the sound is fun 
 and cheerful. The fish game is quite enjoyable, and it's very satisfying when you catch a bonus 
 fish. The tanks game is quite good, and it requires a decent amount of strategy. The laser hockey -- 
 I could go on and on and on! I'll just get to the bottom line. Despite what any reviewer might 
 say, if you have a Wii, get this game! 
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Replayability: 8.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Controls: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  To start with, I'm just going to say that this game would be pretty damn bad, 4.0 max, if it wasn't 
 for the fact that you get a free wii remote with it. The game cost cost me 34.99, a wii remote 
 would cost around 24.99, so I basically got this game for a tenner.
  
  This game includes several mini-games, including pool, shooting, cow racing, and air hockey. The 
 games are okay. They are fun when it comes to trying to beat your families records at a particular 
 game. Thus said, unless you have frequent players of the game as family or friends, then this game 
 is really bad. Short, 2 minute games that adults (unless they are incredibly easily amused, like 
 my mum) won't find much fun in this game. However, younger members of the family will find huge 
 pleasure of the game.
  
  The only real challenge from this game is attempting to get platinum medals on ever mini-game. 
 That is fairly hard, but still half of a piece of cake.
  
  Overall, unless you're in need of an extra wii remote, don't buy this.
  If you need one, it is 
 a really good deal.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Breaking News: Another Nintendo marketing scheme strikes again.
  
  This One: "Operation Wii-Play" 
  
  Background Information: It was a poorly designed game that 
 produced millions of copies before it was tested. After going through gamer trials, the board ruled 
 it to be trash. Originally planning to sell this game for $50 USD, the team confirmed it wasn't 
 even worth one American penny. They had to do something with all these games stacking up in warehouses, 
 so in a marketing ploy, Nintendo constructed a plan to sell the game with another item that had 
 a $40 value, known as a "Wii-mote," (for a total of $50!) Doing so, they would successfully disguise 
 something generally accepted as "crappy" with something valuable, similar to a previous operation 
 of theirs which implemented a motion sensor device covering up another failed project. (Known as 
 "Operation Wii")
  
  The Result: Gamers were furious with Nintendo, and it wasn't because this game wasn't sold separately. 
 Once again Nintendo manipulated their customer base, in to tricking them to buying a game that 
 contains 9 mediocre mini games, games far below the quality demonstrated in "Wii-sports," One who 
 owns such a game today wishes he rewind time, just to buy another wii-mote separately instead of 
 falling to the hands of ruthless business leaders.
  
  The Aftermath: Gamers found themselves playing each game for about 5 minutes each before getting 
 bored. They actually liked the tank mini game though, it wasn't bad, plus you can work with a partner 
 to complete levels. But they knew it was just the dev- -, I mean Nintendo teasing them with again, 
 giving them one okay mini game with 8 other boring ones. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiwillrocku360
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total waste. I got it for Christmas but I wouldn't have gotten it with my own money. 
 I basically just wanted the Wii remote. It might be good for players who like point and click video 
 games, but not for hardcore swing it games. I mean the only game I really like is the spot the 
 mii game. I mostly wanted the game for the Wii remote, but if you have trouble deciding to either 
 get the Wiimote and game or just get the Wiimote. Trust me, JUST GET THE WII REMOTE!!!! If you 
 get the game, you're just getting a $40 Wiimote with a $10 game. Yes I stole that from the show 
 X-Play. So just get the wii remote and don't waste another $10 just for the game, it's not worth 
 the money AT ALL!!!!!! These are random letters just to get to the 800 characters I need to submit 
 this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kierantoocool
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Yup, this game is really not worth buying at all, firsts things first, the price, I got it originally 
 for the free remote, as most people do, so, I ordered the game with the free remote for 30 quid, 
 so yeh, I wouldn't really say "free" remote, anywho, so I got the game and was going to play 2 
 player on SSBB and that's when I realised no numchuck? So I had to buy the numchuck seperatly 
 for 15 quid, so altogether, it was 45 quid for this and a remote. Now for the game itself
  
  Game play-
  
  This game is so simple, it's 9 different unique, short and repetitive mini 
 games with, all with a 2 player mode, the different mini games there are, are  snooker, with odd 
 rules, laser hockey, which is a modern "pong," tanks, simple, birds eye view tank fights, fishing, 
 well fishing, cow racing, where you got to hit scarecrows with cows target shooting where you 
 point using the remote to shoot several different things, ping pong, well, This odd bubble one, 
 where you pose you MII and put them in bubbles and one where you have to find different MII's, 
 so for the game play, it's okay for a few minutes but easy, and easy to get bored of as the A. I. 
 aren't very challenging and high scores aren't hard to beat, so, for game play, I would say a fair 
 6.0 out of 10
  
  Difficulty-
  
  For most of the mini games it's very easy, cause the aim of the game in single player is to get 
 gold medals in all the events but the scores to beat are very low and easy to beat, so, not very 
 challenging at all. Score for difficulty, a poor 4.0
  
  Time spent playing-
  
  10 hours or less, I would say, I have been playing around 1 hour, around 20 mins to get gold's 
 in most the events and silver in some, then 40 mins going multiplayer with friends and family and 
 I have to admit though, the laser hockey can be funny at times, but once again easy to get bored 
 of. So for time spent playing, I would give it a terrible 2.5
  
  Sound-
  
  Ooooh dear, not much to sounds at all, and the very few sounds you hear over and over again are 
 pretty bad quality, e. g. the tanks sound like R. C. cars with pee shooters :D sound = a bad 3.0
 
  
  Music-
  
  Just like any other Nintendo game I've played (apart from Zelda) not kool! Yeh, when you first 
 boot the game up, the music seems nice and cheery but after 5 seconds you realise, it's the same 
 2 notes being played over and over again, and gets quite annoying, I just wish there was some way 
 to turn the music off but there isn't, so music  an abysmal 1.5
  
  Characters-
  
  Haha, the characters them selves, the MII's, so that's pretty kool, cause it's you so it must 
 be kool but then again on the WII menu where you create your MII's, there aren't very many customizations, 
 so, yes, you creat you character but not in depth at all. But still, score for characters, I would 
 give a good 7.0
  
  Graphics-
  
  Once again, like any other WII made game, like WII sports, not good at all, the MII's look nothing 
 like you, and everything is extra shiny, but I can say on the mini game laser hockey, if the laser 
 ball hits a wall there's a rather kool shock waves come out so that's pretty kool, but other than 
 that, score is a bad 3.5
  
  Overall-
  The Good  characters are you!
  The bad  expensive, bad graphics, bad sounds and music and not much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peasantquest101
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is an ok game for a little bit but then just collects dust on the shelves. luckly this 
 game comes with a free wii remote so the game is actually 10 bucks! there are about 7 games and 
 you unlock them as you play. Most of them are just teaching you how to use the remote. you aim 
 at the screen and shoot, hold your wii remote sidways to race cows, or use the nunchuck to move 
 tanks and blow stuff up with misles. This game is worth the money if you are going to buy a wii 
 remote cause come on its only 10 dollars more. Also you can play multiplayer and try to beat the 
 other person in games like air hocky and pool. Also when you play by yourself you get medals for 
 how well you did, like training mode for wii sports. That will make you want to build up your score 
 from a bronze to a platnum. you may be suprised that i am recomending that you buy this game when 
 it has horrible reviews but come on, it comes with a free wii remote, wich cost 40$ so i think 
 it is worth it. you might even be suprised how much you like this game. I think the real reason 
 nintend made this game was to show off the wii remote! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHWTmonster
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  We all know that half the reason we got the game is for the controller. The controller is pretty 
 much the only good thing that came out of the box too. The games are weird and there are no skill 
 levels, ranks, or anything to show how good you are and most of the mini- games are weird. You 
 really only play the games if you have a friend over who's never played Wii before. This is because 
 by yourself you might as well play something good like Super Smash Bros. Brawl. No more than two 
 people can play either! 
  There are some good things. The first is Tanks. It's fun for you and a friend to work together 
 to see how many levels you can pass. There are a bunch of levels too and it's very challenging 
 to get through the levels. Parents and children also love to play it together mostly because whether 
 you're too young or too old to play video games, You can always pick up and learn how to play.
 
  All and all, it's just not something you should buy unless you just got your Wii and you need 
 a cheap game and controller. Please give me feedback
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  If you are picking up the Wii, then by all means consider picking up Wii Play in order to get your 
 extra controller on the cheap. Rather, at least you pay practically the same price for a controller 
 (with sleave) along with the game.
  
  However, the games in Wii play will not likely be the staple of your Wii gaming experience. You 
 can read elsewhere regarding the minigames included. I'll just say what I found most useful of 
 this game was that it gave me (and my wife and kids) something else to play (along with Wii Sports 
 which came with the console) as we got to know how to use the Wii controllers. Each minigame subsequently 
 adds another function or fine tuning of your "Wii Skillz". But after a couple days, this game now 
 sits on the shelf.
  
  So, if you want (or need) a second controller, you practically get this game for free; but I wouldn't 
 specifically recommend picking up Wii Play over practically any other Wii game of choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  At first, Wii Play plus the controller seems like a great deal. Since a controller costs $40, why 
 not pay just an extra $10 to get a minigame collection with it? Is the collection of minigames 
 in the package worth the extra $10? Disappointingly, no. Each one is worth playing maybe for five 
 minutes once or twice, and that is about it. Quite simply, you are better off just buying the controller 
 and leaving Wii Play on the shelf.
  
  The concept of Wii Play is a good one. It includes ten minigames that act essentially as tech demos 
 for the Wii-mote. Unfortunately, there is so little effort put into adding any depth to these minigames 
 that the concept falls flat. In the Ping-pong game, you do nothing but move your controller left 
 and right while the game tallies how many consecutive hits you get. There is no other nuance to 
 it that you might find in a Ping-pong game. The pool game is a great idea too, but it ends up almost 
 nothing like actual pool  it's as if the game was purposely gimped so that somebody else could 
 make a full-priced pool game for the Wii. The fishing game is fun maybe once. The ostrich race 
 minigame is interesting, but it also exposes how lousy the Wii-mote is for some uses that work 
 a lot better on a traditional console controller. The tank shooting minigame is okay, but it is 
 not evolved a lot beyond Atari 2600 combat, and it makes little use of the Wii's unique controls. 
 I could go on, but I can't even remember what the other minigames are. None of them made much an 
 impression.
  
  The Wii is full of minigame shovelware at this point, and Wii Play does little to distinguish itself 
 from the seemingly endless pile. The only reason why I haven't given this game a lower score is 
 because it at least includes the Wii-mote. Here is my recommendation  if you want another Wii-mote, 
 just buy the Wii-mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomperpie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play has been out for a while, but it still hasn't made half the impression on my other games. 
 The only reason I rated it so high was because it came with the free remote. the game itself is 
 a bit boring, especially having to unlocked all the game, when ANYONE can start with all of the 
 game and have all bronze metals after 3 tries for each game. Although I'm still hoooked on Tanks, 
 there's not much else I would really want to do. Billards has wierd controls, in my opinion. It 
 esentially Wii sports with not as many sports related games, and more games. I'd have to admit, 
 this game would be a lot different if it had wifi, then I might recomend it for a casual gamer. 
 Though it's nothing compared to Mario Kart, or Super Mario Galaxy, Wii Play is a fairly decent 
 game, though not many of the mini games have depth orskill required, unless you're going for gold. 
 The game could have been alot better, I'd rank the game 4.5 to 5.5, but the Wiimote is the main 
 reason I wanted it, so I'm satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam3rKidd
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 6, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is one of those games you will buy first when you purchase a Wii. It comes bundled with 
 a game and a Wii Remote for only 60 dollars. It's a good deal but if you bought it to play the 
 game, you won't be satisfied.
  
  Wii Play is up to 2 players and features 9 games that are not creative and boring. The games range 
 from things like Target Shooting (which is just an extended version of Duck Hunt) Ping Pong, Billiards, 
 Cow Racing, and a cheap fishing game. Most of these games will keep you busy for only 15 minutes 
 or less. The controls for this game are not bad and are pretty responsive. The graphics can be 
 identical to the graphics of Wii Sports.
  
  This game is a waste of time. If you are a hardcore gamer, you will hate this game. This game is 
 a casual game so people who don't really know what a good game is will find this game a masterpiece. 
 Hardcore gamers, save your time by not playing this game. You'll just want to curl up into a little 
 ball in a dark corner and suck your thumb.
  
  Bottom line, this game is a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is the best selling wii game not counting the notorious pack in, Wii Sports. It comes 
 with a free wiimote, and costs 40 bucks, meaning that your getting a ten dollar game! Each game 
 is around a dollar and 12 cents. Its not much of a ripoff. But each game is either good or bad...
 
  
  Shooting range: Fun for the first few times, but eventually you will realize your doing the same 
 thing.
  
  Find Mii: Boring and Hard if you have a lot of Miis.
  
  Table Tennis / Ping Pong: Boring too, especially since you go down in one miss
  
  Poser mii: 
 After you get the hang of the controls, its okay, but most people hate this one. But I like it 
 :) .
  
  Laser Hockey: Its very stimulating and casually fun.
  
  Fishing: The cutouts are very poor quality, but somewhat addictive.
  
  Pool/Billiards: I can't 
 get the controls to work for me. I don't like it. Sorry.
  
  Tanks: Very fun to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Good stuff:
  . Comes with a wii remote.
  . good use of the wii remote.
  . good use of miis.
  . Some good minigames.
  . Good multiplayer.
  Bad stuff:
  . Only 8 
 minigames.
  . Can get really stresful.
  . Graphics aren't that good
  . Just lacking depth.
  
  If this had like, 50 minigames in then it would probably be the best 
 party game on wii, but with only 8 minigames, this is more of just a demo of what the wii can do, 
 but worth it for the wii remote. Also, only 5 of the minigames are worth playing.
  
  anyway, here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: not bad, but could have been much better. 6.5/10
 
  
  Story: Doesn't have one. Apart from your wii teaching you how to use the wii remote, but I won't 
 count that as a storyline. N/A
  
  Sound&Music: It's not too bad, but could have been made better. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: With only 
 8 minigames (only 5 good ones) and some of them being corny, it could of been soooooo much better. 
 The ping-pong is a complete disapointment on single player but isn't too bad on multiplayer which 
 is one of the letdowns on this game. Billards is just too hard to play and is stressful to play. 
 In fact, the target shooting is by far the best minigame in this game and that could of been much 
 better. It has good use of the wii remote but that's pretty much it. 6.5/10
  
  Overall: This game is only reccommended because of the wii remote deal, and that's it. 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Wii play is just another game with easy to use controls and adequate gameplay. There are nine games 
 total all with something on the usage of the Wii remote. The big problem with this game is some 
 of the minigames are only fun for a short time, and they lack gameplay options and structure. The 
 games are shooting range, tanks, table tennis, find mii, pose mii, billiards, laser hockey, charge, 
 and fishing. On a good note, if you buy the game package, you will get a Wii remote inside the 
 package. The main purpose of this game is to teach you how to use the Wii remote. The game doesn't 
 have much to offer, but what it has to offer, it's good. This game has a good use of the Miis, 
 but it can be difficult to control at times. If you are into sports, you should give Wii Sports 
 a try first. If not, you might want to give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete0427
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a ten because I really enjoy it. I like all the games on it there are not any 
 games I hate. I have medals on some games I don't know which ones. There is a shooting game, a 
 Wii matching game, a Wii look-alike game, a laser hockey game, a pool game, a fishing game, and 
 a tank game. The game was made for the purpose of getting use to the Wii controllers and how different 
 it is. It helps you learn the way you need to move the Wii remotes and how to control the movement. 
 I enjoy playing this game with friends and family. It is a most have game along with the Wii Sports! 
 It is not my favorite but it is an important game to have so you can learn how to play the Wii 
 better. It is a real good first game. Its one that everyone can play and enjoy! If you do not have 
 it, go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The Miis are back and just as fun; the Wiimote comes along; all the games are two player; 
 a couple will keep you coming back for awhile; it'll reel in the younger audiences.
  
  The Bad: Half the games aren't memorable or very much fun; you're not sure if the game was worth 
 the extra $10; it'll reel in the younger audiences.
  
  Wii Sports quite literally caused a global phenomenon, getting teenage couch potatoes off their 
 feet and their parents to play a video game at the same time. Wii Play is presumably a 'sequel', 
 which will immediately garner interest amongst the crowds who own a Wii and the crowds who can't 
 find one.
  
  The thing people focus on most when getting Wii Play is the Wiimote that comes along with it. And 
 with good reason; a remote is $40 to start with, and hard to come by, so that and a sequel to Wii 
 Sports must be a steal for just $50, right?
  
  Well... Yes and no. Wii Play has some fun mini-games, some not-so-fun mini-games, and not half 
 the replayability its 'prequel' has.
  
  You'll be using a Mii to play the nine assorted games, and, of course, you can use the same ones 
 straight from Wii Sports. This is a pretty good thing, since the Miis didn't have much use in any 
 other game but Wii Sports as of the release. Plus, they're pretty funny, kinda cute, and family 
 friendly.
  
  There's an arcade style shooter game that's kind of fun to compete with a friend in. It has a bit 
 of replayability to get high scores, shoot the ducks, cans and aliens (yes, you read right) , and 
 you're pointing and shooting in a quick, responsive way, something people instantly thought of 
 with the Wii's announcement. This game, like all the others, is two player. That actually causes 
 the fun, but it's too bad that none of them are four player to be more involving for the family 
 the way Wii Sports is.
  
  The graphics aren't particularly good or bad, like in Wii Sports, but this game is decidedly more... 
 flat. There's less in terms of 3-D everywhere, excluding the Miis themselves, who still look the 
 same. So, I suppose, you'd call the graphics worse.
  
  The music is just as much background noise as ever, not good or bad. It's not catchy, and you won't 
 be coming back to the game enough to recognize the menu music like in Wii Sports.
  
  Wii Play is often like this: Wii Sports, just not as good. None of the games really get you active, 
 and none are much more, if any, more addictive than the shooter above.
  
  The tank game, I can't even remember what it's called, is just straight up not fun. Shooting missiles 
 at other tanks sounds fun... But the controls are annoying and it's difficult to get the hang of, 
 by which point you don't care.
  
  Finding Miis in a crowd is rather dull too. Again, it's nice to see the Miis somewhere other than 
 the Mii Plaza, and you'll recognize the ones you've made in the crowds, but the game is more likely 
 to frustrate you than get you hooked.
  
  That's the fine line of difficulty games tend to tread: it has to be challenging to keep you trying 
 and make you feel rewarded, but not so much that it just frustrates you and makes you throw the 
 controller through the TV, which'll cost you a lot of money. I suggest switching to Geico to make 
 up for the lost money, or just not playing games like that.
  
  Wii Play can't quite find the balance there that Wii Sports did so expertly. Some games are just 
 too easy, and some are just too irritating to bother with, especially when there are so many games 
 that are so much more fun out there, just a couple months after the Wii's release.
  
  Fitting Miis into a bubble is lame. It's not hard, except maybe to a five-year-old with poor motor 
 skills (which is why it's rated E for kids 6 and up) , so that won't keep you coming back. And it's 
 not really that much fun, just dull. i've played it like two times and have never bothered going 
 back.
  
  But don't let me get you thinking that there's absolutely no fun to be had. Billiards is like real 
 pool, except it lets you know where the balls are going to go. The challenge is hitting the ball 
 hard enough, and the game also has the plus of being familiar, unlike the Mii bubble shape game.
 
  
  It's games like this that'll get your parents playing; at first, it's always good to have something 
 to relate to in a game, like your Mii or a sport you know of. All the games in Wii Sports had that 
 benefit, but only Billiards really has that feeling. The controls are even responsive, moving the 
 remote like you're really playing pool.
  
  Cow racing is... an odd idea. It's actually pretty fun, plus as zany as it sounds. The controls, 
 like in all the games, are fortunately responsive. It feels like a racing game moving your cow 
 around, holding the Wiimote sideways. Racing your friends is actually one of the best parts of 
 the overall game.
  
  Fishing isn't bad, but a little faulty because the controls are a little oversimplified. You'll 
 tilt the remote down to put the fishing line in the water, move the controller around to bring 
 the hook close to the fish, and pull up to get the fish out when it's hooked. The game sometimes, 
 though not often, thinks you aren't tilting the controller toward the water, and you end up losing 
 a big catch to your friend. It's fun and, as ever, will bring you back trying to get a high score, 
 but if you've played Twilight Princess... You get my point.
  
  Laser hockey is more or less like air hockey, hitting the puck back and forth with a hook doohickey. 
 It'll remind you of hockey, at least, or maybe soccer. And it has that same sense of competitiveness 
 a sports game has.
  
  Ping pong isn't bad, and it feels more or less like ping pong, but you'll be thinking while you 
 play that it'd be way more fun to play Wii Sports' tennis. Kind of like how ping pong is the lame 
 version of tennis in real life (that was a joke if you're a major ping pong fan...)
  
  So the main good points of the game are the shooting range, billiards, the cow game, laser hockey, 
 and fishing. That's most of the mini-games, fortunately, and they're pretty fun. You'll probably 
 avoid the others like the plague, and the ones that are fun won't keep you coming back for more 
 once you get a high score you're proud of.
  
  So is this game worth $10? Technically yes, but you should probably just get a Wiimote on its own 
 by now, as they're more available, and you aren't really missing out if you don't have this one. 
 And those $10 are half of what you need to get a Wii Points card, which will get you stuff with 
 worse graphics but way, way more fun.
  
  And once you have that Wiimote, you can have another round of Wii Sports with more players, more 
 fun, and get those parents to slowly, ever so slowly, improve at gaming, until they're not scared 
 of Zelda or Mario anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  In this game you choose a Mii to use and you can play with a friend and you and your friends can 
 compete against each other. 
  
  Minigames: Billiards
  Mii Pose
  Tank Battle
  Ping-Pong
  Find the Mii
  Shooting 
  Charge
  Fishing
  
  All these minigames are pretty 
 good but they do get kinda easy and boring if you play for a very long time. To me the only fun 
 one is Billiards. Also if you are versing against a friend and you win then you will get a point 
 it is really all about having fun and trying to win.
  
  The good of the game is that this game is very fun with the Family Members. 
  
  The bad thing 
 is that there isn't enough minigames and you get bored of the minigames quikly.
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.0 outta 10 it is very fun and all but it will only last you a few 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is the game you play when you are out of your mind, drunk, or extremely bored. Some the 
 games in Wii Play are fair to play, but it's all flash and absolutely no substance. The games are 
 very basic and can get old very quick. I give Wii Play a 6 because you can get a better game for 
 $10 on the Wii Shop Channel. I do feel sorry for those who do not have an Internet connection on 
 the Wii because there is alot to miss out on. Anyways, If you are considering on buying Wii Play, 
 keep in mind that you are getting a fair $10 game with a Wii Remote at regular price. 
  
  There are only three games that stand out to me in Wii Play which is the Shooting Range, Laser 
 Hockey, and Tanks. I like the Shooting Range because it reminds me of Duck Hunt on the NES. Laser 
 Hockey is usually ok to play and I consider it to be a nice twist to Pong. Tanks is a good game 
 to play and it makes good use of the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. The Cow Racing Game is the same track 
 and pattern every time so that's why this particular game is not on the top 3. Games like Billiards, 
 Table Tennis, and Fishing is cheap feeling and is put together very quickly at the last minute. 
 Find Mii and Pose Mii are the worst games to play on Wii Play due to the fact that it's too childish, 
 cheap, and annoying. Wii Play could of been so much more than what it is.
  
  The price tag on this game might be high, but if you have $10 extra to buy this game with the Wii 
 Remote included, then be aware of what you are getting. Otherwise, try to get yourself a LAN adapter 
 or a router for an Internet connection. Trust me, it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is designed to get you used to using the Wii remote. The game has nine different mini-games. 
 Each using the Wii remote in a different way. It can be played as a multiplayer game with another 
 person. When you buy it you get a free Wii remote which is good.
  
  In theory this would be a good collection of small games worth the retail price. This is not the 
 case unfortunately. The mini-games themselves are far too simple and you do not use any of the 
 "Wii remote skills" you learn on any other Wii game ever made. You do not "naturally learn how 
 to use the Wii remote" as it says on the back of the box. Once you have played through each mini-game 
 a couple of times, the game loses its appeal and it begins to gather dust at the back of your collection.
 
  
  Overall it is a waste of money just buy a second Wii remote, do not get it with this game.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasBlat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I think that game is cool in the beginning, i mean, the beginning is 5 minutes!
  
  hahahahahaha
  
  im sure that everybody who bought this game, bought to earn a free controller... 
 of course.
  
  the snooker game is short, i mean, the game is only match, theres no championship, cup, or something 
 like that, that make this game boring.
  
  the shoot game, is the best, but always the same thing, that the game become boring in a hour...
 
  
  the fishing game: the fishes are so bad, they are like paper! and its become (like the others games) 
 boring.
  
  the game is like, a not finished game, it doesnt looks like a complete game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Funk
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  When I finally tracked down a Wii, i was excited and felt so lucky to have finally been able to 
 track down the unicorn of gaming systems. When i went to buy it, i wanted another controller so 
 i could play games with my brother. And the pepperoni-faced teenager who was working recommended 
 this game because it came with a conroller. I thought "Oh joy! A controller AND a new game to play?" 
 So i promptly bought it and returned home. Upon playing the actual game i realized that there wasn't 
 a single game that could justify the price tag. Yes, i know, tanks IS fun... But i could play something 
 of that quality on the interwebs for free. Seriously. And just like everyone else, i forgot about 
 it and its unsatisfying gameplay and frusterating cow races and returned to Wii sports and began 
 to save up for Twilight Princess. (I mean, comon! They couldn't even take two seconds to make a 
 backround for fishing? Seriously guys... That's just sad.) It only deserves a 5/10 because of the 
 controller, and tanks with a downy friend is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_freak99
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play features nine mini-games. In Shooting Range, players shoot various items that include 
 can, ducks and baloons. In Find Mii, crowds of mii gather doing various things, and the player 
 is given details as to which Mii to choose. In Table Tennis, players basically hit a ping pong 
 ball with the CPU. There is not way to beat the CPU, your record is based on how many times you 
 rally. In Pose Mii, players have to line up the pointer, which is their character, with bubbles. 
 The bubbles will be in different poses, and the player has to push certain buttons to get the pose 
 right. Laser hockey is similar to air hockey, the difference being that it looks different. In 
 Fishing, the pointer is a fishing rod, and players have to catch fish. Billiards is basically 9 
 ball billiards. Three points are deducted from the final score for every foul. In Charge, player 
 navigate a cow by tilting the Wii Remote in different directions. Tanks would probably be the most 
 action packed mini-game. Players have the option of using the nunchuk or playing with just the 
 Wii Remote. The main objective is to eliminate all other tanks by planting mines or shooting them. 
 
  
  This game is very easy to finish and can sometimes get boring and even annoying. It's lack or variety 
 leaves the question, "Would anyone buy this if it wasn't coupled with the Wii Remote?" Perhaps 
 this would have been more popular if it was included in a popular game such as Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl or Super Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bace69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  At first I really didn't like this game at all... But after playing it with my son; it's starting 
 to grow on me. The pool is not that bad (except for the cheesey music) the shots are accurate enough 
 to enjoy, table tennis & air hockey makes you feel like your back at the local Rec. center or Boys 
 & Girls club,& fishing (I'm embarassed to say that is my favorite) I don't understand the concept 
 behind the paper style graphics........ But again I could overlook that to get a extra controller. 
 The other 3 games ;I wouldn't even bother. There definitely for children under 5. If your hung up 
 on graphics & intense gameplay ,need not apply. playing a multiplayer it has a nice fun factor.. If 
 you want something nice & light; maybe you're babysitting or you have some younger kids around 
 this could keep them quiet for a few ticks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Wii Play:
  
  Pros:
  -cones with a free wii remote
  -really fun with a group of people
  -uses your mii
  
  Cons:
  -some of the mini-games are 
 really boring
  -really boring when you play it alone
  -lacks replay value
  
  Story:
  This game has no story so I can't score this section.
  
  Gameplay:
  You start with one game 
 and for each game you complete, you get another game. The first game is like a shooting game which 
 is decent but gets old once in a while. Table tennis is really boring since all you so is move 
 your remote around and you just rally it. The mii poseing and the mii matching games are probably 
 the worst games in this set. They are boring, simple and don't serve entertaiment. Despite those 
 setbacks, air hockey, cow racing and the tank game are the best additions in this package. The 
 fishing game is mediocre at best. There's also pool. If you've always hated pool, then this game 
 is not for you. It takes too long and is one of the most slow-paced games in the package. The last 
 two games have you knock over scarecrows and blow some tanks up. Those are the best games in the 
 package along with air hockey. Some of the games are nice additions but most of them are just plain 
 boring. 6/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are the best part of this game. There are nice colors but they are nothing special. 
 The miis look the same as when you first made them. Looking at this game gives you a happy feeling 
 since well, the colors are nice and the backgrounds look cool. I can't really complain about the 
 graphics except for the kiddy concept of the menu backgrounds. That kind of affects the graphics 
 since you see the menu backgrounds all the time. 6/10
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are annoying and the background music is not very fun to listen to. Sound effects stink 
 especially the explosions. The annoying introduction menu music is a pain to listen to and it sounds 
 like you are in a hotel. Since this a party game, there aren't really any good party themed music. 
 Overall, sounds are mediocre at best. 5/10
  
  Value:
  You get a free wii remote. That's the best part about this game. Otherwise, this would be a useless 
 package. Completing all the games takes about an hour and with friends, this game could have a 
 little more replay value. Otherwise, don't bother with this game. 4/10
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, the mini-games were nothing special and were really mediocre. Some of the games shined 
 but others fell flat. The games that shined have a little replay value but only with other people 
 since playing the AI gets boring. 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a collection of mini-games released by Nintendo that are sub-par at best. With only 
 9 minigames in total and only one or two of those being fun Wii Play is a terrible game. The only 
 reason it has good sales is because it comes with a Wiimote which is a very good deal. But this 
 is a review of the game Wii Play and not the Wiimote that comes with it. Instead of reviewing the 
 graphics, sounds, and controls of the entire game, I will review each of the minigames separately.
 
  
  Shoot Range/Target Shooting/Duck Hunt 2.0
  
  This is a pretty interesting game the first time you play it. You have to shoot various objects 
 from cans and ducks to ufos. The overall game is fun for a few turns but after you have finished 
 it once you don't want to play it again because it doesn't change much turn after turn. This is 
 fun to play with two people and can make for some very interesting competition, but still falls 
 short in the the whole scheme of things.
  
  Mii Puzzle Game/Pose Mii
  
  This is by far the worst game on Wii Play and possibly the worst game in a mini-game compilation 
 I have played. The object of the game is to turn and change the shape of a Mii so that it fits 
 in the cut out hole that is falling on the screen. I am making it sound fun, because if I am it 
 is not fun. Even from the first level the game is horrible. It is an attempt at a fun puzzle game 
 but is hurt by the accuracy of the Wiimote and the overall concept is pretty weak. Playing with 
 friends can't even save this game.
  
  Laser Hockey/Air Hockey/Hockey
  
  This is one of the better games on Wii Play but is hampered by the terrible accuracy of the Wiimote. 
 This game is standard air hockey but viewed from above and your paddle is controlled by pointing 
 the Wiimote at the screen and moving it to hit the puck and try to score on the opponents net. 
 The single player for this game is pretty weak, but when playing with friends this can be a blast 
 and make for fierce competition.
  
  Pool/Billiards/Nineball
  
  This game is fun and could be better if not for the physics system that was used in this minigame 
 making balls move to far and fast without slowing down. This too suffers from the Wiimote often 
 resulting in missed shots or trying multiple times to get a shot off. This like most of the games 
 on Wii Play is boring alone but can be made better with a second player to compete against.
  
  Cows/Charge/Cow Riding
  
  This is another mediocre game that is fun once and you never 
 want to play it again. The goal is to use the Wiimote to steer a cow through a series of objects 
 to get the highest amount of points. Sounds like fun, well it isn't. The controls are decent but 
 fail to make up the short comings of this game. At least it has a cow in it.
  
  Tanks/Tank Wars
  
  Okay this game may be worth purchasing Wii Play. It is tons of fun alone 
 or in coop mode with another player. The goal is to destroy enemy tanks who are trying to destroy 
 you. The direction of your fire is controlled by pointing the Wiimote at the screen and drive the 
 tank with the Nun-chuck. This is a very addictive game and can be played over and over without 
 getting bored. 
  If there was an entire game made out of the Tank game it would be a must buy.
  
  Fishing
 
  
  This is another game to add to the list of not played. It isn't even fun the first time. It is 
 fishing for paper fish and getting a certain amount of points for catching certain fish. It is 
 quite a boring game and is hard to enjoy. There is no replay value so it gets tried once and then 
 dropped.
  
  Wii Find/Wii Search/Where is Mii?
  
  This game is also pretty fun. The goal of the game is to find a certain Mii in a whole pack of 
 them in different settings within a certain amount of time. The Mii changes each time and the place 
 where the Mii is hiding changes making the game have replay value. The multiplayer is fun too and 
 can be played over and over. This is a quality minigame.
  
  Table Tennis/Ping Pong
  
  This part of the game isn't the best. It is basic table tennis, but you are not playing for score. 
 The goal is to see how many times you can return the ball. While this is fun for a few seconds 
 it gets boring real fast and is a game that you would only play once in a while. Multiplayer isn't 
 too bad but there is room for improvement. 
  
  There you have it 7 mediocre minigames with 2 fun ones. If you already have enough Wiimotes, don't 
 even consider picking up Wii Play at all because it is a terrible game and will not be played. 
 If you do need another Wiimote, Wii Play is a good option, but only for the Wiimote. 
  Final Score: 3.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assauwe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  When reading different comments about Wii Play, people take it too often as just another game you 
 should start and play until it lasts. Actually all the fun of Wii Play is playing the games in 
 multi-player mode. Fishing or Mii finding can be really boring when playing it alone, but it is 
 total party booster when all your friends are playing it with you. 
  
  These games have practically no learning time, so even these people who see Wii first time can 
 have all the fun. So it is definitely not 5,5 point game, in right company it is definitely 9 or 
 10. Although I admit, playing alone makes the game soon boring. 
  
  The other group of people for who Wii Play fits perfectly are smaller kids. My 4 and 6 years old 
 boys are really fans of this game. Other and more challenging games are often too hard for them, 
 but this is mostly playable for these ages also. So I would say that for families with smaller 
 kids it is a must-have game. All mini-games are practically non-violent and help them to get good 
 balance-feeling needed also in other everyday life activities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Wii play is a mini game.... game, it comes with a Wii mote so the game itself cost 1 dollar Short 
 story: well yeah if you need a wii remote then this is a good deal, but if you expect to enjoy 
 this game for more than 4 minutes then no it sucks
  
  okay games like this should not exist its a collection of mini games bad mini games and theres 
 not that many. Theres a ping pong game, an air hockey game a stupid tank game, a cow game, a... ah 
 wierd game, a matching game. The air hockey is the best but it still gets old fast
  
  story: lol there is no story exept you try to get your mii to jump
  Graphics: Lol they are simply 
 terrible, which begs the question why the hell am i reviewing this tgame do you know i don't
  gameplay: lol Its just mini games which last you 10 minutes if you have nothing else to do
  
 
  Pros: air hockey cons: its just a few mini games
  Cons: Every thing about his game is bad, okay if you don't get it by now i don't like this game 
 so don't play it don't even get a Wii
  
  the game is basicly free so what ever its not like you have any thing better to do with those 5 
 minutes so what the heck get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megadeth_rule
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I buyed this game ONLY because it was coming with a wii-mote hoping that I could get some fun out 
 of it...
  And I must say that it would have been a better idea to just buy a wii-mote than waste 15 bucks 
 on this poor mini-games collection.
  To make it short this game is just like wii sports shallow and boring after you tried all the mini-game 
 2 or 3 times. 
  In fact the multiplayer mode is quite fun for like 2 hour . after you have tried the incredibly 
 big selection of minigames ( 9 minigames :sigh: ) you'll probably not want to play any of them 
 again...
  To conclude I would say that...
  If you liked wii sports you might get some enjoyment out of this game but it's shallowness and 
 very limited gameplay option will make that Wii play won't last you long if you don't have anyone 
 to play with you. So, I strongly suggest to rent it once if you're curious and if you don't need 
 the wii-mote that come with it avoid buying this game at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is yet another mini-game compliation for the Wii. This is given out by paying an extra 
 ten dollars for a Wiimote, of course people right away think this is amazing, another game bundle?! 
 That's an awesome way to save some money, right? Well, lets just review each game before we land 
 any judgement on this compilation. There are nine different games with all very different gameplay.
 
  
  Shooting Range, is probably the one thing that everyone has seen in action. Its a Duck Hunt style 
 of gameplay. It of course is more fun playing with an extra person as you have to have the quickest 
 trigger finger to shoot down the objects, which range from discs to ducks to UFOs. The point system 
 is easy to understand and there are always little bounses thrown in towards the end of a level. 
 The game itself has great control with the motion shooting style and make this game fun to pick 
 up wioth friends or alone from time to time down the road. 
  
  Find Mii is a strangley addicting game. It is a Where's Waldo game where the player must find a 
 certain character, shown by a Mii, and click on it before time runs out. Now the thing that makes 
 this fun is that the timer gets extra seconds everytime you find someone, but the timer continues 
 from where it last left off from the previous level. The game tends to be very fast paced and is 
 fun in big groups, even though only two people can play at once. Normally a session ends with the 
 group yelling at eachother that one person saw the final character. Its a great way to start off 
 a Wii party or to get friends aquainted. This is personally my favorite game in Wii Play.
  
  Table tennis is the next game. Its just like it sounds. It's table tennis, or ping pong. You 
 point the remote to grab your paddle and off you go. Hitting the ball tends to speed it up and 
 at times you can lob the ball to the oppenent, but be careful as it can be smacked back at you 
 twice as fast the next hit. The game itself is okay, but everyonce and a while the controls may 
 mess up causing a fault or having your hand let go of the paddle. The game is no Wii Sports tennis, 
 but this is a deffinite second best. 
  
  Pose Mii is the most orginal out of all of the games in Wii Play. Please just listen before calling 
 me crazy. The screen contains you (your Mii) and you can hit a certain combination of buttons to 
 change the postion that you are in. You need to change the postion you are in to fit into bubbles 
 that are gently floating to the bottom of the screen. Now the bubbles of course start to float 
 faster and faster, but there is a powerup bubble that one can hit. When you hit this bubble the 
 game freezes for a few seconds and you can clear the screen at this point if you are fast enough. 
 Two player is a lot of fun in this game as one can steal bubbles away from the other. And when 
 the powerup bubble is taken by one person the other is frozen in midair. Many people that have 
 played this on my Wii tend to rate this as a favorite.
  
  Laser hockey, in my opinon has the smoothest and best graphics out of all the games in Wii Play. 
 This game is really only air hockey, with neon colors. It uses no Miis. Only two ends that control 
 a paddle. And they hit the 'puck' back and forth. The game is pretty straight forward, and the 
 controls can seem wonky at first, but one eventually gets used to it. 
  
  The next in line is fishing. Not fishing like most are used to though. This involves no reeling 
 the fish in. To catch a fish is to wait till it grabs the hook then all you have to do it pull 
 up. The graphics here are also nice and clean, but everything is given a popup book feeling making 
 it seem a little strange. The fishing game itself is kind of fun. Each fish is worth a certain 
 amount of points, but beware the smallest fish actually takes away from your score. The game itself 
 is fun, but needs some other modes to really appeal to more audiences. 
  
  Billiards is the one game with the most potential behind it. The game itself is only one style 
 of game for pool, out of the countless ways one can play it. Which is kind of dissapointing, but 
 then again this is only a minigame compilation. The controls are also a little strange at first 
 and take a while to get used to. The power shots can tend to be over powered or under powered. 
 The game itself is a good first attempt, but if this is the only billiards game to come out in 
 the years to come it will be a sad day. 
  
  Charge! is another strange game in the compliation where you ride on the back of a cow. The objective 
 is to complete the race, while also knocking down as many scarecrows that you come across. The 
 controls seem to work fine with me, but there have been others who have played when the controls 
 go wonky, but most of the time they are fine. You tilt the controler as far forward as you can 
 to speed up while tilting it side to side to turn and backwards to slow down. You can even make 
 the cow jump by jerking the controller up. For some reason the women that play Wii Play like this 
 game more often then naught. 
  
  Tanks! is what could be considered the manly game. You control tanks and the whole objective is 
 to destroy the other tanks before they destroy you. You can destroy yourself though so watch out. 
 Your 'bullets' can bounce off walls, and your mines can blow up certain walls and yourself if you 
 aren't careful enough. The controls are nice and smooth and the graphics don't look half bad, but 
 its sad they mad it seem like you are playing in a toybox, as the walls are blocks and the tanks 
 look like toys. The game itself is fun and has 20 levels, but you can unlock 80 more later on. 
 So plenty of replay value here. 
  
  The minigame compliation thing is getting tiring, but this does okay have a good amount of diversity. 
 The game itself is not worth more then ten dollars, so its an okay bundle. This game deserves a 
 7 only because I still pick it up once and a while, if that ever does stop it will drop to a 6. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kCxcor3
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play consists of 9 mini-games that are designed to help you get used to using the Wii remote. 
 It comes bundled in with the Wii remote and it's worth the additional 5 you pay.
  
  The first time you play the game it takes you through each mini-game one-by-one like a tutorial, 
 each using a different action e. g. Shooting Range for aiming, Pose Mii for rotating the pointer 
 and even Charge! (cow racing) to get used to using the Wii remote horizontally for steering. Once 
 I had gone through the tutorial I found myself slightly addicted to Table Tennis in particular, 
 but this didn't last long as it does get extremely repetitive after a short period of time. All 
 of the games have multi-player and are good entertainment for when you have friends or family over, 
 but that's about as far as it goes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  What is it, nine games? That seems about right. And how many good ones, uh... Let me think... Still 
 thinking... Uh... 
  A couple games are OKAY multiplayer, but most are a bunch of blah. Singleplayer lags alot on all 
 of the games, and overall the games just aren't that good. 
  Wii Play, do you? No, I have better things to do, like wi-fi on ssbb, or anything else practically. 
 Wii play is not a very good game to impress your friends with, because about five out of the nine 
 games just take up space, and the other four just.... Aren't... good enough.
  Pool and maybe the one where you are on a cow and steering your way are okay, and the game coming 
 with a wii controller is nice, but overall, this game is not worth getting. I'm not sure how much 
 this game costs, but lets say it costs $20. In the wii shop for that amount of money you could 
 have just boughten Paper Mario (a classic) or Zelda: The Ocarina of time (Another classic) so really 
 check if you want this game before you buy it.
  You may never buy it unless you need an extra wii controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is one of the first Wii games, and it is definitely a big hit, the second best selling 
 wii game ever, but it isn't that great of a game once you've played it for a while, especially 
 if it is one player. Wii Play doesn't have a record of high scores (at least that is what I think...) 
 , there are no missions to do, no online play, and no reason to play it for more than twenty hours, 
 unless you are playing with four players and there is something behind the game, like a bet for 
 money or something. The good thing about the game is that it uses the wii remote's (or should I 
 say "Wiimotes") motion sensoring very well, like if you were playing pool, and you needed to pull 
 back your pool stick and then push forward to hit the ball, you could do exactly that with the 
 Wiimote. Also, the game has some other fun non-sports games. Although they are more for children, 
 they are fun to play when you haven't got anything to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Like Wii Sports, Wii Play offers a collection of quick, easy-to-play mini-games best enjoyed head-to-head. 
 The first game, Shooting Range, is a dead ringer for Duck Hunt, but instead of ducks, you're blasting 
 targets, UFOs, and tin cans. It's not great, but if nothing else it demonstrates how well the Wii 
 could handle a light gun title. 
  In the next game, Find Mii, you locate faces in a crowd, but I didn't find its "find Waldo" style 
 of play the least bit appealing. 
  Table Tennis seems to have potential, but the limited, side-to-side movement of your paddle makes 
 it feel like Pong with fancy graphics. 
  
  In Pose Mii, you twist and contort your Mii into various positions to fit into floating shapes. 
 It's shallow fun, but gets old in a hurry. 
  Laser Hockey plays like air hockey, but its graphics are rendered in a neon light motif that makes 
 it look a lot more compelling than it really is. 
  
  Billiards is my personal favorite, offering a modified version of 9-ball where you score based 
 on the number on the balls that you sink. Whether playing 
  solo or against a friend, the pinpoint controls and close-up "windows" make it a pleasure to run 
 the table. 
  You'd think Fishing would be a real treat, but its execution is extremely poor. Not only does the 
 game insist you sit very close to the TV (or else a message blocks your view) , but the rod control 
 doesn't feel natural at all. 
  
  "Charge" is hands-down the best cow racing game I've ever played. By tilting your controller you 
 ram your charging bovine into scarecrows and leap over barriers.
  At first glance, Tanks resembles the classic "Tank Pong" variations of Combat (Atari 2600, 1977) , 
 but instead of shooting each other, the goal is to shoot more enemy tanks that your opponent. I 
 was pretty psyched up about Tanks at first, but I think this game missed the mark. 
  There is some enjoyment to be had with Wii Play, but the fun is fleeting. The most compelling aspect 
 of this package is the free controller included with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  It wasn't bad, but it wasn't so great either. I liked Tank, Fishing, Cow racing and Laser Hockey, 
 but those got boring after a while if you played it too much. No matter how much I liked a game 
 on Wii Play, it would bore me after I played it for a few days. Yes, I do like to play the game 
 occasionally, and it's still pretty fun. This might be a good game for people who have just bought 
 a Wii, in addition to Wii Sports. Also, Wii Play comes with a Wii remote, which makes good to buy 
 in the beginning. If you have 2 players, on the screen where all the minigames show up, one player 
 may push the other, look angrily at the other, or frown. They do these funny things when you do 
 not choose a game and they are fun to watch. Wii Play does have a good multiplayer. Overall, this 
 game was an OK game. And as I said, Wii Play would be better if you had just bought your Wii and 
 like games with a good multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  It is designed with an eye toward teaching you how to use the Wii remote. Most of the games are 
 horribly simple - so much so, that they are hard to master, which is the ironic part.
  
  I can't really think of a specific part of the Wii play that stands out over the others. I guess 
 if I had to pick my favorites, they would be:
  
  Shooting
  Tank Wars
  Laser Hockey
  And, possibly Pool.
  
  Shooting is fun, simply because I enjoy the sport in real life, and 
 this is much kinder on my shoulder than a normal 12 gauge. :)
  
  Tank Wars is enjoyable because of the varying tanks that the game puts to field. Most of them are 
 easy to defeat, but certain situations make it difficult, and therefore fun to win against.
  
  Laser Hockey is annoyingly simplistic, and I end up scoring on myself as often I do on my opponent. 
 Yet, still, I take an almost philistine delight in defeating the other glowing paperclip. I'm sick, 
 its true.
  
  Pool is interesting, with just enough of a hint of the real thing to make it worth playing. Almost. 
 If I'm honest, I think it just makes me wish that I had ROOM for the real thing. Until then I guess 
 I'll play this.
  
  I suppose liking 4 out of the 9 games isn't that bad, but my overall feeling of this game is "i'm 
 glad it was only $10". I bought it for $49 with a controller rather than $39 for the controller 
 itself. Maybe that is how it is always bundled, I'm not certain.
  
  For $10 it seems worth it. For $20, I'd probably say no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22VMA
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I have the game but I don't play it a lot, mostly I play Super Smash Bros. Brawl (which is a awesome 
 game) . We only got Wii Play for the extra remote (or wii-mote as I like to call it) . Some of the 
 games on it look fun (like tanks, billiards and the cow riding one) , but you have to unlock the 
 games to play them. The first time I played it I was really excited but was brutally disappointed 
 when I found out that the next game had to be unlocked to be able to play it. Even worse you have 
 to get a certain high score to unlock the next game. And if you quit you must start that game all 
 over again to unlock the next. Some of the games are stupid, like the dancing one or the "find 
 your Mii". This is a game you don't buy for the game but for the extra's it comes with (this being 
 the wii-mote) . But overall it's a fun game (I guess) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the first WII game of the 2006. Me and my sister play this game quite a lot. We oth have 
 great fun on it lol. Their are also lot's of fun minigames to play. My favorite is the bubble game 
 and my sister likes the battleship shooting. She uses to teach me how to handle this game well 
 and how to control not to get hit by other battleships and not shoot eachother. I will take a good 
 look through this game that it's one of those fantastic games. It's like if you create a MII though 
 the MII game from the WII menu, some of the MII's you created pop out walking and just also on 
 that find MII game. Trust me! This is really a easter egg glitch. Because my sister and I have 
 created a lot of our own MIIs in the MII game. My sister has done made a new character with red 
 lips and a facial cheeks and her name is Gaher witch is a GIRL MII. I am still thinking about what 
 new MII character I can make. The sound looks very nice in this game. the minigames are cool. I 
 have also played WII sports to. The minigames were awesome! Please trust me. I am a WII fan, and 
 my sister is a Sega fan. That's kind of funny she is. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  The first thing is that I never bought this game, or wanted to buy it. When my mom bought the Wii 
 at an auction, it was one of the games that came with it. But Wii play is one of the worst games 
 I have played! I mean, the games suck, and the controls are really badly designed for this game.
 
  
  There are nine games in Wii Play. The games are really boring except for maybe 3, but even those 
 games are ruined by control. Some of the games are just plain stupid, like find to identical Mii's, 
 or form the shape that the Mii is in and try to match them up in this little bubble game. 
  
  The main problem was the controls. Maybe they are too sensitive, but they work perfect with 
 Wii Sports, so that can not be the problem. The controls move too fast, and you have to hold the 
 Wii remote very still, other wise the games do not work well. ONe of the games that I had a big 
 problem with was table hockey. The little puck would constantly get turns around, even just barely 
 moving the remote. Sometimes your puck would move way too fast, and it was hard to block.
  
  The only thing that is good with Wii Play is that the graphics do not look that bad, and the 
 sound is okay.
  
  Honestly, Wii Play is more of a stage demo fr the Wii, because, after you play all the games, it 
 gives you a message saying that these games are just an example of what you can do on your Wii. 
 
  
  Do not buy Wii Play, just stay as far away as possible from getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 6
Date: May 25, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  There are nine mini games offered in Wii Play that I will review individually:
  
  Shooter's Range seems like Duck Hunt a bit. Basically, you shoot whatever objects come up on the 
 screen. Obviously, you use the Wii Remote to point at the screen and then press the B button to 
 fire away. It records your points, and it's fun coming back to try to break your high score, but 
 there's only five different rounds. These become tiring quickly, and Link's Crossbow Training offers 
 a better "shoot the target" mode overall.
  
  Find Mii is a fun little game. Basically, you have to find the Mii or Miis that are shown on the 
 screen, by pointing and clicking on them with the Wii Remote.. Sometimes it will be really dark. 
 Sometime it'll be really crowded. And other times, some Miis will be walking faster than others. 
 Playing this game by yourself isn't fun at all, but racing against some one else to find the Mii (s) 
 is slightly entertaining.
  
  Table Tennis is pretty fun if you are playing against someone else. If you are playing by yourself, 
 the computer controlled character will not miss at all. So basically, you just see how many volleys 
 you can get. The multiplayer, you just play a normal game of ping pong, up to eleven points. You 
 slide your Wii Remote around to hit the ball, but you don't swing. It takes a little getting used 
 to, but it works.
  
  Pose Mii isn't fun at all. All you do is change different positions of the Mii you are controlling 
 with different buttons, and then fit them in the bubbles that appear. You direct them like you 
 direct the cursor in Shooter's Range, except it isn't fun at all, and there's no reason why you 
 should waste your time playing something as shallow as this.
  
  Laser Hockey is one of the better offerings in the package. It's like an advanced version of Pong, 
 except you can move all over on your side, rather than just up and down. This would be a lot better, 
 if you could put more power into your hits. When you hit the Wii Remote hard at the ball, it doesn't 
 usually register as well as you'd like, and it just messes you up. You have to do no quick movements, 
 which takes some of the fun away.
  
  Billiards seems to be liked by most people, but I didn't enjoy it much. It's the same as any other 
 Billiards game, except you can put power into your hit with the Wii Remote. You aim it up the way 
 you want it to be, and then you hit. There's only one mode, which sucks, because this would've 
 been the perfect game to include more to it.
  
  I forgot the name of the Fishing Game, so I am just going to call it the "Fishing Game." All you 
 do is dip your pole into the water and try to get a fish to bite you. You don't want to get certain 
 fish, or points are deducted, and you want to get the fish the panel shows you for extra points. 
 To put it simply: This mini game is extremely shallow and boring, like some of the other games 
 in the package, and there isn't much of a reason to play it.
  
  Charge! has you ride on cows. You put the Wii Remote on its side and then lean forward to go faster, 
 and lean backward to slow down. You just have to hit a bunch of scarecrows and jump over poles 
 when they come about by lifting the Wii Remote up in the air. This is a lot of fun, but it's over 
 after a minute or two when you start it.
  
  Tanks! is, by far, the absolute best mini game in the package. You can use the Wii Remote alone, 
 or the Wii Remote and Nunchuck, if you don't like moving with the D Pad. What you do is move your 
 tank around, and aim at the screen with the Wii Remote. The Wii Remote is your cursor and will 
 fire where you want it to. All you need to do is take down other tanks. There's actually a ton 
 of levels, and many different tanks with different abilities. All the levels are different, and 
 it's an absolute blast when playing with a friend or sibling. You can also lay mines if you are 
 into that sort of thing. Tanks! alone makes Wii Play worth buying. The only problem with Tanks! 
 is, if you lose all your lives, you have to start all over again. There's no saving mechanic in 
 this mini game, sadly. I haven't even come close to completing Tanks! because of this.
  
  The graphical presentation and sound are mediocre, just like the rest of the game, except for Tanks! 
 of course. The game only allows two people to play, there's only one mode for each mini game, and 
 there's only nine mini games. You can earn medals by getting higher scores and such, but it's not 
 going to hold your attention for very long. Wii Play comes with a Wii Remote, which is why it's 
 sold so much. A Wii Remote is forty dollars, and Wii Play packaged with the Wii Remote is fifty 
 dollars. You are basically getting nine mini games for ten dollars. Tanks! alone would make this 
 worth it. It isn't an incredibly fun game, but for its price, it's worth checking out, especially 
 if you can't find a Wii Remote anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Wii play is a collection of nine mini games on one disk. There is shooting, the mii finder, the 
 mii matcher, electric hocley, fishing, table tenis, cow racing, tanks, and pool. They offer a great 
 intro to the wii's controls and help you get used to the wii. The game's graphicsd are simple and 
 they get the job done right, the sound is much better and it has a touch of vibration from the 
 wiimote, wii play supports only 2 players on a single system and there is no online play. It does 
 keep track of your scores and recoreds and updates them each time you or another person beats your 
 sorce. Wii play also comes with a wiimote, which adds to the value of the game, you can only buy 
 Wii play with the remote, there is not a solo option. Wii play was one of the first lanuch titles 
 for the wii, a offers a fun, but not lasting experiance to the gameplay itself over all this game 
 gets only a 7.0 from my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The good: Lots of Mii's, Billards and Find Mii are fun, $10, fun with multiplayer
  The bad: Graphics and music are bland and lacking, You have to unlock 8 of the 9 games, too short 
 and terribly easy, movements in most games are slow, Multiplayer is the only feature
  
  Game-play: 5/10
  Graphics: 5/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 6/10
  Average Score: 
 5.9/10
  
  In 2006, everyone had a reason to buy the Wii; the Wii Sports game was one of them. It was loads 
 of fun, and a great start to the Wii. Does Wii Play have much of those to make it classic material? 
 Not quite.
  
  Wii Play consists of 9 different games, the most obivous are billiards and Find Mii. You'll have 
 to start on one game, and unfortunately unlock the rest of the games. This gest boring and tiring 
 easily. Plus, the graphics and music lack much detail.
  
  Wii Play comes with the Wii remote, but you'll have more fun pretending to play the game then to 
 actually play it. The game costs $10, which is a great deal, but overall mixed because of the games 
 shortness and easyness. The games get boring even after the first try, and multiplayer seems to 
 be the best fun in the game.
  
  Wii Play isn't very strong with new fans, and had a lucky success with the remote. If this wasn't 
 bundeled with the remote, I doubt it would be extremely successful. Overall, if you want a great 
 multiplayer, rent this first, but don't buy it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that sold a lot, due to the fact that it came with a Wii Remote. Some of the 
 mini games are quite fun, but most are boring which makes Wii Play a title that you most likely 
 won't play a lot.
  
  The first mini game in the collection is the Shooting Range. This is one of the best mini games 
 where you shoot targets, cans, ducks, aliens. It kind of reminds me of the old Duckhunt game without 
 the laughing dog. When you shoot at the targets, you get more points and the player with the most 
 points wins.
  
  Next is the Find Mii game, which is an ok game. I like the use of Miis in it, it is always fun 
 to see your favorite Miis in a game. In this game you try to find different Miis in a crowd. The 
 game may ask you to find a specific Mii, 3 of the same Mii, a sleepy Mii, or the fastest Mii. The 
 environments around the Miis often change to make the game harder, like it would become darker, 
 they would be swimming, or on escalators. Overall this is not a bad mini game especially if you 
 like seeing a lot of Miis in games.
  
  Table Tennis is the next game. In this game you just move the Wii remote to move the paddle. This 
 game is very simple, you just try to keep the paddle in front of the ball, and there is no need 
 to swing. In a single player game your goal is to just return the ball 100 times and in a 2 player 
 game it is to get 11 points. This game is not a that fun, I would have like to be able to swing 
 the wii remote like in the Wii Sports Tennis game.
  
  Pose Mii is another game which is not very fun. In this game you simply move your Mii on silhouettes 
 before they reach the bottom of the screen. You can use A and B buttons to change their pose. It 
 gets harder as you go on, but still not too exciting.
  
  Laser Hockey is a fun game, especially with 2 players. In this game you control a paddle and you 
 get to move it by pointing the Wii remote. In this game you try to hit the puck into your opponent's 
 goal by twisting the Wii remote to strike the puck hard. Its very fun and very competitive.
  
  Billiards is the next game and it is only ok. The controls take some time getting use to. This 
 game would be better if there was more variety in the gameplay. You only can hit the balls in order 
 and you only have 9 of them. Its fun after you get the controls down, but it gets old fast.
  
  The fishing game on here is dull. I was hoping it would use the nunchuk so that you can actually 
 reel in the fish. Instead you just pull the Wii remote up when the fish bite. The game has a small 
 variety of fish that you can catch, and some fish will give you bonus points.
  
  Charge is a game where you are on a cow and you hold the Wii remote on its side. You move the wii 
 remote like a steering wheel to turn the cow and tilt it forward to run faster. Its not to fun 
 to play especially in 1 player mood.
  
  Tanks has to be the best game on here. In this game you control a toy tank and you get to shoot 
 other toy tanks. This game can be played with the nunchuk as well so thats a plus. You control 
 with the nunchuk or the d-pad and aim by pointing the Wii remote at the screen. Your mission is 
 to move though the stages by defeating tanks before you lose all your lives. It gets harder as 
 you go on because the enemy tanks get stronger and more numerous.
  
  Overall Wii Play is not a game worth $50, and its only a good buy because it has a Wii Remote with 
 it. This collection of mini games may be fun for awhile, but I don't think it will get much play 
 time in your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Wii play has some neat remote swings, but unless you are a realy casual gamer, there is not to 
 much to see here. There are four or five games it. Tanks and that 2d like pong thing are the only 
 ones that made me come back at all. In the 2d pong like thing you just hit the ball bavk and forth 
 to try and score some hits. In the tanks thing you try and blow up other tanks which is actually 
 kindove fun for a while and has some not to bad stuff in it. It has a duck hunt like thing where 
 you shoot cans and stuff but where is the dog? It also has a fishing game but that to does not 
 feel anything like fishing. There is also tennis which is not so bad if you whANT to practice your 
 vollys. It does come with an extra wii remote but overall this is not the right game that you should 
 see if you are trying wii for the first time as there are much better options on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSquaredGeneral
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is an underrated product. While it may not provide hours and hours of replay value, a 
 couple of the mini-games are interesting enough to play with friends. There is a good chance that 
 half of the games you will play once and never want to touch again, but getting even a couple decent 
 party-friendly mini-games makes it well worth the $10 that the game costs (after subtracting the 
 cost of a wii remote) . 
  
  Mini-Game Breakdown:
  
  Quality:
  + Shooting Range
  + Billiards
  + Tanks! 
  
  Fun with 2 Players, Boring solo modes:
  + Table Tennis
  + Laser 
 Hockey 
  
  Mildly Amusing:
  + Fishing - Crippled by poor depth and graphics, otherwise decent game
  + Charge! - Controls 
 are difficult to figure out, but the cow provides comic relief
  
  Horrible:
  + Find Mii - The similarity of the mii's makes this a strain on the eyesight more than a game
 
  + Pose Mii - Only useful to practice using the remote with unique angles and locations
  
  Bottom Line: If you want another remote, you might as well get Wii Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 14, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  ... the American's and Japanese obviously, because apparently they pay for the Wii remote and the 
 game, we pay for the game 20, but the Remote is ofen free 22.99. Straght away this is an advantage, 
 but I've rated the game as if it was 20 or so. 
  
  The mini games are addictive and pretty damn fun but there are only nine of them, and there all 
 very basic. Games like racing the woolen cow are awesome but I'm not sure about the snooker so 
 much. Also for some rediculus reason, you have to unlock all the games but one, why, there all 
 cheapy basic games.
  
  This game is not fun alone, unless you are racing the cow or playing an awesome version of duckhunt... 
 without that damn dog! yey! However in multiplayer there is fun to be had, especially when you're 
 kicking someone's behind... mostly my sister, who is rubbish at pokemon, thats actually quite funny... 
 rubbish at pokemon. 
  
  Anyway, this game is decent but there are better games out there, especially for mini games such 
 as Super Mario 64 DS and Warioware, oh, and obviosly Mario Party (I've only played 4 and a bit 
 of 7 - 7 was better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  I got this a long ass time ago when it first came out in order to get the second Wiimote probably 
 over a year ago. The game was great, fun, and revolutionary a year ago but no so good anymore.
 
  
  The fishing game is my wife's favorite, it is actually quite fun to play but I wish there was more 
 to it. However my favorite game is the pool game as there are a lot of options to play with the 
 game! I had hoped that it would become it's own game, and sure enough it did, by the release of 
 Pool Party but that game was TERRIBLE!
  
  Overall the game is a nice addition to a collection of already fluent Wii minigames, and the best 
 part is that it costs only $10 sinc eyou are getting the Wiimote with it. I would recomment getting 
 this because of the remote and it will only be $10 for the difference in price of the game itself 
 which will give yo a good $10 of play value for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaguarofDoom
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a very small collection of minigames. There are only nine of them. Once you've tried 
 them all, you won't want to play most of them again. Some of the games, like tanks, are actually 
 fun. Tanks has different levels and enemies and is probably the only game worth playing a lot. 
 However, you can't save your progress, so it gets repetitive after a while. You might want to replay 
 the minigames because you are awarded medals for scoring a certain number of points. This can actually 
 be fun and rewarding. 
  Unfortunately, the multiplayer isn't very strong. Most of the minigames aren't fun with more than 
 one player. Multiplayer is also limited to two people. 
  This game does cost $50. However, this includes the Wii remote, which costs $40. So if you need 
 another controller, you might want to consider this option, since the game only costs $10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Wii play offers a variety of mini games, from pool, Cow Racing, to even Rotating mii characters 
 to thier bubble death. The bad thing about this game thou, is where all these sound like fun ideas, 
 none of them were really perfected. This game doesn't offer very good muliplayer, which can be 
 essential on the wii. The game has a few kinks in it, that can make the game difficult to play. 
 All the mini games are pretty much very boring and can be fun for an hour at most. The best thing 
 about this game is playing the tanks feature, which you can actually play for a good amount of 
 time. That is the only fun thing about playing this medicore at best game. The game in relative 
 costs 10 bucks, even thou at that price it is barely worth it. Wii need a good job of marketing 
 adding the controller with it, if they didn't no one would go out and get the game. Just my take 
 on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djulliens
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Wii Play presents itself as a collection of 9 mini-games. You start by selecting the mii you want 
 to play with and choose the target practice game. The others are initially locked, but that quickly 
 changes as you play trough each of them sequentially. 
  
  Most of the games are fairly simple, and they look as if very little effort was put into them. 
 All of the games can be mastered in few minutes, leaving the game with a short or non-existent 
 replay value. 
  
  It's certainly more fun to play against another player, but it inevitably gets dull making you 
 turn to any other multiplayer game available.
  
  As a wiimote functionality demonstration, it pretty much sums it up. But then again it could have 
 been a bit more inventive. 
  
  In conclusion, this game comes with an wiimote (or maybe the other way around) but it really isn't 
 worth it. One is be better off buying a wiimote without the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Please don't make the mistake I made and waste twenty Pounds on this shambolic game. Fair enough 
 their is a good choose of nine mini games on it and it does help you get used to the functions 
 of the wii remote but this game is just total rubbish.
  Wii play, which often comes with a wii controller, is a game with nine minigames that are designed 
 to help you get used to the functions of the wii remote. The mini games include Shooting, find 
 mii, table tennis, pose mii, lazer hockey, billiards, fishing, charge and tanks. Of which oly find 
 mii and tanks provided any entertainment. And even them won't keep you satisfied for long.
  Shooting involves shooting a large number if objects in five different stages including Tin cans 
 and frisbies.
  In find mii you are told to find something ( e. g. find two look alikes) in a crowd of people.
 
  In table tennis, which is by far and away the worst game, you simply have to rally with the computer.
 
  Pose mii involves twisting the wii remote to get a human shaped character into differet shapes.
 
  Lazer hocker involves trying to get a ball into a goal.
  Billiards and fishing do exactly what they say on the tin.
  Charge involves knocking down scarecrows 
 to get points while trying to get to the finishing line on time.
  Tanks involves simply shooting other tanks which get progresively harder with each new level you 
 get to.
  In summary I simply have to say DON'T GET THIS GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  the game is very short and also has no depth whatsoever. it gets boring very easily and has a total 
 of 9 srap mini games. it has a 2 player mode which is when it becomes a half decent game. but then 
 again its a demo game trying to get you used to the wii remote. and hay it has a wii remote with 
 it when you buy it. but it really is a useless game that you would hardly ever play. the sounds 
 are nice and peaceful, the controls are of coarse very easy and fit it perfectly. the graphics 
 are average and would be classified good on a n64. but there is a good part to the game. it uses 
 your mii characters very well. but then again woooopi so does half the games that are coming out 
 now. overall you only really want the game if u are looking for a wii remote. and the you play 
 it a couple of times and then you sell it or trade it in. but it is fun the first time you go through 
 it the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  At first the variety of different games will make the player gitty with glee but its stops there. 
 This game is a half baked idea that didnt even heat up. There are a bunch of different games to 
 play but they are very short and dont allow enough time to enjoy. A game is over almost before 
 you even start it. The best game of the bunch is the duck hunt style game but its way to short 
 there is only 5 or so levels and can be completed in the matter of minutes. The cow racing is kind 
 of an enjoyable treat its fun to play and allows you to animated with the controller. other than 
 that, that is about it for the fun, other other games are very very short. The fishing games controls 
 are unpredictable and can get frustrating to play. The game offers no replay value at all and is 
 fun for a quick burst of fun. You will be done with the game in a day or two tops. If you can find 
 it for $10 or hopefully less its a pretty good pick up for a party situation where a bunch of people 
 can play because you will get tired of playing it by urself. Unless you own every other game ever 
 made then i would pass on this unless you like playing a game for only 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Every game has it's purpose: Action games fill you with adrenaline, platforms test your skills, 
 driving games test your reflexes, Spongebob tests your nerves, and so on.
  So, what is Wii Play's purpose? Why doesn't it offer in-depth gameplay, hard to perform moves, 
 and hundreds of unlockables? Because it's purpose is to familiarise the new players with Wii's 
 unique controls, and offer a few relaxing multiplayer hours for the whole family, with it's easy 
 games.
  I shouldn't also forget that (at least when i bought it) it was the only way of getting one more 
 Wiimote. So, for a low price, you get a Wiimote + a game which will let you play some funny games 
 with your family and friends.
  It's plain simple: You select a Mii (or more if you play multiplayer) , and just choose one out 
 of the 8 games in the disc.
  The first game familiarises you with the on-screen-pointer feature of the wiimote. Yes, it's a 
 shooter. So, you point in the screen, and shoot down everything that moves along the screen: From 
 balloons to targets, and from ducks to UFOS.
  The second game, serves the same purpose as the first, and it's a rather funny game. All you have 
 to do, is find the right Mii between some dozens that walk along the screen. It sounds easy? It's 
 not, and it will put your vision to the edge.
  The third game, is ping pong, and will test your reflexes. All you have to do, is move your racket 
 from side to side to hit the ball.
  The fourth game, familiarises you with the twisting capabilities of the wiimote. You have to align 
 your Mii with some bubbles that fall down the screen, and by pressing the right buttons and twisting 
 the wiimote, make your Mii take the same pose as the one shown in the bubble.
  Next game, is laser hockey. It looks like laser hockey and plays like laser hockey, so i don't 
 have to write anything else to describe it.
  Next game, is billiards. It introduces you with wiimote's ability to swing it back and forth. Looks 
 like billiards, plays like billiards, no need to say anything else.
  Next is fishing: This game introduces you with the wiimote's capability to swing it in 3D: Right, 
 left, up, down, back and forth. You see your target-fish, you lower your wiimote, and when it bites 
 you raise your wiimote. Simple as that!
  Next game includes cow racing! You have to hold wiimote sideways (think of the NES controller) , 
 and you lean it forward to accelerate, right to go right, and you lean it left to go left. If you 
 raise your wiimote fast enough, your cow will jump. (remember when you used to do that when you 
 were playing Super Mario Bros?)
  Last but not least, Tanks! Now, you have to use both Nunchuk and wiimote. With nunchuk you move 
 your tank, and with the wiimote you point on-screen and shoot. In my opinion, the best minigame 
 in the game.
  Don't expect to see fancy graphics, don't think you'll listen to the best music or sound effects. 
 They are meant to be simple, because it is a simple game. And in my opinion, it's worth buying 
 since it comes with a wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flowerif
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The biggest reason that this game has actually sold was based souly on the fact that it comes with 
 a Wii remote, or to say the Wii remote comes with a game. At first it seems to be a preatty good 
 deal, but eventually the game becomes to repetitive and not much new substance... Some people may 
 say that this game is equivilent to Wii Sports, yet it is nothing alike, Wii Sports makes you active 
 and pumps up your blood but this game is playable just sitting on the couch, and the ecitement 
 becomes a race to beat time to this goes on for ever or "all I need is ten more points to beat 
 my previous score"... Sadly the most entertaining section of this game is the matching section which 
 too eventually gets boring since it does get harder whith every level, but it goes on forever and 
 everything is just the same ecept the fact that there are a few more mii's walking around... Atleast 
 I got another remote... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NALDOxCORE
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a decent game, but it loses its novelty fast. The mini games are quite fun at first 
 (my favorites are air hockey, Fishing, and Charge) . The games consist of:
  
  Shooting Range- Players shoot flying targets, similar to skeet shooting. This game would be better 
 if it also used the nunchuck instead of the Wii Remote solo. Also, the targets follow the same 
 path every time, making it incredibly boring for the veteran. 6/10
  
  Find Mii- Similar to "Where's Waldo," players try to find the odd Mii out, the fastest Mii, or 
 two or more similar Miis. This game gets a 7/10 in my book.
  
  Table Tennis- This game, as the title clearly states, is ping pong. The controls are hard to handle, 
 one little move can lose you the game. 5/10
  
  Pose Mii- I'm still wondering about this game. Players line up their Mii with an indent in a bubble 
 using the Wii Remote. Players can also change their poses to fit the template. This game is confusing 
 and stupid, so I give it a 3/10.
  
  Laser Hockey- In this game, the players play air hockey against a friend or computer by using a 
 Pong-shaped paddle. This game is one of my favorites, and is very fun and simple. 8/10
  
  Fishing- This game is simple yet fun. The Wii Remote acts as a fishing pole, and players move the 
 pole in order to catch a multitude of fish. This game takes next to no time to figure out and is 
 fun for everyone. 8/10
  
  Billiards- This game utilizes the Wii Remote brilliantly, but is not very fun. Of all the games, 
 this is definitely my least favorite. 3/10
  
  Charge!- The Mii's ride cows and knock down targets and the like. This game is definitely my favorite, 
 and is nonstop fun until you realize the targets pop up in the same place every time. 9/10
  
  Tanks!- Although I'm not great at this game, it's the best in the game. Players travel in their 
 tank, blowing up the enemy's tank. Level play is nonstop fun, with up to 100 levels. 10/10
  
  Wii Play makes an excellent party game, but it is a horrible single player game. And if you 
 are playing with only one other friend, they too will be overcome by boredom. The best thing about 
 this game is that it comes with a Wii Remote. Due to the Wii Remote, this game (in my opinion) 
 rises from a ranking of 4 to 6. If you are looking for a good game to play with all your buddies, 
 I would look elsewhere.
  
  Pros:
  Comes with Wii Remote
  9 quality mini games
  Great use of the Wii Remote
  Great party game
  Good use of Miis
  
  Cons:
  Gets boring 
 fast
  Horrible single player
  No custom options in mini games
  Quickly loses novelty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a party game for when friends come over. Something to keep them entertained. Half of 
 people who bought this game bought it for the Wiimote. Ya, you know who you are. There are 9 different 
 games in Wii Play, and I'll briefly talk about a few. I'll use a * system to rank each game out 
 of 5 *'s.
  
  Shooting Range: A modern Duck Hunt. You shoot balloons, targets, discs, cans and alien spaceships 
 to accumulate points, while trying to hit random ducks flying across the screen. It's one of the 
 most fun games on the game. ****
  
  Find Mii: Find the Mii in the crowd. Sound easy? For the most part, it is. Only when they're swimming 
 in the dark does it get hard. Not for anyone with bad eyesight. **
  
  Ping Pong: Fairly simple. With one person, rally 100 times between you and an AI opponent. With 
 two people, it's a game to eleven. Fun for two, boring for one. **
  
  Mii Posing: This is a weird one. You adjust your Mii through different poses so he/she fits into 
 a bubble. It can get fast paced, but it's very boring. *
  
  Laser Hockey: Fairly fun. You hit the puck back and forth like air hockey, but you can twist the 
 Wiimote to hit it at angles. A good, fast paced game. ***
  
  Pool: Terrible control. For first time players, this is very hard to do. I don't like it much, 
 because you can only play 9-ball. *
  
  Fishing: Pretty fun. Stick your rod in the water and pull it when it rumbles. It's like Zelda: 
 TP fishing, but less complicated. Easily one of the best. ****
  
  Cow Race: Sounds strange, but is very fun. You hold the remote sideways and tilt it forward and 
 backward to speed and slow, turn it to steer, and raise it quickly to jump to try and hit as many 
 scarecrows as you can. ****
  
  Tanks!: Definitely the best. You move your tank around shoot and aim using the wii remote. Enemy 
 tanks come in different varities and the later stages can be very tough. *****
  
  Wii Play tries to make replayability with different medals, but after an hour or two, you can get 
 platinum medals on every game. This is more of a tech demo than a game, and your'e probably buying 
 it for the Wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to review this game for what it is, not a full blown game, but a pack-in with a wii-remote. You 
 are escentialy paying $10.00 for this game. If this were a fully priced game I would give it a 4.0 
 or somthing like that, but bacuse it only costs $10.00 I'm gonig to review it differently.
  You are getting 10 mini-games for $10.00. So you are paying a dollar for each mini-game, and for 
 the most part they are worth it. The Find the mii in a crowd and fishing are the weak links here. the 
 others are great. Cow riding is great, along-side a duck-hunt spin off, pool, a air hockey mini, a 
 weird "spin your mii to fit the holes" game, a REALY great mini which is my favourite is tanks, 
 which puts you in control of a blue (or red) tank against CPU tanks in an arena. It's realy fun 
 and is even better played co-op. All of the mini-games are playable in co-op or vs mode, depending 
 on the mini-game. And another great one is a ping-pong game.
  
  good: most of the mini-games are great.
  simplistic visuals are plessent.
  co-op and vs are 
 fun.
  only $10.00
  
  bad: some duds are included.
  
  If you purchase this game with the fact that it only costs $10.00 then you will probably be happy 
 with this game, I still play it from time to time with my friends. If it had online multi-player 
 that would have been AWSOME. But all-in all, it is worth the $10.00 in my eyes, just ask yourself 
 if your ok wih paying $1.00 per mini-game. I know I would. Since it only costs $10.00 I would say 
 it should get an 8.0. Just don't expect much. And you can shoot for high scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  So I just got the Wii and dreamed about all the possibilities. Saw the screenshots on the back 
 of Wii Play and bought it right there and then. 5 minutes into the game, it was all over.
  
  All this game does is show you how the Wii remote works, through a series of dull, short games. 
 That's pretty much it. The games are absolutely terrible. For example, the table tennis game, the 
 only thing you can do is move the paddle left or right, and return the ball. You can't serve, can't 
 spin, much less land shots where you want, and the whole point is to return hits, there is no hit 
 that the computer cannot return.
  
  Get this ONLY if you're considering buying another Wii remote (and it doesn't even come with the 
 Nunchuck) . Otherwise, this has to be one of the worst ways to spend $50 dollars in my gaming history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is another game on the Wii. This game has 12 mini games like Pool and target shooting 
 and more. The game uses the Wii remote so you can get it for the mini games. The mini games are 
 fun but it van get boring after a while. I finished the game in a total of 30 minutes. Unlocked 
 all mini games and everything. I reckon the game can be a waste of money or time unless you like 
 the fun of mini games after other people. The game can be fun with other people but it gets boring 
 with just yourself. The graphics and gameplay and great and the multiplayer like verusing each 
 other is sometimes fun as well and good. The game could have been better with:
  More mini games
  More modes
  and more fun.
  So if your a fan of mini games, get this game. 
 If your not, then don't worry about it or maybe you could rent it and borrow off your friends. 
 Wii Play is great for the Wii remote but not for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Lets put this, this way... I only got the game only for the wii remote. You know it turns out to 
 be actually a pretty good deal i mean its 10 dollars more and you get some mini games. My favorite 
 one is basically the war game where you get to control tanks and go into war with others which 
 is pretty fun. Its really hard though, you need some people in order to beat because its too hard 
 solo and is really long. Has over 100 semi levels to that one. Then you have a a pool game which 
 the controls on that are sloppy and didnt work at times, you pull back on the remote and push it 
 releasing A and it really is sloppy. You got Duck hunting which is a blast while it last because 
 its so short and its not really much to add 25 more levels to it. You have paddle ball, a good 
 one and you have a goal to hit up to a hundred which is hard but fun and i actually did it. You 
 got air hockey and some others that arent memorable. BASICALLY its a good game if your new to the 
 Wii, or need a spare controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I highly advise against buying this. Allow me to explain...
  
  Let's lay out the facts: A Wii Remote Controller on its own is $39.99. This Wii Remote + Wii Play 
 game is $49.99. In essence, you are paying $39.99 for the Wii Remote and the remaining $10 for 
 the game packed in.
  
  Since you could just buy the remote separately what you really need to know is: "If I want another 
 Wii Remote, should I pay an extra $10 for the Wii Play game?"
  
  The answer is NO.
  
  The Wii Play game is a collection of mini games in the vein of Wii Sports. The catch is that this 
 time the games have far, far less appeal.
  
  While we have logged countless hours on truly fun games like Wii Sports and Rayman Raving Rabbids, 
 it took my wife and I only about 20 minutes to play through the entire Wii Play collection and 
 not a single mini-game left us wanting to play it again. In fact, each game on Wii Play would rank 
 as one of the worst choices available among the casual gaming "cure for boredom" websites.
  
  If, after reading this, you are still just dying to try it, I say: Borrow it from a friend. 
 No friends have it? Ask yourself why. Then, if you STILL want to play it, go rent it. Spend $5 
 on a rental and discover for yourself that Wii Play has no "Rii" Play value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  In Wii Play, the star of the game is you. Create your own personal Mii character with the Wii console's 
 built-in Mii Channel and then play as yourself in this compilation of nine simple, fun games like 
 target shooting, table tennis and fishing. Wii Play comes bundled with a free Wii Remote, so a 
 friend can instantly join in the action in any of the included games. You can play at home or save 
 your Mii on your Wii Remote and play with it on a friend's console, or use any of the six ready-made 
 guest characters. Wii Play's nine different games are the perfect introduction to what the Wii 
 Remote can do: Shooting Range - A modern version of the Nintendo classic Duck Hunt. Shoot the targets 
 on the screen simply by aiming your Wii Remote. Find Mii - Can you spot a face in the crowd? Use 
 your Wii Remote to point out the correct Mii characters as quickly as you can. Table Tennis - How 
 long can you ping pong? Use your Wii Remote like a paddle to bat the ball and try to beat the computer 
 or human opponent. Pose Mii - Twist the Wii Remote to rotate the Mii characters and quickly slot 
 them into the correct positions as they fall down the screen. Laser Hockey - Tilt and turn the 
 Wii Remote to bash the puck into the opponent's goal, in this high-speed arcade-style game. Billiards 
 - In this version of Nine Ball, aim the Wii Remote at the screen to line up your shot, then pull 
 back and push forward to strike the ball. Fishing - Move the Wii Remote like a rod: dip the hook 
 in the water, wait for the fish to bite (the controller will rumble) and pull back hard to land 
 it. Charge - Take the bull by the horns! Steer your wild steer by holding the Wii Remote sideways, 
 as if gripping reins, and topple scarecrows to score points. Tanks - Take control of a tank with 
 the Wii Remote; aim the cannon, bounce shells off walls, and blast your opponent to bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperYEpower
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game you would think would be exactly like Wii Sports, well that's partially right. 
 You do still get to make your own Mii characters and do mini-games, but there isn't a whole lot 
 to choose from.
  
  The only mini games I found interesting was the pool table and the mini-tank game. I notice there 
 was a duck hunt like game, but doesn't feel like the original we all loved from the original NES 
 (even the annoying dog isn' there either) . The rest just is too short or not enough innovation 
 to keep playing. The game is more for a multi-player game than a solo, but It gets dull fast as 
 a solo.
  
  Recommend purchasing this game? No but unless you want a free Wii-mote or want to build your gaming 
 library, then go for it. Why did I get this? Free Wii-mote of course. If there wasn't a free Wii-mote 
 I would of gave it a lower score, but I will leave it as a 5 out of 10.
  
  Overall it's an "ehhhh... it's okay" kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudmd23
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the Nintendo Wii and the rise in popularity of Wii Sports, Nintendo fans 
 and casual gamers alike have been searching for the perfect follow-up in which to import their 
 Mii's and have some more party game fun. Unfortunately, despite the hype surrounding this title, 
 this isn't the game you're looking for.
  
  Wii Play is essentially a collection of nine mildly entertaining minigames for up to two players 
 to play. This fact alone is disappointing in itself, because what made Wii Sports such a popular 
 title is that it had games that supported up to four players. At any rate, here are the games and 
 how they stack up:
  
  Shooting: This game was obviously inspired by Duckhunt, as they actually had similar looking ducks 
 fly around in the background as you're trying to hit targets. In fact, all they needed was that 
 silly laughing dog at the beginning and they would've had a nice nostalgia trip for the older gamers. 
 Other than that, this was a rather entertaining diversion made more so if you have a second person 
 playing as well.
  
  Find Mii: Essentially a Wii version of Where's Waldo which can be played with two players. Kinda 
 neat at first to see all your created Miis running around waiting to get spotted, but gets old 
 fast. Definately not one of the better games.
  
  Pose Mii: I absolutely hated this one. Your cursor becomes your Mii as bubbles fall from the sky 
 with various poses on them. It's your job to get your Mii in the right pose and then place them 
 into the bubble. More irritation than fun, this is easily the worst game in the entire package.
 
  
  Ping Pong: Don't expect this to be another Wii Tennis, because this is much more simplistic. You 
 don't have to swing your paddle at all, you just have to make sure it's in front of the ball when 
 it starts heading your way. This game could have used a lot more depth, but is still very enjoyable 
 to play with two players.
  
  Laser Hockey: The physics on this game are really crazy, but I think that's where a lot of the 
 enjoyment of it comes in. You will have a load of fun playing with a friend as you will most likely 
 spend the duration of most games scoring points on yourselves. From my experience, you're probably 
 much better off not touching the puck as it heads towards your goal, but then, I'm sure there are 
 those out there with exceptional control over this game's paddle.
  
  Billiards: Much to my disappointment, this is not your standard game of pool. Actually, it's just 
 a game of 9 Ball which you have the option of playing with another player. It's cool trying to 
 pretend your Wii remote is a pool cue for a little while, but when you realize how limited this 
 particular game really is, the magic wears off fast.
  
  Fishing: This one is merely okay and is somewhat enjoyable with another player. You use your Wii 
 remote as a fishing rod and slowly place your hook in the water. On the top is a desired type of 
 fish that the game wants you to go for and you just wait on a fish to grab your line. Once it does, 
 you jerk your arm back to catch the fish, and depending on the type, you will earn points. This 
 continues for a few minutes and whomever has the most points when the time runs out is the winner.
 
  
  Cow Race: Not as cool as it sounds. Each player hops on the back of a poorly controlled cow and 
 races towards the finish line, trying to hit all the scarecrows they can. The winner is not determined 
 by who finishes the race first, but rather who hit the most scarecrows on the way through. It's 
 a humorous game to start with, but once you realized how poorly cows are at racing, the charm wears 
 off quickly.
  
  Tanks: Easily the best game in this entire package. My friends and I have plugged hours upon hours 
 into this game because of its simple concept and addicting gameplay. This game gives you the option 
 of using the Wii remote/nunchuk combination, which in my opinion works the best. Each player controls 
 a tank placed in a tiny obstacle course littered with destructible walls and other enemy tanks. 
 You can fire a barrage of bullets, or lay mines, but you must destroy the enemy tanks by any means 
 necessary. You can even bounce bullets off of the walls and use the ricochet to beat your opponents. 
 The single player mode gives you lives, but in two player mode, if both players perish, it's an 
 automatic game over. It's a mindlessly addictive experience that can only be described by trying 
 it out yourself.
  
  Although there aren't that many great games in this package, it is still a great deal and worth 
 picking up. It comes with a Wii remote, which in itself is $40. And considering that this entire 
 purchase is only $50, it doesn't take a math expert to realize what a great bargain this is. If 
 you see yourself needing an extra remote in the near future, this is definately a worthy purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in my review deck it is great that it comes with a free Wii remote, but it doesn't 
 make it on my favorite games list. It's basically a fifty dollar Wii remote and a free game that 
 happens to have pretty bad gameplay. When it comes to saying my favorite minigame I would have 
 to say a tie between the fishing one and the find the miis one. I suggest buying for the Wii remote 
 and seeing if you like the game but, if you already have four Wii remotes buy it and give the Wii 
 remote to one of your friends. Anyways it is a good idea if you buy unless you don't have friends 
 or family who like the Wii, or you just aren't into the mindless fun and funny minigames and noone 
 you know is. Once again I suggest to buy this and if you don't want to buy this atleast promise 
 your computer you will buy The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, or Geometry Wars: Galaxies, 
 just please promise your computer, or visit my profile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is all little mini games that you try to get gold on like wii sports. The games graphices 
 are not so good on some mini games. The game play is ok when you get used to it. There 9 mini games 
 that are quite short and easy. The music on it is better than anything on wii play. You use Your 
 mii in the game this is a ok wii game. Before you get it rent it. It might not impress you the first 
 time. This game is a wonderful game if you are old some are classics some are modern some are great 
 some are not. The game is a little on the blank side the chaos is worse on one mini game called 
 Tank! There are to many tanks to takle with out another one hitting you form behind. Than charge! 
 is a little to hard for a person who just got the wii. Then there is a game called duck hunting 
 you get 10 points for a duck it higher by 5 every level. The last level aliens ships then a bunch 
 of your miis appear than the alien ships take them away if you shoot them they drop your mii than 
 your mii comes back if they survive they count as 10 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Story 2/10:
  No Story, except a competition if you're playing multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay 5.5/10
  -The mini games are really shallow.
  -You can use your Miis which adds a little 
 customization.
  
  Controls 6.5/10
  -Not really that responsive.
  -Poor controls on everything except target shooting.
  -Sometimes fishing can spaze out.
  -Pool 
 is difficult, not because of the spazing out or anything, just weird control scheme
  
  Sound 5.5/10
  Eh... nothing good to say.
  
  Graphics 5.5/10
  Eh... pretty lame actually. 
 at least its 3D for most of the games
  
  Fun 6/10
  The only good thing about this game is that it comes bundled with the wiimote. Essentially you're 
 paying a total of $50, which $40 on the wiimote and $10 on the game. Is it worth $10? Eh... probably 
 not
  
  **** **** **** **** **** **** **** ****
  Overall 5/10
  **** **** **** **** **** **** **** ****
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumkid900
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  As far as the game by itself, Wii Play isn't something to die over. It's a nice collection of mini-games 
 that are great the first time through. However, only two or three of them have any lasting appeal 
 at all. Tanks is by far the best, although after losing on the same level over and over, you start 
 to get bored. Billiards is also a great game and can be played numerous times before losing its 
 magic. Shooting range, cow racing, and fishing are also great games but do not force you to come 
 back and play again. Some games such as air hockey and Find the Miis are interesting but are boring 
 the second or third time you play them. After those, you start to get to the frustrating table 
 tennis and the strange Body Poses game. The multiplayer is good with a friend who hasn't played 
 before, but is not all that better than playing by yourself. The best part of it is probably the 
 "free" remote. "Free" because you're buying a game worth $10 for $50 and you get a $40 accessory 
 for free. All in all, wii play is a fun collection of mini-games, yet its $10 value is greatly 
 reflected in its lack of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Review_King
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play, a 9 mini-game collection which comes with a free wiimote! What more can you ask for? 
 Wii play is a 1-2 player game in which you do short mini-games with your mii. First of all, using 
 your mii feature is a very smart and positive part of the game, as in only a small handfull of 
 Nintendo Wii games has the ability to use the miis in the game. At first you start off with only 
 1 mini-game, and you have to beat each individual mini-game to unlock the next, until you have 
 unlocked them all. This is quite a poor attempt to increase the lifespan of the game, as this should 
 only take you about fifteen minutes, at maxinum. In 1-player mode, if you do good in a mini-game 
 you earn a bronze, silver, gold, or a plantinum medal. These medals seem to have little value, except 
 for boasting about how you got one of the metals with your friends. Sometimes I wonder if you unlock 
 something if you get the plantinum medal for all the games. Anyway, and in 2-player mode you basically 
 play with another person. I believe this is a more superior and fun version than it's 1-player 
 mode counterpart. Now let's get on to what the mini-games are.
  
  Shooting Range: You basically shoot targets, baloons, soda cans, unidentified flying objects (UFOS) , 
 and ocassional ducks. If your looking for this game for nostalgic reasons (Duck Hunt for the Nintendo 
 Entertainment System) , this game will not satisfy that, as you only occasionaly shoot ducks for 
 bonus points, and the dog we all love that was in Duck Hunt, is gone. 7.0/10.
  
  Find Mii: Quite fun and a little challenging sometimes. You basically point out different miis 
 based on what you say, such as find two look-alikes, find which mii us running the fastest, find 
 three odd miis, find the miis your using, and more. I personally find this game quite fun, but 
 it certainly isn't sensational. 6.5/10.
  
  Table Tennis: You just basically move your wiimote slightly and make your held paddle move to where 
 the ball is. It's fun, but it's very shallow. 7.0/10.
  
  Pose Mii: You just simply move and twist the wiimote around and press buttons to switch poses to 
 pop bubbles. If you get all the bubbles you get extra points. This game is quite boring, and it 
 gets too difficult when you get into the higher levels. I got sick of this game right after my 
 first time playing it. 4.5/10.
  
  Laster Hockey: Move your wiimote around to get an object into the other persons goal. Nothing wrong 
 with it. Quite fun, but again not sensational. 7.8/10.
  
  Billiards: The motion you do to hit the ball feels really good, and once you get use to it, is 
 easy to do. It's pretty fun, challenging, and the matches aren't too short either. The only problem 
 is that it's a little boring. 7.9/10.
  
  Fishing: The graphics in this look like paper colored with crayons, which is pretty nice and cute 
 to look at. The controls are great and it's very fun as well. The fish you get either increase 
 or decrease your points, and all the time there's a fish which you can ctach and you will get double 
 the points. I really like this one. 8.6/10.
  
  Charge: Fun, quick, and exciting, with great controls once you get used to it! My favorite, one 
 and it rules! You are on a cow, and you knock down scarecrows to get points. If you knock down 
 a whole row of them you get 5 extra "perfect" points. There's also a jumping scarecrow which you 
 get 15 points if you knock it down. It seems the story is that your riding a cow back to it's farm, 
 because it escaped, most likely. You also get timing points in single-player mode, which is how 
 long it took to get back to the farm it seems, the time you have left is the time bonus points you 
 get. 9.8/10.
  
  Tanks!: A game in which you go shooting other tanks. Very fun, and is one of my favorites on the 
 game! 9.2/10.
  
  There's a review of all the known mini-games on Wii Play. Overall, this game is a game which should 
 be bought if you want the extra wii remote, and will provide you with some fun, but if you want 
 this just for the game, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Free Wii Remote
  -Good use of Miis
  -2 or 3 good minigames
  
  The Bad:
  -Boring single player
  -Boring multiplayer
  -6 or 7 boring minigames
  
  Normally a Wii 
 Remote costs 44.99. When you buy Wii Play for 49.99, you get a free Wii Remote. So basically you 
 are getting an O. K. game for just FIVE DOLLARS! But the game itself isn't that fun. It includes 
 these nine minigames:
  
  Target Shooting: 7/10
  
  Pretty fun first person shooting game, and one of the best minigames on Wii Play. But, it is pretty 
 bland.
  
  Table Tennis: 4/10
  
  Not much to this game, all you do is move the Wii Remote side to side to try to get 100 rallies.
 
  
  Find Mii: 7/10
  
  A fun multiplayer game, where you have to find similar Miis in a giant group of the Miis you made. 
 Sometimes you have to find the fastest Mii, who is usually running really fast. Or sometimes you 
 have to find the odd Mii, who is doing something different.
  
  Pose Mii: 0/10
  
  You have to put your Mii into weird pose and then angle him into a bubble. Ya, it dosen't sound 
 too fun.
  
  Laser Hockey: 0/10
  
  Basically a really boring and difficult version of air hockey.
  
  Cow Racing: 8/10
  
  A 
 game where you have to ride a cow in a really fun race. You have to collect scarcrows, and when 
 you jump your cow goes WIIE
  
  Pool: 7/10
  
  A pretty fun game, especially with other people.
  
  Fishing: 6/10
  
  A good multiplayer 
 game
  
  Tanks: 6/10
  
  Fun at first with friends, but after playing it 10 times you just never want to play it again.
 
  
  Overall it is a very boring game by yourself, after 15 minutes I just got bored. But, it is a good 
 deal since you get a free Wii Remote
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports was a game that proved how much fun the Wii was and what it could actually do. Wii Play 
 is set up excatly like Wii Sports, exept the games are different and this has a ton more Mii support. 
 Unfortunatly, the game sucked. There are only about nine games on it, and most aren't all that 
 good. Only one of them can actually use the nunchuck. Plus I have found that it has failed to pick 
 up some of the controls, a little rare, but it hurt severe.
  
  The game does have some good games on it, like Tanks! and billiards, but most really suck. The 
 only one with real good graphics is Laser Hockey, which isn't much fun to play.
  
  The game does have some instances where the multiplayer is a little fun, but sadly, that is rare. 
 The game does come with a Wii remote, but the game is still like $49 US. If you really are obsessed 
 with at least 6 games on this, then you can buy it. But i do not reccomend this. This is a very 
 uninspired game with not much to do on it. If Nintendo made the game over again, i bet it would 
 be better. But they game does lack in a lot of spots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androu1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  *Graphics - 6/10: the graphics are clearly not the best on the Wii, but they don't suck neither. They 
 are plain colorful and neat. The graphics vary from game to game.
  
  -Shooting Range looks pretty nice and bright. The graphics are pretty nice and enjoyable. Not awesome, but 
 they do look pretty good.
  
  -Find the Mii is pretty much the simplest one of them all, graphically. Since, you know,80% of the 
 screen is filled with Miis, and you know how they look: simple. The water graphics when the Miis are 
 swimming is great, too.
  
  -Table Tennis is nothing great, graphically, but it's graphics do the work. You won't put too much 
 attention into graphics while trying not to lose here.
  
  -Pose Mii is another VERY simple, graphically, game. The background is, most of the time, a picture. The 
 bubles are rainbow-ish colored and look nice, but it's nothing great.
  
  -Laser Hockey is one of the nicest looking games to me. It consist of simple colored neon looking 
 bars. It's pretty nice, and it kinda resembles Geometry Wars. 
  
  -Billard is probably the most detailed game here. Nice textures and all. Looks really nice.
  
 
  -Fishing is kinda bad. The fishes are plain paper looking and not too good. It sure looks good, but 
 it also looks kinda lazy.
  
  -Charge! is neat looking. The bad thing here is that the cow looks... weird. It has a nice amount 
 of detail, over all.
  
  -Tanks. This one has pretty nice explosions. Also, the simplistic graphics allow a big lot of tank 
 trails (you know, the tires marks in the ground) . In some matches, the ground will be black because 
 of them, but you won't experience event the most insignificant ammount of slowdown.
  
  ---
  
  *Sound and Music-7/10: most of the games have a relaxing background music. Some, don't 
 even have music, but that fits the game best, and others have some kind of techno-ish music that 
 is really nice. The game has a nice variety of music. Too bad, most of the time you won't even notice 
 it.
  
  Most of the sounds are pretty fitting and nice. But not all are. The quality is decent. They don't 
 fail at all, but they aren't great. They are good most of the times, but need more variation. In "Tanks", you 
 will get bored of the same bounce sounds and explosions playing every second of the game. It gets 
 annoying at times.
  
  ---
  
  *Gameplay-9/10: here is where the game shines. It's really fun. Specially if you are going multiplayer!
 
  
  -Shooting Range consist of, well, shooting ballons, targets, cans, plates and even alien ships in the 
 last stage. This game can really be wacky in multiplayer, specially the last stage.
  
  Probably, the most fun game of them all. You can also use 2 remotes in single player for double handed 
 fun. It's pretty hard, but still fun.
  
  -Find Miis alone is kind of boring. But, this game totally owns in multiplayer mode, with the crazyness 
 of finding the Miis before the other player does, this game is a multiplayer experience.
  
  Off course, it can be fun in single player, but never has fun as the multiplayer crazyness.
  
 
  -Table Tennis sucks in single player mode. Seriously, don't try it's single player mode. It's boring 
 and dull, while as it's multiplayer is awesome fun. Many LOLs are ensured while playing in multiplayer.
 
  
  -Mii Pose is the one that I played less of in multiplayer. I am just too good in it alone, and the 
 ones that I play against are just like "WTF?!" all the time. This as the most fast paced multiplayer, but 
 it's Single Player is also awesome. It's pretty fun in both modes.
  
  -Laser Hockey fails in single player. The AI is plain dumb. Like, it pushes the ball into it's own 
 goal. Play this with friends or don't play it at all. It's just that easy.
  
  -Fishing is the weirdest one. I kinda prefer this in single player. It's too weird in multiplayer. I 
 don't know why. Funny thing about multiplayer, is that you will find yourself fighting for the "Special" 
 fish which gives it's scorex2. It's nice in both modes, but I prefer single player.
  
  -Charge! is just plain great. You play with the controller sideways, and you push foward to speed, back 
 to slow an sides to steer. You will have great fun with this in both Multi and Single player modes. This 
 is one of the best games, in my opinion.
  
  -Tanks is just my favorite single player game. You point with the wiimote, shoot with B and move 
 with either the D-Pad or the Nunchuck stick. This one I recommend in single player, since you only 
 get 1 life in multiplayer and it's too hard like that. Plus, you don't need an extra pack of bullets 
 coming at you.
  
  The weird thing here, you can play Tanks in multiplayer either has a competition or has an co-op 
 adventure.
  
  ---
  
  *Replay value 10/10: if you have friend or family that like it, then you got a high replay value. If 
 you don't, you will have it collecting dust. Since I have people to play with, I give it a nice 10. It's 
 plain fun.
  
  ---
  
  *Worth it?
  I say, hell yes! In my country, this game is like half the price of a Wiimote alone, and I bet you 
 can find nice deals like that in other countries. So, if you really need an extra wiimote, get it 
 right now.
  
  If you don't need the wiimote, I don't know if it's worth it, but having a set of 9 games (with AWESOME 
 multiplayer) is pretty nice, and you have that another wiimote for stock in case one of your others 
 wiimotes "die".
  
  I think, that if you don't really need the Wiimote and don't have people to play with, you should 
 pass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primus9999
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  it is a entertaining game if there are more than one player, though the games wear out after about 
 a good thirty minutes of playing. the only good mini-game in the series is the tank game where 
 one or two people compete to have the most tanks destroyed before they are destroyed. all the other 
 games are not as good as one might hope them to be, and some are downright frustrating, such as 
 the match Mii game, where some of the game rounds have no rules or basis, it's like shooting at 
 a target with a blindfold on in under ten seconds.
  
  the price of this game package is also very ridiculous, it's just a wii remote and a mediocre game 
 that should only cost about up to 30 dollars instead of 40 to 50 dollars. o the only good part 
 of it is the remote that is packaged with the game, think of it as buying a remote and a game for 
 one of those day where you beat every other game you have and is bored out of your mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  the only reason I give that I bought this stupid game is to get 3rd remote for my wii and I also 
 fought I would get something good to play with for a couple of days till I get bored. I spent less 
 than 10 hours playing it and I got bored. the only mini games in the cd package are worth playing 
 is shooting one that looks allot of a rip-off from duck hunt an old classic and pool in which I 
 can always sink all the balls in at once. They could have put in at least 100 mini games to get 
 your money's worth in this pitiable of a game. The tank game looks like something you can play 
 for free all the time on the internet. The cow racing game makes no sense and is totally boring 
 it will make you go to asleep. The 3d flash hockey one just looks like an updated version of pong 
 the most very boring game on earth. The mii shape matching game looks like someone was on some 
 type of drug when they created this weird mini game. The other mini game I just barely remember 
 out of this poorly made game is a type of mini game in which you're given hints or pitchers to 
 find a certain mii character in an intersection. each level you go up there are more mii's in your 
 way so you have a harder time spotting the mii your looking for. For some reason you get medals 
 just like wii sports in wii play in which are very nice but I do not like them. There's really 
 no point in playing buying this game unless you want to sharpen your skills in playing on a pool 
 table. (Except getting a new wii remote) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toribor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Wii Plays only real true saving grace is it's price. If you count the Wii remote packaged with 
 the game as the same price as the others ($40) then Wii Play costs a mere ten dollars. If this 
 game had tried to go with a $50 price point if would be much more heavily criticized.
  
  Luckily for everyone, Wii play is cheap and fun. If wont offer hours and hours of entertainment, 
 but it will manage to keep you entertained for a bit, bonus if you can play with a friend. (Which, 
 with the new Wii remote you can...)
  
  The games are balanced, and everyone is likely to find a favorite. This is really only a tech demo 
 like Wii Sports at heart. If you are expecting a massive saga of games, you are in the wrong place.
 
  
  So, is Wii play worth the money? Probably. You wont find yourself coming back to it too much, but 
 it's definitely a cheap alternative to the other party games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok ill admit one of the main reasons why i got Wii Play was the fact that for 50 dollars you pay 
 40 for the controller it comes with and 10 for the game. besides the fact that most of the games 
 are very short and lack dept, this is still not a bad buy if your in need for another wii-mote 
 and want a wacky 10 dollar game to play when your friends come over.
  
  Most of the games are wacky but there are a few gems in there.
  
  The tank game is quite fun, 
 especially with another player, its fun and addictive, also challenging to see how far you can 
 advance.
  
  Find mii is also a fun game that relies on fast reflexes as you search for specific miis while 
 a crap load of other miis flood the screen.
  
  Target practice is also quite fun, reminds you of duck hunt but is a competitive 2 player target 
 shooting game. 
  
  There are a few other games but there not really worth mentioning.
  
  Again if you need a remote, this isent a bad idea. The game itself will probably collect some 
 dust but its cool to have if you want some multi player mii fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: full1820house
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Most people don`t like this game because it is another minigame collection but I like it because 
 it has good minigames and it is an awesome party game. Wii Play has nine minigames Shooting Range, Find 
 Mii, Table Tennis Pose Mii, Laser  and Tanks!. Shooting Range is the 
 first and only game you have unlocked you stuff such as balloons, targets and a skeet shooting level. It 
 is one of the most addicting games. The second game is Find Mii where you try to find miis with 
 goals such as find two look alikes and find the fastest mii. In the later levels it becomes the 
 hardest game on Wii Play. The next game is Table Tennis. It is like pong except with ping pong paddles. That 
 is pretty much it for this game. The next game is Pose Mii. This is my least favorite game because 
 of it`s hardness and this is also boring. The next game is Laser Hockey. This is also bad because 
 it is pong with lazers on the edges. This next game brings Wii Play up a little bit it is Billiards. You 
 hit the cue ball and hit the balls. I like it because it can be fun and addicting. The only problem 
 is you have to hit the balls in order. The next game is Fishing. All you do is fish for paper fish 
 that`s it. The next game is Charge!. I like this game because it`s fun and riding on a cow is hilarious. A 
 lot of people are told to save the best for last Wii Play followed that by putting Tanks! last. This 
 used to be a headache but I got some tips from some friends and now it is easy and a lot more fun. That`s 
 my review. You should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, the only good thing in Wii play is the wii remote you get with it. Thats about it. 
 The 9 games suck, well a couple of them aren't so bad. My favorite is the tanks.
  
  I only have this game because it was a gift, otherwise I would NEVER buy it.
  
  For $10 less 
 you can get just the wii remote, because I don't think the actual game is even worth $10.
  
  Wii play is heavy on miis, and thats actually kinda cool. You will see your mii or any other 
 mii's you've created quite often throughout the game.
  
  You probably won't play this game alot, but you'll use the extra wii-mote it comes with lol.
 
  
  I would recommend anyone to just buy the wii-mote for $10 less. Wii play isn't worth $10. I wish 
 I could return just the game and get $10 haha.
  Wii spots is so much better. So much better.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
   Creative use of the Miis
   Comes with a Wiimote
   Has a good variety of Wiimote uses
  
  ...::The Bad::...
  xMost mini-games will only last 
 you a short period of time
  xAnother mini-game collection
  xNo substance
  
  Like Wii Sports, Wii Play aims to demonstrate the range of functions the Wii is capable of, and 
 also helps teach you the ropes without scanning through the manual. Featured here are 9 mini-games, 
 several of which were how Nintendo originally introduced the motion-controlled concepts behind 
 Wii. But of course they have been nicely remade.
  
  The minigames range from a Duck Hunt style point and shoot 'em up as targets and so on appear on 
 the screen, to racing around on a cow in a yarn-made farm. What the developers were smoking while 
 coming up with the latter I don't know.
  
  Shooting Range, as said before, is a point and click shoot 'em up that features 5 stages for you 
 to boost up your score; consecutive hits will help here. Next up is "Find Mii", a Where's Wally 
 esqe game that see's you looking for a certain Mii, or the odd Mii out. Pose Mii, probably the 
 most boring game, but one of the more innovative games asks you to twist the Wiimote so your Mii 
 can fit into bubbles falling from the top of the screen, but you must press 'A' or 'B' to change 
 to the correct pose or else you will fail.
  
  Table-tennis isn't what I expected it to be. Instead of swinging the controller to hit the ball 
 like in Wii Sports, you simple move the Wii remote left and right to move the paddle, it swings 
 automatically. Lazer Hockey is next. You point at the screen and push sidewards to thrust the disc. 
 Pretty to look at, basic to play. Game number 6 is Billiards. This feels like you really are potting 
 the balls. Point at where ever you want to hit the ball, press 'B' and thrust forward, this control 
 scheme works very well. 
  
  The 7th minigame is some X/Y/Z axis fishing. This is one of the mini-games which has much in the 
 way of potential, but seems rather too fiddly for its own good. Dung the Wiimote into the water 
 by moving it downwards and move forward and back to move it around the pond. 
  
  Now we come to my favourite, Cow Racing. Hold the Wiimote on its side, tilting left and right to 
 steer, and down to speed up. Pulling the remote up quickly makes the cow jump. It is a pretty simplistic 
 racing game where you're basically tasked with scoring points by knocking down as many scarecrows 
 as you can along the way in the yarn-made farm.
  
  The final minigame is tanks; and is the only minigame that can use the Nunchuck controller - and 
 it's optional at that. The action is displayed in old-school bird's eye view, and the general idea 
 is to use shells and mines to destroy all the enemies on the screen. Doing so requires not only 
 being able to aim and shoot at your target successfully, but steering your tank as well - either 
 via the d-pad on the Wii remote or the easier method of hooking up the Nunchuck.
  
  Each minigame rewards you with a medal if the high enough score is achieved. This medals range 
 from Bronze to Silver to Gold to Platinum. The latter you may not bother to attempt for. 
  
  An inevitable problem with any new console is the bothersome need to buy extra controllers 
 - and the Wii is no exception to the rule. Fortunately, Wii Play is available as part of a bundle 
 pack for 34.99 - only 5 more than a controller costs on its own. (Or $10 more in America) .
  
  This packaged in Wii remote is the main turn on for Wii Play, and most likely the reason why 
 it has been snagged by buyers. 
  
  If you're looking for a new Wiimote then I don't see why you shouldn't fork out the extra bit of 
 change for Wii Play, but it lacks enough content to stand as a game on it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  This game is only worth picking up if you want a Wiimote and don't mind the lack of minigames, 
 after all, you ARE just buying a remote with a game that's worth literally 5. But they could've 
 included more mini-games in it, they tend to get boring overtime, but if you have a friend or someone 
 to play it with you, it takes a little longer to get boring.
  
  This isn't really what you may supposedly think - 'Master the remote!' , It does give you a tad 
 feel though-of different genres/ways to use the wii remote, so I guess it does give you a bit of 
 edge.
  
  If you see this game without a wii remote, don't buy it, but if you're looking in retail stores 
 for wii remotes, check if they have Wii Play.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game has very little in it that can be taken as 'good' or at least 'OK'. The games are very 
 low key, not well planned, and are too easy to beat and thus the rapid lack of interest. The whole 
 game was made just to provoke the Mii function on the Wii, and nothing else. If anything, this 
 game was purely for advertisement.
  
  This game did have one good game, that you can play again and again without dreariness. That minigame 
 would be the billiards. The only problem is, that there were several games, and only one lived 
 up to code. And after a while, even this one can get boring. Especially if that's all you play 
 in this game. 
  
  This is also a good way to make use of your Miis, since, up to this point, the only game that included 
 them was Mii sports. It also included multiplayer, which wasn't bad, but nevertheless, still pitiful 
 as a whole. On the other hand, it is an ideal game for young children, and people who like Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids, as it was solely a minigame title. It also allows for practice with handling the 
 Wii remote, and offers a laid back style of gaming. 
  
  The graphics were OK, however, due to the fact that the Miis are round and smooth, and so are the 
 games. But overall, it doesn't even begin to make up for this sorry excuse for publicity of a Wii 
 channel. This really isn't worth your time, unless your friend asks you to play it once with them, 
 just to try it out. Otherwise, stick with something better, something with thought, class, detail, 
 and with a lot more content that takes longer to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that has a collection of mini games that you can play with your Miis. There 
 is no story line to talk about in this game. There are multiple kinds of mini games to play with. 
 A shooting game, billiards, table tennis, fishing, a toy battle tank game, pose match up game, 
 laser hockey, Mii hunting, and a cow riding game. The mini games are more fun when you have another 
 player to play with. My favorite game is target practice.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the multiplayer in this game is really fun. Good mini games. 
 Another Wii Remote comes with the game. Really funny moments.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that some mini games are really weird. The game can get boring. 
 Some Wii Remote control is frustrating.
  
  Overall, Wii Play is worth a look for mini game fans. Great multiplayer, but some weird moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you have high expectations for and what do you get?! You get about 
 half of what you're expecting! Half! If lucky! No more than that! I enjoyed these games on this 
 for about a day or two then totally forgot about it and left it in the past! It's only great to 
 have because it comes with the free remote. Because you're paying 50 dollars for this bundle the 
 remote it technically already payed and the game basically is only costing you 10 dollars. Anyway 
 this game is what most people say very cheasy! Very cheasy indead!! The pool game is what I was 
 looking forward to the most! Wasn't nearly as good as I expected! It's 9 ball instead of having 
 the option of 8 ball with stripes and solids, you have to do each ball by number, which is one 
 of the several dissapointments of this game! The ping pong is dissapoiting as well because you 
 have to do it by ralley instead of playing a regular game. Fishing is just totally fake and stupid! 
 Riding the cow!! What the heck is wrong with these creators??!! Shooting tanks!!! Totally dumb!!
 
  But the target shooting is cool, but still gets boring like the rest of these sets of games.
 
  Okay instead of this game I'll tell you what games got basically replaced in a better way on the 
 Wii:
  Ping Pong- Way better on Mario and Sonic because it's a regular and fun filled game of ping pong!
 
  Pool Party- Way better because you have more options and choices for how you want to play pool 
 like from 9 ball to 8 ball and 10 ball and etc.
  Fishing- Way better on Zelda Twilight Princess because it's more realistic and more interactive.
 
  So in other words just buy a remote by it's self. Don't even bother with this game! They say it's 
 better with multi player, I'd say that's not even fun either! I didn't mention the controls are 
 poor and anoying too, did I?! Well, they are! So in other words SAVE YOUR MONEY!!! It's a game 
 you want to easilly forget about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikaziCat
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I think it isn't too bad. I wouldn't go and play it by myself, but two player is pretty good. It 
 deserves a better rating than Gamespot gave it. The extra controller in it is also nice too. If 
 you cannot buy rated T games and have siblings i would get it for sure along with Super Mario galaxy. 
 Otherwise buy Metroid prime 3, Legend of Zelda : twilight princess, or Trama center. There are 
 better games, and there are worse too. It isn't a game you play hours on end, so if you do not 
 have much time I would get it because it doesn't require much time to play. One of the reasons 
 i have it is because i have little cousins and they cannot play rated T or M games so they need 
 something to do. I also needed the extra controller for when I have friends come over. Expecially 
 when Super Smash Bros Brawl comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The good thing about Wii Play is that it comes with a remote and well that's really the only thing 
 I can find reasonably good about it. The games in my opinion are stupid. They are just little silly 
 games like laser hockey and fishing. Wii Play is more of a training game really it just kind of 
 prepares you to use the Wii remote for other games like Super Mario Galaxy. But you don't really 
 need to buy it. One player is terrible and it is no fun, well maybe for half an hour or if I'm 
 bored to death and there is nothing else to do. With two players it boosts the game's replay value 
 a little bit. I couldn't see myself playing this thing for fun like Assassin's Creed on Ps3 or 
 Wii Sports. Overall this game is trivial and unimportant. If you want a remote and a game to try 
 and sell then this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langy_01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Nine very basic games which as stated may not have you playing it all the time. The games are fun 
 and very basic so that you learn how to use the controller in all the various options. If you have 
 some friends around playing in a multi-player option then I'm sure that you will have a few laughs 
 and people shouting out which Mii's you need to choose.
  
  Borrowed this game from a relative to play so not sure if I would play it six months later if I 
 owned it when I build up my game library.
  
  Certainly worth playing as an early game but there will probably be a lot better out there.
  
 
  If your looking to buy a controller then this game may only cost a few pounds on top of a controller 
 price which would make it worth while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  well the game has 9 minigames: shot the targets, find miis, lazer hockey, tanks, cow race, billards, 
 fishing, table tennis and pose miis! its for two players and in order to play a new minigame you 
 need to complete one first, so if u want to play ALL the nine games you need to play them one by 
 one, if you do good in the games you will be awarded with medals, just like wii sports, each player 
 picks a mii, just like wii sports and it gives you a fun time for a while.... like wii sports... 
 
  
  
  
  The good: the minigames give you a nice time, all the games just need a wii remote, winning medals 
 make you feel good
  
  the bad: the fun passes a while later.... we are speaking about 15 minutes later, it just for two 
 players, way to easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggaloj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about Wii Play. You are basically getting a $10.00 game. You may be wondering 
 if it might be as fun as Wii Sports but sadly it isn't. Lets run down the list of games Wii Play 
 offers.
  
  
  Shooting Range
  
  Consists of 5 levels (I believe) . It's a very simple game that just has you pointing and shooting 
 at various objects. It's a pretty fun and simple game that only requires quick reactions and some 
 accuracy. One of the better games in Wii Play.
  
  Find Mii
  
  This is sort of like "Where's Waldo". You just try to find the Mii that they tell you to find. 
 Overall, I think it is a pretty boring game.
  
  Table Tennis
  
  It's ping pong. There is no way to win this. You just have to return the ping pong ball 100 times 
 (I believe that this is the max) and the game is over. All you do is move the Wii-mote where the 
 ball lands (You don't even flick the remote!) Once you get 100 there is no point in returning to 
 this game.
  
  Pose Mii
  
  This game has you twisting your Wii-motes to match the Mii's bubbles falling down. There are three 
 poses and you press A or B to switch between them. You can't let the bubbles fall between the line 
 on the bottom 3 times otherwise you lose the game. It can be tricky at times but it's a pretty 
 simple game to play. You play just to get the highest score.
  
  Laser Hockey
  
  Man oh man, do I find this game frustrating. This is basically table hockey. You move the Wii-mote 
 left or right (you can twist your Wii-mote slightly to hit at an angle if you are using the default 
 paddle) and hit the puck to the opposing sides goal. What's frustrating about this game is that 
 I keep scoring..... ON MYSELF! Maybe I just stink at this but it makes me mad when I do that. This 
 game has a lot of potential but falls short in the end.
  
  Billiards
  
  This game features 9-ball pool. You generally try to sink the balls in numerical order (Lowest 
 numbered ball first) . The controls are good enough to play this game but it's still pretty bad. 
 You point at a ball with the Wii-mote, pull your arm back and thrust your arm forward. For some 
 reason this game does not have any appeal to me whatsoever. I think if you are really itching to 
 play a game of pool, just go to your nearest pool hall.
  
  Fishing
  
  Woo hoo, now you can fish at home (*sigh*) . At first I thought this would be a disaster but it 
 really isn't all that bad. Basically you try to get this most fish or the featured fish (it shows 
 a picture of a fish and if you catch it, you earn double the score.) You move the Wii-mote left 
 or right, forward or back to move the fishing rod and you move the Wii-mote up or down to put in 
 or take the fishing rod out of the water. Then try to move the rod close to the fish's mouth and 
 be still and when it bites you pull it out. You play for high scores. I believe this to be one 
 of the better games for Wii Play.
  
  Charge!
  
  You ride a cow and try to knock down scarecrows for high scores. I'm serious. You hold the Wii-mote 
 sideways and tilt it forward to go faster or tilt towards yourself to slow the cow down. You also 
 tilt the Wii-mote left or right to steer it. It's not that bad but has very little replay value. 
 The music sucks pretty badly too.
  
  Tanks
  
  One of the better games for Wii Play. You generally move a tank around with the nunchuck and point 
 and click at the opposing tanks to blow them up. Not bad in my opinion.
  
  Conclusion
  
  This game will last you, at the most, a week or two. Some people might enjoy it, some might 
 not. If you don't mind shelling out $10.00 for a game (comes with the Wii-mote of course) then 
 by all means buy it but don't expect it to be as fun as Wii Sports.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leerewound
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  The main thing going for this game is that it is practically free. as far as i have seen, a wii 
 remote is 32. I bought wii play for 35. Not realy one for hardcore gamers, or any type of gamer 
 really, but a nice introduction into the world of wii. Having already been experienced at wii when 
 i got it, i suppose i missed out, but this is less of a game, and more of a tool to teach u how 
 to use the remote. You do not need to sue the nunchuck, however u can if you wish for the final 
 minigame.
  
  The game consists of 9 minigames, but u only start with one. You unlock the next one when you finish 
 the previous one regardless of your score. This is a good thing because the games would become 
 tedious after more than one play. The first game is shooting (balloons, mostly) . This teaches the 
 obvious technique of pointing the wi remote. Later on it moves on to more advance techniques such 
 as twisting it, or holding it sideways. Whereas you could learn these from real games where you 
 need to do this, wii play offers a more friendly way to do it.
  
  You are not buying a game which will eat away hours of your life here. However, credit where its 
 due to something that will teach you the basics without boring you. If you want another wii remote, 
 buy this. If you dont, this shouldnt cros your mind.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer will get boring fast but if you dont touch it for a few months it will be fresh again. 
 this game can be quite good if you have got people to play it with. multiplayer will last longer. 
 it gets boring fast it is much better then everyone says tho. the fact that it comes with a wiimote 
 is good. if your thinking of buying a wiimote get this instead. some of these people giving it 
 2 and 4 are not right this game deserves better. so instead of just buying a remote for a little 
 extra get this. Check out my blog for funny and entertaining videos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  i plaed this in a auntys house and was quite suprised to find it aint ti bad...
  
  well the game is split into 9 games which are all preety basic but still fun enough... billads has 
 to be my favourite...
  their is a mii guesing game which aint to great 
  fishing is fun with two people 
  air-hockey is great but controls sometimes to sensitive
  the 
 tank game is very fun.
  the zebra racing game is a bit bizzare but still very fun...
  table tennis is preety dull and entertains for only a few minutes...
  shooting is preety fun 
 but a bit easy because their is no reload: ( making it simple to get a massive score but its great 
 to play multiplayer...
  
  its worth getting for kids but older audience will get board quickly
  
  but in the end wii 
 play is not worth the full price so check your bargin bin...
  (its preety cheap in gamestop 2nd hand :15euro or around $22)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chowder23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, Wii play is pretty fun, my favorite minigame is find mii and, my second is CHARGE!. And, 
 all the rest of the of the games are shooting range, ping-pong, pose mii, pool (DON'T EVER PLAY!) , 
 fishing and, tanks
  
  Every other game beside tanks needs just the wii remote but, you can just use the wii remote and, 
 the nunchuck (Not needed) . This game also come with a free wii remote (but still the same price 
 as an average wii game) . 
  
  This game is only minigames (Just like Rayman raving rabbids (Which made me mad! I was hopping 
 for an adventure!!!) ) . Adventures are alot more fun, but Mario party has an exepson...
  
  This is off topic but, shy guys should apper in more Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is really just a pack in title. I think nintendo realized that the shortage of Wii-motes could 
 be used to their advantage. Being that controllers are already a mark-up item, they figured they 
 could make a crappy collection of Minigames for little to no cost, pack it with a Wii-mote, and 
 the result is Wii-play!
  
  You get to experience 9 REALLY BAD mini games. You get to play a bad remake of Duck hunt, a Billiards 
 game that's actually okay , a 2D fishing game, a cow racing game, A sub par combat remake, and 
 various other crap.
  
  And even though the Billiards and Kombat are good, you are forced to play and beat the other 7 
 minigames. 
  The graphics are Terrible. I know they are supposed to be similar to Wario Ware, but in wario ware 
 the games are 10 seconds long. These are 5 to 10 minutes. To beat the whole thing, it takes maybe 
 an hour.
  
  The sound is crap. Their is no music, basic sound effects that sound like an elevator changing 
 floors, with it's endless blips, pings, and beeps.
  
  If you really need a Wii-mote, buy this, and throw out the game, because it's a waste of time to 
 even try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 27, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  When a package like this costs $10 more than just getting a remote, it shouldn't take much for 
 the included game to be worth the $10 extra, right? Well, Wii Play is good for casual gamers, I 
 guess, but for people like me, it just didn't cut it. The games it has are pretty lame for the 
 most part but there is some fun to be had with them. The best games are easily Tanks! and the Pong 
 rip-off games, which are really quite enjoyable. The single player experience amounts to almost 
 nothing, but if you play through it just remember that you get Tanks! at the end! Woo-hoo! It is 
 a shame that you're forced to play through all the other mediocre games before you get to Tanks!, 
 it really stinks. Wii Play is only fully enjoyed when playing with someone else, though, and that 
 is where most of the little fun it has is brought out. Otherwise, you're better off just getting 
 a remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahil29
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  When i got this game, i enjoyed it the first time but after i completed the game, i found it boring 
 and less enjoyable. The only good game is the shooting.
  
  The good --- Free remote, the shooting game and my other favourite is the tank game which is fun. 
 It is very enjoyable with a second player, so get your friends around and have fun.
  
  The bad ----- the bubble game which is long to play and annoying. Another is the table tennis game, 
 i had my hopes up for this but disapointed me. If you dont have a second Wii-mote i suggest you 
 get this game because it is the best deal around.
  
  Summary ----- really the only good deal for an extra remote, few good games, bad to be played alone 
 for a second time and should really be played with friends for maximum fun. If you dont want this 
 game but want an exrta remote, it will cost you 30 with the game you get it for 35 so again, 
 best deal around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  Some reviwers make out that Wii play is full price and comes with a free wii remote. However why 
 would Nintendo do that? Especially when the game tries it's upmost to tell you all the time that 
 it's only a tool to get used to the Wii remote. For that reason I see Wii play as coming with the 
 Wii remote for a meagre 5 extra.
  
  So, what do you get for your money. Well there are nine minigames in total. Each is fun at first 
 but only a few will keep you coming back time and again. The best minigames are the Tanks, billiards 
 and paddle games. In Tanks, you control yout Tank with the nunchuck and use B to fire rockets at 
 enemy tanks. You can also unleash mines with a tap of A. It' is simple, addictive fun and works 
 best in multiplayer. The mutliplayer mode sees you trying to shoot more tanks than your opponnt. 
 I think it would have been better though if you had to vie to destroy each other. That would give 
 it a much more competitive feel.
  
  Billiards is weak in single player but comes alive against another Human opponent. There are nine 
 balls on the table each numbered form 1 to 9. Whoever gets the most points wins. Although to mix 
 it up a little you lose points if you pot the cue ball or miss the target ball. The target ball 
 feature is annoying but doesn't spoil the best game in the collection. Th paddle game is reminiscant 
 of the hockey paddle games you find in arcades. The controls could do with some tightening up in 
 it but it's a fun little game without holding your attention for to long.
  
  The worst games in the package are probably the Cow racing and fishing. Nevertheless neither of 
 them are actually bad, it's just that none of the games in the package are especially brilliant.
 
  
  The use of mii's in the game feels tacked on at times. Especially when all the Mii is usually used 
 for is as a head next to your score. They are used quite effectively in the bubble and hide and 
 seek minigames though and enhance then well. 
  
  All in all, Wii play is a fun but short lived introduction to the wii remote that serves it's purpose 
 well without going beyond the line of duty. It could have been better but on the other hand it 
 could have been a lot worse.
  
  Score= 61% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeCUBED
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is easily one of the best investments you could make, if you're looking for an extra Wii 
 remote. For the inexpensive price of $50, you'll be getting a $40 item and a game that can entertain 
 a group of friends for quite a while.
  
  Wii Play is much like Wii Sports in that its primary intention is for you to learn how to use the 
 bundled Wii remote. In that respect, it performs flawlessly: Starting from the first game, you 
 learn how to point your Wii remote at the screen, then rotate it, then push and pull it, then hold 
 it sideways, and finally, how to use the nunchuk accessory (if you have one) . The games are simple 
 and effective, and within half an hour of playing, even the most decrepit of Nintendo fanatics 
 will be expertly wielding their Wii remotes. And multiplayer mode is great fun, allowing you to 
 compete against each other for the highest scores.
  
  The only downside to Wii Play is how short it is. Yes, it is made solely for the purpose of teaching 
 gamers how to use the remote, but it could use some more games or levels of difficulty. The Duck 
 Hunt clone is great fun, and the Tank game offers possibly the most complexity of all, but that's 
 it. Other games only last two minutes, and some, like the cow riding game are always the same. 
 I unlocked all nine games in the first ten minutes, and proceeded to get Platinum Awards in all 
 but three.
  
  Look, if you want a new Wii remote, buy Wii Play w/remote. You will only be spending $10 more. 
 However, if you don't need a Wii remote, then don't bother with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  think that Wii Play is unappreciated by many people. Wii Play includes 9 mini games are enjoyable 
 and entertain you. It has varied graphics and it is one of the few games that use Wii avatars, 
 Miis. Even though it is a very short game that is really easy to beat, it has a descent gameplay, 
 not terrible graphics, and it's 10 bucks!!! It comes with a wii remote, which is 39.99, and the 
 game is just 10 bucks. Anyways, you're probably wondering what the 9 mini games are. They include:
 
  
  Shooting Range-
  This is a descent and fun game. You use your remote, to shoot targets, U. F. O. s, etc. It is a short 
 and fun game, and it is fun with 2 player.
  
  Find Mii-
  In this game, you will find a parade of Miis just walking around, swimming, etc, and you have to 
 find some specific Mii. Such as, Find two similar miis, or find the odd one out. It is an OK game, 
 not one of my favorites though.
  
  Table tennis-
  This game is sort of odd, because you just move the the wii remote around to hit the ball, and 
 the position you hold the wii remote, is similar to shooting range, where you just hold it as if 
 it were a remote.
  
  Pose Mii-
  In this game, your Mii will be flying around in some area, and you will find bubbles that require 
 you to go in them. So depending on how the bubble position looks like, you will have to change 
 your Mii's position using the A and B button. This game is kind of boring, and gets really tiring.
 
  
  Laser Hockey-
  In this game, It is basically like a traditional game of air hockey. It has cool graphics, and 
 it's just fun to play.
  
  Billiards-
  The title kind of says it all, so you use your stick to get the designated ball into one of the 
 holes. It has very realistic physics, and the game is OK.
  
  Fishing-
  The game looks very different, and you just cast your "fishing rod" into a pond, and when you get 
 a nibble, you pull it out. This game is kind of boring and short.
  
  Charge-
  In this game, your riding a cow, and you tilt your wii remote the way you want to go. This game 
 is really fun, in my opinion.
  
  Tanks-
  This is my favorite game out of them all. You are controlling a little toy tank, and you go around 
 the map trying to wipe out the others. This game is really fun and the graphics are very interesting.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you need a wii remote, and you just want a little short game, Wii play is for 
 you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to a game similar to Wii Sports. However all this game seems to be is a poor 
 collection of mini-games used to familiarize yourself with the Wii remotes. I would not say it 
 is even worth the rental fee. Perhaps if you can track it down at a garage sale somewhere and you 
 really enjoy one of the games, buy it - other then that don't even bother with this game. Anybody 
 can learn the controls with a much better game. Also a couple of the games were frustrating to 
 try and complete.
  
  The pool game and the shooting game weren't too bad - if there is to be any pluses to this game.
 
  
  I never did get around to multi-player - perhaps this is the saving grace? I was just too un-entertained 
 to even bother.
  
  MY +++
  
  I borrowed it from a friend.
  2 decent mini games.
  
  MY - - - Short.
  Poor selection of mini-games with little to no replay value.
  Boring.
 
  Gets old fast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WBMason
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't that bad, but the main reason why I got this game in the first place was because 
 it came with an extra controller, and this game was released back when the controllers were running 
 out of stock fast. Plus when I saw this game it seemed like Wii Sports, but its basically made 
 up of mini-games that you would probably see on Miniclip. com, such as "laser hockey", "table tennis", 
 and "billiards". There are also some games that require your Mii such as "Find Mii" and "Pose Mii", 
 and a few random games such as "Charge!" which is basically cow racing. I would recommend this 
 game to people who like to play games on websites such as Miniclip or Addictinggames, but I would 
 still rent it first. If you don't, then don't buy it and stick with Wii Sports. If you did buy 
 it and felt it was a waste of money, think of it as "a controller that comes with a game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilj0e777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  I think that Wii Play is unappreciated by many people. Wii Play includes 9 mini games are enjoyable 
 and entertain you. It has varied graphics and it is one of the few games that use Wii avatars, 
 Miis. Even though it is a very short game that is really easy to beat, it has a descent gameplay, 
 not terrible graphics, and it's 10 bucks!!! It comes with a wii remote, which is 39.99, and the 
 game is just 10 bucks. Anyways, you're probably wondering what the 9 mini games are. They include:
 
  
  Shooting Range-
  This is a descent and fun game. You use your remote, to shoot targets, U. F. O. s, etc. It is a short 
 and fun game, and it is fun with 2 player.
  
  Find Mii-
  In this game, you will find a parade of Miis just walking around, swimming, etc, and you have to 
 find some specific Mii. Such as, Find two similar miis, or find the odd one out. It is an OK game, 
 not one of my favorites though.
  
  Table tennis-
  This game is sort of odd, because you just move the the wii remote around to hit the ball, and 
 the position you hold the wii remote, is similar to shooting range, where you just hold it as if 
 it were a remote.
  
  Pose Mii-
  In this game, your Mii will be flying around in some area, and you will find bubbles that require 
 you to go in them. So depending on how the bubble position looks like, you will have to change 
 your Mii's position using the A and B button. This game is kind of boring, and gets really tiring.
 
  
  Laser Hockey-
  In this game, It is basically like a traditional game of air hockey. It has cool graphics, and 
 it's just fun to play.
  
  Billiards-
  The title kind of says it all, so you use your stick to get the designated ball into one of the 
 holes. It has very realistic physics, and the game is OK.
  
  Fishing-
  The game looks very different, and you just cast your "fishing rod" into a pond, and when you get 
 a nibble, you pull it out. This game is kind of boring and short.
  
  Charge-
  In this game, your riding a cow, and you tilt your wii remote the way you want to go. This game 
 is really fun, in my opinion.
  
  Tanks-
  This is my favorite game out of them all. You are controlling a little toy tank, and you go around 
 the map trying to wipe out the others. This game is really fun and the graphics are very interesting.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you need a wii remote, and you just want a little short game, Wii play is for 
 you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS4L1F3
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is the shortest Wii game I have. You can even finish it in under 20 minutes. This game 
 have 9 really short games but the best one is Tanks. Tanks let you use this tank and shoot the 
 other tanks away. The other good ones are Billiards and Fishing. In Billiards, your Wii Controller 
 acts like the stick you play Pool in real life. There will be a red arrow on top of the ball. You 
 have to make that one into the pocket but if you make another one, It will be a foul. The fishing 
 game is really easy. All you have to do is to capture fish but if you capture the wrong one, your 
 points will decrease. The other games are really easy. They are Shooting Range, Pose Mii, Table 
 Tennis, Laser Hockey, Find Mii, and Charge!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixa999
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Um yeah, not much to say on this one, kinda just an add on to a controller, really you just buying 
 a controller and they're tacking on wii play. I always see this is like the top seller iin game 
 informer for the wii. I couldn't believe it, and now that I've played it, I still can't believe 
 it. It's like an intro course for the remote, which is useless if you've already been playing it 
 for weeks. They should have packed wii sports with the remote and given you maybe mario with the 
 system. Just an idea for the furture! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  It's no good on 1 Player It's just totally mediocre it's not worth buying it your probably best 
 to get a controller on it's own. There is fun bit's everyone enjoys tanks even if you hate everything 
 else about it. Billiards is awful! The shooting range is very fun you have to love it! But overall 
 it's a bit of a rip off it's not really good multiplayer. it's a 6/10 from meowcow22Mario Party 
 8
  The party continues for the 8th time, with Mario and friends getting crazy in a variety of mini-games. 
 uper Monkey Ball: Banan
  Super Monkey Ball rolls its way onto the Wii with Banana Blitz, which exploits the controller in 
 a variety of ways, including the ability to jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRustyB
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  There is some good, some ok, and some real crap in this game. Obviously its a bunch of minis and 
 some of them are fun, its an ok set of party games but its definitely not worth shelling out full 
 price. Save you money or wait till its cheaper. Ping-Pong, laser hockey, the balloon/disc/alien 
 shoot, pool, and the cow races are good but too shallow there could have been some depth or challenge 
 or length added that would have made it worth owning, but there is none. Its short and pointless 
 which can only last a guy so long. What else can I say its fun but theres just not much too it. 
 The controls are jerky and its too shallow it reminds me of Atari's ET bomb, it seems like it was 
 some decent ideas that were thrown together poorly and covered up with hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblane
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I added this to my collection as it was an extra AUD$10 with a controller, and I am still glad 
 I did.
  
  A series of mini-games that I certainlly wouldn't buy as a standalone game, but it does its job 
 at a party or when the friends are over. The 'Duck Hunt' like shooting game is good fun to challenge 
 some friends at. By yourself you get a bit over it, as with the rest of the games.
  
  You are awared Gold, Silver and Bronze medals for how well you perform at these games, but unless 
 you really HAVE to get a gold medal, it isn't enough to keep you coming back to play.
  
  When you have some friends around, its a good little challenge to introduce them to what you can 
 do with a Wii controller. Once you've had a quick run through a few of the games with some friends, 
 you'll have to find some more to give it another go.
  
  But hey, a couple of bucks with the extra controller, its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03mareed
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Another collection of simple games are here in the form of Wii Play but this has a catch, its bundled 
 with a controller which can be appealing if you are lucking for remote.
  
  The Game has 9 mini-games Fishing, table tennis, 9-ball pool, Cow racing, Find the Mii, laser hockey, 
 shooting range, Tanks and pose wii. There is no story to be heard of here its purley just games.
 
  
  The games all fairy in the lasting appeal, 9-ball pool is excellent and could stand as a game on 
 its own whilst cow racing is poor, with only one track and objective i soon lost interest in it. 
 All the other games have the same values and dont realy stick out.
  
  The final verdict of this game is that its just lacking to much to be considered a full game, its 
 more of a tech demo showing what the console and remote is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game wasbought to me becasue i needed an extra wii remote, and , at the beggining it was 
 pretty fun. But after some plays i got bored and decided to play it my friends, and it turned out 
 to be better. Umm.. not much to say about this, butt the minigames that are worth some recongnition 
 are:
  1. Table tennis
  2. Tanks, 
  3. Laser Hockey
  4. Shooting Range
  
  Graphics are really average, sound is just ok, but what makes this game stand out is its value. 
 A game and a wii remote for 50 bucks sounds nice to me, especially if in your country it costed 
 the same as a wii remote alone ( i live in costa rica)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentontrace
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  GAME A MUST BUY BECAUSE OF THE WII REMOTE THAT COMES WITH IT.
  
  This game isnt worth more than $15, lucky for you it comes with a wii remote which makes it a must 
 buy for anyone that has a wii. If you have kids, some of the games on here are really good for 
 them. The cow race however is fun for anyone! 
  
  This game is also good for practicing different uses of the wii remote which was what it was designed 
 to do. So it does its job, plus its pretty cheap compared to some other games that aren't much 
 better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnddmdb642
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that is sometimes underappreciated. People do not realize what the game is really 
 for. It is supposed to help you become a master of using the Wii Remote. There are nine minigames, 
 each of flashgame quality. You can get games like these on miniclip or armorgames. com. You must 
 play through each game in order to unlock the next one in the list. The games are Shooting Range, 
 Find Mii, Table Tennis, Pose Mii, Laser Hockey, Billiards, Fishing, Charge!, and Tanks! All games 
 use the Wii Remote and no Nunchuk except for Tanks!.
  
  Probably the Best aspects of Wii Play is the fact that it has fun multiplayer, and that is comes 
 with a Wii Remote if you pay about 10 extra bucks. At about $1.11 per game, its a pretty good deal.
 
  
  So, the Overview for the game in its entirety is:
  Gameplay: Overly simplistic gameplay can be somewhat boring but in multiplayer it can get very 
 fun. Your main objective is to get a Gold Medal in each game.
  Graphics: Once again simplistic. The game has the most Miis you will see anywhere, even on the 
 Mii Channel.
  Rating: 6.0
  
  Now for each of the games:
  
  Shooting Range
  Overview: Shooting Range is pretty much Duck Hunt but your not hunting just ducks. You will shoot 
 balloons, frisbee things (I forgot what they were called) , Targets, Cans, and finally UFOs. You 
 shooting using "A" and aim with the Wii Remote
  Gameplay: No options make the game not so fun, but multiplayer can be fast-paced and competitive.
 
  Rating: 8.0
  
  Find Mii
  Overview: You must click on Miis in a crowd, from ones that don't belong to ones that look alike 
 to the fastest one in the crowd. The levels take place in streets when the Miis stand still, when 
 their moving, on escalators, swimming, in the dark, and in space. Every time you play is unique.
 
  Gameplay: Lots and Lots of Miis and a fun, competitive way to see which of your friends as the 
 better eyes.
  Rating: 8.0
  
  Table Tennis
  Overview: Self Explanatory. You move the Wii Remote back in forth to hit the ball. You press a 
 to serve. Repetitive and Boring.
  Gameplay: Unlike Tennis on Wii Sports, you do not swing the Wii remote to hit the ball. In Single 
 Player mode, you dont score points, you see if you can rally the ball up to 100 times.
  Rating: 5.5
  
  Pose Mii
  Overview: The weirdest game in Wii Play, you press "A" and "B" to 
 change the pose of your Mii and tilt it to match the silhouette on the bubbles that fall to the 
 twitching white strands on the bottom.
  Gameplay: It can be somewhat fun in two player, but is too weird to be fun. The falling bubbles 
 that pop up all at once can make the game chaotic.
  Rating: 6.0
  
  Laser Hockey
  Overview: One of the better games on Wii Play, the stylishly simplistic sound and neon graphics 
 of Laser Hockey make the game enjoyable.
  Gameplay: You play by moveing the Wii remote back and forth and tilt it to hit the puck in different 
 directions. Multiplayer can be fun, but singleplayer isn't too bad either
  Rating: 8.5
  
  Billiards
  Overview: Billiards is made bad by poor controls and a lack of gameplay options. You 
 can only play nine-ball, and the controls are sort of weird. 
  Gameplay: Better controls and the option to play eight-ball would make the game more fun.
  Rating: 
 4.5
  
  Fishing
  Overview: Fishing is a little weird because of the way you percept the depth of where your pole 
 is and that the graphics are strange.
  Gameplay: You move your Wii Remote around and dip it down into the pond to catch fish. When you 
 have a bite, you pull the Remote out of the pond. The controls make it seem like your pole is in 
 the pond when it may actually be above it. The graphics aren't too good, because the fish look 
 like cardboard.
  Rating: 5.5
  
  Charge
  Overview: You ride a cow down a country road jumping over hurdles and knocking down scarecrows. 
 An addictive game that is great multiplayer.
  Gameplay: To steer your steer (that was a pun, please do not attack me) you hold the Wii Remote 
 sideways and tilt is left and right, forward and back. You can jump over hurdles by jerking the 
 Remote upward. You aim to knock over scarecrows that are lined up and get points for each one trampled 
 on and 5 points for each perfect line of scarecrows eliminated.
  Rating: 9.0
  
  Tanks
  Overview: You control a tank as you navigate around wooden blocks and set mines and shoot bullets 
 at tanks.
  Gameplay: Using the Nunchuk is optional, but using it sure does help when moving. The variety of 
 enemies such as ones that don't move, to ones that do, to ones that shoot rockets, or lay mines, 
 or shoot rockets that ricochet off wall into your hull. Multiplayer is a co-op mode that can be 
 very fun.
  Rating: 9.0
  
  So in Conclusion
  
  Overview: The collection of games is okay, but multiplayer can a fun game to mess around with, 
 and to play with your family. More options would make the game better but a simplistic game doesn't 
 hurt.
  Rating: 7.7 (8.0 is a generous score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zdorab
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Hey, you get some minigames and a Wii Remote for like 50$. Not bad, considering the remote itself 
 is 40$. Do the math. 8 (or so) minigames for 10$. Not bad, not bad at all.
  
  On the game side the gamespot review is exactly on the (game) spot. Shallow game. The games can 
 be boring fast. Some games, like the tank one are actually pretty fun, but lack of options and 
 customiseability hurt the game overall and make it boring around the 5th failed attempt to get 
 past that one hard level.
  
  Hey, what do you have to loose for 10$? Might as well try it out, its a good excuse to get mommy 
 to buy you another Wii Remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fwept
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Wii play, Where to start. I could just easily say buy it but only for the free wiimote. But that 
 would not be much of a good review. But i wont. Promise!
  Wii sports was like Twilight princess, released on the wii's debut to a world which would crave 
 it enought to spend over 350 pounds to obtain a wii. And most people who buy a wii will think, 
 i need another controller to have proper fun. So they will see wii-play sitting there in its box 
 with a wiimote at the front and think. Blimey! A game and a wii mote, that means i get something 
 extra when all i aimed to get was a wii mote and so the game gets bought.
  But to be honest, with the rubbish game quailty, i think your getting the game free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The good: -pick-up and play easily
  -use of miis
  -minigame are just fun 
  -Great party game
  -27 medals to collecxt can keep you going
  -Total bargain at 10 euros!
 
  
  The bad: -Some game should have been set for wii sports
  -Games can be too simple
  -Not for the manhunt fan!
  -10+ minigames could of been there easy!
  
  Wii play is a collection 
 of minigames to get you used to the wiimote. The best games include ping pong, laser hockey, shooting 
 and cow riding. Although I didnt really get better at the remote, it sure was fun.
  
  Ping pong consists of move the remote to the ball. No flicking needed, the computer does that. the 
 controls are =mirrors the wii tennis's in way.
  
  Laser hockey lets yopu twst and move the remote to kit the puck back and forward. Like the popular 
 arcade hockey, it adds a shiny tinge that looks good.
  
  Shooting requires you to aim and press the B or A button. This game is probably the best easyhard 
 balance as its easy to shoot but you have to avoid shooting your face.
  
  Cow riding is pure nonsense! You ride a velvet cow through a velvet country side to knock over velvet 
 scare crows and catch the velvet scarecrow kings! Oh, and get back to the velvet ranch before the 
 time runs out.
  
  Other games incude fishing, which is frustrating. Find mii which requires great observation. Pose 
 mii which is really a simple but fast minigame. billiards which should have gone into wii sports 
 and tanks which involves blowing things the hell up!
  
  Overall, wii play is a good party game and for the 10  a good 
 bargain!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tesoro3
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game completely sucks. You buy it with the controller which is probably the best part about 
 it. I dont know if this game is used to train u with the controller but it seems that way. Everygame 
 is somewhat the same and they take 5 min to play. There might be about 10 but really is no fun 
 at all. I would tell anyone that asks me about it not to but it and not to waste their time. Getting 
 the controller is nice but is the only good thing you get out of it. It is not fun at all nothing 
 you look for in a wii game i think it is a descrace to wii and shouldnt have even been put on the 
 shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fumpert22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Wii play is a very fun game featuring mini multiple games from finding your miis on an escalator 
 to laser pong . With 8 awesome games it can keep you playing for hours on end! here are brief reviews 
 for each of the games
  
  DUCK HUNT 200
  basically a new age duck hunt but with multiple twists and UFOs trying to abduct your miis
  
 
  FIND MII
  spot the faces of your miis and other miis. There are things like find the fastest swimmer in the 
 pool. POSE MII
  Push buttons on the wii remote to pose the miis and then pop them into a bubble to score points!
 
  
  WII BILLIARDS
  billiards for the wii?!?! exactly what the wii needs and that is what this game is
  
  LASER 
 PONG
  Retro pong with the wii remotes twist, move, and swipe you some points!
  
  SCARECROW DASH
  get on a cow and knock down some scarecrows! the person with the most points 
 wins! but watch for hurdles.
  
  FISHING
  catch cute fishies with your awesome wii skills!
  
  WAR TANKS
  Take control of a little tank 
 and blast through enemies!
  
  Like I said before it is an awesome game and a recommended buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if everyone realized that but Wii Play was made only to carry the Wii Remote and make 
 Nintendo gain some extra money. At first you enjoy games, it's fun to find your Miis in different 
 situations, or to see if you can beat all levels of tanks, or even who runs faster with a cow. 
 With 9 minigames, it only makes you play a bit more time because of the medals awards, you feel 
 that you have to got all gold medals or even platinum medals to see if you can get all tips and 
 beat all of your friends. After some time it gets boring, you don't even think about playing it, 
 if you get a good game, you forget it, maybe you'll show it to a friend that never played, for 
 he Wii Play will be good, since he never player. I recommend because of Wii Remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  It is just a little follow up of Wii sports (sort of ) the only difference is that they aren't 
 all that fun. When I first cracked open my Wii play and played it I had fun for about an hour and 
 then the whole experience was over. Sure they have a couple of good minigames, but the experience 
 will get old pretty quick. The only reason I would keep playing this is if a friend can over to 
 play too that it. I feel that the only real reason to purchase this is for the free Wii remote 
 packed inside other wise is nothing that will completely blow your mind and keep you playing for 
 hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't good honestly. It is pretty much a bunch of mini-games that are just sad. There 
 are only two games out of the small 6 that are even worth playing. The only reason you should get 
 this game is for the free Wii remote. This game too is also only half way decent with someone to 
 play with. If you have no one to play with than this game will really really reallllyyy SUCK. I 
 love the Wii and support all of there games but take my word for it. DON'T BUY THIS GAME UNLESS 
 YOU WANT AN EXTRA Wii REMOTE. Simple and honestly as that. Go buy Mario Party 8 or Mario Strikers 
 if you want a real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer242
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a great game filled with many different mini games inside it. It is also a good challenge 
 for it actually takes time to learn each game and how to use the wii remote for each individual 
 game. Although every game is a load of fun, after a while, trying to break your personal records gets 
 kind of boring. Personally, I have a little nephew who I always play video games with so we always 
 play against each other. So we are always going head to head. So usually I only play if he is playing 
 too. So I can see why people say it is boring because they might not have anybody to play with. So 
 only get this game if someone else is there to play with you. It is definetly worth fourty dollars 
 plus you get a wii remote to go along with it. P. S. my favorite games are ping pong and fishing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowie1979
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  The bottom line with Wii Play is that you get it bundled with the Wii Remote, meaning you are essentially 
 getting the game for a fiver!
  
  When taken like this, you can't really argue, but unfortunately the game is just too short lived 
 to stand up to the Wii's other offerings.
  
  The game is essentially an introduction to the Wii Remote and the different ways it can be used. 
 In this facility it would make more sense bundling this with the console instead of Wii Sports. 
 Though Wii Sports is the better game, so we didn't really lose out.
  
  The game consists of a series of mini-games which see you using the Remote in a variety of ways. 
 For example, there's a straightforward Duck-hunt style shooter, a variation of pong which sees 
 you twisting the remote to aim your shots, and a Find Mii game - A Where's Wally style game populated 
 by the Mii's you have created.
  
  However, other than trying to beat your previous scores, there's not much to keep you going. You'll 
 play it for a bit then likely forget about it. But, hey at least you've got that extra Remote! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is NOT for the younger crowd due to the fact that the games on here are PRETTY CHALLENGING!
 
  So
  if your thinking of getting this for your young kids, you should pick up a different game. Alot 
 of ppl bad talk this game saying too short, hard, boring, etc... 
  This game is intended for a TWO-PLAYER head-to-head all out challenge.
  Wii Play is a game of 
 SKILL &amp; QUICKNESS. If you play against an EASY
  OPPONENT then YOU WILL SAY this game 'sucks' if you play against a
  hard oppoenent then you will 
 say this game 'sucks'.
  BUT
  for those of you that DONT SUCK &amp; are pretty skilled this is the game for you!! Its fun &amp; 
 challenging!
  Makes you put your thinking cap on &amp; keep it on!! This is not a game will
  you WILL ALWAYS 
 beat your good opponent your playing. Its actually a coin toss to see who will come up the WINNER 
 due to the fact that its all IN YOUR HANDS! lol
  
  If your looking for a great SKILL GAME this is one game title for you &amp; yours!
  HAPPY GAMING!! 
 p. s.: dont hate hate the game! hate the PLAYER! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Good: Comes with a Wii Remote
  
  Bad:
  
  Way too short
  Minigames aren't that fun (except for the Duck Hunt game)
  
  Wii Play is just bad. There's 
 only 9 minigames, and it takes about 20-30 minutes to beat the game. The minigames aren't that 
 fun either.
  
  The best (and only) thing about Wii Play is that it comes with a Wii remote. If it didn't, then 
 there would be no reason to buy Wii Play. Wii play should just be a game that comes with the Wii 
 Remote.
  
  The graphics are alright, there's some places where the graphics get a little blurry.
  
  The 
 gameplay isn't very fun. The minigames are short, and aren't that fun to play by your self. Even 
 if your playing Wii Play with friends, it still isn't fun.
  
  In conclusion, Wii Play is a game that needs way more minigames, and should probably be a Wii Remote 
 pack in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migue9107
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  To obtain a Platinum medal in ping pong will take you about 5 minutes. The trick is to move very 
 fast the wii remote from left to right, avoid to make a obstruction or you will have to begin again. 
 In the shooter game you can use two controls (one on each hand or ask some friend to help you) ... 
 you only have to activate the second control when the game is about to start. The second control 
 can break your own faces and gain 3 points.
  
  For now that are the only tricks I have discovered. I hope they help you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b16ag2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  To call this a game is an over statement. This is a tutorial. Wii Play consists of 9 mini-games 
 that are each intended to introduce you to one of the many functions of the Wii remote. What little 
 enjoyment that can be found in this title is in it's multi player. Even with multi player games 
 there is a complete lack of competition. Games seem to have less to do with actual ability to use 
 the remote as much as they play to users who can press the button faster, not get screwed when 
 the game doesn't want to recognize controller movement or to the player who just gets lucky. All 
 in all, don't waste your time. You will get a much firmer grasp on how to use the remote by playing 
 games that you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oyvoyvoyv
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The tanks minigame is just AWSOME! I have spent almost 50 hours just on that! It has a perfect 
 difficulty, because you make it to level 12-16 ish all the time, yet it is hard to complete whole. 
 Games like find Mii are boring, but table tennis matches can be fun. Of course, the game is not 
 anything fantastic even though it is fun if you play it once a week, when you have a friend over.
 
  
  The reason it is worthy AA from me, is that it is very cheap. 8 dollars for this is better than 
 50 dollars for red steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Now some might say it's not free- that it's more expensive. If you're one of those people, you're 
 looking in the wrong place, as it is possible to buy for the same price as a Wiimote alone. Anyway 
 - about the game. It's premise is quite nice, and it's a very nice way of understanding some of 
 the capabilities of the Wii at a nice, steady pace. The game takes you through each game, step 
 by step, which are all really rather good in their own way (excuse if the names of the games are 
 incorrect) . Find Mii consists of an objective that you have to complete (e. g. find 2 Mii loookalikes, 
 find the Mii you're using, find the odd Mii out) within a time limit. It may sound uninteresting, 
 but with a time-limit and/or a friend the game plays very nicely and has a good amount of competition 
 (as you are both looking for the same thing) without the feeling of hating the other player if 
 they do better. Match Mii is a game where you must match the posture and rotation of the sillouhetts 
 in the bubbles floating down the screen. This game is much more fun with two players although, 
 is a little bizarre in the way that one player always ends up having a great deal more bubbles 
 than the other player (if they are playing better) , which although makes it slightly more even, 
 also unbalances it, because it makes the worse player much more likely to get a perfection bonus. 
 Shooting range is quite self-explanitory, and is very fun apart from the massive degreee of competitiveness 
 that comes with it. The nice thing is the fact that not all 5 stages are the same: theres shooting 
 balloons, clay pidgeons, targets, keeping a tin can or 2 or 3 in the air and shooting down alien 
 ships to defend your character. Table tennis is perhaps the most under-rated of all the games, 
 as it's only if you play it a fair amount that you realie that the physics are realistic enough 
 for it to be fun to play, but not to the extent that controlling the ball becomes impossible. Although 
 at times the game seems a little over-responsive, if you're oplaying with a friend, this game is 
 great fun. Laser Hockey is probably the most difficult to control of the games, as you may find 
 the tendacy to accidentally aim your wiimote offscreen more than usual, becasue of it's seemingly 
 over-responsive controls. The puc gets faster and faster as the game is played, which adds interest 
 into the game, especially if played with another player, which makes up for it's poor controls. 
 Billards is well put together due to it's reasonably good physics and style of play. It's slower 
 pace makes it more of a leisurely pastime with a friend than a competition, which is nice to play 
 once and a while. Fishing is quite fun, although gets a little boring quite easily, and also depends 
 on which character the bonus fish (which gives the lucky player who catches it like 4x more points) 
 chooses to latch onto. The design it quite nice, and once you get yused to the controls, they feel 
 a lot better than they could have done. Cow-racing is fun for the first few tries, but becomes 
 boring and tedious, once you realise that whoever is infront is bound to win, as they are likely 
 to hit down all of the scarecrows before you can reach them, meaning that often one player is at 
 a complete disadvantage. Despie this, the controls are well set out, and due to the sometimes occassional, 
 but sometimes frequent fences one player can sometimes be caught up by the other, which helps to 
 equalise the game. Tanks is a great game, as it is one of the only Wii games that can be controlled 
 with or without a nunchuck. Although controlling the tank is more difficult using the D-pad, it 
 is still very fun, and because you can fire bullets off walls to hit tagets, you don't need to 
 move around an excessive amount for it to be fun. Tanks is also the only co-operative (so-to-speak) 
 game on Wii Play, although it is still a competition to see who destroys more tanks, and the players 
 are able to eliminate each other. You can also lay mines in tanks, as well as fire bullets and 
 when put together with a variation of different tanks with different AI and abilities, the game 
 becomes a good one solo or multiplayer. All in all Wii Play is at it's best Multiplayer, but thanks 
 to the ability to earn medals for doing well in games (which variate in difficulty) the game is 
 also great fun single player as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davepete22
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  A few of the mini-games on Wii Play are very fun. Pool, shotting range, and hockey are very fun 
 games, the problem is that they get old soon. Since this game is really only $10 because you get 
 the controller, it is a great buy. When you play solo you can achieve medals which gives you something 
 to aim for. Mulitplayer is fun battling each other on the mini games, but you can only have 2 players 
 which doesn't make sense, since the Wii is a party system. In all it is worth buying for the controller 
 and a cheap thrill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is terrible. The only reason you were thinking about buying it is 'well, it's a remote 
 with a couple of extra games' right?
  Well you'd be better off saving your extra &pound;5 and just buying a remote by itself, cuz, wow, 
 most of these games suck. There's a shooting game which gets boring fast, then you have to find 
 your mii in a crowd, which sucks, there's a REALLY bad game where you have to 'pose your mii' into 
 bubbles, then there's a terrible table tennis game, theres a pretty good laser hockey game, theres 
 an OK billiards game, then theres a 'who the hell designed this piece of' fishing game, then theres 
 a pretty funny but badly controlled CHARGE game where you murder scarecrows on the back of a knitted 
 cow, then theres a game where you control a little tank and blow up other tanks.
  
  None of these games are all that good, and most of them are really, REALLY bad. So save your money 
 and get a remote separately. Then you can get a decent VC game or something with the money you 
 saved. Or 500 1p sweets. Take your pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryinmw
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Well since it is packaged in with a wiimote. It's technaly a 10$ game and so for that is not that 
 bad. But still it isn't that great of a game. You will get through the mini games really fast and 
 probly get the gold medals very fast also. The only really long mini game is tanks, which has over 
 100 levels. But as for Cow Running, Fishing, Ping Pong, a air hockey type of game, a new kind of 
 duck hunt (shooting range) , pool, and a memory game. And it lets you use your mii but doesn't do 
 much with it except just putting your mii in random places and stuff. If you need or want a wiimote 
 and have 10 more dollars its a good deal, but if you dont need a wiimote don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwsiowsnowy
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Wii Play comes bundled with a Wiimote. It consists of 9 mini-games including Table Tennis, Fishing 
 and Tanks.
  
  Most of the games are quite fun, except the ones involving your miis. The controls are easy to 
 use, so the game is easy to pick-up and play. I don't know if the experience is any different when 
 playing multi-player, since I haven't...
  
  The graphics aren't that great, but you don't really need great graphics for games like these. 
 Sounds is pretty good... There is quite a bit of re-playability, if you want to get gold medals 
 for each game, or play with a friend.
  
  Overall, the game isn't that great only having a few enjoyable games that I could play many, many 
 times. I thought it would be a lot better than it is, but... at least it came with another wiimote 
 :) Game-play: 7.5 (because of the few good mini-games)
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper9-07
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play isn't a very good game. It's like Wii sports with the games and medals, but still very 
 different. Shooting Range is a game where you shoot ballons, targets, discs, cans, UFO's, and random 
 ducks. The one player mode can use two wiimotes at once, using two guns. I tried, and it made it 
 harder than it should've been. Use one wiimote for shooting range. Find Mii is a game where you 
 find the mii it tells you to. The odd one out does the opposite of the rest. If all the miis look 
 at the left, it looks at the right. Table Tennis. One word: NO! The controls are bad. Pose Mii, 
 yeah... that game is just plain wierd. Laser hockey is air hockey, but with fancy lights to try 
 to make it exciting. It kinda works... Anyway, then there is fishing. DO NOT PLAY THIS ONE! THE 
 CONTROLS ARE CRAPPY, PRE-SCHOOLERS DREW THE FISH, AND IT STINKS. SUICIDAL GAME. PLAY AT OWN RISK. 
 Then there's a game where you ride a cow, yes a cow, and you run over scarecrows. My favorite is 
 last: Tanks. You drive a tank and shoot other tanks. This one's pretty good. Every 5 levels you 
 get another life. Overall, don't buy it. Really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james670
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  If this game were to be judged on its own, it would fare poorly, but as an add-on pack to a remote 
 (and costing $10 more than a remote on its own) , it's a decent collection of mini-games for a newbie 
 who's still learning how to use the remote.
  
  I found the Shooting Range and Laser Hockey to be quite addictive (for extra fun a la John Woo, 
 try playing Shooting Range as a single player with one remote in each hand) . The look and sound 
 of Laser Hockey was very good. Charge! is so silly, but it is a fair bit of fun as well. Tanks! 
 is a fair bit of fun. All the other games were of the play once, then put away variety.
  
  Overall, this collection of mini-games met my expectations. For ten bucks more than a remote on 
 its own, I didn't expect a game to blow me away, but rather some little quick-to-play games that 
 I could fire up if I want to burn a few minutes and have some good ol' fashion fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that is in the tradition of Wii Sports. It aims to teach you more ways of how 
 the Wii Remote can be used and nothing more. But the difference between the two is that Wii Sports 
 is actually fun. It was a great party game that was simple enough for kids, adults, senior citizens, 
 and anybody else. Some sports were obviously better than others, but the ones that were really 
 fun lasted a long time. Wii Play is as far away as appealing and long lasting as you can possibly 
 get.
  
  There are 9 mini-games that make up this lame excuse for a party game. However, it does start out 
 on a high note. The first mini-game is in the vein of Duck Hunt on the original Nintendo. If you're 
 aged enough to remember that awesome game (man, I feel old) , then this should be right up your 
 alley. The difference is that instead of shooting ducks, you're shooting targets of different point 
 values. However, there are ducks that fly across the screen at rapid speeds and if you're quick 
 enough to shoot one, it dies and falls to the ground much like the classic game. It's a nice touch. 
 This was a great start for Wii Play and it's one of the only mini-games that you'll ever see yourself 
 going back to.
  
  The second mini-game is one where you must find various Mii's that look alike or are faster than 
 the others. It's essentially a game of Where's Waldo? but not nearly as compelling (which is sad 
 if you think about it) . You find them, point at them, and click. That's it. It can be interesting 
 the first one or two times you do it, but it wears thin quick. The game does utilize the various 
 Mii's you have saved though, so it's cool to have to find yourself or your friends.
  
  The next game is Table Tennis. This mini-game feels like a rejected game from Wii Sports. It's 
 just as simple, but not nearly as fun. You hold the Wii Remote and move it side to side to return 
 the ball. The game tells you to get to 100 as if it would be a major feat. On my first try, I got 
 86. It's not hard, it's not interesting, and above all it's not fun.
  
  Up next is Pose Mii. You'll be taking the Mii that you are currently using and twisting your remote 
 side to side to fit your Mii inside of a falling bubble before it touches the bottom of the screen. 
 Each bubble has a certain pose in it and there are three different poses that you'll have to switch 
 between to fit into them. It's another ridiculously easy and pointless game that supposedly teaches 
 you how the control works. Don't expect to spend much time on this one.
  
  Next up is one of the worst of the whole package. It's more or less a prettier version of Pong, 
 but not as fun. Less is more sometimes and in this case, the older version is leaps and bounds 
 above this one. It makes it more complex by letting you move forward and backward and twist the 
 blocker around rather than the simple vertical movement of Pong. The problem is that the puck never 
 seems to go where you're aiming. Even if you angle your paddle upwards, it will usually bounce 
 somewhere else. You're better off finding Pong online.
  
  Thankfully, the next game makes up for the lack of fun in the last few ones. It's a simple game 
 of Billiards, or to be more specific, 9 Ball. You'll have to hit the 1 ball first, 2 ball second, 
 3 ball third, and so on. It's simple to do, but it still works just as well as you could hope. 
 You can put spin on the ball to position it where you want after the shot. You can also judge the 
 power of your shot. On top of this, there's a great overhead view that gives you a very precise 
 idea of where the balls are going to go after the shot. Outside of the Duck Hunt-esque first game, 
 Billiards is the only other one you'll come back to over time.
  
  One of the worst mini-games is Fishing. It's just what you think it is. You'll throw your line 
 into the water, wait for a bite, then pull back. Some fish are worth bonus points and some actually 
 subtract from your overall score, so there is just a bit of strategy. However, it's so boring that 
 you probably won't bother with strategy.
  
  The next one is appropriately titled Charge! This is one of the more interesting and humorous games 
 in the collection. You'll be riding a cow down a road running into scarecrows and jumping over 
 hurdles. Why? I have no idea, but it's definitely amusing. This is the only mini-game where you 
 hold the Wii Remote sideways. You tilt it forward to speed up, backward to slow down, and side 
 to side to turn. By quickly throwing it in the air, your cow will jump. It's fun, but there is 
 only one course so it's not that hard to learn it and once you do, there's no need to ever play 
 it again.
  
  The last mini-game is a game called Tanks! It's the only mini-game that utilizes the nunchuk. There 
 is an overhead view of your tank and other multiple tanks. Your job is to take them out. You'll 
 move with the nunchuk and shoot with the Wii Remote. You can also lay bombs to blow up the tanks 
 or take down barriers. It's not a bad game, but the bullets actually bounce off of the wall, so 
 you can expect to accidentally kill yourself more than once. It's the only game in this collection 
 that has a hint of challenge. Too bad it's not one of the better ones.
  
  The graphics are bland. How else can I put it? There's nothing to this game. You'll have 2D looking 
 fish in a puddle of blue, Mii's standing in the middle of nowhere, and a billiard table, among 
 others. The game never focuses on graphics, which it shouldn't, but you have to look for something 
 positive when the gameplay is this boring and the graphics certainly aren't it.
  
  The sound is just as bland. Obviously, there's no voice acting and the sound effects range from 
 footsteps to a tank blowing up. If you could hear these sounds without seeing what's onscreen, 
 you would know exactly what it is, so it's not terrible. But there evidently wasn't much effort 
 put into it.
  
  Let's face it. Everybody bought this game for the extra Wii Remote. If you say you didn't, then 
 you're lying. There's nothing about the game that would make anybody say, That looks awesome! I 
 absolutely have to spend my hard earned 50 dollars on that! If you want to include the extra remote, 
 then the game is essentially a mere 10 dollars. Please hear my cry and just buy the Wii Remote 
 seperate. Spend the extra 10 dollars on something else: a movie, a CD, food, anything. Any of it 
 would be better than this. My score only portrays the actual game, not the remote as well. I don't 
 believe that the game deserves to get a better score simply because it's packaged with an extra 
 remote. If you do, then tack 2 or so points on to this score. In the end, Wii Play is nothing more 
 than 9 mini-games with no lasting appeal ranging from decent to downright abysmal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Wii Play's 9 mini games don't offer much staying power. I must give Nintendo props though, their 
 anyone can play presentation has succeeded here in finally allowing me to convince my non-gamer 
 girlfriend to play.
  
  Nevertheless, Wii Play has no value to me as a single player game, it is only used when company 
 comes over. And even then I use it as more of an ice breaker because all of the games get boring 
 pretty quick, but are extremely easy to learn.
  
  As well as the over simplicity of the games, each one in itself is over rather quickly, not really 
 allowing you to carry on for too long with even one of the games you actually do like. The game 
 does have some value though, as is comes with a Wii Remote so essentially you get the game for 
 around $10 when you factor in the cost for another Remote. Without the Remote I would not be happy 
 at all with the purchase. But since it does get played on a fairly consistent basis (though not 
 for very long at a time) , it is not a total loss.
  
  The controls are good, which is another reason why this game is good at warming up newcomers to 
 the system. It gives you a good feel for the motion sensing part of it.
  
  Graphics are overly simple but thats fine, this compilation is definitely not about the shiny.
 
  
  Sound is good, nothing special but also nothing that makes you want to clean your ears with an 
 icepick.
  
  The game uses your Mii's which is always nice.
  
  A quick rundown of each game follows:
  
  Shooting Range - Probably the most fun one here for 
 me. I owe Nintendo a big debt for this one as my girlfriend loves it and we have a lot of fun playing 
 it. The game is just like it sounds... Shoot the targets that appear for points. Every once in a 
 while bonus targets appear awarding extra points. The problem is you will get to the last stage 
 within 3 minutes and you can't to anything but start over and play the exact thing again.
  
  Find Mii - This is a game where it will ask you to do things such as picking Mii's out of a 
 crowd or picking the one who is running the fastest. This one seems to continue on for as long 
 as you have time on the timer. Unfortunately the timely isn't very long at all. Not very much fun 
 to be had here...
  
  Table Tennis - Just like it sounds. Aim the Remote left and right to move the paddle into position, 
 tile it forward and back to go farther and closer to the net. Quite a simple game with not much 
 staying power.
  
  Pose Mii - Basically you each start with an icon of your Mii on front of you. This icon can have 
 3 poses. Bubbles drop from above with outlines of the different poses. The object is to cycle through 
 your poses (a button) , and twist the remote so it lines up to match the bubbles and then move the 
 icon onto the bubble for a match. It gets more difficult as time progresses and the person in the 
 end with most points wins. I wouldn't even bother showing this game to anyone over 12 years old.
 
  
  Laser Hockey - A close second for funnest game in this compilation. This is just basically a slightly 
 jazzed version of Pong, but the neon electrical theme and funky music make it fun. Whack the neon 
 puck back and forth till someone squeaks one into the others net. Score only goes to 8.
  
  Billiards - A simple game of pool, and in the top 3 for this title. Aim, pull back on the Remote 
 and thrust it forward to shoot. All this game really does is make you want a fully developed Billiard 
 game to play.
  
  Fishing - A very simplistic game meant for the young, though I must admit my girlfriend really 
 enjoys it and I always have a good laugh playing it with her. Hold your remote out in front of 
 you and position your hook near a fish to get it to bite. Once it nibbles yank backward to pull 
 in your catch. But watch out for those little fast ones, they are -50 points! Every once in a while 
 a big fish will appear offering major points; be the player with the most when the time is up and 
 you win.
  
  Charge! - Control a cow as it runs down a racetrack. Tilt the Remote forward to speed up and pull 
 back to slow down, jerk upward to jump. As you race down the track you can bump each other as you 
 each try and collect points by hitting scarecrows and such. This once gets old very quickly but 
 again, my girlfriend really liked it at first.
  
  Tanks! - This is the least played mini game for me. It's not very fun and it's over quite quickly. 
 You control a little tank and have to get rid of enemies by either shooting or dropping a mine. 
 The game play reminded me of Combat for Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giby101
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  WOW IT'S LIKE A BUNCH OF CRAPY FLASH GAMES FOR MY Wii! WHO EVER MAD THIS GAME HAS AN APPLE COMPUTER 
 AND HAS NO GF!
  I HAVE NEVER PLAYED A GAME FOR A CONSOLE THAT SUCKED THIS BAD! THE ONLY UP SIDE IS THAT WE GOT 
 ANOTHER CONTROLLER FROM ITAND THAT WAS IT! I WAS JUST MAD ON HOW MUCH IT SUCKED!
  
  MY HATE LIST
  
  1) EMO PEOPLE
  
  2) Wii PLAY
  
  3) APPLE COMPUTERS
  
  YEAH I HATE 
 IT MORE THEN AN APPLE, BUT I HATE EMOS JUST A BIT MORE.
  But if you have a young child i would highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Review: Wii Play
  
  Mini game based games are plentiful on Nintendo's fun little system. Will Wii Play stand out amongst 
 such high competition or will it fall flat? Well on the bright side it does come with a free controller.
 
  
  Story:
  No story to be found here just straight up mini game goodness.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically the game looks like the Mii channel, not even the quality of graphics 
 seen in Wii Sports. I have seen better graphics in Dreamcast games than the graphics featured in 
 Wii play, then again I have to say that I really didn't expect much when I went in so I wasn't 
 really let down especially since you use your Mii's in the game
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  Um in how many words can I state that the music sucks with out being insulting, or at least overly 
 so, I cant so all I have to say this that the music and the sounds are pitiful. I really hate to 
 break it to Nintendo but I got better music and sounds out of almost all of the N64 games I have 
 ever played than I have out of Wii Play
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  What is up for offering in Wii Play actually plays pretty good. The shooting gallery handles like 
 a champ and the table tennis and paddle hockey play exceptionally well (though I have problems 
 with the physics engine in paddle hockey, and the fact that the 2 games were way too similar for 
 their own good) . Too bad that can not be said for the shape matching game, the cow racing game 
 and the rest. Most of what is offered seem so short and no where near as fun or addictive as Wii 
 Sports
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  What design? There is only 7 mini games and only one of them are satisfying at all there is even 
 less to offer in this game than there was in Wii Sports, depth wise, with the exception of the 
 shooting gallery which felt incomplete and too limited in depth, over all, and by in large the 
 entire experience felt unpolished and incomplete. This ultimately led to boredom setting in far 
 too soon. That said there is some fun to be had with friends but even that is limited by the game's 
 lack of polish.
  
  Were it not for the fact that it comes with a Wii Mote I would consider this purchase a total wash 
 especially since the only really good game is the shooting gallery. This game is rent only material 
 and buy only if you need another Wii Mote
  
  Graphics
  5/10
  
  Game play
  7/10
  
  Sound
  5/10
  
  Fun factor
  7/10
  
  Tilt
  6/10
  
  Average score
  6.0
  
 
  Wii Play:
  
  Pros:
  Couples of the games are really awesome
  Comes with a Wii Mote
  
  Cons:
  Unpolished
  Seemed rushed and unfinished
  Looks generic
 
  At least 2 of the 7 games use the same gimmick
  Gets old Real Quick..... Like in an hour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgsmike85
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Ok before I start this game does not even come close to being as entertaining as wii sports but 
 it something to do if you are bored like wii spots you can use youre mii wile playing the different 
 games that are on the game the different games that are on wii play are the shooting range witch 
 is fun and uses the remote well, find mii witch is a lot harder than what you think but is fun 
 when playing with friends, table tennis this game upset me its no were near as fun as tennis you 
 move the remote left and right to catch to ball thats it, pose mii were you get you mii and put 
 it in bubbles not much fun sorry, laser hockey good fun a little slow at time but its still good, 
 billiards fun but pool is much better, fishing not fun at all for me, charge witch is a funny cow 
 racing game for points and tanks were you are a tank try to kill other tanks a bit of a let down 
 but to some things up wii play is good just wii sports blows it away and came free with the wii 
 so dont bother getting this game unless you want to give it ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The games included on the Wii Play disc are fun for a while but not forever. Like Wii sports they 
 are more or less to show people how the Wii's control works, and hence are good to be used for 
 parties or something to show friends how fun the system is. Im sure that most people, like myself, 
 bought the game mostly because it comes with a Remote.
  
  Gameplay 8- through various minigames people will learn how the Wii Remote works. They there is 
 some fun factor here to be had.
  Graphics 7- Not too special, but they show off what the Wii is capable off.
  Sound 6- Sound effects 
 that are cute and appropriate to the game.
  Replay Value 5- Low- This game will mostly likely be used only for parties.
  Fun Factor- 7- High
 
  
  My final score- 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigJayRod
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I actually did enjoy this game quite a bit. It's really not the normal gamer's game though. Even 
 though the controls are pretty advanced, the concept of the games is pretty old fashioned. I think 
 of this game as a training game for bigger and better games.
  
  The fishing game is allright. It can be pretty frustration, because some of the fish you have to 
 have an extremely fast reaction to catch. If you are just learning the Wii controls though it might 
 help you out some.
  
  Pool takes some skill. It is not nearly as difficult as it should be though.
  
  Laser Hockey 
 was the hardest game for me. It was extremely difficult for me to send the puck in the direction 
 I would want it to go. I got really frustated playing this game.
  
  Table Tennis is fun. Once you get the feel for the Wii controller, it get's a lot better. Cow Racing 
 is very wierd, but can be extremely fun too. How you control the speed and direction of your cow 
 is really cool too. This is one of my favorite games on Wii Play.
  
  The tank game is by far my favorite game on Wii Play. It is extremely addicting! It is really fun 
 to play with 2 people and it actually get's more challenging as you go. I could play this game 
 for hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikemoney21
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun game just it only comes with 8 minigames and it gets boring over and over 7 7 7 7 
 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 u7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 77 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  You know how some games are just WAY too easy?
  
  Well, if you are reading this review, then the answer is yes.
  
  You see, wii play is really 
 only a $10 game, as a remote normally costs $40 alone. If it didn't, then this game probably wouldn't 
 be worth it.
  
  It has 9 games. Freebie wii sports has no less than 20 games. (5 sports and 3 minigames for each) . 
 Not only that, but wii play is missing argueably the coolest part about Wii Sports; the fitness 
 test. Not to say wii play is a bad game, but it's FREE counterpart is actually better. But as said 
 by many others, if you need the wiimote, by all means get it.
  
  So what makes it so easy? I have played it only 2-3 hours, and I ALREADY have many bronzes and 
 silvers, AND a gold AND a PLATINUM medal. Wii sports: I have no golds or platinums whatsoever. 
 NOW i am finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homedawggydog
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Story: N/A
  
  Graphics: 4 Most of this looks like a bad GC game (the fishing minigame especially) . The only noteworthy 
 graphics are the neon light ones in the Laser Pong minigame.
  
  Sound: 6 Most of the sound effects are pretty annoying and you'll probably want to mute the controller 
 speaker. The music on the other hand is either forgettable (as in I forgot if there even was music) 
 or sounds like cheerful elevator music.
  
  Controls: 7 There is a different control premise for all of the different minigames but if you 
 have owned a wii already you should already know all of them.
  
  Entertainment: 5 Most of the games are really boring and frustrating (Pose Mii, Fishing, Charge!, 
 Laser hockey, Paddle Ball) but there are a few that are worth at least playing once (Shooting Range, 
 Find Mii, Tanks, and my personal favorite Billiards)
  
  Overall: 5.5 Does it qualify as an actual game? No. Is it worth the extra 10 bucks you have to 
 give away? No. But is it some fun if you do? Ehh... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  As the title suggests, the game aims for multiplayer. With tanks, fishing, lazer hockey, billiards, 
 ping pong, hunting and more, this game creates a fun zone where you and a buddy can hang out. With 
 the wiimote as an addition, this game lurks behind the title of possibly the best multiplayer game 
 for the wii out yet! But every husband has his mother in law and every game has its cons... The 
 sensor can get out of focus very easily in games such as billiards or lazer hockey, resulting in 
 a possible loss. This game has the ability to be on the top 10 wii games due to its high value 
 lack of repetition. (it's improbable to call a game where you face a human repetion.) If you are 
 new to the wii or want to introduce it to someone, this game is great for it. Asuming the role 
 of your own self designed mii, this game extracts fun out of every corner, enabling for an enjoyable 
 time with family, friends, parties, and many other things... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_is_fun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  It is actually a great game! Each game lives up to a certain quality that makes it great. Although 
 some of the games were a bit dull, stand outs such as Shooting Range, Billiards (great with friends) , 
 Charge and, my personal favorite, Tanks, really shine through. Not only that, but you get a free 
 Wii Remote. Each of the games is 2 player compatible and, through all that, you get medal scores. 
 The medal scores are what drives people especialy me) to keep coming back. The use of Mii's is 
 also great. In games, such as ping-pong and especialy find Mii, I saw Mii's that my friends and 
 I had created, and not just the ones I use often! Its nice to see my friends pop-in while I play 
 my video games sometimes!
  
  GREAT JOB NINTENDO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Wii play is the opposite of Wii sports. This is more of a lounging game, than a sports game, and 
 thats not such a bad thing. Wii play includes: a sort of remake of duck hunter, ping pong, laser 
 air hockey, a tank game, two matching games, 9 ball, fishing, and yes cow racing. Theses games 
 are meant for someone who doesnt want to play sports at the time. The games arent addictive as 
 Wii sports, but playing them with friends are great fun. One of the best features of this game 
 isnt on the disc, its in the box. Each new copy of Wii play has a Wii remote (nunchuck excluded) , 
 which makes it a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way right now. This game is not worth $50. If you do not need an extra 
 Wii Remote, do not buy this game.
  
  Let's be clear. This game hardly even puts up the pretense of being an actual game. It's mostly 
 there to teach you how to use the Wii Remote if you're a first-time player. And I suppose that, 
 in that respect, it succeeds. It has nine games, each of which involve a more complicated application 
 of the Wii Remote than the last, and each of which show the user a new way of using the thing.
 
  
  The problem is that once you've gotten the hang of the Wii Remote and have played through each 
 of the games once, it had no replay value for me from then on whatsoever. Each game does have a 
 high score list so that you can keep track of the best you've done in each game. This was evidently 
 put there in the hopes that it would inspire people to play the games repeatedly and try to get 
 better. The only problem is that games need to be fun or interesting before I actually care about 
 getting a high in them.
  
  The only game that was remotely interesting was the last game, in which you are a tank and you 
 have to use the Wii Remote to aim your turret, the B button to fire a shell, the A button to lay 
 a mine, and the nunchuck analog stick to move around. This one could potentially be fun if I got 
 into it. The only problem is that that's one game out of nine that is actually fun or interesting. 
 That's a failing grade, however you cut it. I had heard that most of the games were boring, but 
 I wasn't expecting that statement to be so true.
  
  In the end, boring is really the operative word to describe the contents of Wii Play. They are 
 not the worst games I have ever played, and they would perhaps make a good (and free) Macromedia 
 Flash quickie on the internet. But they mostly fail to have any redeeming qualities to make them 
 worth playing more than once or twice.
  
  As said above, do not buy this game for the game itself. It is not worth $50. And even if you do 
 need an extra Wii Remote, it's a tossup whether this game is even worth $10. It's mildly entertaining 
 for an hour or so, but nothing much beyond that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: discobreakdown
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  So you bought the Wii Play package and expected it to be the next Twilight Princess? Fool! C'mon, 
 if those games were made downloadable on the Virtual Console, it'd cost you (at least) $45! Sure, 
 they're not all mindblowing but, at the very least, some are entertaining and even FUN in a party 
 scenario! The highlights of Wii Play was the Shooting Range, Table Tennis, Laser Hockey, Billiards, 
 Charge, and Tanks! It takes a little while to get into it, but Tanks! was a lot of fun and surprisingly 
 addictive.
  
  I'll rate each game from 1 to 10. (* = great multiplayer)
  
  1) Shooting Range: 6.5
  2) Find Mii: 4.5
  3) Table Tennis: 6.5*
  4) Pose Mii: 6
  5) Laser 
 Hockey: 6.5*
  6) Billiards: 7.5
  7) Fishing: 6
  8) Charge: 7*
  9) Tanks!: 9* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiMustDie
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Lets seeeee... where to begin.
  
  The game is okay, Once you play it once your done. Rent this game, don't buy it unless you want 
 to get another Wiimote. The Good: Fishing game is nice, its the best game here.
  
  The Bad: Laser Hockey and Table Tennis are the same games essentually. The games overall are fun 
 the first time around, you have to play the first to unlock the second, and the second to unlock 
 the third, and so on. It really has no replay value. This should have been included on the Wii 
 Sports disc or something for how similar it is.
  
  Overall: Rent it, or buy it to get another Wii mote, play it and trade it
  
  Game Motto:
 
  Are we playing Wii Play or Wii Sports? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  dont buy this game. Honestly. Even though it has a controller packed in, save yourself 10 bucks 
 and jsut buy the controller. Its bad, its not fun, it gets old. thats all there is to say. The 
 wii is a great system, but theres one or two mini games on here you'll want to play more than once... and 
 youll ony want to play those a couple times. What a cheap way to get ppl to buy software.. pack 
 in a remote. Its not good. In a system that is innovative, and with so many other great mini games 
 available... why woudl you buy a crappy mini game like this, with non innovatifve ideas liek this:
 
  
  Play pool with the wii remote... COOL!!! ( It doesnt work)
  
  Fish... how .... original..
  
  Save your money, get a wii remote stand alone instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Wii play is basically a selection of 9 (just 9) minigames. All of which are extremely similar (the 
 later ones aren't similar though) . The thing here is that Wii Sports could get away with having 
 not so many sports to play with becauses of it's many other redeeming qualities. Wii Play lost 
 all of those qualities. The multiplayer is very, very weak only a few mini-games will give you 
 some fun while playing with a second player. And still that fun is short lived. Wii Play does have 
 some clever games though. Charge! involves you riding around on a cow trying to knock down scarecrows 
 it's silly and rather fun. Wii Play is also Mii heavy all the games require Mii's and one mini-game 
 called Find Mii (which requires you to find the Mii's that fit the goal) actually becomes easier 
 with the more Mii's you create. All the other mini-games are either brain rotting or it's remote 
 implementation stinks. A very good example of this would be Billards. Billards requires you to 
 pick where you want to strike the cue ball (that bit works fine) then you use the Wii-mote like 
 a cue to smack the ball. While that sounds all well and good the actual remote implementation is 
 so horrible that Billards is almost impossible to play. The sound here will drive you insane if 
 you play too long. It's just repeated patterns of music over and over and once again Billards music 
 will drive you crazy the quickest. All in all there is only 2 games that you will want to come 
 back to. Find Mii because it's suprisingly addictive and Laser Hockey because it's the only mini-game 
 that has any multi-player strength (and the remote implementation is shoddy there too) . Wii Play 
 is utterly mind numbing stuff. The best reason you have for buying this is that it normally comes 
 with a Wii-Mote for only a few pounds extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I thought this was really fun to play. It give us again a great handle on the wii remote motions 
 and its a wonderfull family or party game to have. Again graphics arent great but for what games 
 like these lack in graphics they make up for in never ending fun. Its a great game to have if you 
 and some friends are bored and want to play a quick competitive game against each other. I suggest 
 buying this because if you're ever bored of all your other games then you can still have a blast 
 with this game. Buy it, trust me, you wont be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  Yeah Wii Sports was fine, and that was for free. This game, more or less, cost $10, and it wasn't 
 great. Whatever. Logically, I think Wii Play should've been free, because Wii Sports is a far superior 
 game and probably would've sold more copies. But, then again, I'm not part of Nintendo, I got the 
 game, and I never said it was terrible.
  
  Before we even start, the first and probably biggest problem with the gameplay is that there are 
 nine games that don't last for very long. Nowadays, one of the most important things about a game 
 is that it lasts long. Whether it be an RPG that lasts for 40 or more hours (Baten Kaitos) or something 
 that's so addicting that you keep coming back for more (Guitar Hero) . None of the games in this 
 roster are lengthy and in-depth enough to really make it worthwhile.
  
  Now to start with the first game, the target shooting one (I don't remember the names of any of 
 them because that's reallly something I don't pay attention to, so bear with me) . They recreated 
 Duck Hunt with this one, and it's times like this I wish I had that new gun they're coming out 
 with soon (again, sorry, forgot the name) . There are a few twists, and it tends to get harder with 
 each level, but there are only 5. CINCO, MAN! The original had, well, it didn't really have a limit 
 now did it?
  
  Next is table tennis, 'cept it's not actually table tennis. You're just moving the remote to the 
 ball and then it automatically hits the ball back for you. The highest score possible is 100 times, 
 and it really isn't that hard to get to. After that, nothing. BORING!
  
  The third one I think is called Find Mii. I found this one okay to deal with up until the fifth 
 level where it asks for the odd pair out. That confuzzed me like no one would believe. THEY ALL 
 LOOK DIFFERENT! That game shouldn't have been there in the first place, if you ask me. All you're 
 doing is pointing the Wii at the screen and choosing something with the A button. We learned that 
 waaaaaaayyyyyyy before we played this game. In fact, we re-learn how to do this every day through 
 the WII DASHBOARD! Is he going to capitalize letters to express his anger and sarcasm for every 
 game? The answer is probably. This next one actually ain't so bad. This is the one where you have 
 to switch positions of the Mii and fit him or her inside a bubble before it hits the pool. That 
 is probably one of the weirdest things ever, but that's why Nintendo is awesome. If they weren't 
 weird, what would Mario have been? Getting back to the subject, this game is challenging, but not 
 so much that you just give up because it's too hard. This game will keep some people coming back 
 for more. Me, well it just wasn't my kinda game, so I stopped. I'm sure with more practice, I could 
 get the gold, but I just don't feel like it. Hey, I didn't capitalize something out of sarcasm.
 
  
  Billiards is not so great. Sometimes, the controller acts weird and I don't get the shot that I 
 wanted mainly because the power that I needed wasn't there. If I hit it too hard, that would be 
 okay, because I'd have still hit the target ball, but since it wouldn't have, I'd have to deal 
 with a foul. Also, there's no power bar like there was in golf, so you can't tell how hard you 
 hit the cue ball, and you also don't get a practice... uh.... I'm just gonna call it a cue strike. 
 So you don't get practice cue strikes to see how hard you need to strike the cue ball, so you may 
 not get the shot you wanted. Not so great. Okay I guess after Find Mii, I seemed to stop using 
 capital letters for sarcasm. Up next is Laser Hockey, which I thought I'd like, because it's a 
 remake of Pong with the Wii Remote as the controller. And I'm a man who enjoys his Pong. I was 
 wrong. And the tears came down like a waterfall..... Okay, I'm not actually that big a fan of Pong, 
 but anyway, the controls were probably the most awkward out of all 9 games on there, which made 
 it the most frustrating (next to Find Mii) . These next three games are actually my favorites. Starting 
 with the Fishing one. This one is kinda challenging mainly because you have to move the Wii Remote 
 in three dimensions. It takes some time to get used to, but it's still fun.
  
  This one is what I like to call Dolly Tank Hunter. I'm a big fan of these kinds of games. Only 
 thing I don't like is the fact that one hit and you're dead. I guess that's how it works with most 
 of these but when a rocket is coming at you at a really high speed and you can't bolt outta the 
 way because your tank is too slow, you gotta shoot the rocket. The question is, are you that accurate. 
 I'm not saying it's impossible, but basically I've hit enemy projectiles by accident every time 
 I have. It's still fun.
  
  This last one is by far my favorite. Charge! (I remember this name) , as short as it is, is a great 
 introduction to what racing games are and will be like on the Wii. I've heard it's horrible but 
 this game makes me want to try Excitetruck. But anyway, getting back to Charge!, your Mii is sitting 
 on a cow (at least I think it's a cow) and you have to run over scarecrows that pop outta the ground. 
 Not much to it, but working with the controller the way it is just makes this game all the better 
 (cause it's turned sideways)
  
  Graphics and sound are both inferior to Wii Sports as well. Visually it's not as appealing and 
 the music just isn't as good.
  
  You know why value's so low? I'll tell you. First off, this game is best played as a multiplayer, 
 because after a very short amount of time, you will be bored with these ever so short games and 
 need 3 other people to play this with you. Oh, I'm sorry, but it's only TWO PLAYER! (There it is. 
 Ah, sweet sarcasm.) And, to continue, you already have Wii Sports, which is 4-player in 4 of the 
 5 games, has other training activities involving those 5 sports, and is basically identical to 
 Wii Play, except better, and it's for free. So if you want other friends to see Wii's awesomeness, 
 show them Wii Sports, not this.
  
  This needed the Wii Remote to get it off the shelves. Otherwise, no copies would've been sold. 
 To anyone who has gotten this already, oh well, enjoy it while it lasts. My sarcasm shows a lot, 
 but you will find some good games in there. To those who haven't, I'd advise to keep not having 
 it, but if you really want it and you want a controller, it's basically $10 for the game, so you 
 ain't losin' too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game for the Wii, (no way!!!) , that basically teaches you how to use the wii-mote 
 with 10 simple-to-learn mini games. These mini games include the Shooting Range, Find the Mii, 
 Table Tennis, Pose Mii, Laser Hockey, Billards, Fishing, Charge, and Tanks. You start off learning 
 how to point and move your Wii-mote with the Shooting Range. You then later go on to learn more 
 about how to use the wii-mote and all of it's properties. The game itself isn't all that fun, but 
 it is technically a $10 game, (Wii-mote's cost $40) . So you can figure that it's a dollar a game 
 it's actually a pretty good deal. GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is pretty basic and easy to pick up. In 
 most of the games you simply just point your wii-mote at the screen and click either A or B. However 
 with the game Charge, you get to tilt your wii-mote sideways and play like that. And with Tanks 
 you have the option to play with the nunchuck. GRAPHICS: The graphics... not much to say here except 
 that there not awful but there also not revolutionary. Sound: The sound in this game could do with 
 some fine tuning. Some of the sounds are a little out of balance and some sounds just don't even 
 fit!
  
  VALUE: I would say that this game isn't really a must have, but it does come with the free wii-mote 
 so that definitely helps!
  
  Overall this game is pretty low down, but with a free wii-mote you really can't go wrong here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  My friend's bro got this game for the Wii and I got the good chance to try it out... cool, huh? 
 Here is what I think.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) -
  Great game with fun minigames but they don't last really long unfortunately! : ( The only things 
 in this game is 9 minigames/whatever you call them to play with and THAT'S IT! But at least it 
 came with a wiimote! Now I have 3 Wiimotes!
  
  Graphics (9/10) -
  Great graphics! I love Miis! The background doesn't look bad or anything either!
  
  Sound (7/10) -
 
  Music and sound is OK. Really, they are basic sounds.
  
  Value (9/10) -
  It comes with the wiimote after all. And it's at least something to play with.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt (7/10) -
  Short game, but the games are still great! You even get a wiimote with the package!
  
  -TOTAL 
 SCORE- (7.9/10) -
  OK game with OK sounds, music, graphics, whatever! Gameplay is not really long but the minigames 
 are still a bit fun at least. It also comes with the wiimote so you can buy it if you want an extra 
 wiimote and a game. NOTE: Its fun with multiplayer in this game, but sadly, only 2 players is the 
 max people to play! Sad, I know. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  To be honest, probably like most, I purchased this as I wanted a second controller and didnt mind 
 paying the extra &pound;5 to get one. I am glad that I did, as Wii Play is quiet a good title to 
 show folk who never used a wii before, and they can have fun creating their own mii.
  
  All of the mini-games are short lived; you wouldnt play any of them for a long time, but I find 
 that I do come back to them now and again to see if I can beat my highest score. That has reminded 
 me of a niggle! You can only see your miis highest scores, so there isnt that pull to beat anyone 
 elses. By far the best mini game in my opinion is the tanks; this is pretty enjoyable, but only 
 one player. The laser hockey is good for a laugh with friends too!
  
  In conclusion, Wii Play is definitely worth the &pound;5 provided you are buying it for the extra 
 controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: FREE WII REMOTE!, 9 Completely different mini games, good use of the remote, multiplayer 
 can be fun, but short lived, clean presentation, can use your Mii's
  
  The Bad: The game will become boring very quickly, no online multiplayer
  
  This game is well 
 known purely because it comes with a Wii Remote, but trust me when i say this, if it didnt come 
 with the remote, it wouldnt really be worth buying.
  
  There are 9 mini games within this game (that can be played with a friend - if you have any, or 
 the computer) , the mini games are:
  - Shooting game (where you shoot cans, clay pigeons and finally UFO's
  - Spot the mii (where 
 you spot wiis within a group, whether its the fastest moving, 2/3 of the same or the wiis your 
 using)
  - Table Tennis (where you basically control a paddle and hit a ball back and forth
  - A game where you have to move your mii into these bubbles and at the end change you mii's shape 
 adding challenge.
  - An Air Hockey type of game - Fishing
  - Cow riding/racing
  -Snooker
  
  The shooting game is probably the longest mini game which involves you shooting 
 cans, clay pigeons and finally UFO's, the UFO part is a good idea and if you really want to win, 
 involves concenrtation, i give this mini game 8/10
  
  The spot the mii mini game is fun, especially with friends, it involves oy ulooking through a group 
 of miis trying to find the mii required, i rate this mini game 8/10
  
  The table tennis is probably the worst of the 6, its feels sloppy and just seems to be there to 
 add quantity, it can be fun but is not something you are dying to go on when you put this game 
 in, i rate it 5/10
  
  The mini game that involves you turning your miis to fit bubbles and change their stance is great 
 fun and is personally probably my favourite of the 6, its a great idea and good use of the remotes 
 capabilities, i rate this game 8.5/10
  
  The air hockey game is also pretty impressive, it involves you rotating your remote and trying 
 to score a goal against your opponent, i rate this game 7.5/10
  
  The fishing game is ok but can be tricky at times, its more fun with friends, and racing to get 
 the most and more valuable fish in the time limit is fun, i rate this mini game 7/10
  
  Finally the cow riding game is also pretty fun but the remote can be unresponsive at times, but 
 when you get the hang of it it can be a laugh, i rate it 7/10
  
  The remote is pretty much used in different way for each of the mini games which is cool as it 
 adds variety, its responsive in most of the games to.
  
  The game generally looks pretty good, the cow mini game looks a bit out of date but the others 
 are cool and do the job nicely.
  
  You can also use your Mii's on this game which is cool and makes spotting thm in the spot the mii 
 game a bit more fun.
  
  Sadly there are a few flaws with this game, firstly is the duration, you can play through all the 
 games within 30-40 minutes easily, after this its just not the same, your not left wanting to play 
 through them again, some you will have a slight urge to play again, but after the 3rd-4th time 
 its just straight up boring, and the 9 games are simply not enough.
  
  Its a shame not to see online multiplayer on this game as it would have been cool to go against 
 people from around the globe and would have given the game a much better score.
  
  So in conclusion only buy this game if you want the wii remote as its a pretty poor game by itself 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piecar
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, the lowest rung on games that I own on the Wii. But, once again, i wanted to get 
 another wiimote and i decided that a likely blah game for 10 dollars is better than a terrible 
 one at 50. In terms of gameplay, a lot of the games are quite lacking. The best picks would be 
 the Air Hockey, 9-Ball and the cow racing game ( it's actually quite inane, but it still amuses 
 me) . This is a definitely a game that you must play with other people, it has no value as a stand 
 alone, but considering you are getting the package for the extra remote, it is likely that that 
 is your plan. It's not bad... but it's not good either. Chances are, you will stick with Wii Sports. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirbster739
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Game: Wii Play
  Requirements : Wii Remote (included with game) and some specific number of data block space that 
 I have no idea the size of.
  Optional : Nunchuck Controller (I recommend it for playing Tanks) and a second Wii Remote for multi 
 player (if you have friends or a family) and for duo guns on the shooting range.
  
  Wii play is a very nice game for the Wii. It really brings Mii into the a Wii game. Even though 
 there are only 9 games all of them have some sorta replay value. For example the shooting range 
 is fun cause you can use 2 Wii motes as guns to make it even harder. Tanks is a great time and 
 there are a total of 100 missions after you have gotten a gold medal, which leads me into my next 
 topic. Wii play has 4 different possible medals you can earn on all 9 of its games: Bronze, Silver, 
 Gold, and Platinum. Bronze and Silver are really not that hard to get on any of the games after 
 maybe the 3rd try if not the second. Gold is relatively easy to get on most of the games except 
 for a few. Platinum though does offer a challenge from a range of not moderate - not sure how I 
 can get it. I have achieved platinum on all but Laser Hockey which is really difficult. Many of 
 the other games too were tricky to get platinum for as well. The games also incorporate more than 
 one person even if on single player mode. Even if someone is just watching you they will probably 
 end up joining in on some of the games like Tanks and ESPECIALLY on Find Mii. Multi player is 1 
 - 2 players. Even though 4 would have been nice on some games it just doesn't work for all of the 
 games. Each game has an almost different expierience in multi player than in single player. Tanks 
 especially is fun because you and your friend will end up either cooperating or just killing each 
 other whenever you have the chance and never actually reaching mission 20.
  
  Overall Wii Play is a very good game for the price. I feel its almost worth a little more. It really 
 gets you started with using a Wii Remote and really involves your Mii's into your game. It should 
 appeal to almost anyone of any age and offers a fair amount of replay value by multi player and 
 medal earning. If your out of games to play get this, it is very much worth your time.
  
  Score for Wii Play : 7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightcall14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I would not recommend the game for the hardcore player that likes to use every button on the remote. 
 But this game is a great way to learn how to use the Wii remote better and It is good for any casual 
 gamer who likes very simple games. Certain games in Wii Play are focused on aiming like the shooting 
 range or tanks. While other games focuses on tilting like charge or pose mii and some games focus 
 on reaction like table tennis, laser hockey and fishing. But overall this is only for the casual 
 player who likes simple games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  It's too simple and uninteresting for seasoned gamers and adult gaming newcomers, too difficult 
 for young 'uns, and handily outpaced by other minigame collections. Wii Play fails in every meaningful 
 way.
  
  There are two ways to view this: optimists will have a why not attitude, and compare its purchase 
 to buying a Wii remote while scoring a handful of cheap minigames along the way. Pessimists will 
 recognize it as overpriced software bundled with a Wii remote, and think why bother. Half full, 
 or half empty? It doesnt really matter. Its just a half a glass of plain, flavorless water either 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have the game Wii Play and you want another Wii-mote, this is a good way to spend 
 10 extra bucks and get a good game and a Wii-mote at the same time. I don't think I would pay $49.99 
 for just the game but the fact that it comes with a Wii-mote makes this game 100% worth the money. 
 All 9 mini games on Wii Play are 2 player, and there all simple, yet fun. I think people are being 
 too harsh on rating this game, I think the're forgetting that technically they only paid $10 for 
 the game since the Wii-mote that comes with the game is worth $40. I also think that Wii Play is 
 more fun playing 2 player. Whether you wanna charge a speeding cow through some scare-crows, fish 
 some fish, or shoot some trap Wii Play can, and will entertain you, your family, and your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss4444gogeta
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is horrible. Shooting Range has to be the best game, but it still isn't worth anything. 
 Find Mii is boring, Table Tennis is hard, Pose Mii is weird, Laser Hockey is just creepy, Billiards 
 was shortened, from 15 balls to 9 balls, Fishing has the worst graphics of all (the fish look like 
 paper) , Charge! is just ----what? And the last game, Tanks, is repetitve. If people are telling 
 you to buy this game, do it, and give just the game back to Game Crazy for $25 bucks. Then get 
 a nunchuk controller, and get 5 extra bucks somehow. Then go to the Virtual Console, and get 1000 
 Wii Points from yours or your parents' credit card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  not really much point in this game. here are my scores for each one:
  
  shooting range=9/10 (fun)
  find mii=6/10 (boring)
  table tennis=7/10 (okay)
  pose mii=8/10 
 (inventive)
  laser hockey=7/10 (alright)
  pool=8/10 (addictive)
  fishing=7/10 (weird)
  charge=8/10 (weirder)
  tanks=7/10 (meh) the mii capabilities are good and you will have an okay 
 time with this game while it lasts, but it will not keep you entertained after you have done everything. 
 you can go back and get high scores if you want to but there really is no point.
  
  only get this if you are buying a wii for the first time and need the remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Well Wii Play is not what you would expect from a Wii titled game.
  
  Luckily you can get this game for 10 Dollars with a 40 Dollar Wii-Mote.
  
  This game can be 
 fun for ahwile, but sooner or later it loses its hype.
  
  In this game theres simply just 9 minigames to play through. Yeah that's it. Pool, Tanks, Fishing, Wii 
 Pose, Wii Find, Shooting Gallery, Laser Hockey, Cow Racing, and Table Tennis. Below I'm showing about 
 these games
  
  Pool - [ Just Right ] A very fun game. Sometimes it can get annoying though, It's just simple rules. 
 Knock the number balls in order shown by an arrow.
  
  Tanks - [ Hard ] One of the best games. Very difficult but multiplayer mode kicks @$$. Just got 
 to destroy the other tanks.
  
  Fishing- [ Easy ] Just catching fish. A pretty ok game.
  
  Wii Pose - [ Easy - Very Hard ] Worst game. It's just so boring im not going to even explain 
 how dumb it is.
  
  Wii Find - [ Very Easy - Just Right ] A good attempt, but finding matching or your mii's doesn't 
 last.
  
  Shooting Gallery - [ Just Right ] For the first game, it's pretty good. Just shooting ducks and 
 targets lasts a little ahwile. Laser Hockey - [ ??? ] This game depends, 2 player mode is great, 
 when your by yourself it's not that interesting. Great music makes up for the bad gameplay though.
 
  
  Cow Racing - [ Easy - Just Right ] Simply race your cows to get max points before time runs out. 
 A cute game.
  
  Table Tennis - [ VERY FRIGGIN HARD !!! ] I dont get this one, the controls are worse then the originial 
 Pong. No mode is fun. Because of the hard and unforgiving controls, Paddling a ball just ain't 
 fun this time around.
  
  Overall this game needs something more to push the envolope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Wii play is a game with a free wii-mote. It consists of nine mini-games that are all multi player (thats 
 why you get a free wii remote) and star your Miis. Some of the games are surprisingly good while 
 others completely suck. here are the nine games:
  1 Table Tennis-rally the ball back and forth to rack up points.
  2 Find Mii-find a certain mii 
 in a huge crowd of Miis.
  3 Laser Hockey-hit the ball back and forth till someone scores.
  4 Tanks-move a tank with the nunchuck and shoot other tanks.
  5 Charge-ride cows and hit scarecrows 
 to get time bonuses.
  6 Pose Mii-pose a Mii into falling bubbles.
  7 Shooting range-shoot moving objects.
  8 Fishing-fish to see who can catch the most fish.
 
  9 Billiards-play a classic 9 ball billiards.
  
  THE GOOD: Some good games and a free wii-mote.
  
  THE BAD: Bad games with bad graphics.
  
 
  OVERALL: A ten dollar game with a free wii remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Wii play and Wii sports should have come in the same package. Oh well. Wii play is an awsome family 
 game though. Very easy to pick-up and play. Everyone can play regardless of age. If you loved Wii 
 sport, pick it up for that extra controller to add some family laughter in front of the TV.
  
  The graphics aren't much to look at, however, the mini-games and replay values are great - 
 meaning you have 2 controllers and another buddy to compete with. The sound is nothing special, 
 it's there.
  
  There are 9 mini-games, all have their moments of fun and will appeal to different people. Billard 
 and Tanks have surprising depth and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiigamin_com
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a hard game to judge. Whilst it is not technically amazing, or graphically amazing, 
 well really, nothing is amazing about it, it costs less than $10, as a Wii Remote is included which 
 is why the price is what it is. Basically, I say buy it, but only if you need the extra remote, 
 if you already have four then its not really worth it. The game is more of a training exercise, 
 to get used to the Wii Remote, although a couple of the games have some replay value.
  
  There are 9 mini-games you can choose from, though you have to play one to unlock the next, then 
 play that to unlock the one after etc, so youve done all the exercises by the time youve unlocked 
 the last game.
  
  For the full review go to:
  http://www. wiigamin. com/wii-play-review/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _N00b_for_life_
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i knew that it wouldnt have much replay value. i bought it for the extra remote. 
 that is potentially the only reason to buy this game. it comes with 10 games (twice as many as 
 wii sports) but they arent all that great. they dont even compare to wii sports at all, and they 
 dont have the mini games for each individual sport or game like wii sports does. so if you have 
 enough remotes for your wii, dont buy this game. think of it as a $10 game, because it is more 
 of a demo showing everything that the wii can do than it is a game. so, if you buy this game, dont 
 expect too much from the game itself, just sit back and enjoy your extra wiimote and have fun while 
 it lasts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veni-vidi-vici
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  I guess this is indeed, as pitched, a good way to teach people to use the wiimote, but quite frankly, 
 learnign to use the wiimote is not exactly hard, it's extremely intuitive, so this game is a little 
 unecessary. Warioware does a much better job because it had a wider variety as a mini-games compilation, 
 albeit a fleeting taste of everthing. Wii-play's Snooker is pretty inventive with the wiimote, 
 but again that was also in Warioware. The graphics, music and sound effects suffice, and do well 
 to enhance the games, but arent exactly cutting-edge. This package also severely lacks structure 
 in comparison to wii sports.
  
  I think to actually rate this game is a little harsh because its not actually a quality standalone 
 title, rather a freebie bundle package with the wiimote, you'd be surprised if it were anything 
 more, and yeah, you don't get surprised. If youre competitive, battling it out with another player 
 doing anything is still fun, so wii play is only fun if we all play. But once its taught you all 
 that needs to be learned, the games lose novelty completely and are pretty mediocre. Table tennis 
 especially is disappointingly passive, especially when compared to wii sports.
  
  Unfortunately there are only 3 games I enjoy on this; 1) Charge! (the cow and scarecrow race) as 
 its pure fun, an original concept, the wiimote use feels intuitive and the artistic design is 
 beautiful  a crochet world is so damn cute.
  
  2) Shooting (especially aliens to protect your squealing miis) is pure fun even if the concept 
 does obviously lack originality. 3) Laser hockey can be tense and exciting but I guess its playing 
 this with good friends who are decent opponents and cheering spectators that made this fun for 
 me, not the game itself. Its a worth-it and cheap buy bundled with the wiimote, good for the kiddies 
 and family as a decent intro to the wiimote and motion-sensing, but once the introductions are 
 over, its value stops. I guess you cant expect it to be some outstanding title in its own right. 
 Charge is pretty worth it in itself for its unadulterated sense of fun. But this really isnt one 
 for the *ahem* hard-core gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  hen this game came out wiimotes were hard to get, so why not pay an extra $10 and get 9 miney games? 
 lets break down the games one bye one. Theres a range shooting it's fun with more people shhoting 
 targets, skeet, cans ufos and other stuff. Im gonna give that game a 7. next is pick your mii out 
 of a crowd and matches kinda like weres waldo. This game is fun for a few minuts then it gets very 
 boring, so that gets a 6.5 .Nexts is the bubel matching game this game is so boring and so unenspierd 
 it's no wwere near fun. Just match your mii by twisting it or chnageing it's poster. You cant let 
 it past the line. if you want some other friends fallnig asleep too ask them to join, a 4.5. next 
 is pong. Use the wiimote to move your piuce and try to scroe. Theres pirty lights to try to distract 
 you from notcing your palying a 30 so year old game. it's decent. 7. next is probley the stronges 
 and thats pool. Thoe it only offers one mode of pool it's fun actually. Take the wiimote back and 
 strike it like a real pool stick. 7.5 TThen theres fishing. Try to get the target fish with real 
 fishing movements. it's hard tto tell when you got a fish on line and it's really boring. 4.5 Cowraceing 
 tilt the wiimote to knock over scare crowws, one corse same every time and the cows are imbalnced 
 5. Finaly theres a combat ripoff. This requiers a numchuck. Theres no deathmatch only coop vs,. 
 5.2 So wii play isnt as good as wiisports and you'll put it down after a feww short minuts. it's 
 a fun diversion for only 10 extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungholio55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  WiiPlay is a great investment for somebody buying a Wii Remote (It includes one) . It's only $10 
 more then a Wii Remote. You should not go out and buy this game. If you are buying a Wii Remote 
 pick up WiiPlay for only $10 dollars extra. The gameplay does get boring for anyone over the age 
 of 5 pretty fast. Except for a few games. Pool, Tanks, Table Tennis, and Laser Hockey were the 
 ones I still play ocasionally. But if you have a younger child they might enjoy all of the games. 
 You know graphics aren't amazing but it's like Wii Sports. The sound is decent it doesn't sound 
 terrible or amazing. The Value is great if you are buying a Wii Remote but if you to go buy this 
 without needing a Wii Remote it is a waste of money. Bottom Line: Buy WiiPlay if you are getting 
 a Wii Remote for only $10 more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why i bought this was for the Wii remote. when you work out what i paid its only 
 $15 extra for the game.
  
  Well i wish i saved that money after playing this game. most of the mini games are so useless and 
 boring theres no point in playing them.
  
  Were they trying to point this title to kids under the age of 12? anyone older than that wouldnt 
 find racing cows over scarecrows or moving your Mii into diff shapes a fun game.
  
  Grahics are cartoonish and very basic. they did not put much effort in this department. esp when 
 your Mii looks like your face pasted on a stick figure... C'mon nintendo you can do much better 
 than this.
  
  dont waste your time. even with a free remote its not worth paying extra for this. seriously. itl 
 end up collecting dust in minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizkid357
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, the only reason most everyone is getting the game is because of the fact it gets tied 
 in with a $40 remote anyway. The game is a collection of basically tech demos. First things first, 
 graphics are sub-par. It's very simple art style so nothing shining over there. The sound is average, 
 few songs are that rememberable. Now, onto the minigames. First we have Shooting. It's fun and 
 a cool pick-up-and-play game the first time, but rarely do I suddenly say Wow! Let's play Shooting 
 on Wii Play! It's just boring afterwords. Then we have Find Mii. There's Miis in a crowd. You find 
 the things it asks for. So basically we're getting Where's Waldo wiimake. We have Pose Mii, a repetitive 
 minigame where you match your mii to fit in certain shapes. Again, fun at first, boring later. 
 Moving on we have Table Tennis, which is very shallow. In one player, you player against an undefeatable 
 computer to test how long you can rally. In 2 player you go head to head. 2 player can be fun, 
 1 usually isn't. Then we got BIllards, which is slow and boring, but surprisingly a little more 
 deep (not much.) Fishing feels unnatural and forced, as you try and snag a couple paper cut outs 
 of fish. An air hockey clone is included, but can actually be pretty fun. The acid-neon style is 
 pretty cool, too. Charge! is yet another game that clearly feels like a tech demo. You're on a 
 bull or cow or something and you run over scarecrows. It screams of Play it once maybe and don't 
 play again Tanks, the last game is a surprising entertaining remake of the Atari classic Combat. 
 Featuring many kinds of enemys and levels, it is pretty fun. Playing these games in 1 player can 
 be a drag. But you're motivation is a bunch of medals you can snag. All in all, Wii Play is a load 
 of tech demos that you might find at E3 or something. The pack-in is worth it though, so just pick 
 it up. 10 bucks is a fair price for the game, if not a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is very fun game with all the games inside it. With Wii Play you can use your own Wii 
 that you made, and like Wii Sports if you get a medal then they will send it to your inbox. And 
 at first don't be alarmed only the first game will be unlocked so you have to playthrough them 
 all to unlock them all. And the whole game can be 2-player.
  
  There are nine different games in Wii Play they are:
  
  Shooting Range: You use your Wiimote 
 to shoot at anything that flys across the screen.
  
  Find Mii: In this one you will have to do as prompted on the screen before each level. Most of 
 the time you have to find cecrtain Miis. You use your Wiimote.
  
  Table Tenis: You use your Wiimote to grab your paddle and then hit the ball across the table back 
 and forth till one person misses and it goes of the table.
  
  Pose Mii: In this game you use the Wiimote to flip your Mii into different positions to fit into 
 the bubbles on the screen.
  
  Laser Hocky: This game is a lot like Pong with your Wiimote but, with a new style.
  
  Billiards: 
 You thrust your Wiimote at the screen the move you ball across the table. But you can hit ball 
 from on top or under or even the side. Plus you can change your camara angle.
  
  Fishing: You get to fish by dipping your Wiimote in the lake and reeling in the fish. And at the 
 top of the screen it will show the bonus fish for that time and if you catch it you will get double 
 the points.
  
  Charge!: This one is very fun you get to ride a bull and charge at scarecrows and get points for 
 knocking them over. You hold the Wiimote long ways and tilt it forward to go faster bring it back 
 to stall, and pull it up to jump.
  
  Tanks!: This has to be the funnest one of all you drive around in a tank and you take out all the 
 other tanks. With this you can use just your Wiimote and use the D-pad to move aroung. Or you can 
 use your Nunchuck to move and just you Wiimote to shoot.
  
  If you don't have many games for your Wii I would recommend getting this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Just in case you thought the Wii remote would be limited as a gaming controller because of its 
 configuration, Nintendo has released Wii Play, a small collection of games specifically designed 
 to highlight the numerous capabilities of the new scheme. The games themselves are simple almost 
 to a fault, using only a one or two motions each. Some of this is mediated by the charming use 
 of Mii avatars in each game, but ultimately Wii Play feels more like a fleshed-out tech demo that 
 a full-fledged game. The saving grace to it is that it comes packaged with a Wii remote, so given 
 that you want another remote, youre getting the game for only about $10.
  
  There are nine games total in Wii Play, and in order to unlock them all, youll have to play through 
 each one to get to the next. In doing so, youll be introduced to the different motion-sensing 
 capabilities of the Wii remote. Whether it be simple point-and-click, twisting, tilting, or moving 
 forward and back in 3D space, each game provides an entertaining context for each motion.
  
  Some games, like Laser Hockey or Target Shooting, are rather short, limited to a few rounds 
 or a point limit. Others, like Find Mii and Tanks!, are limited only by your abilities and can 
 last for over 30 minutes. Since the point of each game is to introduce the abilities of the remote, 
 theres generally very little needed to jump right into the game. Likewise, becoming reasonably 
 proficient at any game only takes a little bit of effort. This is especially good for non-gamers 
 just learning the ropes, but for seasoned players its going to feel overly simple. Of course, 
 this is most definitely intentional, since the entire modus operandi of the Wii is accessibility.
 
  
  Wii Play rewards proficiency in each game by rewarding you with medals, much like the training 
 modes in Wii Sports. Gaining the elusive platinum medals for each one can be quite a task, and 
 for most of the games, a sizable time investment. Given that the games themselves are fairly simple 
 and repetetive, its hard to justify playing them over and over again just to gain better medals. 
 Since there are no online scoreboards to track your progress against other players, the impetus 
 to do so diminishes even further.
  
  Still, there is an undeniable charm to the entire group of games, thanks to the liberal use of 
 Mii avatars. No other game exemplifies this like Find Mii, in which youll need to identify certain 
 Miis from a crowd based on certain criteria, like the fastest one or the odd-Mii-out. Something 
 about seeing the avatars you create, especially those of friends and family, makes the whole thing 
 quite endearing. Trying to save them from being abducted by aliens in the final stage of Target 
 Shooting is a real kick, too.
  
  Like other Wii games, the motion sensing isnt always perfect, particularly in Billiards, which 
 requires you to push towards the screen to strike the cue ball. The game seems to detect the pushing 
 and pulling motions somewhat erratically, and making controlled contact with the ball ends up being 
 unnecessarily difficult. In all fairness though, this is the only really aggravating point. The 
 other games are generally very precise with translating your motions accurately on the screen.
 
  
  Ultimately the biggest problem with Wii Play is that once youve played each game a couple of times, 
 youve seen all there is to see. No hidden games to unlock and no secret rewards, even if you do 
 manage to nail every game perfectly. The games dont change all that much for two-player, and theres 
 no option at all for more players.
  
  Wii Play feels like it should have been the game packaged in with the console. The option for more 
 players might have done some good, but probably not a whole lot. If youre shopping for another 
 controller, its a decent value. Outside of that, youre better off saving your cash for something 
 more substantial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeker9923
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  So here's the deal: Nintendo decides it would be good to package a party game in with a wii remote. 
 And to be honest, it's really not a bad idea. But wii play is still lacking a lot of depth, and 
 it only kept me entertained for about an hour or so. But if you really do want a new wii remote, 
 then you should definitely buy wii play, since it's only $10 more than a wii remote by itself, 
 which makes me think of wii play as more of a $10 game. And for a $10 game, wii play sure is a 
 lot of fun, but only for a little while. So unless you want a new wii remote, it would probably 
 be best to just stay away from wii play and get some other party game. And trust me there are tons 
 of party games out for the wii ( I suggest rayman raving rabbids or mario party) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reactionsok
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  okay i have to admit i was absolutely apprehensive about this wii game but it turns out its quick 
 fun that may not have the best replay value but surely those who never played with the wii before 
 OR don't plan on playing it much could surely appreciate this little compilation of mini games.
 
  
  I have 2 say i was surprised how well they integrated the Miis into the game!
  
  Best of all this game was free for me - wink wink - so no harm no foul - i am glad i spent the 
 time to get the game as i was surprised that this game would go well with my family - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  While the minigames might not be lengthy and deep, there is lasting value in the multiplayer aspect. 
 It is a very simple game to learn and is a great way to introduce non-gamers into gaming.
  
  Until I got my Wii, my family had nothing to do with gaming. But with Wii Sports and not Wii 
 Play, my family has gotten in on all of the fun a laughs of playing games. Multiplayer is a blast. 
 You can get really competitive and have some great laughs.
  
  The graphics are sharp, especially in the air hockey game.
  
  A lot of the sounds come through 
 the Wiimote which is a great feature.
  
  The games are fun to just sit down and play for a little while. And it's even better with people 
 to play with.
  
  Another great thing about the game is the included Wiimote. We were looking for another Wiimote 
 and remebered, Ha! Let's get that Wii Play game for just $10 more! 
  
  And if you really think about it, if you are in the market for getting another Wiimote, getting 
 this game for essentially $10 is a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin3085
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Remember how well wii sports did as a pack-in game to test out the wii controls and also how well 
 it did as a fun game that didn't have to be a pack-in just for you two get it? Well this is not 
 the case with Wii Play. First I would like to tell you this game comes with a wii remote. A wii 
 remote would cost $39.99 so your'e really just buying a $10.00 game with a remote.
  This game consists of 9 mini-games. 1. The first is the shooting range. This game is pretty much 
 a Duck Hunt remake exept that you shoot things like flying saucers, cans, balloons and other things. 
 This game is short and gets boring soon.
  
  2. The second is called find me. In this game you will need to find the matching people in a crowd. 
 It's tedious, repetetive, and boring.
  
  3. The third is a ping pong match against the com. The computer will always hit the ball so the 
 goal here is to hit the ball as much as you can.
  
  4. The forth is a game in which you must match your mii with the shape inside the bubble. Not much 
 fun in my opinion.
  
  5. The fifth is called laser hockey. It's a colorful retro style of the game pong.
  
  6. The 
 sixth is a game of pool. It's pretty self explanatory.
  
  7. The seventh game is a simulation of fishing. THis is also pretty self explanatory.
  
  8. The 
 next game is called charge. In this game you take control of a cow and just try to run over things.
 
  
  9. The final game is a favorite of mine. Tanks. It's a remake of the atari game Combat and the only 
 game the uses the nunchuck.
  
  I could of been more considerate toward a game that you are really buying for $10.00, but even 
 so, this is a game that is more of a demo of some styles of ways you will use the wii controller 
 in future games. It's also pretty boring. I ONLY reccomend the game if you are getting a wii controller 
 and have an extra $10.00 you don'y know what to do with and have to spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Wii Play / Wii / Mini-games / 6.9
  
  This is a decent buy since it comes packed with a wii-mote. Otherwise it's not close to being worth 
 buying at all.
  There are various mini-games to choose between (9 games) . If you play it alone for an hour you 
 will get bored pretty fast. But if you have a couple of friends over, you can have a tournament 
 and stuff. The game will last for a little longer then. The game's content isn't much to talk about 
 but half of the games is decent, simple fun. And there is a neat tank-game that involve some serious 
 team-playing. Don't hesitate if you only have one wiimote and a drooling friend. You will probably 
 not regret your buy. If this game had more settings and maybe a wifi mode it would be so much better. 
 
  
  Buy it if you want another wii-mote!
  
  Real Score: 6.9
  
  This was my first review, don't blame me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a great way to get a new controller and to become familiar with some of the Wiimote's 
 functions. You can learn to use the controller in all it's dimensions and some basic button functions 
 as well. I was surprised by how little the buttons were needed. For example, the cow racing game 
 makes no use of buttons at all, but still has gesture-based commands for jump and accelerate. Okay, 
 some of the games can be played once and never again, like the shape/pose fitting bubble game. 
 However, some are really fun, and I really enjoyed the Duck Hunt-like game as well as the fishing 
 game. Graphics are par and sound is elevator-style, but that's okay. Honestly, who bought this 
 game expecting to be blown away? Nothing amazing, but a good bargain, especially if you're on a 
 budget or have kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo Wii launched it came with a little fun game called Wii sports. in Wii sports 
 you can play 5 different sports using your customized Miis! they were simple fun and actually was 
 long lasting because the Multiplayer is so hookng and they make you come back over and over agian... 
 and it was for free! Then They made the next Wii Title called Wii Play. The bonus was that this 
 game came with a Free Wii Remote! So that is pretty much why i bought it.. I was looking for a 
 wii Mote so i thought what the hell you get a 10 dollar game with it.. Well thats pretty much how 
 much this game is worth 10 dollars!
  
  The game features 9 Mini games. Some are kinda addicting and fun others are just plain stupid.. 
 You start off with 1 mini game and after you beat one you get another and so on and so forth until 
 you get all 9. It literally takes about 10 min. to unlock them all so its no big deal. Here is 
 a quick breakdown of each of the 9 games!
  
  1. Table Tennis Breakdown: really bad lol.. its really anoying to hit the ball with the paddle 
 and its really lame.. It shows you how much fun Wii Tennis in Wii sports is compared to this crap
 
  
  2. Lazer Hockey Breakdown: Ugh where do i begin its another bad make of a Air Hockey game. It seems 
 like video games can never make a real enjoyable Air Hockey. In this case Lazer Hockey its too 
 sensitive to the puck and you try to move as little as possible because you'll find your slef scoring 
 on yourself then the actual oppent.
  
  3. Fishing Breakdown: One of the better Games in the game. The graphics look like a Coloring book 
 that actually is pretty cool and differnt way to fish.. Having said that it has some problems catching 
 the fish you want so sometimes it hurts you.. But overall its a nice game
  
  4. Find a Mii Breakdown: Its kinda like wheres Waldo with a Wii remote. There is a message that 
 tells you what you want to look for. You find it then you go on. Its Simple but it works. Also 
 a decent game
  
  5. Pose Mii Breakdown: it uses the wii mote differently. You press the buttons to get your Mii 
 into the shape you want and then you turn the Wii Mote to get the right angle. Its fun at times..
 
  
  6. Shooting Breakdown: My Favorite Game for the series.. Its a old School Duck hunt kinda a game.. 
 Its kinda addicting and the controls for this mini game are flawless. Its really cool and it also 
 incorporates your Mii witch is another bonus
  
  7. Riding Breakdown: Its really cool but sometimes it gets kinda wonky and you fall off to the 
 side of the screen.. its a mixed bag sometimes you rid like a pro others your on the side hitting 
 the wall like a moron lol.. But once you get the hang of it its fun
  
  8. Billards Breakdown: Its a pretty good Pool game.. but instead of hitting either strips or Soilds 
 and hitting the 8 to win you hit the balls into the pocket and the number you hit is how many points 
 you get.
  
  9. Tanks Breakdown: This game you can use the Nuncuk or the D pad on wii mote. You stear big Tanks 
 and try to destory others.. its kinda fun i guess.. not really thou.
  
  Overall these games are Mediocure at best but you get the Wii remote with it so it makes it worth 
 while if you need another Wii Remote to play Multiplayer!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: average Mini games
  Graphics: They look kinda bad at times i mean really bad for some
 
  Sound: not the greatest noises i have ever heard
  Value: with the Wii Remote its good but even still...
  Overall: if you get a wii Remote you might 
 as well get this game for a few kicks but honestly there is no depth or hook as there was with 
 Wii Sports.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  If you need a new remote then this is worth getting. The games are worth the extra few pounds that 
 is for sure. I like some of the games like the tank game and find mii game. They are good for a 
 bit of fun on multiplayer, as you can see how you can get together, which isn't that hard or long 
 as the games aren't long and don't get much harder. Single player is fun for awhile just to get 
 all golds on the games just for the fun of it, which isn't too hard once you have got used to the 
 games. If your expecting this game to be as fun as wii sports you would be wrong. This game is 
 just feels like a few old games that have been on computers since they started with just a nicer 
 backdrop and using your miis in the games, apart from that they haven't changed since they where 
 first out, I mean you even have pong in there lol. So overall if you need a new wii remote get 
 wii play with it as it will give you a few hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_wizard
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  For those having a hard time with the concept of the wii-mote controller this acts as a friendly 
 tutorial that will keep you entertained for a few hours. As a stand-alone product the game does 
 not hold up. Bundled with the wii-mote it is worth the price. The games are simple and most unimaginative. 
 They might keep you entertained for a bit, but eventually you will be yearning for a deeper experience. 
 The balance in difficulty between games needs some serious balancing. Some will have you bored 
 to tears while others will having you beating your TV with the wii-mote. Seeing as it is basically 
 free bundled with the wii-mote I can understand the lack of quality. You get what you pay for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Let's face it: this game is a top seller because you are getting a remote for the normal price 
 and a game on top for a fiver. But is the game even worth a fiver? The game is fun while it lasts... 
 but sadly, that really isn't long and the replay factor just isnt' there - not even for parties, 
 where you would whip out something like Wario Ware: Smooth Moves.
  
  Wii Play makes a big use of the Miis and pulls it off quite well - it is fun to see your own Mii 
 riding on the back of a cow or being told to find one of your friends or family in a bunch of loads 
 of other Miis. Wii Play's games are mainly mediocre, with a few semi-decent ones and a few being 
 just plain awful. The highlight of the whole package is the billiards which has the most thought 
 out and planned controls - however, I did find the pushing the remote forward to hit the ball a 
 pain sometimes as it wouldn't register the movement because my arm wasn't dead straight. Apart 
 from this though, the game is good.
  
  Games such as 'Find Mii' and 'Pose Mii' really get boring after a while and you don't feel any 
 urge at all to go back and beat your score, mainly because it is just so repitive. The tanks game 
 is another highlight, the only game to use the nunchuk (optional, but I would highly reccomended 
 you do use it) which sees you shooting down enemy tanks on a flat 2D maze landscape.
  
  For &pound;5 the game is decent and you may as well buy it, and you may as well by it if not only 
 for the controller. However, this could have been better and you do get the slight feel of it being 
 rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonb619
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this recently because I needed a 2nd Wii Remote and I'll start off with saying that 
 in general you are paying $1.11 for each mini game.. When you look at it this way, it's not such 
 a bad deal. To keep the review short and to the point Ill list each of the 9 games and rate them. 
 1) Shooting Range (7/10) Similar to duck hunt, it's pretty entertaining and fun to compete with 
 other people in multiplayer.
  
  2) Billiards (8/10) You only can play 9 Ball which is dissapointing, but it's still pretty fun.
 
  
  3) Find Mii (6/10) It's an ok game.
  
  4) Tanks! (8/10) This game is pretty fun and utilizes the nunchuck controller.
  
  5) Pose Mii 
 (5/10) This game isn't anything special
  
  6) Table Tennis (8/10) This game is hard in single player, but really fun in multiplayer.
  
 
  7) Fishing (4/10) Pretty boring, but if you look at it like you paid $1.11 for it then its not 
 THAT bad.
  
  8) Charge! (6/10) Its somewhat entertaining but gets old quickly.
  
  9) Laser Hockey. (8/10) this game is really fun to play with 2 players.
  
  Overall none of 
 the games have much depth, but at the same time you didn't pay too much for them if you were going 
 to get a controller anyways. It's good to have if you have company over a lot and want to play 
 quick mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  During E3 '06, some very basic tech demos were up for play. They were very basic in design and 
 its sole purpose was to display the potential and versatility of the Wii. So, instead of throwing 
 these little mini-games away into some Nintendo purgatory where they'll rest for eternity, Nintendo 
 decided to compile them into a $10 package. Add in the free Wii remote and you have a $50 package. 
 All in all, these incredibly basic mini-games will entertain casual and non-gamers but will probably 
 bore the rest of us.
  
  When you start out, only one mini-game is open to you. Once you complete the first game, another 
 one opens up. Repeat until you unlock all 9. These games are functional but they're just boring. 
 The games range from a game of table hockey to a weak game of billiards and none of them possess 
 the depth or, uh, fun that Wii Sports has. Gramps will probably grasp the concept of each mini-game 
 quickly and he'll definitely have fun, but for most of us, we'll get bored quick. You can also 
 let a friend join in for the some two-player action, but if you're a true friend, you won't let 
 him.
  
  Visually, it's competent. Everything's bright, cheery and colorful. The art style does sometimes 
 differ from game to game -- Laser Hockey has a crazy Tron-esque aesthetic which is actually fun 
 to look at. But other than that, the visuals serve their purpose and point players to the right 
 direction -- what to hit, what's important, what is what. It just doesn't do anything beyond that. 
 The audio is also cheerful, light and ultimately forgettable. Again, like the visuals, the audio 
 serves its purpose. It doesn't grate your ears or pound them with memorable tunes, it's just there.
 
  
  As a $50 game, Wii Play is definitely not worth it. As a $10 tech demo, it depends. If it's for 
 the guy who doesn't know what the hell a Game Boy is, then maybe this is something to break him 
 into game nice and easy. If it's for you -- the guy who's played games most of their lives or understands 
 how to grasp a controller -- ignore it. Maybe the Wii remote pack-in seems enticing, but Wii Play 
 just straight up, isn't fun. It's not that the game has flimsy controls or anything -- the game's 
 definitely well built but because the mini-games are so basic and rudimentary, you'll feel boredom 
 looming over your head after the first mini-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejr88
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Just like Wii Sports this game was created by Nintendo to show off the many possibilities that 
 Wii promised, but once you turn on the game and play for a little over an hour then you will be 
 disapointed beucase all of the games will get boring after a while. As you might know the game 
 includes 9ball, pose MIi, Tanks, find Mii, Air Hockey, Cow racing, table tennis, shooting game, 
 and a very cheap game of fishing. The game that best uses the Wiimotes capabillities is probably 
 Pose Mii or Pool, becuase of how Pool has you make motions just like if you were playing 9ball 
 in real life and pose Mii has you twist your wrist to fit your character into certain shapes.
 
  
  The games Pose Mii and Air Hockey are really nice to the eyes becuase of the bright color and flashing 
 lights that go off while you play but those two are the only games that look good. The games that 
 I find most appealing are Pose Mii becuase of the flashing lights and Air Hockey beucase of the 
 cool lights when you play.
  
  The game is fun at first but will wear off in no time. I only suggest this game becuase it is bundled 
 with a Wiimote and an OK short game, the price was 50 dollars which is not a bad deal since it 
 comes with a 40 dollar Wiimote and a game that they easily could have sold for at least 20 or 30 
 dollars, so its not a bad deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceK17
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Wii Play just does not have the depth that Wii Sports has and after a couple of hours you'll be 
 wondering what else is there. All 9 of the games are fun to play at first, but once you get the 
 gold and plantinum medals in all of them and have a few competitive games against your friends, 
 You'll be saying Thats it? . Yes, Wii Play is a short game with very low lasting value here, but 
 maybe you'll overlook the game and realize that the Wii-mote included may just be enough to buy 
 this package. The 9 games designed for this game basically take you through tutorials on how to 
 use the all the capabilities of the motion-sensor in the Wii-mote. So if your already a season 
 pro in such games as Wii Sports or you are you are comfortably familiar with the controler, you 
 breeeze through this game and unlock all 9 games in no more than an hour. You start off playing 
 Shooting Range where you have to point at the screen and aim with your cursor to shoot all the 
 flying objects that appear on-screen. Its pretty fun but that fun won't last. After you get a high 
 enough score in that you'll unlock Find Mii which is a interestlingly looking game to see first. 
 Random looking Mii's and the ones saved on your console will gather together and you will have 
 to find a distinguising characteristic that seperates that Mii from the rest or find two look-alikes 
 and among other things for each round. Once again not much staying power. Then you'll unlock the 
 next game and the next game after that and so on. Games such as Tanks and Fishing , well, Paper 
 Fishing . Games such as Table Tennis , Laser Hockey and billards may just be the best ones to play 
 in the pack. Especially Billards which has the must fun, most competivness, realistically and authentic 
 looking and feeling game and overall has the most staying power of the bunch. Games such as Pose 
 Mii and Charge are pretty fun to play as well........ for about 5 minutes. The rest of the games 
 are pretty much flat, not interesting and not fun after a couple of tries. The reward to playing 
 these games is to get medals, the same medal system used in Wii Sports . Though the real reward 
 is getting the Wii-mote with it, which is the probally the reason why you should purchase this 
 game above anything else. Overall, if you just wan't to get hands on another Wii remote while getting 
 and few extra little games to play with it, this is as close as your gonna get. But the fact remains 
 is that Wii Play just dosen't have the replay value you may be looking for like Wii Sports had 
 and replay value is the one of the most important things a great game should have. Wii Play is 
 simply not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The 5 mini-games i think are good is shooting range because the wii motes controls are good. Find 
 mii because it's challenging but yet fun. Laser hockey because it's just plain fun. Billiards because 
 i like pool and i think it's fun. Last, charge because the wii mote controls are good and it's 
 just plain fun. The reason i don't like pose mii is because its not that fun and its a little too 
 hard. I don't like table tennis because its boring and if you concentrate on the t. v screen too 
 much due to rallying the ping-pong ball, you can hurt your eyes and lose concentration. I dont 
 like fishing because the wii mote controls can screw up and it's not that fun. I'm not the biggest 
 fan of tanks just because i think it gets a little too hard. But overall, i think this game is 
 ok but not one of the better wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  After seeing what a huge success Wii Sports was when it was first released, it was the assumption 
 by most gamers that Wii Play, the second installment in Nintendos series that features their unique 
 Mii characters, would be equally successful or even more so. However, due to a complete lack of 
 depth and spotty control, Wii Play is a weak collection of nine mini-games with little or no replay 
 value to speak of that can also be considered one of Nintendos biggest disappointments of the 
 year.
  
  As a matter of fact, the only real reason to buy Wii Play is because Nintendo has bundled a Wii-mote 
 in with the game for only $49.99, which means that technically, the game only costs $10.00. With 
 that being said, it shouldnt surprise anyone when they play Wii-Play and feel like theyre playing 
 nine tech-demos, instead of a clear-cut, well-crafted and polished game on a next-generation system. 
 For the most part, despite the implementation of Miis, the created characters used in Wii Sports, 
 Wii-play is absolutely void of the charm, depth and fun that make games of this kind on the Wii 
 a joy to behold.
  
  Instead, Wii Play feels like a rushed collection of haphazard demos that only show the gamer a 
 small glimpse of what the Wii is capable of.
  
  Consisting of classic games such as table tennis, billiards, a version of air hockey, fishing and 
 other games such as tanks, charge and shooting gallery, Wii Play had the potential to be something 
 special. However, most of the games end before any of the fun really begins and dont feature the 
 same intuitive and ingenious control of the better games on the system. For instance, while table 
 tennis is probably one of the better games in the collection, the single player mode consists of 
 only a volley mode, which strips the player of any opportunity to play competitively by themselves. 
 In addition, the control scheme is an absolute joke, as it forces the player to only move the Wii-mote 
 from left to right, instead of swing the controller like they were actually swinging a ping-pong 
 paddle. The same thing can be said for Billiards as well, as the control scheme takes away any 
 fun that could have been had playing the game.
  
  The only two mini-games on the disc that actually are as fun to play as they are realistically 
 controlled are the shooting gallery and fishing. Using the Wii-mote as a light gun, the player 
 can play a fast-paced combination of the NES classics, Duck Hunt and Hogans Alley that could have 
 proved to be an entertaining game by itself if it was a bit deeper. Fishing, as well, offers a 
 fun and entertaining experience that takes advantage of the Wii-motes capabilities. Using the 
 Wii-motes rumble feature to know when a fish is biting your hook and a quick pull up on it in 
 order to reel any fish in, Wii-Plays fishing mini-game is one of the only games on the disc thats 
 worth the price of admission.
  
  In the end, with only a small portion of the games featured on the disc using the Wii-mote in an 
 entertaining way and an even smaller amount promoting long periods of gameplay, Wii-Play is an 
 absolute disaster that isnt worth any Wii owners time until they need a second Wii-mote.
  
  By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightgamet
Rating: 5
Date: May 27, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay: A nice use of the Wiimote, but I have Wii sports for that.
  
  Story: It's about you playing 9 mini games. NEXT
  
  Graphics: Um it's like Wii Sports and that's 
 not a good thing
  
  Sound: Cheesy, but something the kids will like - I think
  
  Value: Only play with friends and that even gets boring after a while. Never play this game on 
 your own.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I played this like twice and like I said, it's only fun with other people or to 
 ge the controller.
  
  The Bad:
  -9? Why not 10-20? Why 9?
  
  The Good:
  -Nice party game
  -Free Controller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has been nice to us recently. First, they gave in to the old game with console deal. Now, 
 it's a free controlller with a game deal! That is what wii play is. Anyhow, you have 9 minigames, 
 ranging from cows to laser hockey, and beyond. And, I am happy to day, all the minigames are great. 
 And, with a wii remote you get an even better deal. Wii play is a great game, a must own for every 
 wii owner out there who liked wii sports. Wii play gets a 8.5 out of 10 for me, and the guitarherolover's 
 greatness award for just beding great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watzup555
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 26, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Wii play was a disapointment. ,Most of the games are crap. Like find a mii, a fishing game, and 
 a game where u do a pose to match a bubble. There were some games though. Like a shooting range, 
 a cow raceing game, and pool. Also there is ping pong, laser hockey, and tank game. This game does 
 use the nunchuck in onl y one game but its not needed. There should have been funner and more games. 
 Nintendo i think didnt do a good job on this game. If i were u i would rent it first to see how 
 bad it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 25, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  One thing Wii Play lacks is depth. So, with that out of the way, there is no point in reviewing 
 this game on gameplay, graphics, etc. Rather I am going to review Wii Play on each individual minigame. 
 So here goes:
  
  Shooting: A lame remake of Duckhunt. The only fun part of this minigame is the end when you have 
 to save a group of your Mii's from being abducted by aliens. Fun factor: 5
  
  Billiards: I really wanted this game to be fun, I really did. But, my wishes were not granted. 
 Very boring and tedious. Fun factor: 3
  
  Charge: Mii's on fabric cows!?!? I never thought I'd see something quite like this. This minigame 
 was surprisingly fun, and actually grew on me.
  Fun factor: 7
  
  Tanks: It seemed like fun at first, but quickly turned ugly. What could have been a creative minigame 
 was brought down by touchy controls and uninteresting AI. Fun factor: 4
  
  Table Tennis: What's a game of table tennis without any of the actual table tennis rules and any 
 fun at all? Wii Play's Table Tennis, that's what! Enough said. Fun Factor: 1
  
  Laser Hockey: Ok, so my favourite sport on a table. I love laser hockey, but come on, there is 
 no challenge or excitement at all in this minigame. Gets boring fast! Fun factor: 3
  
  Fishing: I only have one thing to say: if you love fishing games, stay far away from this one (unless 
 you like fishing for paper fish.) Fun factor: 2
  
  Find Mii: A game that is fun at the start, but gets frustrating too early on. Again, 'nuff said. 
 Fun factor: 3
  
  Pose Mii: Ok, so this game can be fun if you're playing by yourself, but when there is a friend 
 involved, fugged about it! Fun factor: 4
  
  So there you have it. Wii Play summed up in one small review. Overall Fun factor: 5. Thanks for 
 reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 22, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is another collection of minigames in the same style as Wii Sports, the Wii pack-in sports 
 collection. Comparing it to the other title is easy, as they are fundamentally very similar: gather 
 around some friends and pass the Wiimotes around for some good simple fun. If you are in the market 
 for extra Wiimote (which comes packed with this title) , the disc itself is bargain-priced... around 
 $10. On paper it's a win-win situation, and the right sort of gamer might get good mileage out 
 of the package. However, a gamer looking for a compelling single-player experience, a game with 
 depth, or a game with considerable challenge should not be so quick to climb aboard.
  
  What this package has over Wii Sports is that all of the minigames are much more playable. It's 
 very apparent that Nintendo spent more time polishing the controls for this game, as each game 
 makes good use of the Wiimote. The graphics overall are rather basic, with lots of use of simplistic 
 2D sprites and Miis. The soundtrack takes a page right out of Wii Sports, with it's non-invasive 
 forgettability.
  
  Let's take a quick look at each game:
  
  Shooting Range: A basic light-gun style game. You will play through a short series of rounds with 
 basic themes: target practice, clay pidgeons, shooting alien ships and bouncing cans. The game 
 runs for a few minutes, and when played with a friend can be quite hectic and competitive. There's 
 no risk of dying or otherwise losing, you are merely competing for top score. It's also really 
 short, lasting only a few minutes. It's pretty fun, if not average.
  
  Find Mii: A Where's Waldo type game where you are tasked with finding particular Miis in a battery 
 of random scenes. You earn points for pointing them out with the Wiimote and advance through stages 
 until you run out of time. I found this game to be rather easy, boring after a few attempts, and 
 quite boring with a friend. One of the more mediocre games in the package.
  
  Table Tennis: A simplistic tennis game that plays a lot like a 3D version of pong. Though with 
 some finesse it seems you can pull off trick shots, they mostly happen at random. The single player 
 match boils down to a volley count, while two players can play something close to a real match. 
 Can be fun for a few rounds, but the lack/difficulty in pulling trick shots makes it too shallow 
 for repetitive play.
  
  Pool: One of the better games in the pack. You line up your shots on a 3D table, and use a push-pull 
 motion to shoot the cue ball. Ball physics is pretty good, and you can put spin and english on 
 the ball with proper aiming, just like real pool. The shooting motion is a little batty at first, 
 but you get the hang of it. My one gripe is that you can only play a single nine-ball type game, 
 and not a true game of pool.
  
  Laser Hockey: Another pong-style game. You point your Wiimote at the screen and twist your arm 
 to angle your paddle. It functions well enough. My one complaint is that the speed at which your 
 paddle strikes the ball has no bearing on your shot power. Games are timed, and in single player 
 the object is to win and score as many goals as possible. Pong is an archaic game though, and simply 
 isn't compelling in this day in age... and that's coming from someone with a high tolerance for 
 classic gameplay.
  
  Fishing: A simple carnival-type fishing game where you dip your rod into a pool of fish. Eventually 
 one will nibble, and when you pull your Wiimote you will land the fish on your line, scoring points 
 based on size. The graphics are neat but the 2D on somewhat-3D style can be disorienting sometimes. 
 I found this game to be quite boring, and none of my friends wanted to play it more than once.
 
  
  Pose Me: A basic game where you have to point your Wiimote at the screen, and orient your Mii into 
 patterns of bubbles. It's difficult to describe, but that's the basic premise. Graphics are entirely 
 2D still art and pretty drab. The game gets challenging at high levels, and can actually be pretty 
 fun by yourself. However, the concept is really basic and it feels like I'm playing some sort of 
 flash game instead of a professional product.
  
  Charge: A simple racing game where you run a cow down a 3D course, attempting to get to the goal 
 as fast as possible while knocking over scarecrows and jumping hurdles. You tilt the Wiimote to 
 steer and accelerate, which is pretty cool. The graphic style is neat... everything looks like 
 it's made of cloth. This one is sure to be a hit with the kids, and its fun to race a friend. One 
 of the better games in the pack.
  
  Tanks: The best game in the package. This is a game that harkens back to old Combat on Atari 2600... 
 you move your tank through a 2D field and fire bullets at enemy tanks to score points. The D-pad 
 or nunchuck handles movement and you point for aim... it works really well. There are plenty of 
 stages and enemy types, and can be challenging in later levels. My one gripe is that there is no 
 VS mode... two-player play is a competition to score points.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  All in all, this title is EXTREMELY underwhelming. Most of the games don't have the crowd-appeal 
 of Wii Sports, and are far too shallow to warrant extended single-player play. There are challenges 
 to meet, but they are easy and there is little reward. The graphics and sound are passible but 
 oftentimes uninspired. This is definitely a budget title, and were it not bundled with a Wiimote 
 I would NEVER spend $50 on it.
  
  If you liked the style of play Wii Sports offered, and are looking for more simple games to play, 
 you can get Wii Play if you need an extra Wiimote. However, most of the games are very average 
 and even the jewels don't always shine. This is a great title for kids, but as an adult looking 
 for something interesting to play on my interesting Wii, this game was absolutely not a worthwhile 
 investment. If you're looking for a new party game with some lasting power, there may be better 
 choices on the horizon, like Warioware, Mario Party or Smash Bros.
  
  +Makes good use of Wii controls
  +A few of the games are good fun with friends
  +Bundles with 
 a Wiimote
  -Most games are extremely short, the others just loop endlessly
  -All of the games lack depth
  -Graphics and sounds are average/mediocre
  -You'll have seen 
 the whole package in two hours
  -If you don't need a Wiimote, it's WAY too pricey for its content alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMan
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 19, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  There's really not a whole lot to say about Wii Play. Its pretty much a collection of mini-games 
 designed to show off some of the potential of the Wiimote in gameplay. This is confirmed by the 
 fact that the player is walked through each minigame, step-by-step with the mini-game explanations 
 and gameplay presented in a way that teaches the player fundamentals of using the Wiimote such 
 as using it to target and shoot objects, ways to twist and turn the remote to achieve corresponding 
 effects on screen, using the Wiimote like a mouse by essentially pointing and clicking , turning 
 Wii-mote sideways and further manipulating it by twisting, turning tilting and jerking, as well 
 as giving the player the option to hook up and use a Nunchuk. Now despite the score, for what the 
 game is, there is some fun to be had here, especially if someone is playing with you. The ping-pong 
 minigame, horse race, air-hockey-esque mini-game, and Mii-finding minigame are all potentially 
 very fun, whether you're by yourself or playing with someone. Though all the mini-games are short, 
 there is replay value in the fact that the game awards and records players for high-scores with 
 medals so you can strive to continuous 1-up yourself or someone else who has a record. The Mii 
 finding mini-game probably has the most depth, fun, and challenge of them all, especially so if 
 someone is playing with you. Its interesting that that you have an overall limited time to complete 
 the challenges given to you at each stage and this time is extended by succeeding. With a friend 
 you're working together to keep the game going because the faster one of you completes a challenge, 
 the more time you'll have left as you move on, but at the same time, the one who is responsible 
 for keeping you both in the game is the one that gets the points. Its my personal favorite of the 
 bunch. Unfortunately though, this fun won't last you too long. Don't be surprised if all the mini-games 
 become boring to you within a week. They are all small, simple, and fun only in short bursts. The 
 lack depth with the exception of the Mii finding mini-game is what ultimately makes Wii play by 
 itself a severely shallow product, especially if you're not compelled to go after higher and higher 
 scores. The funny thing is, Wii Play by itself isn't worth more than 5-10 bucks, but considering 
 you get a Wiimote in the package (I wonder why?) its actually a pretty good deal as a whole. So 
 i'd only pick this up if you're in the market for a Wiimote, it certainly doesn't hurt to tack 
 on Wii Play in that case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kameron86
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  bottom line, it is awesome fun with a bunch of people over with nothing to do. it keeps us busy 
 until way into the morning hours.
  
  i like some of the unique games and the way they put it together is decent. like said before, buy 
 this instead of buying just the wiimote and you will be fine
  
  as much as fun as wii sports but in a kinda more fast paced kind of way!!
  
  hopefully this 
 helped some people out that were looking to buy this game. im glad i bought it, and now 3 of us 
 can play so thats a bonus!
  
  the only downside to wii play that i can see is that it IS NOT more then 2 player like wii sports. 
 but its still a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Wii play is a game that has nine minigames using the wii-mote . There is Pool , Charage , Find 
 the Mii and pose mii , Hockey , Tanks , Fishing there is more to it the game . This game show's 
 you how the wii remote is used in a varity of ways to play the game . The only game you use the 
 nunchuckis tanks to move it around . Charge is like this tilt the wii remote foward to make the 
 cow run faster . Find the mii and pose is like this First look for the mii you're using and pose 
 me is changing the posistion mii each time .
  
  I recommed you get the game cause there is a free wii mote with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovemywii
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 8, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play consists of nine very unique mini-games, shooting range, find mii, table tennis, pose 
 mii, laser hockey, billiards, fishing, charge and tanks!. But the only one that sticks out is a 
 remake of atari's combat, tanks! The controls in every game are very basic making the game good 
 to learn the wiis control. If you are just looking for a game, i don't reccomend it, but if you 
 need a new wiimote, definately pick it up! Wii play just doesn't live up to its package. If Wii 
 Play came with no Wii-mote and was a full price game, there is no way you should buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 7, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  the only thing that makes this worth buying is that the wiimotes almost cost as much as a game 
 does, so by buying this you're getting a game for pretty much nothing. wii play has 9 mini games 
 that are fun to play at first but after a while get boring. all the games seemed to have been half 
 made then put onto the disc. none of the games have difficulty settings or harder faster levels 
 which make it boring after a few plays. the shooting gallery could have been great if there was 
 harder faster levels with loads of things to shoot on the screen at the 1 time. laser hockey was 
 a lot of fun at the start but like the others gets very boring, it could have done with a few unusual 
 shaped tables just for the fun.
  
  if this game had of been finished properly if would have been a lot more fun even with friends 
 this game isnt that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 4, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  wii play isnt that bad its kinda fun i mean i got it as a gift
  from someone and my mom is buying every game that comes
  with a free wii mote for now on.... 
 lets get down to it
  
  the good decent games decent multiplayer you get a free wii mote the bad forces you to play each 
 game in order to unlock them and play them freely games could have used some more design games 
 are kinda
  short lack of games if you just got your wii and need a good game and would
  like to play with your friends with another wii mote
  and or buying another wii mote i would 
 consider checking the price
  on the wii motes and compare to wii play if wii play is cheaper
  get it game+ extra wii mote=good 
 deal/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 2, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Despite one or two solid hits in the Wiis game library, Nintendo and developers seem to be having 
 a really tough time finding the perfect mixture of gameplay and technology. Instead of being able 
 to play well-rounded games like The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, store shelves are being 
 flooded with minigame compilations and tech demos like Rayman Raving Rabbids and Elebits respectively. 
 While these types of games arent necessarily a bad thing, they tend to unavoidably bore the masses 
 looking for a more fleshed out gaming experience.
  
  This is certainly the case with one of Nintendos newest outings, Wii Play.
  
  Following in 
 the trends of other Wii games such as Rayman Raving Rabbids and WarioWare: Smooth Moves, Wii Play 
 is best described as a collection of nine minigames on one Wii disc. These small games all make 
 good use of the new technology the Nintendo Wii has to offer, but eventually fall flat with their 
 lack of variety and depth.
  
  Out of these nine said games, three of them could actually be considered worthy of multiple plays. 
 The best of these three is undoubtedly the game Tanks! Using the Nunchuck attachment and Wiimote 
 to play, players guide a single tank across 100 top-down perspective levels of tank battling fun. 
 While ricocheting shots off walls and using power-ups is obviously the most enjoyable part, its 
 the many different types of enemies and numerous levels that will keep gamers coming back for more.
 
  
  The other two rather enjoyable games on Wii Play are Billiards and Shooting. Billiards is naturally 
 a very solid 9 ball pool simulation that allows players to use the Wiimote as a pool stick. With 
 its surprisingly in-depth control, players are allowed to control stick force and even put spin 
 on the cueball for those tough shots. Shooting on the other hand pays homage to the days of Duck 
 Hunt by allowing players to aim their Wiimote at the screen in order to shoot targets in a shooting 
 range type environment. Making sure to keep the action fresh, numerous shooting games are available 
 from can shooting to target shooting.
  
  While these three games definitely make Wii Play entertaining, three other games out of the nine 
 could also be considered fun, but require a little more fine-tuning and variety. Find Mii is basically 
 a virtual game of Wheres Waldo with user created avatars better known as Miis, whereas Charge! 
 is a simple racing game that requires turning the Wiimote like a steering wheel and other sporadic 
 movements to steer a cow-riding Mii across the finish line.
  
  The best out of these three moderately fun games is a simple little game known as Laser Hockey. 
 By adding flashy neon colored lights along with the intuitive way the Nintendo Wii controls, Laser 
 Hockey is a quick and fun little game of virtual air hockey. Using the Wiimote to control the neon 
 paddles as the puck zooms to and fro across the table is fairly enjoyable, but as is the case with 
 real air hockey, the controls will often have gamers frustratingly knocking the puck into their 
 own goals.
  
  With three great games and three average games, its no doubt that Wii Play has three terrible 
 games. These games have the slimmest of pickings in depth and fun, and will only divert players 
 attention one or two times before they find their favorites elsewhere.
  
  Among these games are Pose Mii, Table Tennis, and Fishing. Pose Mii once again uses the player 
 created avatars to play the game, but there really isnt much to play with this one. The game consists 
 of switching between three Mii poses to match the corresponding pose in a floating bubble. Players 
 are required to twist the remote to match the exact pose, but if one bubble reaches the bottom 
 of the screen, a life is used. It may be quite tedious and annoying, but it isnt as much of a 
 waste as the Table Tennis and Fishing minigames are.
  
  Table Tennis may seem like a good premise for a motion capable gaming system, but it is severely 
 hindered in the movement department. Instead of allowing gamers to actually swing their arms to 
 virtually swing paddles in-game, Table Tennis really only relies on moving the virtual paddle to 
 where the ball is while the computer does the rest. Its incredibly boring, but not as boring as 
 Fishing. Fishing only requires that players move their Wiimote around a virtual pond in order to 
 attract and catch fish. Another seemingly in-depth activity ruined completely by a lack of options 
 and variety as all that is required of a player is to yank up on the controller to catch fish, 
 instead of a possible reeling motion with the Nunchuck controller.
  
  While Wii Play is undoubtedly lacking in a variety of options, there are some things worth contemplating 
 when considering a purchase. The first is the inclusion of two-player mode for all games. Its 
 assured that some games may be a snore fest, but playing with a friend tends to make any horrible 
 game a slight bit more bearable.
  
  The other important thing to remember is that Wii Play is packaged with a Wiimote Controller. These 
 controllers are typically $40 when bought new in a store, but players will only spend $50 on the 
 packaging of a Wii controller and the nine previously mentioned minigames. This basically boils 
 down to $10 for the games, which will surely help some people sleep at night when they realize 
 how discouraging a handful of the games can be. Overall, gamers searching for an extra Wii controller 
 should definitely go out of there way to pick this up. Yet gamers looking for a few more ways to 
 experience the power of the Wii should steer clear of Wii Play and go straight for WarioWare and 
 Rayman instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Bleck
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 1, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that includes 9 mini games. Some of them are decent, but most of the mini games 
 fall short. First of all, I have to admit the many graphical styles were nice. The cow racing game 
 was in a nice looking world made of yarn. The fishing game had a Paper Mario style, with paper 
 cut out fish and the neon field in the air hockey game was pretty cool. However, most of the games' 
 visuals are based on the miis.
  
  Not many of the games are worth playing more than a couple times, except for the tank mini game. 
 (It's pretty fun to play it with two players.) For example, in the ping pong game you don't even 
 control yourself hitting the ball. All you do is guide the paddle to the ball to the ball, the 
 hit is automatic. There's also the find mii game, which had you looking for the described miis. 
 It gets very repetitive, as it overuses the find look-alikes requirement.
  
  Wii Play has little depth and is very boring. However, it is $10 game (or you can think of it as 
 a terrible $50 game with a free wii-mote) . Look into it if you want a wii-mote, but if you don't 
 need it, Wii Play is not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WGR_Darrin
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo Wii launched in November 2006, everyone instantly recognized Wii Sports for what 
 it was: a (fun as hell) tech demo. So naturally, when we heard Wii Play was coming prepackaged 
 with a second remote for the same price as a normal game, some of us didn't have the highest expectations 
 for a deep gameplay experience. And we were right.
  
  Wii Play is, basically, a party game. One you want to play with some of your closest friends, and 
 it should be a shining example of Nintendo's creativity with minigames (such as cow racing, which 
 is surprisingly fun, and table tennis, while simple, is challenging at the same time) , but it falls 
 just short for a couple of reasons: one, like I said, this would be a great party game. Too bad 
 only two people can play at a time.
  
  Secondly, while you do get a good selection of minigames, a few more wouldn't have hurt. There 
 are only eight games to choose from, and only about five of them are really worth playing more 
 than once or twice. Nintendo tries to give you incentives for replaying each, such as upping your 
 high score and earning medals for record-breaking performances, but it's not enough to save some 
 of them (such as the Atari Combat-like game featuring tanks or the dismal Pose Mii) .
  
  Visually, don't walk in to this one expecting a hi-def, enthralling world of beauty and realism. 
 It ain't happening here. Your miis take center stage here, with similar visuals to Wii Sports, 
 which is either a good or bad thing, depending on your take of Wii Sports. Controls are smooth 
 and responsive for the most part, though you'll be tearing your hair out while playing the billiards 
 minigame. Come on, Nintendo, why not just a little more control on shot power? For the price, Wii 
 Play is a good deal. You get another Wiimote, plus you get to enjoy a $10 game with it. Had this 
 game cost any more than $49.99, I wouldn't recommend buying before trying, but you should still 
 have at least a few afternoons' worth of good times with this one. Just don't go in with terribly 
 high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyNinjaMan1
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 2, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The game hardly has anything to review. There is no story at all in this game, it's just a collection 
 of 9 games that show off what the Wiimote can do.
  
  The graphics are basically the same as Wii Sports, which you all should have played, since it all 
 came with your Wiis, so there isn't anything to say about it. Appealing, smooth, and basic.
  
  The sound is pretty much the same as Wii Sports, acceptable, with annoying, distorted Wiimote 
 sounds.
  
  Now the only thing you can accomplish in the game is getting the gold medals in each. For certain 
 games, like ping pong and target practice, it's a piece of cake, but for others, like the tank 
 game, may take you a while. People who like to beat their high scores will probably enjoy this 
 much more than I did.
  
  It supports 2 players for each game, but considering you already have Wii Sports, it's not worth 
 it as a party game.
  
  I'll name the games that really put a smile on your face.
  
  Target Practice: Duck Hunt, basically. Fun until you get the gold medal in it, then you can spend 
 the rest of your time beating your high score.
  
  Tank War: You have a top-down view of a map that fits your screen, and your goal is to blow up 
 all of the other tanks. You can shoot 5 missiles at a time, and just drop endless mines, which 
 is not a smart idea, as their range is large compared to how fast you can move to get away from 
 it. It's a real challenge, and will take you over an hour to gold medal it.
  
  4 other games are pretty interesting, and are between long and somewhat challenging and short and 
 not too fun. The last 3, which are laser hockey, fishing, and pool, are just plain terrible.
  
  I probably made this game sound worse than it is. If you just recently bought one or are planning 
 to buy one, this should be your first game since it comes with an extra controller. If you've had 
 your Wii for a while and you have 2+ controllers, ignore this game.
  
  Note: I gave it a high tilt because of the pack-in with the controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game has a variety of mini-games to put the wiimote to the test.
  Sadly those games arent great. There is, Shooting, tanks, fishing, ping pong, a game with your 
 miis, laser tag, pool, riding cows and find mii.
  
  Only a few of these games are any good. Others are ruined by dodgy wiimote controls or just being 
 plain boring. One of the good sides of this game is that it will last a bit as you get a free wiimote 
 so you can play all the games 2 player.
  
  Games that are fun are games like pool, shooting and tanks whereas games that have potential to 
 be fun but are ruined by bad wii remote control are games like laser tag.
  
  Overall this isnt a good game but its worth it as you get a free wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilromeo0606
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Got a wii yesterday and had to get wiiplay because one, they didn't have wiimotes and you can't 
 go wrong with paying 10 extra bucks and getting some minigames with it. Wii Play is fun, and its 
 not boring at all, but only if you got someone to play because its not that much fun when playing 
 by yourself. These are fun, addicting games, that if played well with another could be very intense. 
 The graphics are not impressive but there are clean give it a real fun look to it. For an extra 
 10 bucks you really can't go wrong with because it comes with a wiimote. Because wiimotes are so 
 scarce, and if your just getting the wii, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandeep1295
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a set of nine mini games which are, modernised duck hunt, pose mii, find mii, billiards, 
 fishing, charge, tanks, laser hockey and table tennis.
  
  THIS GAME IS AMAZING. A RIVAL TO MARIO PARTY. Ok not realy. it is underrated though. I mean the 
 billiards game is pretty cool with excellent pool physics and other stuff. I mean cut the game 
 some slack. FREE WIIMOTE!!!!!!!! its a must buy for anybody looking for a wii mote.
  
  what realy annoys me though is how people dont like the game so give it low scores everywhere. 
 OK the gameplay is lacking depth but what does that have to do with graphics? OK give the gameplay 
 a 5 but graphics atleast deserves a 7. AND HOW CAN PEOPLE GIVE THE VALUE 5S AND 6S. IT COSTS  
 FOOLS anyway as i said bfore, a must buy for anybody looking to get another wii mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I im a wii fan like many other people are and i have to say this game was kinda disappointing when 
 i got it but some games are really fun like pool that is a really fun game and so is the shooting 
 range. The shooting range is my favorite. finding mii is kinda fun too in other words its alright. 
 the tank kinda sucks because it can get really boring and hard. the fishing one SUCKS! i mean really 
 its graphics are the worst yet and the game play last for about 1 min then it gets boring after 
 that. table tennis is like regular tennis just more easier which to me is more boring. pose mii 
 is stupid i mean who would want to use mii to pop bubbles that is just stupid. over all wii play 
 is crappy but some games are fun but you get a wii mote along with it thats not half bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hariobros
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Whatever Anyone says to you, ignore it if they say it's good. Take my advice: DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!
 
  
  Honestly, I thought it would hold more minigames because of the wii's memory. I'd rather play one 
 of the warioware microgames than one of these!
  
  The game lasted a couple of days before it became more boring than a funeral!
  
  I expected 
 to be able to actually play ping pong but all I had to do was hold the paddle in the right position. 
 After this, the computer automaticly hit the ball for me!
  
  Bottom line: if these games and the wii sports games were free on one disk, fair enough. It's hard 
 for me to say this but... WORST NINTENDO GAME... EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmacfarlane14
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Though this game is impossible to find, that is merely because of the fact that it comes with a 
 Wii-mote. The mini games that it has on the disk aren't all that great, the best ones are probably 
 the ones most like sports (laser hockey, pool, ping-pong, and shooting gallery) . The other games 
 aren't quite as good, find Mii is pretty boring and a bit annoying when trying to find 2 alike 
 Mii's on a time limit when one or even both of them aren't on screen and you can't tell if the 
 one you see is the alike Mii or just the one from before that looped back. Also the fishing game 
 is ok, looks like it was drawn by a 6 year old though. Cow racing is short... not much else. Pose 
 Mii gets repetitive after level 10. And Tanks is just, meh. As for the better mini games, the shooting 
 gallery is like a better graphic version of duck hunt, except easier to hit because of having a 
 crosshair, and unlimited ammo (just a penalty if you lose your combo) and you only hit the ducks 
 for bonus points, it's mainly shooting targets, then clay disks (like duck hunt game option 3) , 
 then cans, then UFO's trying to catch your Mii. Next, laser hockey is basically air hockey with 
 a special effect upgrade. Ping-pong is pretty fun, though it is just simply point where to have 
 the paddle, and opposed to real ping-pong, the goal isn't to score on your opponent, but to get 
 as high of a rally going as you can. Pool is probably the most graphically advanced mini game, 
 you simply shoot the cue ball into your other balls in order of numbers or suffer a penalty, (I'm 
 not sure if that's how real billiards are played, if so then I've been doing it wrong for a while) , 
 the control over where the ball goes is aiming where on the cue ball you hit, at what angle, and 
 it auto aims towards the next ball you have to hit. Then push the Wii-mote forward to hit it.
 
  Overall, this game is pretty much a tutorial on how to use the Wii-mote, I'd recommend it most 
 because it's a Wii-mote with a cheap game you get to use your Mii's in. So if you can find it, 
 get it, cause the party games are decent, and you can play with a friend (only one friend because 
 it's only two player) . And trying to get a high enough score to get a gold medal leaves you a reason 
 to play the mini games again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The real reason to buy this game is because it comes with a wiimote. And I got it today, and I 
 now have two wiimotes, and I got my wii on November 19, it took me like four months to track down 
 another wiimote (aside from the one that comes in the box) . But onto the game.
  
  The graphics differ from each game, and utilise the miis, so they don't look to great, but are 
 appealing enough.
  
  The nine games, only roughly, 2 are worth playing much. The tanks game is reallly fun to play!!! 
 It has nice graphics (not anything special, it looks ok) and the gameplay is really fun, the effects 
 are also pretty cool.
  
  Theres a really crappy fishing game, with terrible graphics, a game where you ride a cow, with 
 pretty good graphics and is kinda fun, the billiards game has okish graphics and is also pretty 
 fun, theres a couple of odd mii mini games: one is where you do a mach up game thing, and the other 
 is where you have to move the mii around into these positions... they both suck.
  
  Ok, so outta the nine I'll list the playable games.
  - Tanks
  - Cow racing thing
  - The shooting 
 thing
  - Billiards
  - Air Hockey game Also, the air hockey game is really fun and has really cool neonish graphics!
 
  
  Everything else, is crap. The table tennis is exactly like tennis in wii sports accept even less 
 interactive. So if you only have one wiimote right now, and you go to get a second wiimote, then 
 get wiiplay. But if your out just for a game, don't get wiiplay. Simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth_The_7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Wii play has got to be one of the worst multiplayer games ever to have existed! If this game didnt 
 come with a bundle pack i dont think this game would of sold very well at all.
  This is the type of game you should enjoy playing with friends or family, but i wouldent even mention 
 playing this game with anyone, i would be too embarrassed to play it.
  This game consists of 9 mini-games, which are boring and are probably much more suited for the 
 likes of a 7 or 8 year old..
  After the first time i played it i have never wanted to, or wanted to play it ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigphilwilson
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game when rumors first started to surface about the game play. I 
 waited a while to buy the game due to the fact that I was caught up in the virtual console, Need 
 For Speed Carbon, and Zelda. This game consists of, I believe, 9 or so mini games. I really enjoyed 
 the shooting, tank, and hockey games. I was quite disappointed with the the other games. I just 
 felt like I did not have enough control over the motions. This game is a definite rent. The best 
 part about this game is that it comes with an extra Wii mote which means the game works out to 
 be like $10.
  
  Pros: Fun with a friend. Decent use of Wii mote
  
  Cons: Only about 1/3 of the mini games are worth playing. Gets old quick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Where can I start... oh yea... this game blows. If I had known it sucked that bad, I would have 
 bought the controller alone. None of the games are fun... do I really have to write 100 words about 
 how that game blows?
  
  Let's go : it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it 
 blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it 
 blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it 
 blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it 
 blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it 
 blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows, it blows
  
  That's about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I made a huge mistake getting this game. I usualy check here on gamespot for reviews of games but 
 for some reason i just wanted this game and i played it and its god awful. There is a duck hunt 
 type game which is ok i guess, then there is billards which is pritty hard to control, then theres 
 a game where you have to match your Mii with the stance in the bubble which is retarded to say 
 the least. The Tank game is the only game i can say is ok. its pritty fun but nothing you'll be 
 dieing to play while your bored in school or work or whatever. So besides all this suckness you 
 get a wii remote and a game for like 10 bucks extra that has an average game. So i do not recomend 
 this game to anyone, you mind as well just buy a Wii mote and save yourself 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play came out in Feb. 2007, and comes bundled with a remote. If this game was not in the bundle, 
 it probably wouldn't sell well at all. The game consists of 9 minigames, and personally, most of 
 them get boring really fast. It might be a little more fun in multi-player, but the single-player 
 gets boring within the first few days. The games just don't have enough substance to keep bringing 
 me back to play it. Ever since I got it, it has just sat on a table, collecting dust. I would not 
 suggest this game at all to anyone, whether it be with a group or just single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  so, this game is like $10 with a Wii-remote. Yeah, that's about all it's worth. I think this game 
 is good for those who just got their Wii but other than that it's not really a big deal. There 
 are too many other awesome games out there to play, on Wii or for Gamecube, that this game just 
 sits in all of their shadows. Some of them are a little fun. The one where you have to rotate your 
 Mii and drop them in the circle is crazy! Nothing to write home about but it does do a good job 
 of showing some unique ways to use the Wii-remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nghtcrwlr821
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is not a good game. It contains 9 mini games and none of them are that good. Only Pool 
 has a lasting appeal but it too grows stale after a few plays. This game knows that it isn't that 
 great and it also knows that you'll be finished with it in about 30 minutes. This is because the 
 game forces you to play every single game in its entirety to unlock the next. You go like this 
 until you finish all of them and unlock them all. This only takes about 30 minutes and you'll only 
 come back to play Pool maybe 2 or 3 more times before you throw the game out the window. Wii Play 
 comes packed in with a Wii Remote and retails for $50. If you do a little math you'll realize that 
 Wii Play costs this much because Wii Remotes cost $40, add $10 to that and you got $50. This means 
 Wii Play is only a $10 game and your not really getting that Wii Remote free like you might think. 
 I don't recommend Wii Play at all. It's not fun and it doesn't last that long. On top of it all 
 it's only a 2 player game so it being a party game is out of the question. Just do yourself a favor 
 and don't waste your time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  At a cost of approximately 60 bucks for the entire package, you are paying about $15.00 for the 
 'Wii Play' game. That may be chump change but it is still overpriced taking into account what you 
 actually get for your 15 smackers... and that ain't much.
  
  Wii Play contains nine mini-games, none of which will provide any long-term fun or replayability. 
 Unlike the inventive Wii Sports, Wii Play's games are incurably underdeveloped. Of the nine mini-games, 
 only one or two will bring you back for more. The nine games are Shooting Range, Find Mii, Table 
 Tennis, Pose Mii, Laser Hockey, Billiards, Fishing, Charge! and Tanks! Although you can single 
 player the selections, Wii Play is really made for multi-player battles which comes up the question 
 of why is it only for two people?
  
  Shooting Range brings back fond childhood memories of the old NES favourite Duck Hunt. To beat 
 all, those mindless fowl from years gone by even make cameo appearances in Shooting Range. It is 
 simple enough to play the game, all you do is point your Wiimote at the screen and blast away at 
 targets, skeets, tin cans, ducks and finally alien spacecrafts trying to abduct your Miis. Shooting 
 Range will be child's play for anyone who has slogged through 'Red Steel'. Alas, you cannot shoot 
 your opponent but it is good for a few cheap laughs and to distract the competition. Billiards 
 ain't half bad either. By holding down the B button and moving the Wiimote towards the screen, 
 you strike the cue ball and sink the other balls in numerical order. The hitch of Billiards is 
 there is no other variations to spice things up. You are stuck with the one mode of play.
  
  None of the other Wii Play games are up to snuff. Table Tennis is a waste of time if you already 
 have Wii Sports and Tennis. Laser Hockey is nothing more than a flashy version of air hockey. Fishing 
 is more about luck than skill and about as fun as ummm... real fishing. Charge! is horse racing 
 using... ummm... cows. Tanks! is a hide and seek battling maze game and Find Mii is Where's Waldo? 
 using the Miis on your Wii while Pose Mii requires you to match silhouettes and pop bubbles. Yawns 
 and more yawns all around.
  
  If you are in the market for another Wiimote, you are probably best off avoiding 'Wii Play' and 
 saving your hard-earned cash unless you have some ankle-biter gamers or old folks at home who have 
 really short attention spans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkeon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  When i got the Wii i didnt buy an extra controller, and i have alot of people over sometimes for 
 semi-lans (May it be PC or Xbox) so i needed another one at least. In my area the Wiimote is $40 
 and nunchuck is $20. So i go down to my local  and look around. 
 Just before i go to check out my Wiimote and Nunchuck i see Wiiplay. Boy was i lucky to have noticed 
 this, $50 for the Wiimote and 9 party minigames? Couldnt go wrong for 10 extra dollars. I would 
 never buy Wiiplay for $50 without the Wiimote, but all in all its a great deal, especialy if you 
 or someone you know is deep into Duck Hunt, Air Hockey, Pool or even Find Wally type games, youl 
 have more then$10 worth of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets get to it... this is meant to attract game newbies to the gaming community and introduce 
 them to the wii. This was designed so your grandma can get in the game and your game-challenged 
 friends can play as well. Hardcore gamers, avoid this game... unless you want the remote that come 
 with it, which then makes the game like about 10 dollars. So basically; 10 for the game, 40 for 
 a remote, not a bad deal.
  
  Now what do you do in wii play? You DO NOT chainsaw aliens, dismember your enemies, manipulate 
 falling blocks, swing swords, shoot machine guns or learn 12 hit combos, instead you play 9 minigames 
 which are pretty good. As in wii sports each game has medals for you to unlock, bronze, silver, 
 gold and platnum, these are obtained by getting high scores and/or doing well.
  
  Next up is a 2-4 line explaination of each game. BTW I am not talking about single or multi player 
 specifically, I just describe it generally.
  
  Shooting (you dont use a machine gun, so hah! no contradiction)
  You use the remote (duh) as 
 a gun, multiple kinds of targets pop up in 5 levels. This is all about hand eye coordination and 
 knowing the types of targets does help a bit. Rating (out of 5) 4.5.
  
  Find Mii
  This is really fun. Basically a fast-paced, hands on, where is waldo? game. (where is waldo? is 
 this look and search book) This plays out in rounds with a certain task, find 3 same mii's, find 
 2 sleeping ones, etc. This is challenging on later levels and is really fun w/ 2 ppl. Rating 5.
 
  
  Ping-Pong
  Neat and unique; this is one of those in-the-corner games. The paddle responds decently but different 
 types of shots are more area sensitive then motion sensitive, slams activate when the ball is slow 
 and close to the net and clear shots when its in a corner. Rating 3.5.
  
  Pose Mii
  UGHHHH... this one just sucks.
  Rating 1 (lowest is 0)
  
  Hockey
  Similar to ping-pong, 
 interesting and cool. You most likely know how hockey works so i wont explain. You can change your 
 paddle to a circle during the countdown with A+B. The trick in this one is to use short, strong 
 and clear movements, dont spaz out and use little movement. Rating 3.5.
  
  Billiards
  This will take a while to get the hang of. I am assuming again you know how billiards/pool works. 
 As long as you hit the next ball first, no matter what you sink will count. Fouls are minus 3 and 
 breaking is random-nized. No chalk included. Rating 4.
  
  Fishing
  You hunt for paper cut out aquatic vertebrea in a small pond. Pretty fun with for the first time 
 then... however multiplayer is a blast. Also there is always a certain fish that is a bonus and 
 the value will double if you catch it, the bonus fish changes randomly, small fry's lose you points 
 so be careful. Rating 3.
  
  Cow racing
  My favorite for some reason, this allows you to hop on a cow and race through a farm knocking down 
 scarecrows. Hold the remote on the side and tilt forward and backward for speed, side to turn and 
 flick up to jump. This controls beautifully and is just hilarious. Rating gazillion, 5.
  
  Tanks
  Steer your hunk of metal with the D-pad or nunchuk analog, aim whit remote, shoot with 
 B and lay mines with A. This is challenging and is the lengthiest of all. I dont know how many 
 levels there are but i only got up to 20 something. Your shots ricochet 1X off walls too, good 
 for sniping. Rating 4.5.
  
  Well there you have it a quick run through of the games on wii play. I highly recommenr getting 
 this as it is worth the laughs and the remote. Plus your relatives are probably getting bored of 
 wii sports by now right? why not get another casual easy game for the wii for them? So in the end 
 wii play is a blast with others, the single player is okay but woth others it is a lot of fun.
 
  
  The winner of multiplayer matches gets a bigger mii at the menu, so if the score is like 8 to 1 
 the person with 8 will be much bigger, also you can press A while on the mii in different areas 
 (torso area is 1 big unit) and get reactions, faces scruch if you poke their face and arms wave, 
 etc. Finally I will go through a traditional review style with gameplay, graphics etc. jk, i appluad 
 you if your actually reading and lived through my cr4pt4stic writing skills and horrible literary 
 logic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_wiifather
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  This game, although short, was a lot of fun while it lasted. I still often pick it up to play a 
 quick game. It is fun to play in groups. If you play on your own, you will bore yourself to death, 
 so avoid playing this on your own.
  
  I played this game with my dad (I think it's the first videogame on the Wii that he's played with 
 me) , and my cousin. It was great fun and also a good laugh, and we were at it for about half an 
 hour. It was worth every minute.
  
  Graphics in this game aren't all that, but you don't really need amazing graphics in this game. 
 There are a lot of minigames (9 of them) , but theyare all very short and don't have very much depth. 
 The ones that have levels have about 6 levels, all of which are very short, so the game can get 
 very repetitive after a while...
  
  The tank game, pool game and cow riding game were the most fun and we were at it the whole time. 
 I guess once you play it a few times you do kind of get bored of it, but hey, it comes with a wiimote, 
 so the value is great, and a lot of people will buy it because it costs about $10 if you deduct 
 the price of a wiimote, so why not get it anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a collection of nine minigames which could have been placed inside WarioWare.
  
  The presentation fo the games and menu mirrors that of Wii Sports in simplistic graphics and 
 what I think of as soft sound effects. Unfortunatly, the sound effects sound a bit re-done and 
 may be tweaked versions of the effects from Wii Sports.
  
  Unlike Wii Sports however, the nine games included don't add up to much replay time. Only about 
 three of the games make any intrest for me (Tanks, Billiards, Laser Hockey) and this is partially 
 thanks to a second person. Otherwise the games are okay to play maybe once every two weeks. If 
 you don't have another person to play with, don't expect any unlockables or other incentives to 
 keep playing. For example, it's simple to get the gold medal in Shooting Gallery, but you arn't 
 awarded with anything.
  
  Wii Play can easily be described as a tech demo. True, when I was playing I was wondering if these 
 were seen at E3 or not. The fact that it comes with a Wiimote makes Wii Play a little easier to 
 forgive - but not much. If you find you need another remote, I say get it, but otherwise don't 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingoptimistu
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is a series of several mini-games, ranging from games that feel more like wii-mote tutorials 
 or tech demos than games to games that I would love to see expanded into budget titles. Some of 
 the games have very little replay value for me, including the fishing game, cow racing, a where's 
 waldo type mini game, and an odd game that requires you to match the cursor to falling miis. These 
 games aren't very fun for more than one play.
  
  The next tier of games for me was the Pong game, the Duck Hunt style game, and a ping pong game. 
 They are fun for a little while, but are only really worth playing as a two player game.
  
  The best two games are a solid pool game and Tanks. The pool game would have benefited greatly 
 from some variety with different games to play other than an odd version of 9 ball, but it is still 
 a lot of fun. The star of the show is definitely Tanks, the only game that can use an optional 
 nunchuck. The game is a lot like the old Atari game Combat, and is an absolute blast to play with 
 friends. You control a tank in an overhead view battle royale with CPU controlled tanks. There 
 are a variety of enemy tanks to fight, with 20 diverse levels that have a surprising amount of 
 replay value. It isn't that deep, but it is incredibly fun with a friend. Tanks is almost the only 
 game on this disc that I play often after the first few weeks.
  
  This game pales in comparison to Wii Sports for me, but this game also only effectively costs 10 
 bucks if you are in the market for a wiimote. It is certainly worth 10 bucks for Tanks by itself, 
 but there isn't a lot of depth here. I had a lot of fun with this game, and I'm judging it as a 
 10 dollar game, but there was a lot of missed opportunities here. Every game is 2 player, but some 
 of them could have benefited nicely from 4 player support. Some of the games are practically worthless, 
 but I think the enjoyable games here merit a purchase if you are looking for a new controller. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nleon1977
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  When i think of WII Play, I keep thinking.... Wow, I could have rented this one. There are a lot 
 of positives in this game. I enjoyed the Duckhunt minigame and the 9 Ball was way cool. The ways 
 the game utilizes the Wii-mote is really good. Ok, here's what bugs me about the game. The mini-games 
 are just too darn mini. I'm paying 50 bucks for a game that should have been a 20 or 30 dollar 
 game. And some of the games are just weird. But hey, at least i get to use my Mii. Let's call a 
 spade a spade. This should have been a budget title right out of the gate. However, I did get a 
 free WII-mote out of it. All I'm saying is you may not want to buy the game. But it's worth a rent. 
 There is fun to be had here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Great start game containes alot of mini games such as air hockey, duck hunt; alot of two player 
 classics to get you adjusted to using the Wii controller. Graphics are decent it gets boring after 
 a while no depth to the game it is what it is alot of mini games you can play with friends for 
 a little Wii party. Sound track is mini game steriotypical but not great. I think its a little 
 too expensive for what it is, do not recomend getting this game if you have already got other multiplayer 
 games for people who know how to play with the Wii. (Not worth buying or playing, depends on Wii 
 game expierence)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloshed1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  The game itself is by no means worth spending $50 for. However, when you count in the fact that 
 you get a free remote with it, the price is well worth it. I would say that the game itself is 
 worth about $20. There are a couple of cool games on it like tanks. In truth though, I don't feel 
 there are any games on it that have any lasting value other than when new friends come over who 
 haven't seen the wii or played wii play. Summing up when you buy wii play you are getting a couple 
 addictive games, a couple games you can find no point to, and a few average games that are cute 
 but get old real quick. I would recomend it to anyone who needs a remote or can find the game by 
 itself for under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  If your like me looking for an action adventure game thats quite lengthy this game is definitely 
 not for you. However its not a complete disappointment, it is a very fun multi-player to be honest 
 and is a great party game! But playing this on your own would grow very boring and may put you 
 off playing it again. Some of it's Mini-games are very peculiar and quite frankly you wonder why 
 there on there! e. g the shape matching game and finding to Look-a likes ect but some are fun and 
 if on Multi-player.. addictive. Table Tennis for Example is very fun.. but as you get into it it 
 ends once you've rallied to 100, that was a big disappointment! The cow racing game is surprisingly 
 fun and addictive, That doesn't get boring. I give the game play a 6 because its not bad.. but 
 not all its cracked up to be. The Graphics and sound are both Great and i think thats what gives 
 the game some appeal. For a Wii beginner this game is great especially if your having the Odd Party! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is basicaly a sequel to Wii Sports and packed with some new games and some new fun. This 
 game is definately the way to go if you need another controller and you want to have another pary 
 game. If you play this game by yourself, its not very exciting (except for Tanks :D ) . Wii play 
 consists of 9 minigames: Shootout, Find MII, Ping Pong, Lazer Hockey, Fishing, Billiards, Cow Racing, 
 Shape Mii ( i thinks its called that) , and Tanks. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone with 
 four controllers. Wii Play is a $10 game with a $40 controller, you do the math. Wii Play is just 
 an easier way to get a controller which seems to be out of stock everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  I went into my local Gamestation, and after selling two of my games, I put them towards buying 
 this game. The main reason I bought this though, was for the Wii Remote. It wasn't much extra to 
 buy the game with the remote.
  
  This game is meant to teach you how to use your Wii Remote, and use different techniques with it. 
 As you play through the game, you unlock more games - you only start off with the one game - playing 
 it unlocks the second game, playing that unlocks the third game and so on. There are nine in total. 
 But are they any good? Some you are likely to get fun out of on a regular basis, some were mediocre 
 and others are pretty dull. You can choose to play it alone or with friends, but I will say the 
 most fun you can get out of it is when you are playing against somebody else. Playing alone against 
 the computer isn't a lot of fun after a while. In this game, much like with Wii Sports, you can 
 earn medals ranging from bronze to gold, and much like Wii Sports, you can use your own Miis in 
 this game which makes it a little bit more fun. The gameplay itself works in the way you expect 
 (similar to Wii Sports) though sometimes the controls can be a little too sensitive.
  
  You start off with Shooting Range, a game in which players shoot the targets, which range from 
 balloons to alien ships! This game is meant to help beginner's learn to aim the Wii Remote where 
 they want it to go.
  
  You then unlock Find Mii, which relies on you finding which Mii is the odd one out, which Miis 
 are identical, the fastest Mii etc. Of course, as you play on, the amount of Miis increase making 
 things a little bit more difficult. Gets boring quickly.
  
  Table Tennis is exactly as it sounds - you use your Mii to play Table Tennis, via swinging your 
 Wii Remote as if you were playing Tennis in Wii Sports, but you have to move your Wii Remote to 
 where the ball is.
  
  Pose Mii gets easily dull after a while and is probably the least fun game in Wii Play. There are 
 three different poses your Mii can be in, and you must match the poses in the falling bubbles. 
 This gets slightly difficult after a while as the pace speeds up. This lasts for quite a while 
 and as mentioned before, can get boring easily.
  
  Laser hockey can be fun, especially in multiplayer. You tilt your Wii Remote and try to score goals 
 while preventing the CPU/your friend from scoring goals themselves. Aiming the paddle shoots the 
 ball in that direction.
  
  Billiards is pretty good. Imagine you are playing a pool/snooker game. Of course you aim the ball 
 with your remote, hold the B button, move the Remote back and shoot it forward while releasing 
 the B button. Though sometimes the ball does not shoot forward at all when shooting the Wii Remote 
 forward.
  
  Fishing is pretty good, despite the fact that most of the time you merely have the line in the 
 water. Try to catch as many fish as you can, to add points, but avoid the little brown fish, as 
 catching them will subtract fifty points from your score. Charge is okay, not brilliant but okay. 
 You hold the Wii Remote sideways, riding a horse alone a lane knocking over as many scarecrows 
 as you can. Tilting the Wii Remote forward increases speed, and tilting it back decreases speed. 
 There are also barriers you can jump. Knocking scarecrows over earns you points.
  
  Tanks can be complicated for beginners. You can either use the Wii Remote d-pad or the Nunchuk 
 to move the tank around. The objective is to destroy the tanks before they can destroy you. As 
 with Charge, it's not brilliant, but it's okay.
  
  Nowhere near as good as Wii Sports. If people are looking to buy this game believing it to be a 
 masterpiece or at least as great as Wii Sports, it isn't. Don't get me wrong, the game is not bad. 
 But it does not have a lot of replay value and gets dull after a while. Thankfully though, you 
 can get a Wii Remote packed in with this, so there's no losses upon buying this game, as the game 
 costs around &pound;5 or $10 (depending on the country you live in) on top of the cost of the Wii 
 Remote itself. Despite that though, this game probably won't hold your attention for long, and 
 the most fun you will most likely get out of it is during multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antthetitch
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  It took a while to get this game since it was out of stock most of the time.
  My parents mainly got this to get the extra remote for wii sports but it was cheaper to get the 
 remote and wii play since they both come as a package.
  
  The 9 games basically teach you the functions of the remote, most of the games are fun, some are 
 pretty dull and others are average. It's fun as a multiplayer but it's not that fun playing against 
 then computer, even if you do get medals for it in the same way you do in wii sports, the gold 
 and platinum medals are very hard to get anyway. The fact that you can use your own mii's from 
 the wii mii channel in the game makes it more fun to play. You only have the 1 game to begin with 
 then once you play that you unlock game 2, which has to be played to unlock game 3 and so on till 
 the 9 games are unlocked. Gameplay is fun but sometimes it can be too sensitive. As for the 9 games 
 themselves... Table Tennis- It's okay I suppose, you just have to move the remote left and right 
 along the side of the table, plus the remote can be too sensitive in this game
  
  Laser Hockey - Played by moving the remote around, this game is one of my faves, pretty fun to 
 play and the musics catchy too. It's the same as those puck games you find in arcades, only more 
 fun.
  
  Fishing - This is one of the ones I don't like, you just stick your rod in the water and when correct 
 fish snags your rod, yank the remote back to catch it, do it twice and you've won, pretty dull 
 and boring to me
  
  Find Mii - This is is alright I guess, there are a number of miis in a group and you have to either 
 find two identical miis, find the odd one out, find your miis, find the fastest mii and things 
 like that, the amount of miis invcrease as the game goes on, I don't mind this one
  
  Pose Mii - I don't like this one at all. It's too boring, you just have to move you mii around 
 and place him in the bubbles while in the correct body position (with just 3 different body positions) . 
 It's too long and boring for me
  
  Charge - My favourite game, played by holding the remote sideways, tilting it forward to accelerate 
 and flicking it upwardsm to jump. You have to ride on a horse along a lane, knocking over as many 
 as you can, it's pretty rfun compared to the other ones Tanks- This one can be quite complicated 
 as you have to shoot the tank by aiming and pressing B while moving your tank using the arrows 
 at the same time. It's pretty good but i've seen better
  
  Billiards- Pretty fun, it's near enough the same as the monkeyball minigame. You aim the ball with 
 the remote, hold B, move the remote back and then shoot it forward to fire while releasing B. This 
 is one of the games I like, it can be pretty fun.
  
  Target practice- Another one I like, you basically point the remote at the screen and press A or 
 B to shott the targets.
  
  Overall most of the games are fun and it's great with multiplayer but against the cpu it's not 
 that great. Overall though it's fun and if you don't like the game, you still get your moneys worth 
 out of the remote that comes with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  We all have certian friends or relatives who just don't like to play games, but the Wii is starting 
 to change that. Wii Sports introduced what was likely the best concept we've seen in years. Wii 
 Play is the second game in this string of Mii integrated, simple mini-game based, Wii series of 
 games. The game starts out with only one mini-game (shooting) , but more get unlocked as you beat 
 them consecutively. There are nine mini-games in all. Beating them is easy, and does not take long, 
 but getting a gold metal on all of them can be quite challenging. The game supports single player 
 and two player competitions. There is not much else to do in this game, so it can wear thin really 
 quickly. It does come with a free Wii-remote, so that's an even bigger incentive to get this for 
 non-gamers. Serious gamers with no friends (yes, I know who you are) should stay away from this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone123
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  NOTE: This review is split for the only fun mini games in wii play. The others will be mentioned 
 after.
  
  GAMEPLAY-SHOOTING RANGE: This simple game is probably one of the best mini games on this disk. 
 Its a simple point and click shoot the targets type thing. It has four rounds were you try to shoot 
 different targets to acumlate points. Not skill points like in Wii Sports, but competative points 
 to see who is better, you or you friend. There is nothing different about 2 player mode in this 
 mini game however.
  
  FIND MII: Remember those old picture books wer you found Waldo? This is a sort of remake but with 
 your own Miis you've created. This could be a bad thing or a good thing depending if you want a 
 challange. If you have creted to much Miis to even remember what they look like, you're in trouble. 
 The 1 player point of this mini game is to see how far in levels you can get without losing to 
 much time. You can gain more timeby finding the Mii it asks you to find fast. In 2 player mode, 
 you have a set amount of time to go though levels finding the Miis faster then your friend. You 
 gain points in this mode to see who has the better eye for the game. You can lose points and time 
 in both moes if you click te wrong Mii. The Miis are almost to hard to find however, and somtimes 
 the Mii your suppossed to find is only on the screen for seconds, then you have to waste valuable 
 seconds waiting for the Mii to come back on screen.
  
  BILLARDS: For most people they bought this gamemostly for pool, but Nintendo had to screw that 
 up. Billards only has one type of pool game: 9 ball. In this version of 9 ball, you try to get 
 all the balls in order (up to 9) in while not trying to get that many strokes. This is very hard 
 because of lack luster controlls and horrible motion sensetivity. If you have a friend and play 
 this game with him or her, you will never see there face again. Its that bad. And this is one of 
 the good games...
  
  CHARGE!: Now this is agame you'll remember. In the good way. You hold the wii mote sideways like 
 excite truck and tilt it forward for more speed. You can jump fences by quickly lifting the wii 
 mote. The point of this game is too hit scarecrows down to score points, while a combo gets + 5 
 points or you can hit a king scarecrow which will book you you a cool 10 points extra. And the 
 best thing is your riding a cow! Sweet! In 2 player mode you try to score more points then your 
 friend before the time is up. But the bad thing is the controles get screwed up in 2 player mode 
 and then the swearing comes shortly after...
  
  TANKS: Possibly the only game you will get hooked on. You controle your tank either by the nunchuck 
 or the d-pad. In the mini game you go through missions and try to destroy the most tanks possible. 
 You can detonate a mine by pressing A and by doing so, you can create short cuts in walls. This 
 game could be a reason to make a totally awsome new tank game, possibly with co-op. Unlike this 
 version which you go through missions competing against your friend. The only bad thing is that 
 this may be te only reason to get this game.
  
  The other games: Pose Mii, Laser Hockey, Fishing, and Table Tenis are sooo bad you'll fnd that 
 you would want to return this game.
  
  GRAPHICS: All the games hav the similar cartoony-like graphics, except for laser hockey and fishing. 
 The colours in laser hockey are the only eyepopping thing in graphics, while fishing Nintendo didn't 
 want people playing AT ALL so they made is 2D fish you try to catch with a 2D fishing rod.
  
  TILT: The wii mote you purchuse comes with this game.... wait other way around...
  
  In 
 summary this game has many mixed reactions and in closing try to rent it first before buying unless 
 you NEED the extra wii mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play comes with a Wiimote for an extra $10. Now a lot of critics have been bashing it as a 
 simple tech demo, and if it didn't come with with the extra wiimote, it couldn't be sold as a game. 
 I disagree. I would buy it if it was a stand-alone game (but at like 30 bucks.) I think that it 
 is a good game.
  
  Wii Play has 9 games. Shooting Range is a few stages of different things to shoot at. Like ballons, 
 UFO's, tin cans, targets, frissbee-like things, and occasionally ducks. This game is one of my 
 favorites, and is keeping me amused until the inevitable release of Duck Hunt on the Virtual Console, 
 (come on NIntendo.) Find Mii is basically hide is basically like a Find-it Book. It has you looking 
 for pairs of Miis, the Mii who is walking the fastest, the Mii you're using etc. In Table Tennis 
 you move the Wiimote side to side and hit the ball as it comes to you. When you play this by yourself, 
 you try to get an 100 rally. If you play with a friend, you play a game to 11. Mii Pose is probbably 
 my least favorite game. You hit A and B to change the position your Mii is in and you twist the 
 Wiimote to make them twist, then you put them in the bubble. It gets old fast. Laser Hockey is 
 llike Pong but with expanded gameplay strategies. You can twist the Wiimote to change the angle 
 of the shot and you can move it over fast to hit it harder. In single-player you play to see who 
 gets the most points in a few seconds. In two-player you play to 8. Pool is probbably my favorite. 
 You you aim at the the cue ball, hold B, pull back, and thrust the Wiimote forward. I have 2 problem 
 with this game though.1. Sometime when you thrust the Wiimote forward you swing up by accident 
 and nothing happens. 2. If you are hitting in a ball when you are really close to a pocket, you 
 will most likely scratch. Fishing isn't like fishing in Twilight Princess. You just move the rod 
 around in the water and pull up when you get a bite. But some will give you bonus points. Charge 
 is believe it or not, cow racing. Strange, yes. Fun, absolutely. You play similarly to Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings, (if you didn't play it, meh... you're not missing much.) But you lift the Wiimote 
 up to jump and you need to tilt it forward to move faster. You try toknock over scarecrows in this 
 game. The last game is Tanks. It is the only game that you need a nunchunk for. You move with the 
 analog stick, point at the other tanks with the Wiimote, hit B to fire, and A to drop mines. This 
 is one of my favorites.
  
  So in conclusion, Wii Play is a very underated game. I have lots of playing it. I reccomend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: nothing specil and not much too see same old wii sports type graphics
  
  Sounds: nothing too great just wut there supose to be.
  
  Gameplay: Ok this scores the best 
 it has great gameplay really fun for multiplayer party type game best use of the wii mote since 
 wii sports.
  
  Value: The value of this game is one of those were you play it for a few hours and sick of it but 
 what really makes this game worthwhile is the free wiimote inside thats a great adition. defintly 
 worth while I really liked the ping pong, plasma pong, fishing, tanks, cows and pool. pick it up 
 for the wii mote and a ten dollar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollingstones7
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  - Easy to pick up, hard to master
  - Good multi-player in most games. When the games are as accessible as they are, you can player 
 with anyone: friends, parents, wives....
  - Games like the cow driving game show off the wii's potential in racing games.
  - Controls are 
 great.
  
  Bad:
  - If you have a pool or ping-pong table (like i do) then those two games just don't compare.
 
  - Some games are only good for single or multi-player. For example, the ping-pong single player 
 is a rally, not a game.
  - Some games just don't work; the multi-player tanks game tries to use a semi-coop system like 
 that of some shooters or the multi-player pac-man game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wii play is a continued game in the series of Wii branded titles. While Wii sports was free and 
 actually fun, Wii play is just lame and broken. Many of the mini games are just sad, and the lack 
 of any depth just sucks this game down the tube even more.
  Wii play includes 9 mini games, 2 of which are fun and the rest useless. Shooting Gallery is a 
 fun light gun style game that mimics duck hunt. You shoot balloons, cans, clay pigeons, the ducks, 
 and UFOs. The second good game is the Mini Tank battle, which has the interesting option of being 
 played with or without the nunchuk. It's basically just an isometric shooter, but the tanks are 
 pretty challenging later in the game. The rest are horrid, especially Ping Pong and Laser Hockey. 
 Both are extremely pointless, short, and stupidly hard in single player. Multiplayer adds some 
 fun to these, but their general lack of structure is what hurts them the most. Pose Mii is profoundly 
 stupid. You just pose your Mii with the push of a button and twirl of the wiimote. Simple and boring. 
 Find Mii is the same principle, except without posing. You just find a Mii under certain circumstances. 
 Billiards is decent for awhile, but the fact that you're not playing actual pool but more of a 
 shoot here ruins the experience. Fishing is a step back from what Zelda offered, and is incredibly 
 easy to pull off a platinum medal in one try. Finally, the Cow racing type game is a funny diversion, 
 but ultimately just feels completely separate from the rest of the collection of games. The controls 
 are decent, but the game is boring after a short period of time.
  Graphically, Wii play is bad. While it takes the Wii sports approach, the game adds very little 
 onto what Wii sports had. The Mii models do animate better, but the rest of the textures are bland 
 and ugly. The mini games are lifeless with the same repeating backgrounds and textures. Most mini 
 games don't even change screens, making the graphics of your current area even worse.
  Sound is decent, with everything coming from the speakers except for stupid little noises on the 
 wiimote. Nothing is of exceptional quality, but it also doesn't sound terrible. The music is decent, 
 the sound effects are funny, and anything else is just there.
  The value of this game is almost entirely the included Wiimote. There is obviously no other reason 
 to own Wii play, as the game is completely useless after a few hours. When you think of the price 
 a wiimote normally goes for, $10 for Wii play isn't all that bad. You get an extra wiimote, and 
 some dumb games to screw around with; what could be better? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkestHour-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Game: Wii Play
  Number of Players: 1-2
  Best Features: Fee Wii Mote/Heavy Mii Useage
  
  Wii Play is a game in which people overall, tend to give a bad response. Much like Wii-Sports, 
 it consists of various activities to allow you to better understand the capabilities of the Wii 
 Mote. Wii Play showcases some original &amp; innovative gameplay, and is a great experience over-all. 
 The main downfall of this game is how short it is.
  
  Wii Play is made up of 9 mini activities in which you can earn medals, depending on your score. 
 In this review, I will state my personal opinion on each activity, giving a short detailed review 
 of each.
  
  1. Target Range.
  -The first activity of Wii Play brings Nintendo back to its roots, with what at the start, looks 
 like an updated version of the Nintendo classic, Duck Hunt. In this game, there are 5 stages, in 
 which you shoot balloons, targets, clay disks, tin cans, &amp; spaceships. Also, every now and 
 then a couple of ducks fly across the screen. There are many tricks to learn in this game, which 
 can drastically change the outcome of your score. In Target Range, the Wii Mote is used much like 
 the NES Lightgun. The controls are very fluent and accurate. This is one of the funnest games on 
 Wii Play, and provides a decent challenge if going after the Platinum Medal.
  
  2. Find Mii.
  -The second activity of Wii Play could be best described as an updated version 
 of Where's Waldo? . In Find Mii, you are given a task to complete, which involves finding Mii characters. 
 Some of these tasks include Find 2 look-a-likes, Find the fastest Mii, Find the sleepyhead (In 
 which one of the Mii's are sleeping) , etc. . This sounds like an easy thing to do, but as you advance 
 further in the game, different things happen which can really confuse you. For instance, sometimes 
 the screen goes black and you have to use the Wii Mote as a flashlight to try to complete your 
 given task. This is really difficult when there are a lot of Mii's on the screen and you have to 
 find 2 look-a-likes. Find Mii has a timer, which starts at 120 seconds and runs out as you try 
 to complete your task. Every time you complete your task, you are rewarded 10 seconds extra, but 
 the time never goes above 120 seconds. When you get to the higher levels, some tasks may take up 
 to a minute to complete, which makes racing against the clock very challenging. The platinum medal 
 in this game is one of the hardest to receive, and it takes a very long time to reach.
  
  3. Table Tennis.
  -The third activity of Wii Play is a basic version of table tennis. There isn't 
 much interaction, as you press no buttons (you just wave the Wii Mote side to side as if it were 
 a paddle) , but it does get challenging once the ball gets faster. Overall, I was dissapointed with 
 this activity because instead of having to play a normal game of Table Tennis, you just play in 
 rallies. Once you drop the ball it is over and the computer doesn't miss the ball because of this. 
 Getting the gold medal is no challenge at all, but you need 200 hits in a row to get platinum. 
 By the time you hit 180, the ball is going so fast you can barely see it, so you have to pretty 
 much guess where to put the paddle. However, if you have fast eyes, getting a platinum medal in 
 this one should be no problem at all to you.
  
  4. Pose Mii.
  -Pose Mii is a game that will have your wrists twisting and turning until they can't possible twist 
 or turn any more! It will also have you using your reflexes like you never have before! In this 
 game, you control the Mii that you are playing as, using the Wii Mote to turn them upside down 
 or whichever way you please. The object of this game is to fit (or pose ) your Mii into bubbles 
 that have a body shape in them. There are 3 different body shapes, in which you have to press the 
 A or B button to change into. When you place your Mii in a bubble at the correct angle and in the 
 correct shape, the bubble dissapears. You have to get rid of all of the bubbles before they touch 
 the bottom of the screen. After you get so many bubbles, you advance to the next level. Each level 
 has something different happen, and it gets very hard and fast! If you let 3 bubbles hit the ground, 
 you are out. This game is very challenging but it isn't too bad once you get the hang of it. Getting 
 a platinum medal will take some time, but the more you play, the easier of a feat it will become.
 
  
  5. Laser Hockey.
  -The fifth activity that makes up Wii Play is Laser Hockey. This is a basic game of Air Hockey, 
 but it is much more challenging then you think! This is one of the hardest games on Wii Play, which 
 I blame mostly on the controls. When you hit the ball, your bumper kind of drags with the Wii Mote. 
 You would think that swinging it forward hard would make the ball go faster, but the bumper just 
 kind of bings up in the ball and lags behind once it hits it. I really dislike that about this 
 game and I wish that it had more of a free feeling when hitting the ball. Like Find Mii, this game 
 has a timer which starts at 120 seconds. At first, your opponent seems really easy, but each time 
 you score a goal, your they get slightly trickier. Much like any game however, there is a strategy 
 to beating your opponent, but I will leave that for you to figure out. In order to receive your 
 points, you must score more goals then your opponent does before the time runs out, or you get 
 zero. Getting a platinum medal in this game is very difficult and will require many many plays 
 to find out your opponents technique.
  
  6. Billiards
  -Maybe it was because of my high expectations, but Billiards was the most dissapointing activity 
 on Wii Play for me. The style of game that you play slightly resembles 9 ball, but it involves 
 getting points. You start with a perfect score. When you scratch you lose points and each turn 
 that you take you lose points. Therefore, a person receives the most points when they sink all 
 of the balls in a low ammount of shots, and don't scratch. I am dissapointed with the fact that 
 there is no opponent and you just have to sink the balls on your own. An opponent would of made 
 this a much better game. However, the worst thing about Billiards was the controls. For some reason, 
 they just never seem to work right. When you pull back the Wii Mote as the pool stick, sometimes 
 it doesn't pull back. When you spring it forward to hit the ball, sometimes it doesn't go forward. 
 This becomes very irritating. In order to make the shot, you have to hold the Wii Mote perfectly 
 parallel to the floor. If it is tilted even the slightest bit off, you will have trouble making 
 the shot. Because of the controls, this game is pretty challenging to receive a platinum medal 
 in, but if you can manage to get used to it, you will be able to earn it with some luck.
  
  7. Pool Fishing
  -Pool Fishing is probably the easiest game on Wii Play, but still very fun. 
 In Pool Fishing, you use the Wii Mote as a fishing rod to catch fish. When you feel the fish nibble 
 on your hook (through the built in rumble) , you have to pull them in. Sadly, there is no reeling 
 feature, but it is still really fun none-the-less. This was the first game I had received a platinum 
 medal in, and I didn't even try.
  
  8. Cow Racing
  -Cow Racing is one of the funnest games on Wii Play, along with Target Range. In this game you 
 have to hold the Wii Mote sideways, and tilt it the way you want to turn. You must hit scarecrows 
 and jump hurdles (by thrusting the Wii Mote as if thrusting the reigns on the cow) along the way. 
 This is a pretty easy game but very very fun and addictive. To get platinum you need to complete 
 the level flawless by hitting all scarecrows and doing it in a good ammount of time, but it isn't 
 as hard as it sounds.
  
  9. Tanks
  -Game number nine is called Tanks. In my opinion, this is the hardest game on Wii Play, along with 
 Laser Hockey. In tanks, you control an army tank, with the mission to blow up all other tanks on 
 the screen. As you advance, the tanks get stronger and have better weapons. They also go up in 
 quantity. Each level has different barricades in place, making it hard for you to hit the tanks. 
 Your missle can bounce off of a wall once without exploding, so you have to shoot at the wall at 
 an angle to reach the other tanks in some cases. This one took me forever to receive platinum in, 
 and it was the hardest medal to get. It will keep you playing for a long time before you can beat 
 it.
  
  Wii Play is a good game overall, and it is underappreciated. It has it's flaws, but is very fun 
 none-the-less. This game is a great experience for all ages, although some games may be too hard 
 for the really young and really old players. Wii play offers heavy Mii useage, where you can play 
 as your Mii in every game, and it offers multiplayer, where you can face off againt a friend. It 
 has lots of replay value, espessically if going after the Platinum medals. It also comes bundled 
 with a free Wii Mote! At the expense of a Wii Mote, you are basically getting this game for 10-15 
 dollars. That is a very very good deal!
  
  I recommend Wii Play to people of all ages, to have a fun experience whether with friends, family, 
 or if playing alone. Also, if you are in need of a Wii Mote, don't hesistate to spend an extra 
 10-15 bucks to get this game! It is most definently worth it.
  
  -DarkestHour- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsguy464646
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so, most people say this game is not much. They say that most of the mini-games are boring 
 with almost no value. Now, I somewhat agree with those people, but, as a whole, I believe it's 
 worth it.
  
  The Shooting Range is not the best game, it's just too old in concept. They could've done this 
 same game with the NES Zapper, if they wanted. It is kind of fun, however, if you get into it.
 
  
  The Find Mii game is amazing, and I play it for hours. I have almost 50 Miis, and my parade has 
 another 50. A lot of Miis appear! I know them all, and it's really fun to see them moving around 
 the world, all the time still forced to locate each one carefully.
  
  Well, the next one, Table Tennis, is a blast back to the past. Cearly Pong comes to mind. This 
 game is an interesting one, but is far too basic, and the limit of 100 rallies takes away the open-end.
 
  
  Pose Mii... ahh, another Mii game... but this one is very different. I find this game very fun to 
 play, especially with another person. The early levels are a bit boring, though.
  
  Laser Hockey is a fun game in all respects. MUCH better in multiplayer, though. The AI is a little 
 bad , here. But I love the game itself. You can choose 2 paddles, the line and a circle. The line 
 is fun because even the side you hit the ball matters. The circle is much more realistic, however.
 
  
  Billiards. A game that is generally considered fun in video game form. This is probably one of 
 the best simulations of billiards i've seen, and is one of the better ones.
  
  Fishing. An old-school game style makes this game fun. It's very fun, and the only one I've played 
 enough for a Platinum medal. I love this game...
  
  Charge!!! A racing style game gone yarn-ish. I think this is the worst game in the set, as it just 
 wears off too fast.
  
  And finally, TANKS! I don't know about you, but Tanks is incredible. It requires much skill to 
 clear all the levels, and is enjoyable for weeks. I've played it daily since I got the game. I'm 
 sure most people think of tanks when they think of Wii play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyacevedo
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  What the hell have I just played? Oh it's Wii play! Wii Play is just boring, it teaches you how 
 to use the Wii mote, which most people have already figured out by playing either Warioware or 
 Wii Sports. This game has no replay value at all, it's not even a good multiplayer game, its just 
 a pointless waste of money. The only fun Wii Play mini game is the darts game, which still doesnt 
 make this game worth it. The pool game was a disappointment, but not as disappointing as the whole 
 damn game. You get your control and you learn how to use it, I recomend this game to somebody who 
 wants a control and a cheap 9 minigame game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topdogbobby
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are getting this game it should be for the controller. Thats the only reason to get it. 
 The games won't have you coming back for more. It feels like a tech demo to show off what the controller 
 can do and in that aspect it does it well. Don't expect to be impressed. It seems like the only 
 way to get a controller though and I wouldn't be surprised if this was on purpose. But not really 
 bad for a $10 game if all you were really looking for was a controller (Supposed to be $40 but 
 who can find one?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audi_tt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what Gamespot is talking about by giving it a 5 out of 10. It's a great party game! 
 Especially the duck hunt game, simple, byt very fun. I'm sorry, i disagree, this is a very fun 
 game that will take a long time to lose its lustre. Just a bit of a warning though, the Pose a 
 Mii is REALLY difficult when you get into the later stages. Tank wars is just plain good fun. The 
 cow riding game is very interesting, Billiards is fun, but is a little annoying because you HAVE 
 to hit the balls in the right order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  When looking at the game Wii Play, you really have to factor in that it's bundled with a Wiimote. 
 If you are doing so, then it's only a $15 game ($10 in the US) , so realistically, for the price, 
 it is a good game. I wouldn't pay much more than $15 for it, since it is essentially a collection 
 of quirky mini games. It does make good use of the Wiimote for the games, showing off its potential. 
 There were some minor things that could have been improved simply and it would have made this a 
 more worthwhile game. Namely, adding the option of playing traditional 8-ball in the pool game 
 or actually have control over the ball in table tennis as opposed to rallying.
  
  The best games are probably the Shooting Range or Laser Hockey. Very simple, but will keep you 
 entertained for a while. In fact, all of the games are fun, but you will quickly lose interest 
 once you've acquired the platinum medals in each event.
  
  Wii Play is a good collection of short mini games, and should not be viewed any differently. Its 
 received a lot of grief since the games don't last long and it gets boring quick, but it realistically 
 costs the fraction of a normal game, so in my opinion, it really isn't lost money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keibo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  WiiPlay is a game that can be either considered expensive with a cheap remote or a remote with 
 a cheap game. Before picking this game up my mind was already set on it being a WiiRemote with 
 a &pound;5 game. 9 minigames most of which incorporate the Miis in some way or another. The mini 
 games themselves are quite straight forward to pick up and play, and you'll probably unlock all 
 of the games within the first 30 minutes to an hour, and if you've done this and thought what a 
 waste then you're not seeing this package for what it is. If you were to get someone that has never 
 used the wii remote before and gave them this and wii sports they would more than likely be able 
 to play any other game thats thrown at them, each of the mini games increases in the complexity 
 of the actions that are done. The shooting range and FindMii are simply point and click, PoseMii 
 teaches players how to twist the remote whilst pressing buttons, Laser Hockey emphasises more on 
 the twisting of the remote, ping pong is about the depth perception and how moving the controller 
 up moves the hand forward, billiards teaches moving the controller towards and away from the screen 
 and is very similar to the fishing game as where you move the remote on the screen and the distance 
 determine where your hand and fishing rod are, Charge teaches how to tilt the controller and finally 
 tanks takes many of the concepts learnt about point and click and adds the nunchuck in for movement.
 
  
  I feel that the Gameplay is quite solid as its teaching the users many of the different ways the 
 wii remote can be used, the graphics are pretty standard in my opinion, I feel they are basic and 
 get the job done. Nothing fancy and its simplicity in fact hurts its score in the graphics department. 
 Sounds are again pretty standard and theres nothing fancy which is fine as its keeping with its 
 simplicity. I say it has a decent value as I feel that most if not all of the games are made to 
 be played in multiplayer, and frankly that is the only way I play this game now after having unlocked 
 everything. Its a very fun and competitive game to play with someone else. The only real incentive 
 of playing the games on your own is to try and get the platinum medals in each mini game which 
 will take you a while as you have to be quite skilled and it does take some time in accomplishing.
 
  
  Overall the package as a whole is solid, nothing's exactly broken but what it does it does well 
 and it doesn't go out of its way to do more than is necessary. If you are thinking of buying this 
 game, think to yourself about the fact that you're buying a wii remote with a couple of mini games 
 for your casual/non-gamer friends and family who will have a blast playing the games together, 
 and so will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayce007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  What's the big deal? You get 9 decent games for $10. That's almost $1 a game. The Duck Hunt familiar 
 is a great fun game especially when the dog barks to signal the ducks are coming! Though only a 
 few levels, still fun. Laser Hockey is great with 2 players. Even the tank game brings in some 
 joy.
  At first, I didn't like the fishing game, then I played it some more. I had to get used to the 
 controls. Unfortunately, it does not feel like fishing. You just dip your line in the water, and 
 yank up. More like a Wario mini game.
  If it were $50 JUST for the game, then I'd have some issues, but it's not. When you put things 
 in perspective, it's a great bargain, and you get another Wii Remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordJ
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I have a friend called Ignacio. He happens to be the my teammate in a science fair. For this project, 
 we made an educational videogame called Grasa en la Orilla (Grease on the shore) named after Murakamis 
 book, with the Game Maker 6, with cutscenes which are more like still images with dialog applied 
 through Paint, made with the Gmod 9. The game takes like fifteen minutes to load, and offers about 
 ten minutes of gameplay. We have made it up to the regionals.
  
  The hell? you might be thinking. It IS downright weird, when a bad game with absolutely no investigation 
 in it defeats over thirty (on the category our project is) projects that have a lot of statistics 
 and effort on them. Why has it blown the competence? Well, as much as Id like to say it is my 
 PERFECT presentation, it is the fact the judges are dinosaurs. You show them something that moves 
 when they press something, and they are left with their mouth wide open. If they knew how easy 
 making games is with the Game Maker! RPGmaker seems professional in comparison! The worst thing 
 is that I started making the project with no knowledge of how to use the GameMaker.
  
  But Ignacio did. Hes one of those persons who has a thousand games on emulators, is a TOTALLY 
 retro gamer, and spends a considerable amount on time on making games. And his games are good enough 
 to make half of the class wannabe game creators (with the GM) , though only I and him have skills 
 to actually make a game. Some of his games include his Instant Death series (though calling them 
 a series could be too much -- there is only instalment one and a mathematical gaiden made for the 
 math class, though number two is in development.)
  
  Unlike the soon-to-be second instalment, which will feature a lot of gameplays (I myself have contributed 
 one) , La muerte instantanea (The Instant Death) , the first instalment is pure and simple, a la 
 Katamari. You are this little dinosaur, and you have to get to the flag avoiding enemies. Granted, 
 in the later stages you can lose 100 lives before you get to the flag (when an enemy touches you, 
 you lose a life and respawn at the beginning of the level -- lives are plenty) . When you lose, a 
 message says game over stupid and the game restarts. When you end the game, a message says Congratulations! 
 Now the world will be destroyed! in spanish and an image of the world does explode, to then show 
 THE END. Short levels, Kingdom Hearts musics and madness is all there is to this game (and a game 
 over screen of me saying pwned u noob , an easter egg saying u r not supposed to be here ROFLMAO 
 , 2 secret levels and an enemy museum/warp zone in the Final Mix version I made for him) .
  
  Why do I tell you this? Because The Instant Death is the game over which I will review individually 
 the games in Wii Play. An S indicates the game is as good as The Instant Death (almost good-ish 
 by todays videogaming standards) . Anyway, let us begin this review!
  
  When you boot up Wii Play, you are greeted by a screen with the Wii Play logo and two Wiimotes 
 as a background. You press A and B and BAM! Right off the bat asked how many players will play. 
 1 or 2. That is right, there is no party in Wii Play, which means the We in Wii Play is reduced 
 to one-on-ones. Ill take this chance to mention all the minigames reviews are based in multiplayer, 
 because, well, otherwise Id need the H letter. Anyway, once you choose two (never one!) and then 
 the Miis youll use, you find the nine games presented oh-so-crudely. Yet the Miis you chose stand 
 in the center of them, as though they were the stars of a play. They sometimes interact with each 
 other, and they might bring a smile to your face. This is by far the best part of Wii Play.
  
  Why dont we begin with the C game? It is actually called Laser Hockey in an effort to sound 
 cool, but to me it will always be the C game. In this game you control either a red C or a blue 
 C, and try to get a golden glowing C into the goal of the other C, marked by two Cs. C-rappy. Well, 
 since this game is so freakingly obsessed with the C, might as well give it a C.
  
  Then theres Find Mii, which also tries to sound cool with its Find Me thingy and all. I have, 
 however, come up with a better name: Waldo rip-off. If you have ever had a Waldo book, then you 
 know the drill already. Find X Mii, or two Miis that look alike, or the like. You have to find 
 them before the other player does. While not too much, this game is boring. this game is a B.
 
  
  Moving on, theres another me-Mii pun in Pose Mii. I think this game was based around its music, 
 sort of. Which means it has a slighty good song. And a DDR look-alike background. In this game, 
 you have to pose 3 (OMG!) different positions to make them fit in the bubbles to make the bubbles 
 disappear before they fall off the screen. At the bottom of the screen are three lines, which, 
 you guessed it, disappear one by one as the bubbles fall. Pop a bubble and you win points. Let 
 a bubble of your color fall and you lose points. Survive with the lines intact and you get a bonus. 
 Lose all lines and the game ends. Get more points than the other player and you win. AWESOME! Yeah 
 right. B.
  
  And never forget Table Tennis. It is -- yes! -- virtual Table Tennis. I wont bother explaining how 
 Table Tennis works, but I will say all you have to do to win is move mindlessly from side to side. 
 It only gets saved from a D because it is kind of cool to have an audience made of your Miis (as 
 in Wii Sports Tennis) . C.
  
  Wii Play also pretends it is Wario Ware and includes an old videogame brought to life again. Shooting 
 Range has you shooting around in many pseudo-stages in an effort to win more points. It features 
 OVNIs that chase your Miis, ducks, shooting thingies (I dont know how they are called in english, 
 okay?) , and dishes. It doesnt really matter because all you ever do is shoot them down. Might 
 as well shoot like some crazy bastard. And a bastard is a B, right? Wrong. C.
  
  Now, do you wish to ride a cow? Because Charge! is the next game. CHARGE! In this game you are 
 on top of a cow. If you tilt the control forward, CHARGE! There is a yellow road you better stay 
 at, which is filled with what at first look like cousins of The Prince of all Cosmos, but upon 
 a closer inspection are actually scarecrows. When you see them, CHARGE! If you manage to CHARGE! 
 through all the row, you get a bonus. Then theres a king scarecrow, which seriously makes you 
 think if they werent playing Katamari when making CHARGE! Anyway, if you CHARGE! through em, 
 you get more points. There are also blocks through which you cant CHARGE! So jump them. Try to 
 get more points than your enemy. And since I used a lot of Cs in my CHARGE! s, this game is a C 
 too.
  
  With another use of a !, there is Tanks! TANKS! TANKS! features TANKS! which shoot other TANKS! 
 You control a tank. More like, you try to control a tank until you notice you can use the nunchunk 
 to have better control. This game should have an award because it is actually fun to play alone. 
 And has a fine song. There are many kinds of TANKS! and all, you know. Ah! This is so much better 
 than, say, CHARGE! you know? A.
  
  Fishing... fishing... In fishing, there are 2D fishes in a small pool. It look tight and horrible! 
 Try to get fishes with your net. There are sometimes bonus for some fishes so that the game isnt 
 always about catching the biggest fish. Too bad it barely works. Seriously, real fishing is much 
 more fun than this. Not to mention it is REWARDING (this will pop up after Im done with the individual 
 games reviews) . This game is a D, at best.
  
  What am I missing? Oh yeah. Billards. Zzz. F.
  
  And thats not even the worst thing about 
 Wii Play. No, the greatest problem is not that the games just plain suck. The problem is that they 
 never feel rewarding. After I had played all of the games, I didnt feel like anything had changed, 
 nor that I had achieved something. Quite the contrary, I felt as though I had left something incomplete: 
 a kind of emptiness. There never is any incentive to go back and play anything ever again. The 
 game feels incomplete.
  
  Why did Nintendo release an incomplete game? I dont know. Maybe they realised it was flawed to 
 begin with, and released it while it still had positive feedback (something Daikatana could have 
 done) . Yet you find the game is flawed as soon as you see the 1 or 2 players option. I know Nintendo 
 just aint this type. But theres not even a Fitness challenge. It is disappointing.
  
  Do Wii Play? Wii dont. Wii suffer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samples92
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  OK, so it's not the best game out there... but bundled with an additional remote for an extra $10 
 - I definitely think it's worth it! Wii Play includes 9 individual games. We played all the games 
 tonight and I think our favorites were the shooting game, and Charge (cow riding) . I know I'll 
 play the Shooting and Mii game on my own... but several of them are a blast to play with a group 
 of people!
  
  I also liked that you could select your Miis to play these games... and even compete for medals! 
 Wii Sports and Wii Play has brought out the competitor in me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madkramdam
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  First about the mini-games:
  The shooting game hitting the ducks reminded me of old school duck hunt. Modify the wii-mote to 
 the NES-Zapper.
  The table-tennis. I am trying to get a rally of 200 points (100 to get gold) . Those first two are 
 pretty good.
  The wii-pose game gets really on your wrists twisting and turning the wii-mote. Watch out for the 
 wii-wrist or wii-elbow. The find-mii game is just boring find the same or the odd one out.
  Billiards, just nice to play not really wanted me to get more points.
  Laser-hockey, new school 
 pong deflect the puck with your wii-mote probably great with two players. Not for me.
  Charge, ridding a cow!? Quite a funny game. I tried a couple of times to get a good time.
  Fishing, 
 just boring, the fishing game in Zelda Twilight Princess thats good.
  Tanks, well the old timers the tanks are back from the 8-bit era. Also good for more players to 
 get a nice duel.
  
  Conclusion:
  The game didn't really make it. I just bought it for the free wii-mote that was included.
  Keeps 
 you busy to get all gold. But after that it all gets boring. Maybe with more players it will probably 
 have a longer lifespan (Bring beer) .
  Or try Warioware Smooth Moves also for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallica_Dan
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is quite simple and can be fun, especially the games where you can do multiplayer (air 
 hockey, tanks) but this game is really appealing thanks to the Wii-mote. They are so rare that 
 for $10 more, it's worth getting, and you get a bunch of somewhat neat games, that are either entertaining 
 for a bit or repetitive and annoying in the long run. It does give you a good tutorial with using 
 the Wii-mote, as most games are different enough and use different movements.
  
  To be honest, I would probably never get this game if it wasn't bundled. This was probably left 
 over tech demos that they decided to polish off a bit to follow up Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friday04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I really like Wii Play. It's not as engaging as Wii Sports but I have a lot of fun with the hunting, 
 pool, and air hockey. The other games are fun, just not as much fun as the three I listed. Even 
 though Wii Sports has made it back into my system I still think Wii Play is a great use of the 
 Wii Remote and it's a nice change-up from the Wii Sports activities. I feel like the 2 games are 
 must-haves for the Wii. They compliment one another very well. If there's one bad thing I can say 
 about Wii Play, it's that the learning curve is steeper than Wii Sports. With Wii Sports, you pick 
 up the remote and instantly know what to do. But with Wii Play you have to learn how to move the 
 remote in ways that aren't as natural. They aren't hard either, the movements are just not what 
 you'd expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  this game only has 9 mini games those games use a Wii remote to enjoy this game you need 2 people 
 and 2 remotes (which is easy because the Wii comes with one and this game comes with one) this 
 game is fun but after awhile it will grow tiresome it mostly for multi player and how to use the 
 Wii remote i enjoyed this game by myself but it is fun when you play with a friend other than that 
 i can't say buy this game unless you can't find a Wii remote and all you can find is this game 
 other than that rent this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  The game itself is worth nothing. It's just like a demo of what 'real' games will be like. Out 
 of the 9 mini games only about 2 or 3 of them are real fun. However, it is definitely worth buying 
 it for the Wii Remote.
  
  I bought it just today, had a quick look at each game, and put it away neatly waiting to sell it. 
 Indeed im selling it for 10euro, I may aswell, I dont need it and I dont want it and the only reason 
 why I bought it is because I wanted the remote.
  
  I'm happy that the game only cost me 4 and I'll probably to sell it for 15. No money is wasted 
 here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aladd04
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game thats very repetitive and will only have u playing it for around 5 hours at 
 most. I suggest u get this game if u r looking for a wii-mote and a game to play with friends or 
 family. It has good multi-player, but gets very very boring after a couple of hours. Gameplay: 
 This game has 9 different mini-games that r fun your first few times thu. On single player these 
 games r like Wii sports. U can earn medals, bronze, silver, and gold. They r all very easy to get 
 on most games. Unlike other multi-player games, this one can only go up to 2 players at a time 
 which kinda stinks. These 9 different mini-games all use the wii-mote it different ways. You'll 
 be twisting, turning, pointing and even using the nunchuck in a game. 1 game uses the wii-mote 
 sideways like excite trucks. The 9 different mini-games are: Shooting Range - Shoot down targets 
 as they appear, Find Mii - Pick the right Mii or Mii's from the crowd, Table Tennis - Return ball 
 with paddle as many times as possible, Pose Mii - Change your mii's pose from 1 of 3 poses, Laser 
 Hockey - Twist remote to change direction of the paddle and try and score, Billiards - Strike cue 
 ball to sink others, Fishing - catch the biggest and most fish, Charge - ride a cow and knock over 
 scarecrows, and last but not least Tanks - shoot down enemy tanks. Overall its fun at first but 
 the games get very repetive after a little while.
  
  Graphics: Mainly the graphics are just like wii sports. The mii's actually have hands and feet 
 now but same art style as wii sports. The graphics actually make you feel as if you r playing pool 
 in billiards but all the others are just as plain and normal as wii sports. Sound: Overall the 
 sound is great. All the sound works perfectly with u. Like when u shoot it sounds as if you were 
 in a shooting range and playing billiards is like real pool when u hit the ball. This game is a 
 very fun game but like i've said it gets very very repetitive. The only reason why the $50 price 
 tag is perfect is because the wii-mote comes with it. The most i'd pay for this game and the game 
 only is $20. If you are looking into getting another wii-mote then i suggest getting this game 
 because just for an extra 10 bucks u can get a game that you could add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkeyboy21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Wii play is the kind of game that you would play on one of those boring rainy days. Although it 
 is a fun game you couldn't expect to spend hours and hourn on it. It has many qualitys and uses 
 the wiimote usefully and the games are very fun but once again nintendo havn't used the most out 
 of there graphics engine. This game although small and fun does require some element of skill to 
 pint and aim playing 10 games from shooting cans to saving your miis from alien space ships. A 
 great play but i would'nt buy it by its self like me i would recomend buying it as an extra when 
 buying an extra wii controler.
  
  I liked it for a party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for the main reason of getting another remote for the Wii because all the stores 
 have been sold out. The game it's self is just ok. You can play different games like pool ect. 
 and I really thought it would be more like the nintendo Wii sports but it is not near as fun and 
 the game play seems to be lacking. The sound and graphics are good on most games but I would have 
 to say for $50.00 I would not have liked it much if it had not came with an extra remote. My kids 
 like it but I say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxcvmnb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play is receiving a lot of bad press. A lot of reviewers are immediately comparing it to Wii 
 Sports, stating that Wii Play is an inferior game. Others are simply stating that Wii play has 
 few games worth replaying and that after a half hour or so you have seen everything the game has 
 to offer.
  
  Strange thing though, the game hasn't left the Japanese top ten since it was released months ago. 
 And there is a reason for that. The game is actually quite excellent, offers more diversity than 
 Wii Sports, and could in fact be the perfect Wii game for non-gamers.
  
  Sure, the fishing, Where's Waldo , Laser Hockey, and Ping Pong games are really only fun with two 
 players. But they are extremely fun, arguably more fast paced and fun that what Wii sports offers. 
 For single player mode, the pool game is fantastic, probably the greatest pool game ever made by 
 virtue of the Wii-mote controls alone. Let's hope that a Wii Pool sequel with multiple game types, 
 gravity settings, backgrounds, and other options is in the works. Comparing Wii Play to Wii sports 
 is like comparing Tennis to Pool. They are both great, although totally different games. Like wise, 
 Wii Sports/Tennis and Wii Play/Pool are both great, but totally different simulators of said games. 
 The cannot be fairly compared to each other.
  
  Also for single player mode, Tanks! is phenomenal, especially for those of us brought up on Atari 
 2600's Combat. This is the sequel we always wanted. It takes skill, strategy and luck, and has 
 100 unique levels to play through. I can see why it has gotten some negative reviews, because these 
 simple sorts of games aren't for everyone. But you can't say that the quality isn't there, even 
 if simplicity isn't your thing. Over all me and the ladies get a lot more time out of Wii Play 
 than Wii sports. It's an under rated game that is definitely worth the pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  For starters, I can't really complain for a $10 game because the Wiimotes are somewhat hard to 
 find but come on Nintendo, this game is terrible. I was most excited about the pool game, but it's 
 nine ball and not even that great. When you pop this game into your console and start it up, you 
 have to play each game in order. I hate that. If Rayman RR was like that, I would've thrown my 
 Wiimote through my TV. Most of the games on Wii Play stink. Table tennis is real gimmicky, the 
 fishing is completely dumb and pointless. Tank battle is okay and the race game is pretty good. 
 Finding the Mii game is fun and so is pool and table tennis. I wish Nintendo would've spent more 
 time polishing the controls and graphics on this title. A complete letdown from the big N. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nlaurer
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  If you need another remote, this game is worth the few extra bucks. You may get tired of it pretty 
 soon, but consider it a rental you get to keep. When a friend comes by that's never played the 
 Wii, simply drop this in and hand over the controller. Wii Play works well as a Wii tutorial that 
 you may be able to have a little fun with while teaching a friend to play. A nice feature with 
 the tank game is how you can choose to use or not use the nun-chuck. This makes it possible to 
 play with 2 people without having two nun-chucks and gives the opportunity to get someone used 
 to the nun-chuck gradually in a possibly much simpler game before trying something more complex.
 
  
  Maybe there could have been a few 3 or 4 player games included. If your picking up a new remote, 
 there is a 50 percent chance that it's your third or fourth remote so you might be disappointed 
 to see there's nothing on this disc that supports that many players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshon
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  i picked up this yesterday, pretty much to score another wiimote... and at least i got that much. 
 This is a lame set of games that really arent that fun, and some are not as intuitive (or dont 
 work ) as planned. Billiards comes to mind... i shut the game off after i spent 20 minutes just 
 trying to get the right motion down. The best game was the first.. duckhunt like. The rest of the 
 games might be fun for the 8 and under crowd, but for the rest of us, the wiimote is the best part 
 of this bundle. So should you spend the extra $13 or so (inc. tax) for the game? Nah. Use that $15 
 on some street fighter or streets of rage in the virtual console. much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiffanywtam
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Tried the WiiPlay over the weekend, it is okay. I was expecting a little more fun since it came 
 out as THE game that came with the Wii in Japan. After playing WiiSports for a month, the WiiPlay 
 is just disappointing. The control is not as smooth as when playing WiiSports, and the games are 
 shorter too. WiiPlay helps users to learn how to use the remote faster, but everything is repetitive 
 after a few rounds that you get bored on the games very quickly. I guess it was a smart idea that 
 it came with the Wii remote so that the game itself only costs about $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moheevi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well, after having played through all of the games, I think that there is definitely significant 
 replayability with only a few of the games (and only if you play with another person) .
  
  Laser Hockey - I played this several times with a friend, fun... but could get old after awhile.
 
  
  Tanks - THERE IS NO BATTLE MODE! What the heck? I have to fight against bad guys with another person? 
 Decent, but I wish I could just fight against another person with out having to deal with CPU tanks.
 
  
  The Shooting Game (forgot the name) - if you like Duck Hunt you'll like this. Decent 2 player game.
 
  
  Pool - Short. You can only play 9-ball, slop works better than strategy... but that's not necessarily 
 a bad thing for people who haven't played much Wii.
  
  Other than those... the others are boring, too short, or too repetitive to be fun.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmpastor
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is basically a no-brainer if you need another Wiimote. This is really the big selling 
 point for the game. Bundling this tech demo with the extra controller was a good idea. I believe 
 this game will be similar to Wii Sports but to a much lesser degree. The games just basically show 
 of the ability of the controller. It goes a long way to helping a new player get acquainted with 
 the Wii-mote. In that regards it succeeds very well. The games are easy and simple and are good 
 games to help you learn how to aim and point.
  
  If you are looking for something that has more depth to it, this game is not for you. I can't imagine 
 shelling out full price for this game outside the US. Without the Wii-mote the game is not worth 
 40 or 50 dollars. But with the bundled controller it is WELL worth it.
  
  The best games in the pack are pool and the shooting range. Others are ok, such as Find Mii. That 
 game involves some serious thinking and will rack your brain. I think the 5 and 6 scores for this 
 game are a little low. Take out the extra controller and those scores will be closer. But I don't 
 think you should do that. This game should be judged taking into consideration that the game really 
 only costs 10 dollars (40 for the Wiimote) . For a ten dollar game it's all right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  If this game did not come packaged with the Wii remote then this game would be an extreme waste 
 of money, however since its only 10$ more its worth it. You get 9 mini games, each of which end 
 extremely fast and are very forgettable. But thats the thing, it comes with 9 games that are still 
 fun when playing with others. And buying this game results in you having at least 2 controllers. 
 If I had not played this with another person I would've given it a lower score, but considering 
 I did have some good fun playing this at one point, I can see myself going back to play it again, 
 so long as its with another person. There is fun to be had here, but it mainly comes when you play 
 with other people. Especially with games such as the tank game as well as playing pool and a duck 
 hunt esque shooting gallery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manny_sim
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When you pretend ur buying the game for $10.. it's a really great value. I know that the game is 
 really $50, but it includes a wii-mote! The wii-mote is normally $40... I'm sure most people bought 
 the game because it included a wii-mote.. I'm also sure most people want another wii-mote... this 
 game is a great value. Wii-motes are sold out everywhere, and so is this game.... despite poor 
 reviews, this game is reallly popular. The gameplay may be a bit mediocre.. but value is everything... 
 but if you don't want the wii-mote.. then don't be retarded.. don't buy the game. A couple of the 
 mini-games are decent if you do multiplayer, which should be available, you should now have two 
 wii motes, after you buy this game, but this game will get very boring after like an hour. Remember, 
 this game is only worth $10 dollars.. The mini games were a bit disappointing.. almost all of them.. 
 it does not compare to wii sports... you get the point. It gets a 7.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk2522
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I actually wound up hanging on to an unopened Wii remote that I picked up when I bought my system 
 at launch so that I could exchange it for Wii Play when it was released. (I figured if I ever really 
 needed to use it I could open it, but Nintendo has not really given me any reason to open my 2nd 
 Wii controller... which is a whole other story) .
  
  Any-hoo, am I glad I waited? Yes. Will I ever play Wii play again now that I have unlocked all 
 of the mini games? Probably not. Unless Nintendo decides to start using achievements. Am I being 
 completely annoying by asking myself questions over and over? Hell yes.
  
  Long story short: if you need another controller and like duck hunt, throw down the extra 10 bones. 
 However, do not expect much as this really should just be a free bonus pack-in for a 2 Wii Remote 
 pack or when you spend a certain amount of points on the Virtual Console. But that would make to 
 much sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  As Wii Sports suplied a fun but also a some what limited gameplay experience from a Nintendo Wii 
 pack in title, Wii Play manages to do the same as a Wii-remote pack in title.
  
  Wii Play is a series of 9 mini games that serve as a kind of basic tutorial for using the Wii-remote. 
 Each game features multiplayer and each makes a big use of the Miis that are on the system. From 
 the outset, only one game is open to play. That game is Shooting Range, after you complete that, 
 the next game opens up and then the next and so on. It apears that no certain score or win has 
 to be aquired for the games to unlock. Although most players will probably either win or achieve 
 a decent score on their first play through of each game.
  
  The games do for the most part exactly what they are designed to do, although some, from a design 
 point, work much better than others.
  
  Shooting Range has a few moments of fan service that dedicated Nintendo fans will enjoy including 
 the ducks and clay discs of Duck Hunt and tin cans that sort of resemble the can shooting elements 
 from Hogans alley.
  
  Laser Hockey is a sci-fi version of air hockey and works rather well.
  
  Among the losers is 
 Table Tennis, wich is fully consisted of moving a paddle from left to right to volley a ping-pong 
 ball back and forth across a table. Charge is another game that falls very flat. In Charge you 
 controll a cow that is stampeeding down a obsticle course like path and you ram into scare-crows 
 and jump over small hurdles to score points and a good finish time. As a extra $10 pack in with 
 a Wii-remote, Wii play can offer simple fun in small doses. Not all the games are fun but the ones 
 that are justify the extra $10 price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvs22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The other day, I saw that Wii play had recieved a horrible review. This suprised me because Wii 
 sports was so amazing. I took a risk, and bought it for $60 Canadian. Not only was I relieved to 
 see that it wasnt a cheap excuse for a remote, but to see that it was really an amazing game! Before 
 I start, this is coming from the opinion of someone who currently holds Wii Sports as their favorite 
 Wii game. Ok, so you start off, and Nintendo gives you the basics tutorial and then you can move 
 on the the next game. There are Nine games in total and I will give a review of each one.
  
  Billiards (Pool) -Done well. The ball goes where its supposed to, its easy to work with. The 
 extended way of playing takes a little getting used to, but after 5 shots, you've got it down.
 
  
  Pose-I would have to say this is actually a bad game. You just switch poses and swist the remote 
 to match bubbles as they are coming down. You'll play this twice... oh well.
  
  Ping Pong-An awsome game. People have said that it is just like tennis but it is completely different. 
 Multiplayer is awsome. Extremely addictive.
  
  Tanks-Multiplayer is more of a co-op type thing and whoever kills the most ememy tanks wins. Extremely 
 addictive and great multiplayer.
  
  Find Mii-Its an ok game, I wouldnt play it alone. Multiplayer has you looking for matches or whatever 
 first so thats pretty fun I guess. Its not one of the best games.
  
  Target-Very fun. Like duck hunt but with like 5 ducks tops. Its a good game just to kill some time. 
 You will play this and the multiplayer is good too.
  
  Chase!-Cow racing... what more can I say. You use it in Exite Truck control and you hit scarecrows 
 and jump hurtles. One player is fun but 2 player is a blast. I play it just racing my friends instead 
 of going for points and this is a lot of fun. Not one of my favorite games, but I could definitely 
 see it being someone elses.
  
  Fishing-Well this is just fishing in a little kid's cartoon land. It is fun in one player but nothing 
 is added in two player, so I think I prefer playing alone. Its an ok game. Kills time. Youu do 
 feel proud for catching the King of the Pond which is good. I think that this games point was to 
 show you wht fishing could be like in games like Animal Crossing Wii in the future, and it got 
 its point across. An ok game.
  
  Laser Hockey-Its air hockey. The people that I play with tell me that the remote is very sensetive 
 with this game, I didnt feel anything, but maybe they have a point. I am really the only one that 
 plays my Wii a lot so maybe you need so experience on the system before mastering this one. If 
 you have mastered it then it is a great game with ok single player but crazy multi. This is a great 
 game and I play it a lot.
  
  So thats all the games. This game is almost on par with Wii sports, but like 0.1 off. Theres nothing 
 wrong with it, Wii Sports was just too good. I recommend buying this game to play with another 
 person, not just by yourself. If you just play single player, it would most likely get boring and 
 repedetive, otherwise, it comes with another remote, so if you have someone around willing to play, 
 this is like the Zelda of addictive games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BonesNFG
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I feel that this game is worth the $10 if you need another remote. It doesn't compare to wii sports 
 and was kind of a disapointment. I feel that this game can be fun but loses value fast. Once aI 
 was done playing all the games for my first time I felt that I didn't even want to play the game 
 anymore. If you don't need another remote it's definitly not worth it. It's definitly a game you 
 will not want to play by yourself. It's kinds of fun with someone else but gets boring fast. Like 
 I said it's worth the $10 but don't go out of your way to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Wii play is a game hard to describe. While it can be fun at times, (A few games) don't expect it 
 to last you. This game seems like it should've been in the SAME game as Wii sports, then the package 
 would've been great. While there are a few good one's, over all, not too good.
  
  There are nine min games. Some are great fun with friends, while other, uh.... Not even worth trying. 
 I like the tank mini game. It gives the nun chuck a nice feel, and overall is pretty fun with a 
 friend. The game where you have to pick Mii's is also pretty fun, but gets annoying. However, games 
 like ping pong, wait, sorry, ping pong are just a joke. They could've been implemented A LOT better, 
 however, they just turn out to be a lackluster attempt at bringing pin pong to the Wii. The cow 
 game is okay too, but, it doesn't last long. There are a few other games, but I won't get into 
 them.
  
  With a free Wii mote in the deal, you can't help but get this game. Mainly for the controller. 
 Some of the games are fun, however, the majority of them, well, suck. So, get it, hey, you get 
 FREE Wii mote!, and the games will last a while. However, at the end of the day, when you rate 
 this as a game , a very poor attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXXGMRXXXX
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that was meant to be packaged with a wii remote to hide its flaws.
  
  1. Graphics: It's understandable that the wii is not a graphics machine, but the environments and 
 backgrounds just don't have any kind of jump or flare. The Miis are the only friendly faces to 
 help relieve this, although they don't do it well enough. 3/5 2. Sound: A few background noises 
 and such. Some games don't even have any music during the game. There's little thrilling music 
 in this one. It becomes difficult to hang on to this game for a long time without much music. 2/5
 
  
  3. Gameplay: The game shines here. There are nine minigames, which, in single player, make you 
 play each in consecutive order to unlock the next one. Each game has a system of medals to unlock: 
 bronze, silver, gold, or platinum, based on your score. One game makes use of the nunchuck to add 
 a little something different. There is a two player mode which does the same thing as single player, 
 except the wins and losses of each player is kept track. Plenty of potential and fun here. 5/5
 
  
  4. Difficulty: Either nonexistent or too much in this game. Although you must unlock each game 
 in single player to get to the next one, you must simply play it only once. The games' medal system 
 is simple. Nearly all games make winning bronze easy. The silvers are not much more of a challenge, 
 either. Gold is either easy or hard to get, and platinum seems unreal. Personally, I have at least 
 a silver medal in all nine games within only two days of playing it. Few players would want to 
 try to get all golds or all platinums, because by then the games gets very difficult as to frustrate 
 and a little tiresome. There is not much reason to do so. As for more frustration, some games (I 
 think of air hockey) make using the wii remote a burden and little more than a nuisance. 1/5
  
  5. Replayability: Not as great as one may initially think. The single-player campaign goes 
 by quickly. The only other possibility for value comes in the multiplayer mode. However, there's 
 a problem in that only a maximum of TWO people can play (which is pretty much a letdown after FOUR 
 people playing in Wii Sports) . With only two people, the game loses value as a party game. 2/5
 
  
  6. Story: Being a game of this kind, there is no actual story attached to it. However, there really 
 can't be many problems here considering there is supposed to be no story. 5/5
  
  Final Verdict: 18/30 D-
  Recommendation: Wii Play is a package game, plain and simple. It comes 
 loaded with good gameplay, but there are flaws and poor execution that mainly override this game. 
 However, since it does come together with a wii remote for $50, this is rare must buy despite of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagog19
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  If this were a fifty dollar game then i would give it a 2.5. Seeing however that this game really 
 only costs $10 i would say it is well worth it. Most of the games are enjoyable except for the 
 whole where's waldo game. If you have any friends the mini games are a blast. Pulling the wiimote 
 back like a cue stick is pretty cool and i really like the air hockey game. The game on whole has 
 no depth but if you are looking for quick 10-15 minute gaming session and are in need of a wii-mote 
 i would suggest picking this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a very good game, and I think that Nintendo was hoping for a repeat with this game. 
 But alas, it is not to be. This game is good, but it is definitely not the caliber of Wii sports 
 yet. Most of the games take a lot of time to get into the hang of, such as the ping pong and the 
 shooting game. The only game that is easy to pick up is the tank game, which is very straightforward 
 and fun. Another reason that this game is not as good as Wii sports is that it doesn't have the 
 skill level on any of the games, though some of them would really be bettter with it. If you liked 
 Wii sports, ithan you should probably get this game, but don't expect as much from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play includes 9 games that have both single and competitive play. When you play singles, you 
 are challenging yourself to gain medals from bronze to platinum. In competitive play, you are one 
 on one against another human player. There is no final score you are trying to reach, but you can 
 play for as long as you want.
  
  The first game is similar to classic duck hunt, but it includes five stages: balloon shooting, 
 target practice, clay shooting, can bouncing and alien protection. It is probably one of the more 
 lasting games of the set because of the randomness and variety of objects to shoot.
  
  The second game is called Find Mii. Basically, it gives an objective like find 2 of a kind or the 
 fastest moving one and you have to click on it. It is random and interesting to play as well.
 
  
  The third game is ping pong. In single mode, you have to try to keep a volley going. In competitive 
 mode, you have to score 11 points to win. It is not as good as tennis from Wii Sports but is a 
 fun little break from the other games.
  
  The fourth game is probably the most bizzare. In Wii Pose, you have to slide your character over 
 the bubble with the correct pose to pop it and gain points. Stages continue until to mess up enough 
 times.
  
  The fifth game is similar to Pong but more like air hockey. In Laser Hockey, you slide your bar 
 around the screen to knock the puck. The highest score of course wins the match.
  
  The sixth game is billards. In this one, the single player mode tries to see how well you have 
 perfected your shots and ability to knock in multiple balls at a time. In competitive, you try 
 to knock the higher numbered balls in to score more points (the points scored are equal to the 
 number of the ball) .
  
  The seventh game is a form of fishing in a pond. You have to dip your hook in the water and snap 
 the controller back when you get a hit. Bonus points are awarded if you can snag the fish shown 
 at the top of the screen.
  
  The eighth game is a race of sorts with your Mii on a cow. The point is to race to the finish and 
 knock down scarecrows on the way. Each set gives bonus points and the ones that move are even higher 
 in value.
  
  The final game is a tank game similar to the Atari game Combat. You drive a tank around the arena 
 and try to take out the other tanks. Each one has its own special ability, but yours simply moves 
 and fires shots that bounce off the wall only once. Other tanks have faster bullets, lay mines 
 or fire multiple rounds at a time.
  
  In all, the game does not have great lasting value. What it does do is showcase the abilities of 
 the Wii controller and give hope to the future of the system. In the lack of graphics compared 
 to the 360 and PS3, there is definitely hope for upcoming games like Mario Party, Super Mario, 
 Super Smash Brothers, Metroid Prime, Star Fox and more.
  
  Hey, it comes with a controller and is actually only $10 when you get down to it. It is actually 
 a decent value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play comes packaged with a free controller which means the game would cost around &pound;5 
 or $10 if it was being sold separately. This has to be taken into account when reviewing it because 
 as a full priced game this wouldnt even be worth writing about. Its all built around nine mini-games 
 that are all designed to showcase the controllers fundamental mechanics, ok lets go out on a limb 
 and call this a tech demo. Its also a chance to play with your Miis because we all know how 
 addictive those little critters can be.
  
  Shooting Range is a Duck Hunt rip-off, in addition to shooting ducks you get to shoot targets, 
 soda cans and even flying saucers who threaten to abduct your precious Miis. The controls are 
 tight and responsive and you dont even have to put up with that annoying dog, what more could 
 you ask for? Well considering the game only has five short levels to it (each one ending around 
 the one minute mark) you could ask for a whole lot more, it feels like its over before it ever 
 really begins.
  
  Mii Pose has fantastic potential and with a little nurturing it could be Nintendos answer to Geometry 
 Wars. Its simple and addictive with a pleasing soundtrack to keep things flowing nicely, plus 
 more bright colours than youd find on a hippies attire. The game sees you twisting and turning 
 your controller in an attempt to fit your Mii into the scrolling silhouettes that move down the 
 screen. The key is to find the right pose for the right silhouette before it reaches the bottom 
 and you inevitably lose one of your lives. It starts off pretty simple and gets progressively harder 
 the longer you survive, eventually becoming so manic that your eyes begin bulging and you lose 
 vision altogether.
  
  Laser Hockey is a psychedelic version of the classic Pong, you control the paddle with your controller 
 movements and have the options of tilting your platform allowing some variation in your shots. 
 While its simple it its presentation it feels clean and polished and along wit its catchy music 
 is the most accessible game you will find here. The computer A. I. is pretty dozy but when you 
 play with a friend it can become an extremely fun way to spend a few umm minutes. It really makes 
 you wonder why they didnt just make a huge compendium of mini-games similar to this because while 
 it doesnt have the greatest of value there would have been an element of diversity that could 
 have held our interest for more than five minutes.
  
  Billiards is probably the ideal fit for the WiiMote, the mechanic of pulling back the controller 
 and thrusting it forwards like a cue feels oh so right. While navigating around the table can be 
 a tad clumsy everything else flows well and you should be able to play through a fair few games 
 before the novelty wears off. The use of the overhead view can become a little cheap if its used 
 excessively though so agreeing not to use it in multiplayer would probably be the best solution.
 
  
  The other 5 mini-games are Tanks which is the only game to make use of the nunchuck; this sees 
 you piloting a tank (duh) to clear the screen of even more tanks. Chase which sees you holding 
 the controller like a set of handle bars as you attempt to navigate a cow into a bunch of scarecrows, 
 exhilarating stuff Im sure you will agree. Theres also Find Mii which has you searching for certain 
 Miis within a crowd, Table Tennis which is self-explanatory and Fishing which isnt even worth 
 a mention to be honest.
  
  Unfortunately most of these games are uninspired pieces of garbage and will hold your interest 
 for seconds not minutes. You can go after medals for each one and these will unlock two new mini-games 
 for you to dabble with but obtaining these medals takes little effort, taking away any real sense 
 of achievement, the games arent all that inspiring either.
  
  The graphics do a solid enough job without ever really excelling, it has that Wii Sports feel which 
 isnt exactly a compliment but considering this focuses more on the controller side of things 
 it is a little more forgivable. The audio is probably the best part of the whole experience; many 
 of the songs are addictive and fit the action to a tee. The effects are competent enough, every 
 knock and tap sounds the way its supposed to and suits the games simplistic feel really well.
 
  
  Unfortunately Wii Play is just way too shallow, while the games in Wii Sports last hours some of 
 the games here can last only a matter of minutes before they become tiring. They simply dont possess 
 enough in terms of depth and bring nothing fresh to the WiiMote concept. This complimentary piece 
 is nothing more than a lackluster attempt at exploiting the peripherals motion-sensor capabilities, 
 if youre looking for a quick fix and are in need of a new controller its probably worth it but 
 otherwise steer clear.
  
  Gameplay - Two or three mini-games stand out from an otherwise dismal line-up.
  
  Graphics 
 - Focuses more on the controller side of things than Wii Sports so the visuals are a little more 
 forgivable.
  
  Sound - The songs are addictive and fit the action to a tee. The effects are competent enough.
 
  
  Value - If you can still find value in this after a few plays then you deserve two free controllers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sufcmax
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Now how much did people pay for this game??? me i payed &pound;32.99
  consider this,
  a wiimote costs &pound;29.99
  wii play costs &pound;32.99 (what i payed)
  now if you basic 
 6 year old math skills i bet you can work out the cost of how much the wii play game without the 
 controller actually is (if you can't you should of gone to school) .
  Now at &pound;3 can you find such a game like wii play?.
  Most people will say yes you can but 
 that is probably a game not worth even touching. but yes it has less than expected but you know 
 that what i expected from plenty of games. *COUGH* Wind Waker *COUGH* Halo 2.
  &pound;3 you just can't go wrong.
  But if you are anti - social and don't use the extra remote 
 it is not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilmos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Man, hardcore gamers need to let a kids game have a little fun!!!
  
  Although most are shooting it down, I feel that this game has got some really good pointd to it. 
 It is fun for any gamer, and can be addictive. Trying to get gold on all the games is a challenge, 
 and kids love it cause it's easy.
  
  True, it may not be a zelda or anything, but for fun, this is up there with Wii sports.... + you 
 get a remote with it. If you want a remote, and something to go with it, this is for you. If you 
 are looking for a game for you and some younger gamers, or even your small kids to enjoy, this 
 is for you. If your looking for a game with depth, situations, killing, levels, roleplay, or anything 
 like that, this is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the 1st day out, and I am glad I did. I needed a 3rd wii mote and $10 for a 
 new game sounded like a good idea... it was.
  
  GameSpot said this game does not have a lasting value, but I disagree. All 9 games are not great, 
 but there is plenty of replay value in most of them, especially if you have a friend over to play 
 with. Each game makes great use of the wiimote. The fishing game is the toughest to play because 
 of the wii mote, but the rest are great control-wise.
  
  Graphics obviously are not great, but they fit the games nicely. Sound is also good but nothing 
 to scream about.
  
  I wish there was more to the table tennis game besides putting the paddle in the way of the ball. 
 The cow ride game should have more tracks/levels. The fishing game is tough to get a hang of at 
 first. The billiards game could do with more balls per game. If you need another wiimote you might 
 as well buy it and get this game with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking for to the next Wii game to come out and since I wasn't too crazy about getting 
 Wario Ware I went out and got Wii Play because it came packed in with a extra Remote. I think that's 
 the only good thing about it. I have to say if it wasn't for the extra Wii remote I would of been 
 a little more disappointed. It games with Nine Mini games. The mini games are pool, fishing, shooting, 
 cow racing, table tennis, find mii, pose mii, tanks, and lazer hockey. I think some of these mini 
 games are cool especially find mii and pool. But I don't think the have the lasting appeal that 
 Wii Sports had when I first started playing the game. If you're looking for an extra controller 
 with a game then you won't be disappointed if you're looking for an extra wii remote with 9 mini 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Courtawulf4
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so if you're buying wiiplay expecting to get $60 worth of gameplay, then you are going ot 
 be disapointed. However, if you are buying Wiiplay hoping to get around $10 of entertainment you 
 are going to be BLOWN AWAY!
  
  WiiPlay does a lot of what WiiSports did, makes you really want to play GOOD Wii games. In the 
 same way that wii boxing made it so I can't wait for a REAL boxing game to come out for the wii, 
 billiards makes me REALLY want to play a fully functional pool game on the wii. I'll go ahead and 
 score them individually. These scores don't come from anywhere really.
  
  Pool is wonderful! like I said before, it doesn't have the options or anything of that sort to 
 make it a good game, but it shows that there is a possibility of a really good billiards game comming 
 out on the wii and being awesome. It gets 7 points for making me hopeful. And out of all the varients 
 of pool, I'd have to say I like nine-ball the best anyways, so I think they picked a good one (even 
 though the review says you hit eight balls, I'm pretty sure they meant nine, because the game is 
 nineball)
  
  Laser hockey is fun. There isn't really any more elaborate way to discribe it. It is as simple 
 and fun as real air hockey. I'll give this around 7 points... I like airhocky.
  
  Tanks! is great in co-op mode, it has a very steep difficulty curve, and will keep you, and whoever 
 else you can find to play with, comming back for more (and screaming profanities more and more) 
 It probably gets an 8 or something like that. Mostly because it reminds me of playing atari 2600 
 tank-type games, and those were my favorite (this is the reason WiiPlay gets such a high tilt factor)
 
  
  okay. So maybe I left a few out. shooting targets is boring. If you want to shoot stuff, re-play 
 red steel. It gets a few points because hearing the duck-hunt music made me happy, and the dog 
 laughing at me when I missed made me even happier. lets say... 5 points
  
  fishing is terrible. It gets a zero. Real fishing is pretty boring unless you have good friends/alcohol 
 (or you're really hungry and you need to fish in order to eat) . Fishing games are also generally 
 boring (unless they are part of an RPG) . Fishing games with bad controls, weird graphics, and no 
 reward for doing well... welll... that's a good way to get zero points in a game review. the where's 
 waldo thing got boring during the first play through, it's only worth playing because doing so 
 makes it so you can play the other games. It gets a couple of points for its use of miis. that's 
 all.
  
  the cow thing isn't really fun. I do like that control scheme, but not while riding a cow. it gets 
 3 points for having a neat control scheme.
  
  
  So there you go. You get a few fun games, a few not fun games. And possibly the worst fishing game 
 ever (which is pretty bad, since fishing games are pretty much the lowest of the low in gaming)
 
  
  WiiPlay makes me want there to be more atari ports on the Wii. I really can't think of any 2600 
 game that wouldn't have been greatly inhanced by the wiimote/nunchucka combo (a really beefed up 
 port of combat would be amazing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameismarcman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I had preordered Wii Play a month or so ago as a backup to not knowing when I would be able to 
 find another Wiimote. Fortunately I did find another before I picked this game up and even now 
 I do not regret my purchase. Wii Play, like Wii Sports, is a collection of mini-games that showcase 
 the ability of the Wiimote. My personal favorites are Find Mii, Laser Hockey, Billiards, Table 
 Tennis and Cow Racing. Personally, I think the game is great; It is not necessarily meant to be 
 anything deeper than it is. By yourself, the game is fun, but with another person or a crowd of 
 people, it can get pretty hectic. Graphically, it is a simple showcase of what the Wii is capable 
 of. Just like Wii Sports, Wii Play takes advantage of user-created Mii's, which makes it that much 
 more personal to play. The sound matches the scenario, like when time is running out in Find Mii 
 or the retro-sounding rhythms of Laser Hockey. The sound effects also suit the various mini-games 
 well, from the synthesized sounds of the puck hitting the walls in Laser Hockey to the Cows racing 
 in the Cow Racing mini game.
  
  All in all, I would recommend this game to anyone who is looking for an introduction to the Wii 
 and the capabilities of the Wiimote. It might not be the deepest game around, but what it lacks 
 in depth it more than makes up for in light-hearted fun and easy to pick up gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chankk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play, like Wii Sports packaged with the Wii, takes a collection of development and E3 Wii control 
 demos to portray the capabilities of the system and it's innovative remote, pardon, Wiimote.
  
  Wii Play comes packaged with a wide range of simple mini-games if games is even the right term 
 for half of them and the most entertaining will always end up being either shooting or billiards. 
 Other than that there is a decent Mini-Tanks game, an equally motivated but not so entertaining 
 cow racing game, a pingpong-esque pingpong (in which players simply slide their paddle left and 
 right to return the ball and do not actually control striking the ball as in Wii Tennis, a futuristic 
 lazer-airhockey, and then half a dozen Mii-motivated demos such as rotating your character to fit 
 into a pose in a bubble, or picking some from a crowd of other miis.
  
  The problem Wii Play suffers from as a game is the same as Wii Sports, only to an even more severe 
 degree. The games are not all that entertaining after more than ten minutes of play. While I was 
 able to manage a few rounds of pool and the shooting range, others quickly lost flavour and entertainment, 
 what little there was to begin with for some such as the bubble game (but fear my 700 points anyway) .
 
  
  As a tech piece intended to portray the wiimote's capabilities as well as develop the user's understanding 
 of the control system Wii Play is about par with other development tools; however, you'd be just 
 as good off simply picking up an actual game. The only reason to get Wii Play honestly is to pick 
 up that $40 second Wiimote for your system and the $10 demo set that comes with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laz3r15
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The games get tougher and tougher each level making it quite enjoyable and addicting. You once 
 again compete for gold medals (which I still haven't been able to get yet) , and have the ability 
 to play all the games with a friend thanks to the extra controller. Favourites:
  - Laser Hockey game (With flashy effects!)
  - Tanks (Very simple to understand and interesting)
 
  - Pose Me (You might break your arm for holding it in the air for so long...)
  - Find Mii (I'd say the hardest one because you really need to pay attention to find what you're 
 looking for)
  - Targets (Shooting game)
  
  Funny multiplayer experience I might add as well! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corwyn74
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If Nintendo wanted to include a tutorial, it should have come for free with the console, not rip 
 people off for an extra $10 over the cost of a Wii-mote. What a waste of time and money. I've played 
 through all of the games once, but I have absolutely no desire to go back and try for medals or 
 anything. The games aren't engaging... heck, they aren't even any fun, they're just stupid. They're 
 not even worth throwing into the demo machine at the local game store, since I wouldn't want to 
 buy a Wii if this was presented to me as a demo of its capabilities.
  
  The up-side is that I have a white case to use for Wii Sports, I have a second Wii-mote now, and 
 I have a shiny new coaster to protect my end-table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  ok wii sports is a better game more to it. but will play is fun and the kids have a blast. its 
 to bad that the game dont have more to it. nintendo should of spent more time on the game. i like 
 air hockey its the best out of the bunch. and at walmart you can buy the game for 49.99. with the 
 wiimote with it its worth the buy. just to have the game for family fun on them cold cold days. 
 the sounds are ok graphics are ok nothing to write home about, the big thing i dont like its not 
 enough to the game. and they should of put better games. the fising game is just fair. the game 
 riding on a cow again fair to me. to me not wise picks by nintendo. but the little ones love playing 
 with mom and dad as a family and that is cool. to me nintendo has done a great job bringing the 
 family back to the frontroom as a family and that is great. so go to walmart buy it for 49.99 not 
 for 59.99 and you will have a new wiimote 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftwrthtx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  A perfect family addition to the perfect family console. Wii Play takes Wii Sports to the next 
 level.
  
  As a dual owner of a PS3 and a Wii, the Wii is definitely more of a family console where as the 
 PS3 is more for us true gamers. Wii Play is the perfect addition for those of us that want to actually 
 spend time with our kids doing things that every body likes. With Wii Play, spending time with 
 the family just became more entertaining. Racing cows, shooting baloons and aliens, fishing side 
 by side. Who could ask for a better family game? A word to the wise though. If your family is ultra-competitive, 
 make sure you have a designated referee.
  
  Have you seen my cow? it just ran my son off the road . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun. I was playin it for a while with my girlfriend and, since theyre only 
 minigames, theres not much to criticize. Not like nintendo was hypin it up to be THE GREATEST GAME 
 EVER MADE or anything... it's pretty cool. Lazer-style pong, pool, ping pong, and a cool little 
 tank minigame, among others. I like it and don't see what people are complainin about. It comes 
 with a wiimote, so really it's only 10 dollars... if you just want the remote and not the game, 
 gonna have to keep looking friends, as at this point in time, theyre still hard to find!... dang... 
 pfft... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up my copy today, &amp; this game isn't that great at all, Wii Sports is way better 
 than this piece of c*** game, I don't like it, Ping Pong is a real disappointment, because all 
 you are doing is moving the controller side to side, you don't even have to swing it like in real 
 ping pong.... LAME. The shooting gallery is fun, but really short, also Billiards is ok, all of 
 the other games are terrible, its too bad that once you open this you're stuck with it, It was 
 smart to buy it so that you can get the Wii Remotes because those are pretty hard to find &amp; 
 for $10 you get a game, but you guys should treat it as such, a bonus game with a a purchase for 
 the Remote, in all honesty though, if I didn't need a 2nd remote, I wouldn't ha [ve purchased this 
 game, it really isn't worth it, so now my dilemna is to keep it, or trade in just the game for 
 $11 credit, still have the game, haven't played it in weeks, but I still like to play pool, also 
 the tank game is pretty fun, I may wait to play it with others before I make my final decision, 
 anyhow, IF YOU DON'T NEED A REMOTE, DON'T GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Hey I was at the right place at the right time, to get my hands on Wii Play. I went to the local 
 game store in my neighborhood to trade in a game. There was a guy there buying the new Wi Play 
 and he bought two of them because he needed the controllers and he says what am I going to do 
 with two of the games? I told him Ill buy it from him, he was like cool sure, and the store will 
 give you $10 on trade in so I gave him $10. Then I ran all the way home to go and check it out. 
 Ill tell you for $10 bucks I wont be selling it and I would not buy it for $20. lol Its a fun 
 bunch of mini games and they are:
  - Shooting Range (great sounds and fun to play The Best)
  - Find Mii (Its a match game its ok)
 
  - Table Tennis (very simple play)
  - Laser Hockey (just like air hockey kind of tuff)
  - Billiards (very cool I like it, but not a regulation table)
  - Pose Mii (Mii fall and you have 
 to match another Mii to match there pose its OK)
  - Fishing (very simple not my favorite)
  - Charge! (its a cow riding racing game controls like Excite Truck its ok I think I will need 
 more time to get into it)
  - Tanks! (this game is fun and I like it, I bet it would be more fun with more people)
  
  If 
 you dont need a remote, dont bother buying it yet. If you find it on EBay cheap buy it. I would 
 not pay more than $15 for this game. They are just a bunch of 9 mini games. Its fun and I like 
 it but also like Wii Sports. So if you enjoy Wii Sports I think you will enjoy Wii Play. I hope 
 this helps.? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CornCake
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I can't help but think that the overly simplified games are a blown opportunity for Nintendo to 
 really show-off it's controller. I'm not sure any of the 9 games would be worth a dollar but seeing 
 how difficult it is to even find Wii remotes in my area, I'm okay with paying the extra $10 just 
 to get a coveted, rare Wii remote.
  
  Gameplay: The first thing that jumps out is that these games are essentially barren of any options 
 and show an utter lack of depth or replay value. Most are so simple, I was bored of them by the 
 end of the first round of play. Anyone who got this bundle in anticipation of the games is going 
 to be disappointed when they see how shallow the games are.
  
  In the end, I found only 3 of the games compelling to even play more than once (e. g. Billiards, 
 table tennis, and Laser Hockey) . A couple were annoying to play the first time through (e. g. Pose 
 Mii and Find Mii) . The rest were just... meh. I found Fishing and Tanks to be the most disappointing 
 of the lot. Even the best of the games on Wii Play does barely enough to whet your appetite for 
 a solid gaming experience.
  
  Graphics: The graphics serve their function but are hardly anything to write home about. They are 
 on par with Wii Sports.
  
  Sounds: I found little to notice when it came to sounds. I'm not sure if that's good or bad. They 
 are on par with the graphics and merely serve as audible feeback. Value: In 6 months from now (when 
 there are plenty of Wii remotes to go around for everyone) , Wii Play will sit collecting dust on 
 store shelves. If Wii Play were sold without the controller, it wouldn't be worth $10. As the remotes 
 are exceedingly rare at this time, I'm okay with paying $10 extra just so I can play some other 
 Wii games with my kids.
  
  Tilt: The only saving grace for Wii Play is the Wii Remote. Don't kid yourself and think that it 
 is a bonus pack-in of Wii Play. I assure you, your money went to the purchase of the controller 
 and little else. Consumers would be outraged if Wii Play (without the Wii remote) was offered for 
 even half the price of the other retail Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Ok i Just got Wii Play yesterday.. It really is good but it doesn't last for awhile..
  I unlocked the games in rather 20 minutes. Its a Great Game for you and a friend to play. It does 
 get a little Caraazyyy! The Wii Mote with it is a good deal! and it has batteries ( I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  This aint a great game but is definatly worth buying for the wiimote. Heres my review:
  
  The game has 9 minigames, ill talk about all of them. First of all target practice, you just simply 
 shoot everything that moves, gets boring after about 3 goes of trying to beat your high score. 
 Find mii is next, just simply boring, just find the mii it tells you. Table tennis single player 
 is dull ecspesially once you get to 100, then the game stops. Mulitiplayer is not too bad though. 
 Pose mii is by far the worst game on here, i dont even want to waste my time talking about i but 
 all you do is press a or b while twisting the wiimote to fit the shapes. It sucks. We then have 
 laser hockey, this game again is not bad mulitplayer but single player gets boring real fast. You 
 know the rules. We then move on the billards, you obviously know the rules for this game, well 
 i hope so anyway, i have played this game with 6 people , 3 of them liked it the other 3 diddnt, 
 this game just depends on you, i just had mixed reactions when i forst played it. Number 8 is charge, 
 by far the best game on here ( along with tanks witch is next ) the single player is great fun, 
 basicly your ontop of a cow and u steer to knock al the scarecrows down. Finnally we come to tanks, 
 another one of the best games on it. You just shoot down all the enemy tanks, multiplayer here 
 is waayyyyy better than i expected, your on teams and just shoot all the enemy tanks. Im getting 
 too carried away though. It gets boring fast.
  
  Graphics well........................ they just suck. But dont really care about graphics in this 
 sort of game anyway.
  
  We move on too sound, again nothing special but dont care.
  
  Value is the best part of the game. A Wiimote Is &pound;30, Wii play Is &pound;35. So you get it 
 for &pound;5 if you think about it. Definatly worth buying no matter how bad it is, and its not 
 THAT bad anyway.
  
  Overall this is a definate buy. But ONLY beacuse of the wiimote thing. So dont expect alot from 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaleButt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I had this for Xmas with my lovely Wii and 5 other games. (I was so shocked but happy) . This was 
 probably the most played game with my family. Not everyone fancied playing sports or got bored 
 quick. With this, they are short games but appeal to my family members as a more fun, enjoyable 
 game.
  
  The graphics are very simple in all games, sometimes extremely basic. The sound effects are great 
 and funny, but all games needed some music or something. I wish you could play a CD on the Wii 
 while playing games.
  
  My favourite part has to be the..... menu screen. Honestly, you can tickle your Mii's before you 
 play, its great fun, I swear.
  
  I've never even tried playing the game on my own, its just something I'll play with friends (or 
 family) if we're all drunk or having a party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _TheJoker_
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I only bought this game because of the controller. Now I have a wiimote and a game that will use 
 for an exchange in my local store.
  
  The game consists in 9 minigames, where you have to use your wiimote in innovative ways in order 
 to complete them. They are fun, but too short and easy, you won't play them for too long before 
 getting bored.
  
  The graphics are fine, you use your miis in different courses, pretty much like wii sports. The 
 sound is good for this game, but not oustanding.
  The gameplay.... well... you use your wiimote for pointing, twisting and rotating miis for different 
 purposes, like shooting balloons or finding 2 equal miis in the crowd.
  
  As I said, the game is fine, but just for a while, then you'll want to try something else. I played 
 this game for 1 hour, and then jumped to my TP again.
  It's good for 5 bucks, but if what you really want is a multiplayer game, then you may want to 
 check Rayman or WarioWare.
  Skip this game unless you have enough money to burn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: Comes with Wiimote for $5 more than a Wiimote itself, 2 player for everything, medals.
 
  The Bad: Worth the money but not even worth playing, games unlock via beating a game in multi-player 
 or finishing a game by yourself, games a too easy.
  
  Wii Play is a game that has 9 games that are like the games in Wii Sport's training mode. Like 
 that, Wii Play also earns medals but doesn't save a record for the person but for the save. Each 
 game has a different action like you have to shoot stuff by firing with B and aiming at stuff like 
 Duck Hunt (NES game not available for virtual console... yet) .
  
  Each game has a different feel. You can earn medals by getting a score high enough for each and 
 it will say in your Message Board (exactly like WIi Sports) .
  
  Shooting Alley is the aim and fire one and you can destroy ducks, cans, balloons, targets, saucers 
 and frisbees. In multiplayer, each player has to get as many as possible.
  Find Mii is a finding one where you must do the task of finding odd ones out, look-a-likes, sleepyheads 
 and the fast ones with same multi-player.
  Ping Pong is table tennis and you must rally with the ball as long as possible. In multiplayer, 
 this is a first to 11.
  Pose Mii is one where you must select a pose to fit the bubble and then rotate it by rotating the 
 Wiimote. Multiplayer is the basic points action.
  Laser Hockey is Ping Pong except it's in neon form and 2D. This is to win with as many points in 
 2 minutes and first to 8 in multiplayer.
  Billards is billards, pool the balls in hitting the lower number one first. Multiplayer is turn 
 based.
  Fishing is paper fishing and you must catch as many fish as possible and try to get the bonus fish. 
 Multiplayer is points.
  Charge is a racing one and you must knock down the scarecrows with your cow and control like Excite 
 Truck (another Wii game) and same multiplayer for points.
  Tanks is the final game and has use of the Nunchuck by moving but you can do that with the control 
 pad. Place mines and rockets to destroy enemy tanks and work with a partner in multiplayer to see 
 who can destroy more tanks.
  
  This game does not work well with me but if you want to get it, it is great to get for a Wiimote 
 and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Now now now this game was realsed to be a small game to like show how many differnt ways you can 
 play wii games it was samll very small the games are good the graphice re good but tank and the 
 horce ridding ones are compleat crap they offer not much to do they are unsaly hard to play mostly 
 the horse one the same controll to run faster is to jump and the 2 player is fun (2 players are 
 the maximum to play with there are some good game worth having 2 player with and this game is good 
 but laggs in some points but hay FREE CONTROLER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Wii Play I thought Oh jee another mini-game collection for the Wii and 
 passed it off. Then I thought Well I need another Wii-mote anyway so I bought it.
  
  Im so glad I did as well; I had a long wait for it as it was sold out but now I can see why. Personally 
 to me it has the best multiplayer value; standing right next to Wii Sports, the fact that your 
 created Mii characters are compatible is an added bonus, plus they look better. There are a few 
 games to keep you entertained for a long time a few personal favourites of mine are the Air Hockey, 
 bright colours and an acid jazz soundtrack are something that keep me coming back for more, also 
 the fact I loved this game in the arcades. It works so well with Wii-mote too.
  Another favourite is Pool, a pub classic! Now you dont have to hold the Wii-mote like youd think 
 but that ways fun too, but you can imagine how well this game works already. A bizarre game here, 
 is the cow racing. Yep Cow Racing its more fun than itr sounds race, jump over fences and hit 
 the scarecrows, its all about getting more points than your opponent really. It made me laugh 
 a lot too.
  
  Who remembers theyre NES? OK who remembers theyre copy of Mario Bros? Good then youll surely 
 remember Duck Hunt. Well Duck Hunt has made a new appearance (sort of) think of the Wii-mote as 
 a light gun and think of plates, birds and even flying saucers trying to abduct your poor Mii! 
 There arent that many different games on Wii Play but its more of an educational thing in trying 
 to teach you about the Wii-mote which makes it more fun than say reading an instruction manual? 
 On the whole Wii Play is a worthy purchase and recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 112505
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is a game that you can get by shelling out a few extra dollars with a wiimote. It is basically 
 a collection of minigames that helps you to master the Wiimote. Gameplay:
  The gameplay is something fresh and new. You don't just press a button to do things in this game. 
 You have to use the wiimote in all sorts of ways. The controls are rather solid to my surprise 
 and most of the minigames are fun and challenging. Graphics: The graphics are somewhat lacking 
 but it is understandable because the cost of the game isn't that high. You will see lots of simple 
 lines and colours you see in Wii Sports. Most of the time you'll just be looking at your Miis anyway.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is the same with Wii Sports, a lot of simple sounds like the gun sound in the shooting 
 range minigame or the cow's moos in the cow race. The music isn't all that great, it just has lots 
 of simple tunes which might be a pain to listen to.
  
  Value:
  The game has pretty good value for something that's worth a few dollars. You will be playing lots 
 of this game to get the gold, silver, bronze medals and also while versing your friends in the 
 various minigames.
  
  Summary:
  Wii Play is a good game for what is costs and if your not expecting something big with good graphics 
 and just want something to have fun with you should pick this up with a wiimote by just shelling 
 out the few extra dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubrick_11442
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game really makes the most of the wii console's unique movement controls. But That is where 
 the good comments stop for me with this one personally comparing this to wii sports it makes this 
 look half baked, poor effort at what could of been a great party game, the only saving grace for 
 this game is the price tag of &pound;34.99, and with the wiimote retailing for around &pound;29.99 
 an extra &pound;5.00 isn't to bad for a next gen game. In conclusion The Games on this disc appear 
 to be a fun mix of puzzle and party but then when you play it, you realise it is just boring and 
 you feel you can't wait for it to end and play something else. the cheap price tag doesn't make 
 up for a terrible wii launch title, had high hopes for this title just gutted it didn't live up 
 to them. Even the cheap price tag couldn't save this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-e-n
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  To honest I only bought the game because it was &pound;2 extra than another wii-mote, so if you 
 are getting a Wii i actually recommend this for the extra controller.
  
  Gamplay: Since there are many games in it the gameplay is actually quite varied and most of the 
 time relativly good. Graphics: Nothing special, along the same lines as Wii sport. The game usies 
 Mii's so expect to see a lot of them.
  
  Sound: Again nothing special, at times irritating, but overall ok.
  
  Value: Quite short live, 
 especially in 1 player, as the games get boring fast, but well worth the money, the game tecnically 
 only cost me &pound;2 because of the remote.
  
  So all in all a relativly average game, but worth the purchase for the extra controller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Wii play is very similar to Wii sport, it's more of a non-sport version of Wii Sport.
  
  It can only do 2 player at the most and is compatible with Mii's. It comes with a Table Tennis 
 Game, which was a little disappointing as in the single player it's just rallys however you can 
 only rally up to 100. Also the control mechanism is a tricky to use and it's less like Wii Sports 
 Tennis and more like Pong were you just move the bat in front of the ball and don't swing it.
 
  
  Laser Hockey is insanely diffecult at start, it basically is a futuritic pong. You use your Wiimote 
 to control the paddle, you will soon find yourself scoring more own goals than getting the ball 
 over to the other side of the arena. You also find your Wiimote point away from your TV and your 
 paddle gets stuck at the side as it cannot leave it's side of the arena. Although this said, Laser 
 Hockey doesn't disappoint, this game will have the whole family laughing and smiling whenever you 
 play it.
  
  The fishing games doesn't take much to catch a fish and is nothing like fishing. Mainly all you 
 have to do it dip you hook in the water which is a challenge by itself, and wait for a fish to 
 hook on, and then raise the controller towards yourself and there you go you have caught a fish. 
 This game is one you will play once or twice and never again.
  
  Duck Hunt is probably one of the more fun games on Wii Play in which you play 5 levels of just 
 shooting things on screen by pointing and pressing B to fire. This is a good multiplayer game which 
 i don't really see my self playing on my own.
  
  Find Mii is similar to the 'Wanted!' game on Super Mario 64 DS, in which you will be told what 
 to look for, then point and press to select them, example of these are 'Find the Mii your using' 
 and 'Find 2 look-a-likes'. This is a fun game which is very difficult.
  
  Pose Mii gets your twisting the controller to fit your Mii into the bubble. It is a little disappoint, 
 you find yourself not having any clue what to do first time you play it. In the later levels you 
 have to change your shape with A and B as well as twist the Wiimote. Overall it turns out disappointing.
 
  
  Billiards is disappoint too as if you are looking for a game of Pool or Snooker you that is not 
 what your will find. Instead you get a game which tells you which ball to hit. You hit the ball 
 by pointing at the cue ball and holding B pulling the Wiimote back and pushing forward. This works 
 OK, the ball will spin depending on where you hit it, although it spins too much, and sometime 
 when you hit the ball you hit it wrong and it goes no where.
  
  Altogether Wii Play is not a Game to buy by it's self but since it come with a Wiimote, it is definately 
 a need to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I brought it with the wii remote for $76 Australian but without the remote 
 this would have been reasonable cheap. As it came with a new remote it was the sort of premise 
 built on teaching you to use a wii remote but with that aside its fun to play these games and try 
 to get different awards for doing so. It is also a game based on the mii system so as in wii sports 
 you will be using your mii so you can see the as a cue ball, a floating poser trying to fit into 
 shapes and many more.
  
  This is another of the many more games to come out involving your mii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l30n91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  the disc you get with it reall just teaches you how to use the functions of your wii remote the 
 most of the games are a bit poor like spotting miis in a crowd not excactly super fun and gets 
 boring really quickly. there are games though that are good fun the cattle racing game is good 
 and so is the fishing although its not up to the standards of zelda. some f the games are acctually 
 quite difficult to control like the table tennis and air hockey but the music is mostly really 
 annoying on all the menus and games .over all this is a defnate buy if you want an extra wii mote 
 its an extra few &pound; s but it also teaches you how to control the wiimote and some of the games 
 are a brief laff with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likemanlikedude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Because it was 5 pounds I wasnt expecting much from it but I was pleasently surprised by the quality 
 of the games.
  
  the good: Shooting , billiards, fishing, cow racing, tanks, air hockey these are the best games 
 in my opinion because they are easy for anyone to pick up and have fun
  
  the bad: find mii, pose mii, table tennis. these arnt really bad just not to my taste.
  
  If 
 you are looking for a happy multiplayer game that uses your mii's then this is what I would recommend. 
 So if you and a mate want to play a few games then GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_livert
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Some people get this as it's only 10 bucks more to pay on top of the remote. After spending hours 
 on this game, I have realised that it was the remote that came free with the game.
  
  A couple of the minigames may get a bit boring in singleplayer mode once you've achieved the platinum 
 medals, as some reviewers have said, but most of them fail to recognise this game's multiplayer 
 value. Load laser hockey or shooting range in a room with more than 2 people and I guarantee an 
 entire night of screams and fun. Fantastic crowd pleaser. Please note though, that all the games 
 are 2 player max.
  
  This game is also fantastic to introduce the wiimote to the new Wii owner. Every minigame (except 
 for find mii) is unique in demonstrating the tilt, acceleration and pointing functions of the wiimote. 
 When you're done getting all the platinum medals, you will no doubt have the skills necessary for 
 any future Wii titles.
  
  For 10 bucks, this game will far exceed your expectations. Think about it, some of the virtual 
 console games cost more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerman316
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  wii play wii play wii play this is a game that i would not consider buying if u just want the game 
 the only reason im not knocking my head off a wall is the fact that i find justice in that i bought 
 it for the remote good points: the bull racing, shooting and tanks games are good....... possibly 
 the fishing and the ping pong thts about it ......... oh god............... kill me......
  
  bad points: the rest off the things there repetetive boring and really repetitive and boring and 
 repetitive and boring and basic the billiards are boring in every sence of the way pose mii should 
 be called drug mii cus its just awful *&amp;^% (^ $^%$&amp;^%*$&pound; $* (&amp;^%^&amp;%^%$ sorry 
 thought id mash the keyboard as my head was hitting off of it in anger grrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 
 dont buy this game unless as in anger off buyingit u threw ure remote out the window and then uve 
 bought it cus u needed a remote so u threw remote out window then bouthgt one cus u needed it but 
 then threww it out window (big all explosion) im a gona stop now cus it just sends u into a loop............ yeyyyy 
 i made wii play use full for a second 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canopener1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  This game was a disappointment. I got it at launch for the extra wiimote and hoped the game would 
 be half decent, I was wrong. The game is nowhere near as fun as nintendo's other effort at a universal 
 game - wii sports. The shooting game is quite fun at the beginning, but after a while it gets quite 
 repetitive. Most of the games are poor. Pool is boring and too easy. Table tennis is monotonous 
 and nowhere near as good as wii sports tennis. However, this game was a good tutorial on how to 
 use the wiimote. If you were completely new to using the system it would show you how to use the 
 wiimote well.
  In short: Not a very good game, but a good tutorial. You also get a wiimote with it which will 
 bring up the score slightly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play shouldn't really be considered a game. It gives you the same amount of content as a PS2 
 demo CD you get free with your magazine, but add on some enjoyable multiplayer and you get this 
 game. The biggest problem with Wii Play is that while it does 'introduce' you to concepts with 
 the wii mote, (as that's what you Wii Play's aim) over half of the games and actual 'concepts' 
 that seem good on paper don't translate well into game. And because it's only 2 player, Wii Play 
 isn't the ideal party game either despite it having shallow mini-games. Instead of going by category, 
 I'll sum up the game for you. The graphics in Wii Play are almost as good and just as simple as 
 Wii Sports. While 'Fishing' looks like an uninspired, cardboard-cutout fish fest, 'Pool' features 
 some realistic, nice details such as the table, the reflections and and background props. But for 
 the most part, they're simple yet clean. No way pushing Wii's hardware but achieving what it was 
 going for. As for sound, the chirpy sounds are in tact like in the more kid-friendly Nintendo games. 
 Music is nothing special and is, well, average.
  
  With games like 'Fishing', 'Pose Mii' and 'Find Mii' the concept sounds like it's there, but when 
 playing you wonder why this game made into Wii Play. Instead of actually fishing 'fishing' you 
 plonk your rod in randomly as the fish spontenously nibble your bait-less hook only to bite it 
 once and swim off. However it keeps coming back for the hook, and the aim to pull up the fishing 
 rod JUST when it bites the rod - which is irrelevant to fishing.
  
  Some of the games suffer for shallow or easy they are such as Pool and Table Tennis. With 'Table 
 Tennis' in Wii Play there's no such thing as performing techniques - just slide the wiimote to 
 the ball and you automatically hit it. You could have rallies for hours. And 'Pool' gets rid of 
 all the skill as you 'hit the ball and see what happens' turns into '3 balls sunk'. The control 
 mechanic is also flawed as you can accidentely softly tap the ball when you meant to smack it. 
 I could go on, but let me talk about the positives - the Battle Tanks game, Laser Hockey and Cow 
 Racing. Battle Tanks isn't good with 2 people but alone is addictive and fun as hell. The wiimote 
 is placed superbly and you'll always want to beat your highscore. Laser Hockey can have a learning 
 curve, which is suprising, but is actually fun with 2 people and the CPU (when playing alone) can 
 actually deliver some intense moments. Cow Racing is also fun with 2 people and kocking stuff down 
 rocks. But where are the options, Nintendo? Why not go the step further and deliver a 'create-a-stage' 
 mode with Battle Tanks or actually make a Versus mode for it, or a 'select a stage' mode? Why is 
 there only 1 course for Cow Racing? How come Pool is ridiculously flukey and easy?? It almost insults 
 gamer's intellegence at how simple and easy most of the Wii Play stuff is.
  
  In the end, Wii Play only succeeds as a tech demo - with some decent multiplayer functions and 
 options. You'll definitely have favorites with Wii Play, but you can't really call it an anticipated 
 'game' for 2007 (in U. S) . If you're willing to spend $7-10 extra bucks on a wii-mote knowing you're 
 getting a free tech-demo then go ahead and buy Wii Play. But if you're seriously expecting a party 
 game with loads of value, you'll be dissapointed. It comes down to value for money. It has been 
 priced intellegently by Nintendo as they advertise you get Wii Play WITH A FREE WIIMOTE!!!1!! This 
 isn't a scam, as it IS pretty good for money-sake and you get a perfectly functional wii-mote. 
 + Free Wii-mote/Free tech demo - whichever way you interprut it.
  + Battle Tanks minigame, some good multiplayer moments
  - Doesn't work as a party game nor as 
 a 'game' altogether
  - Shallow - seriously lacks options
  - Too easy and too simple
  - Cutsey sounds and visuals don't help Nintendo's so-called 'kiddy' image 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  i bought this for &pound;24.99, so basically this game cost me &pound;5 which is really what you 
 get, not much of a game but a tech demo which is fun for a while and is a good way of showing us 
 what the wii mote can do.
  
  There isnt much in this game, some games include shooting targets, which is fun for 1 player, trying 
 to get as many down and scoring as many points in a row, and there is 9-ball pool which is fun 
 to play with another person and tehres also a laser hockey game which is insanely fun with another 
 person but the rest of the games are appauling. such as fishing, biggest waste of time EVER, just 
 fishing out random fish from a pond.
  
  This game looks like wii sports, you can play with your miis which is nice but its nothing special. 
 only the 3 games as i mentioned above out of 10 are worth playing, but for &pound;5 its worth the 
 cheap fun, just get it instead of just buying a controller by itself, you will either love it or 
 hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AfterTheFall
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought Wii Play simply for the Wii Remote and i must say for $10 (AU) it's a buy you won't regret.
 
  
  Wii Play serves as a simple tutorial to all the different functions of the Wii Remote. This tutorial 
 comes in the form of 9 different mini-games ranging from Shooting to Cow Racing to Billiards. However 
 only half of these mini games will really have you coming back to play more.
  
  The best game by far for me was the Shooting Gallery followed by Charge! (cow racing) . Shooting 
 is obviously shooting items on the screen such as balloons and targets. Charge involves racing 
 cows to knock over scarecrows in order to get points. Another good game is Tanks which is easily 
 you destroying enemy tanks with rockets and mines.
  
  The rest of the mini games Table Tennis, Fishing, Laser Hockey, Pose/Find Mii i found to be only 
 average and sometimes frustrating but are still fun in their fun in their own special way.
  
  The game features a 2 player mode which is fun to play as like Wii Sports you can use your 
 Miis. It's disappointing as some games such as Shooting and Fishing could have benefited from 4 
 player action.
  
  All in all Wii Play is a good game to teach you all their is to the Wii Remote
  and for $10 is 
 quite enjoyable and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobtom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  wii play is a very good game, a collection of games to get you ues to the wii-mote and they are 
 surprisingly good, the graphics are nice and clear the gameplay is great and the sound is good 
 as for value for money a wii mote is &pound;30 and wii play is &pound;35 with a wii mote so you 
 are getting this game for &pound;5 value for money? YOU BET. weather your playing with family of 
 buy your self its a great game, wen it comes to America go and buy it not just for the wii mote 
 but for the game to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narwaffle
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Wii Play is, in theory, only $10 (AUD) when purchased in a bundle with a Wii Remote, which makes 
 it an adequate deal. However, if you're expecting something fun, engaging and addictive, wait for 
 WarioWare. This package consists of only 10 minigames, only a few of them standing out. But, it's 
 fun while it lasts, so those who wouldn't be too concerned to fork out an extra few dollars should 
 go ahead.
  
  Anyway, Wii Play is designed for you, the consumer, to learn how to use the Wii Remote. In Japan 
 it's named something absurd like My First WIi . Clever title aside, Wii Play relies heavily on 
 Miis - for example, the records you break are associated with the Mii you were playing. Your other 
 Miis also make an appearance as spectators, conspicuous joggers and what have you. This is cute 
 at first, but the novelty soon wears thin. Just like the rest of Wii Play.
  
  The first minigame you'll run into is very similar to the NES classic Duck Hunt . There's several 
 stages for you to shoot your way through, involving such riveting tasks as shooting balloons, shooting 
 targets, shooting discs, shooting cans and shooting alien spaceships bent on abducting your unsuspecting 
 Miis. Just like the Xfiles. Or not. The first few times you play this minigame, it's pretty good 
 stuff. But after a few times more, it reveals it's 'true form'; a menial task with little replay 
 value. I only had to play it 3 times to get the Gold Medal. The second minigame that bothers to 
 show up is Ping Pong. But not conventional ping pong. No, you just control the hand moving the 
 paddle around. Your goal: hit the ball back 100 times. I managed 77. Then I fell asleep.
  
  The third minigame you'll encounter is called Find Mii . Whoever came up with these names should 
 be added to the Pun-Maker's Hall of Fame and then shot. This involves an even more riveting task 
 of identifying the same Mii in a crowd. Something like 10 stages, all boring, all involving similar 
 mechanics, just skip this one. I touched it once and haven't played it since.
  
  The fourth minigame is about as menial as it gets. It involves learning the tilt controls for the 
 Wii Remote. Bubbles fall from the top of the screen, and you tilt your Mii to match the Mii silhouette 
 in said bubble. The game tries to mix it up a bit by having you change poses, but that makes the 
 game plain annoying. Skip this one.
  
  Next game: Laser Hockey. I like this one. You control a Retro Paddle Man, who's dog was killed 
 by the evil other Retro Paddle Man. Your goal is to hit a puck into the goals of your opponent. 
 Just like air hockey! The change here is not mechanical, but graphically. This game looks aesthetically 
 pleasing, with everything neon. It's like LA. Sort of.
  
  Snooker follows after. While it can't top Laser Hockey, it is a pretty good number. This shows 
 off the Wii's ability to utilize 3 dimensional movements. Hit the target ball, get all the balls 
 in the pocket, you know the deal.
  
  Then; Yay! Fishing! Oh wait, no. It's boring. You'd be better off playing the Zelda incarnation 
 of fishing. Again, this minigame shows off the Wii's 3D movement capabillties. Somehow they made 
 fishing boring though. Like how Rapalla completely sucked the fun and appeal out of fishing, Wii 
 Play does the same thing. This one is decent to play in multiplayer though.
  
  This 8th minigame is my favourite. It involves wielding the Wiimote as if it was a steering wheel, 
 but instead of steering a normal vehicle, you control a patchwork cow, attempting to knock down 
 as many scarecrows as humanely possible, all whilst trying to jump over obstacles. The Wiimote 
 is tilted forward to accelerate, and rotated side-to-side to steer. A quick push upwards will make 
 your bovine crusader jump. This one is a blast for multiplayer, and singleplayer isn't too bad 
 either.
  
  The 9th minigame is also pretty good. Named Tanks! (oh god) , it involves controlling a little tank 
 and maneuvering it around a super deformed battlefield. Pressing B will fire your ever-trusty missiles, 
 which can be bounced off walls to add to the strategy. Pressing A drops a mine. Your tank is controlled 
 using the directional pad on the Wiimote, but alternatively the nunchuck can be used to steer, 
 which I recommend. Overall, Wii Play is a mixed bag. Most of the games it throws at you are menial, 
 repetitive and ultimately boring. However, some standout and rise above the others, but they aren't 
 enough to save the game from being mediocre. However, seeing as this is only $10 extra on top of 
 a Wiimote, it's worth the extra cash just for these standout minigames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Its no secret that Nintendo wants to shake things up. Nintendo wants revolutionize the way we play 
 games forever. It started with the DS touch screen, and now it continues with the Wiimote. With 
 all this new and exciting technology, Nintendo need something to show off what it (the Wiimote) 
 can do right? In other words, they need a tech-demo, and this is where Wii Play comes in. In this 
 respect Wii Play is successful as it does show off a variety of the different ways the Wiimote 
 can be used, but beyond that Wii Play doesnt offer much else.
  
  Wii Play consists of 10 or so different mini-games, all of which show the different ways the Wiimote 
 can be utilized during gameplay. Some of the mini games include a shooting range game (similar 
 to the NES titles Duck Hunt, except your main targets arent ducks) , Fishing and Air hockey. Of 
 the 9 mini-games featured in the game, youll probably spend most of your time with the Shooting 
 Range mini game or maybe the Ping Pong mini game, but keep in mind that youll probably only spend 
 an hour if that playing these games, although playing the games multiplayer certainly helps, even 
 then the novelty of the various different mini games wears thin quite quickly.
  
  But some of the mini games dont even warrant more than one or two plays through. One of the mini 
 games has you picking out Miis of a certain description from a group before time runs out. There 
 are quite a bit of levels to this mini game, and at no point does this game get exciting or particularly 
 enjoyable in anyway.
  
  Its clear that Wii Play was never meant to be any technical achievement as far as graphics and 
 sound go. Instead, Wii Play offers a good, clean and simple look although at times its a little 
 too simple for its own good. The same can be said for the games audio, as actually music of any 
 kind is never really used (or at least not that often) and is instead replaced by simple sound 
 effects, some of which come out of the Wiimotes speaker.
  
  Although Wii Play only really lasts you for an hour or two (if that) , since you only paying a very 
 small amount for it, it is justified that the mini games dont have incredible depth or value to 
 them. Its really even hard to class Wii Play as a game, as its definitely more of a tech demo than 
 anything, which is exactly what Nintendo wanted out of Wii Play. As a tech demo, Wii Play is pretty 
 decent, but a game, Wii Play doesnt offer much. But at the same time, if your looking to buy an 
 extra Wiimote, you may as well pay small additional amount of money for Wii Play, because to be 
 fair, you get what you pay for, which isnt really a bad thing, or a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscoJoy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  While Wii Sports is one of those games that every Wii-owner has simply by virtue of owning the 
 console, Wii Play is one that is being bundled with additional Wii-motes. Like Wii Sports , the 
 idea behind this one is to teach you the art of the Wiimote, and this is achieved through a series 
 of mini-games.
  
  There are 9 games in total on this disc, each of them designed to hone a different skill with the 
 Wiimote. For example, the first game is 'Shooting Range', kind of a Wii update of the old Duck 
 Hunt . Using the Wiimote as your gun, and the B-button as a trigger, 5 levels of increasing difficulty 
 are played out . The other games - or levels, as you cannot proceed to the next game without having 
 played the previous one through - refine different skills needed to master the various functions 
 of the Wiimote. 'Find Mii' is like a 'Where's Wally' (or Waldo for the Americans) that asks you 
 to find similar Miis, or different ones. 'Table Tennis' is a fairly straightforward game, not too 
 dissimilar to the Tennis game on Wii Sports . 'Pose Mii' is a discrimination game that asks you 
 to press buttons to change the position of your Mii (or character) so that they fit inside various 
 bubbles. This is actually more challenging than it sounds! 'Laser Hockey' is perhaps the most fun 
 on the compilation, appeal to both fans of table hockey and Pong . 'Billiards' and 'Fishing' are 
 fairly self-explanatory, utilising the 3D movement functions of the Wiimote. 'Charge' is a cow-riding 
 racing game (don't ask) that asks you to turn your remote on its side and steer the cows. Finally, 
 the odd 'Tanks' sees you control... err... tanks through a maze while attempting to destroy enemy 
 tanks and avoid others. Think those Micro Machine games from the mid-1990s.
  
  Unlike Wii Sports , Wii Play doesn't allow you to select any of these games immediately. You must 
 start with the shooting, and each subsequent level will be 'unlocked' as you progress. This is 
 fine if you are using the games for their designed intent - that is, learning to master the Wiimote 
 - although, given that the superior Wii Sports comes in the console box, chances are that users 
 will already be well and truly familiar with the functions of the controls. Also, given that this 
 is only bundled with the Wiimote and not the Nunchuck attachment (sold separately at an additional 
 cost) , new users will only be getting half of their Wii-experience if using this as a learning 
 tool. However, most of these games only take about 3 minutes to complete, so it won't take long 
 to whizz through the levels.
  
  Perhaps the greatest strength of Wii Play is as a multi-player party game. In this sense, it does 
 work as a teaching tool. Through the various games, my partner - a complete non-gamer - was able 
 to pick up most of the functions of the Wiimote almost immediately. Not helping things, however, 
 were a few silly control issues in the game. The 'Billiards', for example, requires you to push 
 the remote towards the screen, as though thrusting a pool cue. However, this isn't always as responsive 
 as it could possibly be, requiring you to really hammer home the ball just to get some response. 
 This never seemed like a great teaching tool to me. However, other games such as 'Shooting Gallery' 
 and 'Laser Hockey' really engender a fun dueling atmosphere, and we stayed up well past our bedtimes 
 challenging each other to one more game . Graphically, this isn't exactly inspiring, using the 
 same 'stick and ball' characters that can be found in Wii Sports and scattered throughout your 
 Wii Channels. If you have created a Mii in the Mii Channel, you will be able to use that Mii in 
 the game. While I couldn't recommend purchasing this as a standalone game, bundled in with the 
 Wiimote it is quite a fun introductory package. The games do largely teach the various functions 
 of the remote, although with the exception of the very addictive 'Laser Hockey' I doubt whether 
 you will want to return to them after you have mastered the basics. 'Shooting Gallery', for example, 
 would have been much more worthwhile if you were subsequently able to go back and progress to higher 
 and more challenging levels. As said above, it doesn't take long to get through all the levels, 
 so you will probably be left with an expensive coaster by the end of the week. Even so, try to 
 think of it as a 'free game bundled in with a remote', rather than a 'remote bundled in with a 
 game'. It seems like much better value that way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii Play isn't really a game. Well, it is and it isnt. Basicly Wii play is a selection of mini-games 
 that you get when you buy a Wii mote on its own. The Mini-games arent really what you would expect. 
 Lets say that they are not as addictive or as deep as games in Mario Party or Rayman Raving Rabbids. 
 Really you play them a few times and you get bored of them quite quick.
  
  What Wii play is really for is to teach new players how to use the Wii mote in the correct way. 
 Each of the mini-games get you to use the controller in nearly all possible ways. For example the 
 first game is shooting, you learn how to aim at the screen and press a button to shoot. Later on 
 you learn to move the Wii mote in dimensions until you get to using the nun-cuck and pressing lots 
 of buttons to do different things. Essentially Wii Play acts as a Mini-Game Tutorial.
  
  This sound a little weird but it really works. All the Mini-games do teach you how to use the Wii 
 mote and is great for people who have never played a Wii or especially games before. It's a really 
 good idea they packed this in with the Wii mote because there isnt really a Wii mote tutrorial 
 like this.
  
  Some of the games in Wii Play arent as fun as you would expect for example table tennis all you 
 do is move the paddle side to side in front of the ball. But others like charge are loads of fun 
 where you have to ride a bull and knock down scarecrows. After youve played through the 9 games 
 a few times, there isnt really much to do. The only depth the game really has is through getting 
 medals for each Mini-game which could take some time as reaching gold in each one is very hard.
 
  
  Overall Wii Play is great if your new to the Wii or want an extended tutorial and it comes with 
 a Wii mote in the UK, AU and soon USA. Although it may not have much length or depth its still 
 a great idea to teach newcomers exactly how to use the Wii and what the Wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 77james77
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Although Wii Play wont be coming out in America for quite a while it has been available in Australia 
 for over a week now. Since nobody else seems to have reviewed it yet I thought Id write a few 
 words about it. Plus, it means Ill be able to gloat about how great it is that we Aussies got 
 it first! Wii Play consists of nine minigames that provide good practice for the Wii remote. They 
 are all enjoyable to play first time around but some of the weaker ones get stale very quickly. 
 None are particularly deep and are about as complicated as your average Mario Party minigame. But 
 it is using the Wii remote in unique ways to play them that makes Wii Play really enjoyable. It 
 is such a fun little package that you'll probably be going back and playing them again long after 
 the novelty of the motion sensing control has worn off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Man
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  The Wii play compilation features 9 games which are designed to introduce Wii gamers to the use 
 of the Wiimote controls, very much like Wii Sports. All this for only $10.
  
  You also use you Mii to play all the games and after you finish each one, you will be awarded a 
 bronze, silver or gold medal based on how well you do, this helps extend the life of the game but 
 still is easy to get all gold medals. Multiplayer is available for all of the games and this is 
 where the most fun is (mind you it only offers 2 player and not 4 player option) .
  
  One of the games in Wii Play is Shooting Range. It is a simple game which requires the shooting 
 of targets and a control scheme a bit like the classic game, Duck Hunt.
  
  Find Mii is a game in which you have to try and find a specific Mii from a crowd, make a mistake 
 and you will lose time. This is very similar to the Wanted mini game in Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Table Tennis is one of the better game in Wii Play. It offers a lot more control of what you 
 do than Wii Sports tennis which is great and makes it feel more life like.
  
  Pose Mii requires a player to try and match a pose in an attempt to match the one shown on the 
 screen. It won't last you long but it is better playing with someone else.
  
  Laser Hockey is a futuristic looking game which is similar to the ones you can play online. You 
 use the wii mote not only to move direction but also the power you want to use to hit the puck.
 
  
  Billiards is similar to many around but this one offers much better control (including camera angle 
 control) . Unfortunately it does become boring after not too long.
  
  Fishing allows people to catch fish worth different values from a pond. When one is caught the 
 Wiimote vibrates and then you flick it to pull the fish in. The ability to move around the rod 
 which allows for good control.
  
  Charge is an unusual game which puts you onto a cow which you ride like a horse. You jump gates 
 and have to avoid obstacles, very much like equestrian events. This controls differently to the 
 other games as you have to tilt the Wiimote sideways like you have to when playing NES VC games.
 
  
  Tanks is the only game that uses the nunchuck where you have to destroy the opposing tank with 
 shells and mines. The main problem is that the matches don't last long.
  
  Onto the graphics, they aren't mind blowing but simple and easy on the eye. Wii Play supports 480i 
 and wide screen which is good.
  
  The sound is good with the music typical of classic Nintendo games and fits in well with the games.
 
  
  Overall this game is worth it's small price even though it is rather easy and does not support 
 4 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molop
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Im not sure about the US but in Australia Wii Play comes bundled with a Wii remote. The cost of 
 the package is about $70au. With the Wii remote retailing in OZ at about $60 the actual game costs 
 $10au, about $7US, and you pretty much get what you pay for.
  
  Wii play is a bunch of mini games that can be interpreted as training for use of the Wii remote. 
 Specific games that require you to twist, shake, aim and flick the remote in a few different ways. 
 The games worth mentioning are limited, but still worth a shout. The point and shoot game is just 
 like duck hunt with fewer ducks and only 5 levels. Fun that runs out a little too fast. There 
 is a neon version of pong set up like air hockey which is a cool remake of an old concept but twitchy 
 on the controls. One game uses the Wii Nun chuck where you steer a tank around and try to shoot 
 other tanks, and probably the most interesting game 9 ball. Which is pool with fewer ballskinda.
 
  
  If you see this game on its own, dont pay anymore than $10 for it. Its the sort of game youll 
 have a crack at if you get stuck on a more interesting game, or couldn't afford another multiplayer 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I love this game. i've played on it enough to realize the sheer fun of it, and mulitplayer is lol 
 funny. seriously. try and create erratic mii's, then put them on here. Its very addictive, and 
 WILL have you coming back to beat your high score. Mind you, with the 9 games on there there are 
 a few weak links. Table tennis only goes up toi #10, but if it had let yo rally on till you got 
 beaten it would have been perfect. Laser hockey is quite fun, but the controls are unresponsive 
 and when they finnaly o into action its normally the wrong way. but apart from tha the rest is 
 sheer brilliant 100% laughable fun. Also, it's good (As i discovered) as a rivalry game. play one 
 of each, best person wins. also, put it with wii sports and you have the ultimate party. and gloating 
 position. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
