-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wii Sports
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/wiisports/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's free with the Wii in North America.
 Simplified sports concepts are easy to grasp.
 Great for group multiplayer.
 Daily fitness test keeps you coming back.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some games are oversimplified.
 Motion-sensing controls are sometimes a little erratic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 13,649 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Sports
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wii Sports makes for an ideal pack-in with Nintendo's new console, providing some fun, simple gameplay 
 that's accessible to almost anyone. 

  Regardless of personal tastes or preferences, there's one game that  everyone  who picks up the 
 Nintendo Wii at launch in the US will get, and that's Wii Sports. This is the game that Nintendo 
 has chosen to include with its new hardware, and it makes for a pretty smart package. It's a collection 
 of simple games based on the sports of tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. It can admittedly 
 be a little short on depth at times, so those looking for stunningly realistic renditions of these 
 sports will need to look elsewhere. Wii Sports uses common, relatable activities to provide an 
 example of how to create a tactile experience on the Wii. To this end, it's quite successful.  
 

          The simplicity of Wii Sports makes it a great introduction to the uniqueness of Nintendo's 
 new console.     

  What immediately makes Wii Sports attractive is its ease of use. Each of the games shaves its respective 
 sport down to a few essential elements and then has you pantomiming these basic activities with 
 the Wii Remote -- and in the case of boxing, the Nunchuk as well. For tennis, all you'll be doing 
 is swinging the Remote as though it were a tennis racket. At the start of the match you'll flick 
 the remote up to toss the ball in the air, and then with a quick swing you'll serve the ball. Depending 
 on your handedness, swinging to the right or to the left will produce a forehand or backhand swing, 
 while the game itself will move your player about the court. It generally does a good job of putting 
 you in front of the ball, allowing you to focus entirely on your return, something that's determined 
 by the shape and speed of your swing. You won't have pro-level, laserlike accuracy, and your timing 
 governs most of your directional control. It's ideally either a two- or four-player game, though 
 the artificial intelligence can facilitate a decent doubles game if you're on your own. You can 
 choose from a one-off game, best of three, or best of five, and that's about it for tennis.  

 
  Baseball is reduced to batting and pitching, with all of the fielding handled on your behalf by 
 the game. The motions are pretty analogous to the real thing, so you'll hold and swing the remote 
 as though it were a baseball bat. You'll see your batter waving the bat over his shoulder as you 
 do the same with the remote, but you don't need to worry about your strike zone, just the timing 
 and speed at which you swing. There's a little more to pitching, which relies on an over-the-shoulder, 
 down-and-forward motion to emulate your standard big-league overhand pitch, and the speed of this 
 gesture will determine the speed of your pitch. You can add a little mustard by holding the A button 
 to produce a curveball, the B button for a screwball, or both for a splitter. You can affect the 
 direction of the ball using the D pad before your pitch, though the game doesn't give great feedback 
 as to how high, low, inside, or out the pitch will be. Again, it's a better experience with two 
 players, but it's still pretty good against the AI. It's most fun in short bursts, so the fact 
 that the games are limited to three innings seems like a good thing.  

  Bowling is perhaps the most nuanced of the games included in Wii Sports and generally comes across 
 as the most intact sport of the five, with just the right amount of technicality. You'll start 
 off holding the remote in front of you pointing straight up, then you'll move it down, back, and 
 forward again. You'll hold the B button as you swing, and when you let go, your player will release 
 the ball. Like with a real bowling ball, any twist in your wrist as you swing will give your ball 
 some spin. And, like with a real bowling ball, you can counteract spin by moving your player's 
 starting position to the left or right, as well as your angle of attack, before you throw. Up to 
 four players can play a full 10 frames here, and the fact that your success isn't governed by interacting 
 directly with others somehow makes bowling especially accessible.  

          That same simplicity, though, can hurt the different games' lasting value to some extent. 
     

  The actual sport of golf is one of restraint, which is definitely the focus of Wii Sports' take 
 on it. Swinging the remote as though it were a golf club basically emulates the old rising power 
 meter that was once standard in all golf video games. You'll see an onscreen power meter that goes 
 higher the harder you swing. There are dots at regular intervals on the power meter that correspond 
 with the dots on your ball's projected path in an onscreen minimap so that figuring out how hard 
 you need to swing is mostly a simple matter of determining which dot you need to swing to. Of course, 
 you'll have the winds to contend with, and there's the ball's bounce and roll to be considered 
 as well. While it can be tempting to just grip it and rip it when you're making your way up the 
 fairway, if you swing so hard that you go past the top of your power meter, you'll slice or hook 
 the shot. Putting works similarly, though with a much more subdued motion. As natural as the swing 
 can feel, it's a little contrived, and you'll see that you can continue to give the power of an 
 underpowered shot a little bump by continuing to raise the controller up and forward after the 
 ball has already left the ground. There are only nine different holes of golf, which start off 
 as straight shots and dog-legs and end with an interesting hole that spans a small archipelago. 
 We found the swing to be a little fussy at times, but not so much that we didn't wish there were 
 more holes to play through.  

  Boxing is the only Wii Sports game that uses the Nunchuk attachment. You'll control your fighter's 
 stance, blocking, and punches by holding the remote and the Nunchuk and moving them accordingly. 
 Holding them right in front of you will block, and you can also dodge punches by swaying forward, 
 back, and side-to-side. Boxing can be the most physically exhausting game of the five, since swinging 
 your fists causes your fighter to do the same. You'll need to aim high and low with your actual 
 swings if you want to hit your opponent specifically in the head or body. Since only the Wii Remote 
 interacts directly with the movements onscreen, the position of your off hand is at least loosely 
 tied to it, making it difficult to distract your opponent with an uppercut with one hand while 
 you try to sneak in a body blow with the other. The game goes split-screen when you're up against 
 a live opponent, and matches seem to always end in a knockout, so you don't need to sweat the judges. 

  Despite their relative simplicity, there's still a learning curve to the games in Wii Sports, and 
 a training mode is included that not only serves to help you hone your skills, but can be a fun 
 challenge for those who've already got a handle on the games. There are three different activities 
 for each sport, and they focus further on specific aspects of the game. For example, in tennis 
 you'll be challenged to return as many consecutive, relentless serves as you can without missing. 
 Baseball has you competing in a home run derby. Bowling has you working on using spin to your advantage 
 by placing barriers strategically in the lane. Golf will challenge you to make it to the green 
 in a single shot from a variety of positions. Boxing tests your power against a series of punching 
 bags that you need to knock clean off their chains.  

  It's in the training mode, though, that you'll probably discover that you don't need to perform 
 big, sweeping motions in a few of the games to play well, which is too bad, since it seems a little 
 counter to the notion of the package. Another way Wii Sports keeps you coming back is with a daily 
 fitness test. Here you'll participate in a random series of training mode challenges, and based 
 on your performance you'll be assigned a fitness age, a none-too-subtle nod to the Brain Age test 
 in Nintendo's DS puzzle game of the same name. It worked in Brain Age, and it seems to work well 
 in Wii Sports, too.  

          Wii Sports backs up its gameplay with a look that's just as clean and simple.     

 
  Wii Sports is the first Wii game that uses the Mii, a digital avatar that you can create and customize 
 from the console's Wii Channel interface. These figures, which look a bit like further simplified 
 versions of Playmobil people, populate Wii Sports, and they set the tone for the look of the game. 
 The environments aren't as overtly abstracted, but their look is simple and clean, something that 
 comes across on both standard and progressive scan displays. The sound follows suit with simple, 
 crisp effects, and though it's perhaps not as striking, it does make nice, mostly underplayed use 
 of the Wii Remote's speaker.  

  The first time the games included in Wii Sports were shown to the public, it was simply as tech 
 demos to prove that Nintendo wasn't totally crazy for building a whole console around motion-sensitive 
 controls. Though there's still kind of a tech-demo feel to Wii Sports, it's a fun, unique package 
 you'll enjoy so long as you don't expect too much detail from it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1052 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is my rating of different kind of category for the game: Wii Sports.
  
  Please read the information below to see what I think about this game.
  
  Graphic (8.5 out of 
 10) I rate the graphic 8.5 out of 10. The graphics still great to
  play with, but I think the graphic part could have been better at the bowling part
  I say?
  
 
  Price (10 out of 10) I rate the price 10 out of 10 cause betyou already know it.
  It comes with the Wii! Duh. So I don't have that much thing to say about the
  price, but have fun 
 playing this game man!
  
  The Fun if the Game (10 out of 10) I rate th game itself 10 out of 10 because
  this game introduces 
 you to 5 different kinds of sport. Tennis (I like this the  second 
 best!!) , and bowling (I don't really like
  this, but who cares? Also, this game gives you a good workout. You don't
  even need to beg your 
 mom to go to the park! Have fun! (to whoever is reading my review.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmangamer364
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  In an almost sadistic way, you have to feel somewhat sorry for the Nintendo Wii and its instant 
 rise to glory. Nintendo's plan to unify gamers and simplify gaming for the normally uninterested 
 masses has both worked to a "T" and completely backfired, depending on how you wish to look at. 
 As far as the latter is concerned, one look at any major video game retailer is probably all it 
 would take for a well-educated gamer to cringe at the number of rip-off and blatant "me too" games 
 that run shelve space in the Wii section. The good news is that no one actually has to look through 
 any of them to get the genuine article; for most people, they get it the moment they purchase the 
 system (my apologies to Japan, though) . That's just part of the beauty that is Nintendo's "pack-in" 
 launch title, Wii Sports.
  
  As a reviewer, it can be tough to evaluate a game like Wii Sports because it's as simple as the 
 name suggests. On the disc, you'll receive a compilation of five sports games (Tennis, Baseball, 
 Bowling, Golf, and Boxing) . Once you get a short instruction on how to how the Wii remote (and 
 in Boxing's case, the nunchuck attachment as well) , the rest is pretty much self-explanatory. With 
 your Mii as your character (or a pre-made one, if you're a guest or just lazy) , you'll be using 
 your Wii Remote as the tool that represents whatever sport you're playing at the time.
  
  Unlike the majority of sports titles in today's gaming age that rely on an increasing degree of 
 complexity and depth to make themselves appealing and relevant, Wii Sports' aim is to keep the 
 gameplay as simple as possible. Normally, a baseball game where you can't control how your runners 
 and fielders move or a tennis game with limited control on how you use your character can lead 
 to major issues, but it's one of Wii Sports' greatest qualities. A lot of this has to do with the 
 Wii remote itself, but you have to give credit to Nintendo's excellent design approach when developing 
 this title. By taking such measures, it allows pretty much anyone to pick up the controller and 
 enjoy the game, regardless of gaming experience or how long you intend to play it.
  
  That being said, accessibility doesn't mean a thing if the games themselves aren't enjoyable, and 
 that's certainly not the case with Wii Sports. While the games are simple in nature, they still 
 require practice in order to gain a grasp on the mechanics each game possess; simply swinging the 
 Wii Remote like mad won't get you very far, especially if you want to improve your overall score, 
 with the game keeps track of with every Mii you create. It's a simple setup, but the points system 
 does offer a sense of accomplishment, and it can be fun to see how you measure up against others. 
 Not only that, but the game offers a fitness-like setup that you can use to master your craft, 
 if you so desire.
  
  Wii Sports' simplicity theme also carries itself through its graphics and sound quality. Nope, 
 you won't be seeing sweat drip down your face or your jersey moving as you do (and for that, thank 
 goodness) , but you won't be bothered by their omissions at all. The areas that you play on all 
 look well enough to keep you from being disgusted by them, while also keeping your eye solely on 
 the action. You also won't be getting any rap or rock songs by popular music artists, but once 
 again, those things not being there actually compliment the game very nicely. While most people 
 won't be looking for Wii Sports' soundtrack, it does just enough to keep the person enjoying the 
 game, which is all anyone can ask for.
  
  The only area in this game that offers any real room for critique would be the game's controls. 
 With that in mind, the only game in the compilation that this reviewer finds questionable would 
 be Boxing. That's not to say the controls of any of the games are perfect or that Boxing isn't 
 enjoyable, but the other games feel more responsive and seem to do a better job of what you want 
 it to do once you've developed your way of handling the controls (minus the backswing in Golf, 
 which isn't really needed) . For the most part, the games' control "flaws" are more annoying than 
 frustrating, and it's still very easy to enjoy the package as a whole for the most part.
  
  Lastly, it's importantly that we all remember that Wii Sports' value goes beyond the typical things 
 mentioned in reviews of most games because of the impact it has made on the video game industry 
 as a whole. It's easy to make the argument that no game has a greater impact on video games the 
 past 20 years than this humble little compilation, which has everything to do with the way it generated 
 a positive, inviting buzz about video games. From daily talk shows, to nursing homes, this game 
 has done video games a great service in being something almost everyone can appreciate. You know 
 you've done your job as a video game well when you can get even my own mom to try you out!
  
  Wii Sports continues an line of important and launch titles for Nintendo systems *thinks about 
 Super Mario Bros., Tetris, and Super Mario 64*, and while it's not the same as any of those games 
 before it, it definitely has made its mark. On top of that, it's a free game; in an age where you 
 have to pay to download content that already exists in a game when you get it, it's good to know 
 that at least one title offers true value when you see it. It's hard to recommend this game because 
 most Wii owners already have it, but for those who don't and can find it at a fair price, it's 
 very much worth picking up. Even if you can't get the most out of it, someone in your neck of the 
 woods will surely help out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Wii sports delivers that family fun that you get out of the Wii. Its the biggest selling Wii games 
 on the charts, now it came with my Wii... and to be honest, this was probably in the best top 10 
 games ever! Honestly, you need to buy it. It shows off the interactivity of the Wii by bringing 
 5 sports together, tennis, baseball, bowling, boxing and golf. Now half of the fun of the game 
 comes out of the game is the training. Theres loads of activitys like hitting the ball against 
 the wall and it rebounding back to you as it gets faster! Its so fun. And it has a great point 
 system where if you win a match you get points and you become nearer to the top where you are officialy 
 declared a pro. To get to 1000 after a pro is nearly impossible. The amount of skilled AI opponents 
 are incredible, (and Im amazing at fighting and they still beat me at boxing) ! Its great fun and 
 one of my- probably the best top 3 best Wii games of all time!
  Its that good, honestly! Though one thing annoys me, and that is the scores everyone else throughs 
 against it. Its a fantastic game, its really good and its so entertaining. Who cares about what 
 everyone else thinks about it eh,? Cause we all know that its amazing and they just cant admit 
 it. Dont worry what everyone else thinks, trust this review, its amazing! A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!!!
  Though one thing annoys me-well not annoys me but wishes that there could have been online. I would 
 have like to have see that. It would have been good playing with friends and relatives around the 
 world... though it supports multiplayer with up to 4 players in most activitys. And heres a little 
 cheat, on the tennis, before you start the match, when the little things loading for it, hold 1 
 and 2 down when its giving you the advice tip and when the match starts you should havea blue tennis 
 court! Its so cool! Anyaway, finishing the review off here, I have to say that this game is marvellous, 
 fantastic and highly enjoyable which be shared throughout thr family who play it. A superb game 
 which could have supported online but did'nt, If they had another sport it would have been great 
 but its still amzing despite all that, get it and you wont regret it, my motto for good games! 
 Thanks for reading this review. Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenh6696
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:19 am PT
Review:  I haven't played the new Wii Sports or Deca Sports, so I can't really compare this game to them. 
 Wii sports... um..... it's ok... but it doesn't really get you sweaty and isn't exactly exciting.
 
  I haven't played the new Wii Sports or Deca Sports, so I can't really compare this game to them. 
 Wii sports... um..... it's ok... but it doesn't really get you sweaty and isn't exactly exciting.
 
  I haven't played the new Wii Sports or Deca Sports, so I can't really compare this game to them. 
 Wii sports... um..... it's ok... but it doesn't really get you sweaty and isn't exactly exciting.
 
  I haven't played the new Wii Sports or Deca Sports, so I can't really compare this game to them. 
 Wii sports... um..... it's ok... but it doesn't really get you sweaty and isn't exactly exciting. I 
 haven't played the new Wii Sports or Deca Sports, so I can't really compare this game to them. 
 Wii sports... um..... it's ok... but it doesn't really get you sweaty and isn't exactly exciting.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: farqual1988
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  I got my Wii all those years ago when it first came out, and Wii Sports has managed to keep it's 
 appeal among family and friends, and to me an extent. The games are good to play through, the difficulty 
 getting increasingly difficult through them all, making it more of a challenge than I expected, 
 especially on the Boxing.
  
  Where it really shines i multi-player. Anyone can play this game, no matter how old or how fit, 
 and they'll enjoy it to an extent. Each of them uses a completely different control style and it 
 can be a laugh if your mate screws up and puts a hole in the ceiling while swinging it too hard.
 
  
  I played it for about a week solo, and have only returned now and then. The solo play doesn't last 
 for me. The movements seem too repetitive and end up becoming a pain in the arse if you play it 
 too much.
  
  Nevertheless there's plenty of multi-player fun to be found. The highlights lie in boxing, tennis 
 and bowling, where competitiveness is at its highlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports will get you active. Trust me I should know. On christmas day my dad and I were playing 
 it and we were sore the next day. lol. That is one of my most favorite games on the wii. I would 
 most definitely recommend the game. I'm glad that it came with the console. It will have alot of 
 fun with this game. It is a great game to play with the family. My most favorite game on it is 
 bowling. I enjoy playing that game. It's pretty realistic. Wii sports is a fun and active game. 
 They also have training mini games for each sport. My favorite one is the power throws. It is a 
 very fun and enjoyable game. My mom, dad, and I are really good at bowling especially my dad. He's 
 the cleanup man. lol. It's a great game to get you active. I've played boxing and the next thing 
 you know I'm out of breath. lol. You'll lose weight off that game that's for sure. I rate this game 
 8.3 out of 10. This is a great game to have for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I know this is probably the most well known Wii game and probably the most popular Wii game, but 
 I find myself coming back with a feeling of mediocrity after playing this game. Sure the sports 
 are fun to play every once and a while, tennis and bowling being the best and boxing and baseball 
 definitely being the worst, but overall it is just a very mediocre offering, not bad but not great 
 either. There is really not much to this game and after playing it for a while it gets really old 
 really fast. I guess if you are really into sports you should get this but otherwise consider if 
 you are really going to play it.
  
  Graphics: 5.0 Talk about very mediocre graphics, I understand the Wii graphics engine is weak but 
 you could have at least given the characters arms!
  
  Gameplay: 7.5 The gameplay is pretty fun most of the time but just isn't that great.
  
  Replayability 
 6.0 This game gets old pretty fast and definitely did leave a very good lasting impression with 
 me. 
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 6.5 A very mediocre and overrated offering from Nintendo 
 and that again proves high popularity and sales do not necessarily mean good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game than Wii play with Wii train and Wii fit and this game also has your 
 favorite sports on it too. Almost all the sports on it. It is good. You get Wii play by controller 
 and you get this game from the Wii box. It's cool. I recommended this game should be for age 5 
 and up. I f they know how to get the Wii. I like the baseball one because if you have a lot of 
 miis mingling, all of the miis will appear in the batter. But my favorite sports is Tennis and 
 baseball. And they would have put Soccer on it too. That would have been Great! Let me give you 
 a surprise. Have you went on Wii train and played bowling with almost a hundred pins? It's really 
 fun and even with a friend. My sister liked it at 7 years old and her record is 320 pins and I 
 got in the 400 but still pretty good. Me and my sister likes playing video games and telling people 
 about it too. You should play this game and please don't forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3rdWiiBro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports. Yes, wii sports. It includes five different sports, which are baseball, tennis, boxing, 
 bowling, and golf. Each one requires you to do different motions with the wii remote and each one 
 shines in a different way. Tennis, my favorite, reads your backhand and forehand and your serve 
 can go extra fast if you perfect your timing. Each game uses your mii that you create and every 
 game you win your skill level increases. Then, the next time you play, you will have to play against 
 opponents with higher skill level. The highest is 2000 and once you reach 1000 you become "pro". 
 These games are very realistic and in bowling I get the same score as in real life, well at first, 
 then I started finding tricks to improve my game. In golf, I was terrible, but in real life I suck 
 so bad the ball won't go 2 feet, so that's understandable. The boxing, is definitely the best exercise. 
 This game has you put in the nun chuck and you punch with your left and right arms as well as dodge. 
 This is great for arm strength and more. I would say to buy this game, but it comes with your wii 
 so you do not have to worry about it. It teaches you the basic capabilities of the wii remote so 
 its a beginner game. ~Th3rdWiiBro~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that comes with the Wii console- in it you can play bowling, tennis, golf, 
 boxing, baseball, and a few other minigames. These minigames are presented well graphic wise, and 
 are great fun to play with your friends (I played this at my friend's house) . This game is recomendable, 
 and is, overall, a good game. 
  
  The Good:
  -Quite a few different mini-games to play, which are well-presented
  -Multiplayer mode is very, 
 very fun
  -Use of Miis is cool
  
  The Bad:
  -Not many different games available
  -Way too easy sometimes
  
  Overall, Wii sports has many different little sports mini-games 
 that cna be played with friends that are very fun. You get this with the wii regardless, so, if 
 you get a wii, you have to have this game. It is not worth to get the wii just for this, though. 
 
  
  Overall, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: In bowling, baseball, golf and tennis, the controls are absolutely amazing; the game 
 utilizes the hilariously cute Miis; it feels like a steal that the game came with the Wii; the 
 music is simplistic; it's tons of fun to play with family and friends; it'll convince your family 
 to play games, and to buy more Wiimotes.
  
  The Bad: Boxing's hit detection sucks, and sometimes the remote isn't as sensitive as you'd like; 
 the Mii creator might be offputting to newcoming gamers; the graphics are certainly subpar; the 
 music is just background music; the Miis are sometimes unfinished in the games.
  
  When Nintendo announced that, while they want to continue appealing to the hardcore gamer and yet 
 bring in a broader range than the average teenage boy, hardcore and non-gamers alike couldn't believe 
 it. It's not a bad idea making video games more mainstream, but how on earth could it be done? 
 Games have far too many buttons nowadays, right? Sure the DS was attempting this, but it had only 
 middling success.
  
  So it was with bated breath that the whole world watched the unveiling of the Nintendo Wii. Even 
 if people couldn't believe it, they wanted to see what all the fuss was about, and if Nintendo 
 could live up to their word. Wiis sold out everywhere in the world, Americans, Europeans and Japanese 
 alike swarmed to the local Target, Wal-Mart, Toys R Us, Gamestop, or stores where the euro and 
 yen are accepted and Wii reached more households than any video game system has ever done before.
 
  
  And, despite the disbelieving masses, Nintendo fulfilled what they had set out to do: thanks to 
 packaging Wii Sports in with the system, everyone with a Wii (or anyone with a friend or family 
 member who had it) , found that video games could be picked up and played once again, and it was 
 better than ever.
  
  Wii was the first platform to plan using motion sensitive controls and a pointer, a much easier 
 interface than five buttons to pull games off. This, and the fact that the Wii Remote looked much 
 less scary than a ten button mainstream controller, just added into the appeal. Sure, those 'hardcore' 
 gamers could put a nunchuk into the bottom and add in one of those joysticks, but Wii Sports is 
 available to absolutely everyone.
  
  The motion sensing controls are even more amazing than you would at first believe. The Wiimote 
 feels like a tennis racket, a bowling ball, a baseball bat, a boxing glove (with the nunchuk) and 
 a golf club all in one. Tennis and bowling in particular allow for tons of fun with four players, 
 and everyone who sees it in action will want to try, even your mom, who so disapproves of that 
 Wii and wishes you just played it an hour a day.
  
  You can in fact get excercise playing too, especially in the two most popular games on the disc 
 (bowling and tennis) . Plus, most of the time and effort seems to have gone into these two, because 
 they would clearly be the most popular, and the most important to make work.
  
  Tennis allows for doubles play, and if not, you can have two characters controlled by you (who'll 
 be identical) , or a computer player. You can play single player too. Bowling gives you the actual 
 number of pins and throws and the pins react rather realistically, even if strikes are much easier 
 to get than in real life. But the combination of challenge and simplicity (it's still hard to get 
 a 300) just adds to the enjoyable environment, since you'll feel like you're getting better.
  
  Meanwhile, your tennis racket works like normal. At first the game just expects you to shake 
 the controller, but it'll later want you to play more and more like real tennis. This is a double-edged 
 sword. It makes it tougher, but again you know you're improving, and you can then add top spin 
 and control where the ball goes better, which will surely delight real tennis players.
  
  Baseball is fun, and the Wiimote responds to swings and throws pretty well, but it's only two player. 
 Also, you have no effect on how your character runs the bases. This allows the game to be simplistic, 
 but it's not as easy to turn into a party game. And that's where you'll notice where the game loooks 
 a tad unfinished. The Miis don't have legs, or even arms, just little balls (none of that from 
 you) to hold the bat. On the other hand, it's amusing watching your little Mii bounce their way 
 to home plate.
  
  Golf does react to your swings pretty well. You can even play four players, and it's a little more 
 kind to you than real golf. Again, Nintendo hit the nail on the head by letting you in easy and 
 progressively letting you feel you're improving. You can take practice swings, tell how far the 
 ball will go, you can see the slope of the green, switch between clubs (just four major ones though) , 
 and tell the wind speed.
  
  Golf is pretty fun as a party game, but the Wiimote's limitations come into play here. Those dreaming 
 of pinpoint precision of the controller may be a little let down. Using a big old driver works 
 just fine, but using a putter to just tap the ball in doesn't always pick up. Still, it doesn't 
 get in the way much, and the Wiimote doesn't do what you could really call a bad job.
  
  Boxing, however, just sucks. Your boxing gloves are disembodied here too, and the hit detection 
 is pretty much awful. You won't feel as if you have a ton of control over the game (although blocking 
 works okay, somehow) , and while you could get a workout here too, you won't feel like you really 
 won or lost. Plus, it's only two player, but that's to be expected.
  
  So Wii Sports went out there to do the impossible: get your mom and dad to not go see Batman or 
 watch Simpsons, but play your new Nintendo. Wii, despite the funny name, does indeed appeal to 
 'we', not 'the teenage boy'. Yes, your girlfriend will be more than happy to play and make their 
 Mii too.
  
  You could complain about how in-depth the Mii creator is, because it may annoy newcomers, but it 
 is funny making them, so it turns out okay. Who doesn't enjoy giving people gigantic noses and 
 eyes that make your character look like they're from The Peanuts?
  
  By the gaming standards of a video game review site, this game has many flaws. Boxing hit detection 
 is awful, and the graphics and music are pretty bad. Sure there's training mode, so you can see 
 how you're improving (a single player only experience, although that may appeal more to game critics) , 
 but you can't sit down and play for hours very well.
  
  Instead, Wii Sports is meant for casual play, just for an hour or so. And that's how long Mom wants 
 you on, that's how long a casual gamer's attention span will hold at first, and that's how long 
 Nintendo meant it to be played in one sitting. This is truly the sign of a video game revolution. 
 There was once a time where anyone in the world could go to an arcade and have fun, with Pac-Man 
 or Galaga or Donkey Kong. Now games have advanced so much that buttons confuse just about anyone 
 who tries to get into it.
  
  And sure, there are plenty of ten button games for those reading this. Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 came out at the same time for a reason, and it was sold with three of every four Wii's (yes, that 
 statistic was taken) . But this way, everyone can enter into video games for the next ten to twenty 
 years. This way, Nintendo can slowly bring new games to the masses with just one more button, or 
 maybe just a new controller addition. While you play Mario, Zelda, Metroid, Resident Evil, Okami, 
 No More Heroes, and Brawl (all of which I suggest) , your parents and friends will be playing Wii 
 Sports.
  
  Then they'll be playing Wii Play. And Guitar Hero (which sold best on Wii, unsurprisingly) . And 
 Wii Fit. And hey, maybe even Mario Kart.
  
  And eventually, people may just get interested enough to become more like a 'hardcore' gamer, like 
 the average sixteen-year-old nerding out on MadWorld. You know yourself that you started out with 
 a game that didn't use a ton of buttons. Maybe it was Mario, or a handheld Zelda, or a sidescroller. 
 Or, well, Mario Kart.
  
  Now everyone can get there. We've hit racing games that the masses can play now, plus, for those 
 still new to the system, more games where you use your body, not forty buttons. Soon those newcomers 
 might give Super Mario Galaxy a try. After all, you just have to jump, run, spin and shoot Star 
 Bits at people, right? Then who knows? They might give Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles a try 
 if they're older. Soon you could have more Brawl partners than you have already and not need any 
 friend codes.
  
  When a Zelda game is sold with every new system, not three out of four, then we'll know Nintendo's 
 done their job.
  
  Therefore, I give this game a higher score than average. It still has its flaws, but it is far, 
 far more than the sum of its parts. My mom played bowling, and my dad has played every game, plus 
 Wii Fit, and they've both played Guitar Hero. So have I, and I'm loving that I can connect with 
 them like that. I'm a teenager, so that's important anyway.
  
  And they say this game is simple? Think again.
  
  Oh, I have to say it. I played with my Wii 
 for hours and hours. Then I played with my new Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticklife123
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:20 am PT
Review:  Ok, for the first wii game, you should be quite pleased by this game as it is actually free with 
 the wii and shows off all the power of the wii remote on it's first game of tennis. Wii sports is 
 a nice little package, even though it might not last too long it was only really designed to show 
 off the wii's power without you having to spend more money. Wii sports is actually a mixture of 
 5  and golf. While most of these are enjoyable they don't have 
 enough to keep you satisfied. The main replay value is the daily test which gives you 3 different 
 challenges and works out you'r fitness age and the challenges section. The challenges section has 
 many simple activities like hitting homeruns (baseball) , get it onto the green (golf) , reflecting 
 balls (tennis) , punching sandbags ( boxing) and swerving balls (bowling) . There are also 3 other challenges 
 in these sport categories and it is very fun and well.... challenging to try to top you'r own record 
 and obtain medals. The main sports though are designed mainly for multiplayer and are perfect if 
 you have another extra remote handy. Multiplayer can be used on 1 remote but this takes time to 
 swap the remote inbetween turns. The more games you win in the main sports the more experience points 
 you get, the main motif in each sport is to get to pro level (1000 points) , but this doesn't take 
 long on any of the sports and not much is unlocked when you get there. As you get more points the 
 opponents (if you'r playing single player) get harder making baseball seem impossible. Failing to 
 win will take away points and maybe ecven you'r pro standard. Tennis is quite simple in this game 
 as all you have to do is flick the wrist as the ball comes to you, you don't have to overdramatic 
 shots as though you were a real tennis player. You can choose to be the back or front player and 
 can also play as both (that means both you'r mii's swing at the same time) . You can also choose how 
 many games you want the (best out of....) to be. For the people trying to rack up high scores, best 
 out of 5 will get you those well needed points. It is a nice game to see you'r own mii's in but 
 can proove uite easy and doesn't really get you off the couch as a simple flick of the wrist can 
 do just the same as a massive swing. You do serve like a real player as well, lifting the remote 
 up and then swinging it down as the ball gets to it's highest point. Bowling is also quite simple, it 
 consists of you bowling as you would in real life (minus the annoying shoes) , you hold the b button 
 swing the remote back and forwards again letting go of b when the ball is facing forward. You can 
 move left or right by using the arrow keys on the wii remote and angle the ball by pressing a and 
 turning the player around. This is fun but once you find a method to get them all down then the 
 game is quite easy, also many people can get a lot straighter shots just by letting go off b with 
 the ball is at it's highest point in the air. This is fun in multiplayer but no reason not to go 
 to a real bowling alley. Golf is boring so i'm going to skip it, oh sorry i won't!!!! Golf is a lot 
 more accurate in this game then real life, there are 9 holes and you swing back and forward to swing 
 the club. The more power you swing the more powerful you'r shot is and the further the ball goes. There 
 is a little map on the bottom right which shows the power bar and how far the shot will go compared 
 to you'r power bar, you can have practice swings before you swing the real shot. You can change the 
 cubs and aim right and left using the wii remotes control buttons depending on the wind. Ther holes 
 are quite detailed and challenging and you will keep trying to beat you'r best score. Baseball is 
 a matter of timing, you just have to swing the bat at the right time (but not if it's a splitter 
 or let it go if it's a foul throw. This is quite good but the running is done automaticly and getting 
 a homerun is very satisfying. It's nice to see you'r mii's you made all over the court and pitching 
 is quite simple, just making a throwing motion with the remote. Quite simply, one run around the pitch 
 gives you a point. Boxing is also very simple, you just punch right with the nunchuck or left with 
 the wii remote or the other way round, this is the only game that uses the nunchuck but is very 
 fun and much more energy sappiung then the other games. You can block by holding them against you'r 
 head and chaest and good methods are needed to continue. Wii sports is a very fun multiplayer game 
 that shows off the wii power very well although might not be one to pick up again... unless you 
 want to show it to you'r friends. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  Here's one of those "something for everyone" games, Truthfully, when I had initially seen the graphics 
 and the simplistic characters and scenery designs, I was a great skeptic. However after playing 
 it JUST ONCE, I realized I was very wrong. The Wii Sports has brought back thatnew and exciting 
video game feeling that I have not felt since bringing home my first Atari game system back in 
 the day. Once again the word Fun truly is experienced. All of the games have a hands on game play 
 which puts you into the game. No power meters to regulate your motions, however hard you swing, 
 is how hard you swing in the game. Brilliant. This is a prime example to prove to those critics 
 that say repetition is bad, to be wrong. Sure I wish there were more courses in Golf to spice it 
 up a bit, but until they come out with new ones, I will happily play the same ones over and over 
 again. Great multi-play for you and your friends. The only thing that it lacked ( that probably 
 would have made it a 10) was the fact that you could not play online. ) : But that aside, you'll 
 have hours of clean Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  A few weeks back my cousin brought over his Wii and a copy of Wii Sports for us to play inside 
 our house. To tell you the truth, I was kinda disapointed. Not by the game, but by the fact that 
 he didn't have Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and I really wanted to play that game. But after a few hours 
 of Wii Sports-that grudge I had about playing this game had just vanished. Bowling was fun and 
 responsive, golf wasn't as frusterateing as real golf, and tennis was arguably the best in the whole 
 package. Even my mom and sister joined in! The only thing that I didn't like about the game was 
 that pitching in baseball felt kind of funky. Boxing was the biggest upset though, your movements 
 you dish out never seem to match the action on screen. But in the long-run, Wii Sports is problely 
 one of the best games I ever played-well, yet (Your next Brawl!!!) .
  
  Wii Sports gets an (A) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, what can I say... its quite good, solo or with friends.
  The selection of sports is cool, quite easy gameplay... and the AI is ok, not very difficult and 
 not very easy.
  Now talking just about the sports, baseball for me its the most fun. The AI really gives you a 
 challenge, and sometimes you just want to throw the controller against the wall and think to yourself 
 "How could I miss that??!!". If you play against a friend you will have fun, its always cool to 
 see who is the best with the bat. 
  The boxing game is another of the most cooler. And I must say, the most tiring one. After 3 rounds, 
 your arms will be KO, trust me. But apart from that, yes, its really good to punch Miis in the 
 face. 
  Speaking of the worst game (in my opinion) , tennis... this one is really dull. I just dont have 
 fun in this one, even playing against a friend... we tried, and tried, but the controls on this 
 one could be better, and if we could choose just one player, instead of being forced to play with 
 two guys on the same team... Im sure it would be more fun. You also have bowling and golf, these 
 two will also give you a good time... and you never get tired.
  
  So, if you like sports, and you have a Wii, what are you waiting for? Time to get in shape, but 
 avoid the Tennis, or you will fall asleep.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Nearly everyone who owns a Wii owns Wii Sports. Because of this, it has become one of the best-selling 
 games in America. Using a Mii, the player can participate in 5 sporting events, each one using 
 its own unique style of motion. Each sport really feels like you're on the court working up a sweat, 
 In the ring punching out opponents, On the field knocking the ball out of the park, In the green 
 getting a hole-in-one, and In the alley getting a strike. If you're done and satisfied with all 
 that, then you're pretty much done with the game. There are fitness tests and training sessions 
 add a little variety to the experience, but you'll get bored with them pretty soon. Don't get me 
 wrong, the sports are great fun, but some more activities like swimming or soccer would make this 
 game a wonderful experience.
  Every player has their favorite sport in this game. Mine is Bowling. I got a fifth once, which 
 boosted me up to a Pro in no time. Boxing is the only sport that requires the nun-chuck. It's also 
 the only sport that's gonna have you throwing your remote halfway across the room in frustration. 
 The first few levels of boxing are pretty easy, but once you get to the sixth boxer or so, the 
 difficulty starts to get insane. Hey, at least I got enough exercise to last a month. Golf can 
 get difficult to control at times: I knocked the ball halfway across the green when I just wanted 
 to putt. Despite some of the flaws in this game, Wii Sports is a game that will give you at least 
 2 months of solid entertaining gameplay: All while getting a virtual workout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopyed
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game you get is when you get a Wii console and to get you started for the Wii it isnt too 
 bad. This game is definatly more fun in multiplayer than if your on your own. So there are five 
 games, tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. First of all tennis is by far the best games 
 and 1 of the 2 sports were i got pro (the other one is bowling and i coudn't be bothered to do 
 the rest because it get insanly boring!) . Obvously you and to waddle the wiimote to swing the bat 
 and suprisingly its fun! Baseball is just fustrating and onnoying that the opposing team is way 
 better than you so whenever i hit a good shot they just catch it and your out and when your out 
 fielding your team is a pile of wank. Golf is ok until you start putting the wiimote doesnt control 
 sense your movements and whenever your actually hit it it normally get insanly overpowerd and goes 
 to the other side of the bloody earth. Bowling is like um bowling and is one of the most fun sports 
 and boxing is fun as well but too tiring.
  
  Its a great game at the start and you will have a kick out of it with your friends and family but 
 dont bet on it being a fantastic game because it get boring because of its repetitivenes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  Every Wii owner has it. So it's good it's not a load of tripe isn't it.
  
  No really this game takes on the roles of your Mii's daily activities including Baseball, Boxing, 
 Golf, Bowling and Tennis.
  
  Everytime you win a match you gain skill points. Get 1000 skill points and you will be voted PRO 
 of that game. In some games this unlocks certain features like shiny diamond bowling balls and 
 harder enemies.
  
  There is also other events in certain games. Like boxing punchbags, Batting home runs for points 
 and dodging tennis balls. There is about 15 events and in each event there is certain medals to 
 be unlocked from rubbish bronze to the rare platinum.
  
  A cool extra is the Wii fit. It gives you three events based on Speed, Stamina and Balance then 
 depending on your performance gives you an age rating from 20 (being the best) up to 80 (worst)
 
  
  All in all this is a surprsingly good and lengthy game which we all own. So i cant tell you to 
 go out and buy. So why am i reviewing it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanz774
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  A game that can make your wii remote a tennis racquet a baseball bat a gold driver iron wedge or 
 putter or a bowling ball or even make it and your wii numchuck and remote boxing gloves. Play multiplayer 
 and fun sports as tennis golf baseball boxing and bowling as you try to earn a new high score. 
 As you progress through the game you will find a wii sports fitness section which only once a day 
 lest you play 3 sports to test you wii fitness age play it every day to watch your wii fitness 
 age get better and batter. There is also a training section for those players who need help and 
 can make you a really good player in no time. Also as you play the same game often at the end of 
 each game you'll see a graph and it tells you how many skill points you have once it gets over 
 a thousand for a specific sport you become a pro in some sports you may get a cool bowling ball 
 golden boxing gloves to make you look like a pro. Have fun playing the 5 sports and always try 
 your best to beat your high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnfaith
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Any negative reviews for this title are pointless  the game's free. Now, to say it's a perfect 
 game isn't exactly true, but Wii Sports really packs a punch. Its many fun variations on five sports 
 (tennis, baseball, boxing, bowling, golf) make it a hit for at least a few dozen hours. Intuitive 
 and easy to learn controls finally make exercising at home fun and simple.
  
  The Bottom Line: Older folks, (grandmas/grandpas) will tend to enjoy this game more than kids (like 
 me.) Adults, who don't already have the time or energy to exercise outside like games like these, 
 while kids like these games at first, but then revert to the good ol' button mashers.
  
  Tips: Try not to get too into the game (like I did when I first played it at a friend's house.) 
 Playing too long while swinging your arms too hard may lead to pain/soreness in your muscles for 
 a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PercytheGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  My 2nd video game review after "The Simpsons Road Rage" for the GBA. Wii Sports is a very fun game 
 that comes with the Nintendo Wii. Their sports include tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. 
 My favorite sport in this game was bowling. This game was so good that I even played it like about 
 a million times! You even get to play as your own Mii! Isn't that cool or what? This game is almost 
 as fun as the two "Star Wars Battlefront" games for the PC. I'm giving this game an A+!
  
  Results:
  I'm giving everything a 10/10, including the music, gameplay and the graphics!
  No 
 explanation needed. As I said earlier, their sports are fun to play! Ah, what the heck. I'll give 
 the scores for this game.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Music: 10/10
  Lasting Appeal: 10/10
  
  Overall:
  10/10 Try this game with your family. It's good exercise 
 and keeps you in good shape. I mean it. This is a VERY good game. Also, the Wii not only came with 
 this, but it came with "Wii Play"! Wii Sports is a game that you would want to play again and again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  So launch day (or Christmas day, or a Sagittarian birthday) comes, you frantically wrestle the 
 Wii out of its box and set the thing up. Then you spend five minutes or so in awe of how perfect 
 the controller feels, how small the console is and so on. Then you rummage about in the box and 
 find Wii Sports lying there, staring back at you and psychically imploring "play me, Gamespot reader". 
 But the big question is this: is Wii Sports a genuinely enthralling game with a healthy lifespan, 
 or will you spend an hour playing it and never bother picking it up again?
  
  The first of the five games you'll probably play (due to a combination of the hype that's surrounded 
 it and the fact it's the top game on the list on the menu screen) is Tennis, one of the easier 
 games to get to grips with. Up to four players can play in any combination of doubles matches (either 
 one-game, three-game or five-game matches) , and if there aren't enough people to make up the numbers 
 then either the Wii will control the extra players or someone can control multiple players. 
  
  
  Advertisement: In fact, you can control all four players on your own if you fancy seeing 
 how long you can keep a rally going. (This is easier than it sounds as you only need to concentrate 
 on swinging the Remote because the Wii automatically moves your players around the court to put 
 them into position.)
  
  The graphics are pleasantly tidy and every time you hit the ball you hear a satisfying 'clunk' 
 emanating from your Wii Remote's speaker, making you feel like you've wandered onto Centre Court 
 at Wimbledon.
  
  The second game on the list is Baseball, which is no longer simply the home run contest that we've 
 been playing for the past few months. It takes place over three innings and you take turns batting 
 then pitching. Both work as you'd expect, with pitching a case of simply making a throwing movement 
 and holding a button to determine the sort of throw you'll make (hold A to throw a screwball, B 
 to throw a curveball and B and A together to throw a splitter; not holding a button will throw 
 a fastball) . 
  
  As for batting - well, if you can't guess how that works then you probably need someone to remind 
 you how to breathe every now and then. Whenever the batter makes contact, the outfielders on the 
 other team scamper about and try to catch the ball. If they catch it quickly you're out; if it 
 takes them a while you'll get a single and your player will run forward a base; if it takes them 
 longer you'll get a double; and obviously putting it out of the park will get you a home run. It's 
 simple and addictive and anyone can master it quickly.
  
  
  
  Then we have Bowling, which is equally enjoyable. Using the D-pad to line up your player and the 
 direction they'll be aiming in, you simply hold the B button, make an underarm throwing motion 
 and release the B button at the right time to send the ball hurtling down the lane. 
  
  Bowled Over
  As with other games in this compilation, although Bowling seems simple enough it's 
 actually got a fair bit of depth to it, and it's possible to spend hours experimenting with different 
 throwing and spin techniques (releasing B earlier will cause more spin, as will turning the Remote 
 as you throw) . 
  
  Bowling's also potentially one of the longer games in the package, because four people playing 
 a 10-frame game involves 52 throws, even if you assume everyone gets a strike every time. Which 
 they won't.
  
  When it comes to Golf, what was originally a basic demo letting you practise driving and putting 
 has become a proper nine-hole course with three difficulty levels (basically, the harder you choose 
 the windier it gets) . When driving we found it slightly tricky to gauge how hard we were hitting 
 the ball, but thankfully the option to take practice shots has been retained, meaning you can sort 
 your power out and then try to copy that when you take your proper swing. 
  
  Putting, on the other hand, feels surprisingly accurate and we didn't really need to look at the 
 power bar because we could just tell by looking at the screen how firmly we needed to hit the ball. 
 In fact, of all the activities in Wii Sports, putting in Golf feels the most accurate.
  
  Rounding off the package is Boxing, the only sport to use the Nunchuk as well as the Remote. Playing 
 against a computer opponent is pretty much a no-go as the Wii-controlled opponent is thicker than 
 a six-month-old bottle of milk, so whereas all the other games are perfectly enjoyable in single-player 
 mode, to get the most out of Boxing you'll need to invest in another Wii Remote and a Nunchuk (and 
 get a willing friend to play as well, of course) . 
  
  
  
  It's all enjoyable enough, and it's good fun to bash your mates then duck and weave as they swing 
 at you, but there's still a bit of a random feeling about the whole thing. Sometimes the game will 
 slow down and go into a sort of Matrix-type effect which is lovely to look at but you'll not be 
 too sure how you managed it. As a result the game's enjoyable not so much because it plays a good 
 game of boxing, but more because you and your mate are swinging your arms about like crazed fools. 
 It's the weak link in the collection but it's certainly not awful.
  
  As an introduction to Nintendo's revolutionary new console, Wii Sports does everything it's asked 
 to do and more. This will be most people's first taste of motion sensitivity, the Wii Remote's 
 speaker, the Nunchuk attachment and Mii functionality, and it's all explained really clearly meaning 
 everyone will be able to enjoy themselves and learn how to use the Wii without having to worry 
 about technicalities. 
  
  A Sporting Chance
  Maybe a month or two down the line you'll have put Wii Sports back on the shelf because the basic 
 nature of the games means that once you get used to them there isn't much of a replay factor (although 
 the training mode does provide a number of missions for you to complete) . But if someone comes 
 over to your house and asks to see how the Wii works, Wii Sports is the game you'll use to demonstrate. 
 It's simple yet has a surprising amount of depth, and when played with 
  a group of friends is one of the best multiplayer experiences on the Wii. And it didn't cost you 
 a penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports lets you go into a game of tennis, a game of bowling, and even a match of Boxing. Don't 
 look for this in stores, If you have a Wii, you already own it, with no money spent! Players can 
 get nervous before a sport starts, though thats why they invented Tutorials, You have 3 tutorials 
 per sport. There is also a Wii Fitness Test which determines your Wii Fitness Age, You have 3 tests, 
 each in a random order. You will be given your age once you complete the test (You can only do one 
 per day) . You will also be notified at your Wii Message Board. If you taken it the next day and 
 improve, or do worse. You will be notified again, but they will tell you how much it has changed. 
 It also has Two Player of course, though you don't get as much skill points.
  
  I give Wii Sports an 8 out of 10 Great.
  
  NOTE: Erasing your Mii could affect your saved game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I'm a long-time RPG gamer, PC games like Neverwinter, Baldur's Gate, Icewind, Hellgate London, 
 etc., etc. I love the thought and emotion involved in playing those games, and they will remain 
 my favorite. So why get a Wii, and why play Wii Sports. It's all about the motion sensing controllers, 
 which are an incredible innovation. Well, you know all that. Wii Sports is a nice free game because 
 it is basically a tutorial to using the controllers. If you play through the games and work up 
 to pro level, you will really understand the controllers. The great thing about Wii Sports is that 
 my wife instantly 'got it' and she never plays games. Her 80-year-old dad immediately started into 
 tennis and bowling, and loved it. The Wii is a 'social gaming environment' and the corny, low-res 
 graphic are actually a plus when you look at the game that way. 
  
  Still, I would like to see an good RPG game on the Wii, with motion controllers used for swordplay. 
 That would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guardcaptainsid
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  If you want to go bowling with your friends, but dont want to go out, you can virtual bowl on this 
 game! Not only can you bowl, you can play baseball, tennis, box, and many more! If you want to 
 be a pro at a certain sport, you can be one right in this game. I got this game for christmas, 
 it came with the wii, and you get the hang of it really fast. Bad news, after playing for a day, 
 the next day you are really sore. As I am writing this, my side hurts, and my neck. Still, it is 
 great exercise. With this game, you get to feel like a pro, like being a great fighter, or a pro 
 bowler. Plus you get to play as my preffered avatar, your Mii! This is game is a mutation bewtween 
 video game and exercise, its weird. Thats basically the whole game, all you do is try to become 
 a professional at every game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3yondstupidity
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports has a lot of sporting games, quite obviously. The variety!
  - Golf 
  - Bowling
  - Boxing
  - Baseball 
  - Tennis
  The more you win the more your rating goes 
 up when you hit 1000 next to your name you get "PRO" writen there. But if you get 1000 in Bowling 
 that doesn't mean you automaticly get "PRO" in Tennis, Baseball etc. You have to do it for every 
 sport. The most addictive is proberly Tennis.
  Graphics aren't obviousy great, it's cartoon'y.
  Gameplay is fine, fun.
  Music, well there 
 isn't much music.
  There's also a "Fit" mode in the game and you get a age according to how well you do the challenges.
 
  Minimum age is 20 and I think max is 50.
  There isn't much to review on it, but of course it's worth the money, because it's free. You should 
 get this game with your Wii.
  That's my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markr34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  For A Free Game Its Brilliant
  For the first time in more than a decade, Nintendo has shipped a console with a pack-in included. 
 The title is Wii Sports and it's actually a compilation of five games designed from the ground 
 up to make full use of the Big N's innovative remote. The disc, which ships for free with Wii in 
 America and Europe, includes pick-up-and-play versions of baseball, boxing, bowling, golf and tennis, 
 and learning the basics couldn't be easier. You just pick up the Wii remote and swing it like a 
 baseball bat to whack the ball out of the park, or gesture an underhanded rolling motion to toss 
 the bowling ball down the lane. These revolutionary controls make the old new again. But Wii Sports 
 is also significant because it is the perfect representation of a new development direction for 
 Nintendo - one focused on simple gameplay controls and uncomplicated, primitive graphics. The title 
 is the result of a company-wide effort to win over the elusive non-gamer -- your mom, your dad, 
 and maybe even your grandfather, too. So, is it all just a pipe dream, or will your girlfriend 
 actually like this stuff?
  
  Awesome
  Prior to this review, we asked some of the girls who work in our advertising department to stop 
 by our demo room and play both Wii Sports bowling and tennis. They don't play games and had only 
 a very limited understanding of Nintendo's new console. We armed them with Wii remotes and very 
 briefly explained the basic controls. Within seconds, they were competently going back and forth 
 on the tennis court and knocking down pins in bowling - and they were having a great time playing. 
 In fact, just about everybody we've introduced to the sports compilation has walked away happy, 
 whether they have been a gamer for years or completely new to the activity. It's clear to us that 
 Nintendo is onto something and sure enough, Wii Sports might even truly capture some of those non-gamers.
 
  
  (As a side note, always wear your wrist straps. One of our ad girls -- Katherine Bowe -- became 
 so engrossed in tennis that the Wii remote slipped from her hand and crashed into a nearby wall 
 at mach speeds; luckily, although the strap broke, the back case flew off and the batteries spilled 
 out, it all worked again when we put it back together.)
  
  Not so awesome
  Wii Sports is a particularly difficult game to review because it is so different and also because 
 it's free. We had to ask ourselves, should we cut it some slack because it comes packaged with 
 the system or should we instead weigh the game's strengths and weaknesses individually? We've taken 
 the latter approach. After all, we're reviewing the game and not the package. Furthermore, the 
 offering is not free for everyone, as Japanese players will attest. There is more to consider, 
 though. For instance, exactly who is this title for? If your intention is to play Wii Sports for 
 an hour per day with friends, you will probably love the title, whose bowling and tennis outings 
 are especially addictive. However, if you're the hardcore type who wants a deeper sports videogame, 
 you will find Wii Sports' overall depth sorely lacking. It is our job to consider both potential 
 audiences and make a recommendation based on all the factors.
  
  For You and Mii
  When we first set eyes on Wii Sports so many months ago, we thought Nintendo was playing a joke 
 on us. The graphics were so primitive that we couldn't believe this was a game for the company's 
 new generation console - a system roughly twice as powerful as GameCube. Compared to some of today's 
 cutting-edge projects, the visuals in Wii Sports are laughable. They just don't compete. In Wii 
 Sports baseball, the generic and blocky players don't even have legs, for example. The background 
 crowds in Wii Sports tennis are nothing more than different colors - Nintendo didn't even bother 
 to model anything. And yet, the title does feature crisp textures, displays in 16:9 widescreen 
 and progressive-scan modes and runs at 60 frames per second. There are no technical shortcomings 
 to speak of - like it or not, this style was purposeful. If Nintendo's intention was to establish 
 an overall less daunting presentation for the non-gamer - an audience who played Pong and never 
 returned - then it has succeeded. The bare bones look of the title is uncomplicated, if anything. 
 And for that very reason, it's unlikely to wow any of the more discerning hardcore players.
  
  Still, Wii Sports does have its charm, which is largely made possible through the integration 
 of Mii characters. This is the first title to utilize the Mii avatar system, which basically means 
 that you can import a virtual version of yourself, your friends, or your family members into the 
 game. We wasted no time in designing versions of ourselves and some of our creations looked eerily 
 like us. The concept may seem silly, but there is something to seeing a caricature of yourself 
 running around on the tennis court or getting pummeled in boxing. Simple as these avatars are, 
 they oftentimes succeed in evoking giggles from both players and passersby alike. You could say 
 that they bring character (literally, we suppose) to the otherwise straightforward presentation. 
 We're already looking forward to future iterations so that we can how ridiculous our virtual representations 
 appear in different sports outings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  You can't go wrong with this game really. It's free with the Wii, and a great game to play for 
 Wii rookies. This game can last months because you can improve your pro scores and come back everyday 
 to do your fitness test. You can share it to and play it with your family & friends.
  
  Some of the controls are a little annoying, but really there is no point in complaining about a 
 free game. 
  
  So anyways that's about all this is to say about it. There's what 6 sports for people with different 
 taste? Bowling, tennis, golf, boxing, baseball... ok that's 5 but still games can last a while 
 for some of them so there is a bit of gameplay. I like the bowling cause it's almost realistic 
 in the way you throw the ball (well the way you roll your Wii Remote)
  
  But yeah do wear the wrist strap cause some of these games require intense motions lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I think that without this game (which was bundled with the wii universally) , the Nintendo Wii may 
 not have succeeded as well as it has so far. When the wii was announced, the most obvious feature 
 which was unique from other consoles was the motion sensors. Video games with motion sensors was 
 a genius idea, allowing the player to feel they were really part of the game. Nintendo's goal was 
 obviously to show this potential to the gaming industry. With Wii Sports, that is EXACTLY what 
 they did.
  
  The game is quite simple. It includes 5 different sports to play with; golf, tennis, boxing, baseball 
 and bowling. Each game can be used in single player mode, where you play against the computer at 
 each game, however, there is also an excellent training mode which allows the gamer to knock up 
 on their skills. All of your process can also be tracked in a graph using the fitness age mode.
 
  
  Each game is controlled by doing certain hand movements with your wii remote and nunchuck to simulate 
 the feel that you are playing the sport. For example, on the bowling game, you choose your aim 
 using the arrow keys on the remote, and you then swing backwards, holding the B button, put as 
 much speed into it as you think you will need, and swing forward, then let go of the B button. 
 The ball will swing down the alley.
  
  All the games have similar methods. The multiplayer is excellent, a perfect way to get parents 
 into gaming. It's a lot of fun on your own, or with your friends. The only down sides I can list 
 it the motion sensors occasionally fail. However, when they do they, if only occasionally, they 
 fail very badly. Especially on the golf. Golf will DRIVE (aha, golf joke) you crazy.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwarrior2042
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports for the Nintendo Wii (duh) is the first and one of the most successful game on the Nintendo 
 Wii.
  
  Wii Sports features 5 different sports
   Golf. If you're looking for some competitive multi-player, 
 baseball, tennis and boxing is what you'll want to be playing. If you're not a real competitive player 
 Golf and Bowling are probably more suited for you. If you're not very good at any of these games 
 there are 15 different training exercises, three for each game. Another nice little feature is 
 the Wii fitness test this will take you through three training exercises and based on your performance 
 you will receive a Wii fitness age, with the optimal age being twenty.
  
  While this is a fun game it does have a few problems. Tennis can only be played in doubles, going 
 pro has nothing to do with actual player skill, and most of the games can very easily be cheated.
 
  And one thing that bugs me but isn't actually a real problem is the optimal age on the fitness 
 test is twenty. Most of the people who play this game are younger gamers. Thus making the fitness 
 test somewhat pointless for them.
  
  Overall this game has enough content to keep you occupied for a while. But you'll probably find 
 that multi-player is where this game really shines.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  It comes with the wii which is cool and it has 5 sports bowing, golf, tennis, boxing, and baseball. My 
 favorite is boxing and the easyist is tennis. Im a pro in all the sports besides baseball. The wi 
 fitness is cool but you can only do it once a day which is complete **** You can alsop tran which 
 is fun because you get medals. The mutiplayer is fun but you have to buy anothere numchuk to paly 
 twoplayer Damnit. It is fun to get to youse your cool miis doe so I think it is cool but why is 
 there no tornaments God Damnit? So iny way its better than just playing regular sports. o oooo oooo 
 oooo ooo oo ooo ooo oooo oooo oooo oooo ooo oooo oooo olooo oooo oooo oooo oooo oooooo o oo ooooo 
 o o o o o o o o o o o oooooooo oooooo oooooo oooo oooo ooooooo oooooo ooooooo ooooooo ooooooooo 
 ooooooooooo ooooo oooo ooooo oooooooo ooooo oooooo ooooo oooooo ooooo oooooooo oooooo ooooo oooooo 
 oooooo oooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooo ooooo ooooo oooo ooooooo ooooo oooooo oooooo ooooo 
 ooooooo oooooooo ooooo ooooo oooooo ooooo ooooo oooooo ooooo oooooo opooooo pooooop poooo pooo 
 pooooo poooooo poooooo poooo oppppop opopop popopoipo popopo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarif99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is without a doubt THE BEST GAME to start off your Wii with. It has all of the wii's 
 best features in one game! One of the best parts is that you can play it with your own Mii which 
 can be yourself ofcourse or anyone else and you can improve their skill level through playing which 
 include tennis, baseball, boxing, golf and my personal favourite which is bowling! There is also 
 two other sections called "training" andWii fitness". If you can't get the hang of the games 
 then you can go to training which has a lot of levels of each sport that you can unlock. You can 
 learn all about how to play the games in a fun way................... my favourite level is "spin 
 control". The wii games that have multiplayer are all good but Wii sports with friends is the best. 
 There's no lag and there are more options when you play multiplayer. You really dont have to shake 
 the wii remote that hard to get things moving which some people do. The remote is very sensitive 
 adn can easily pick up movement. When you turn pro thats when you really want more. To turn pro 
 you have to keep playing until you get a thousand points in one sport. You can also turn pro in 
 all sports. Its a really good game..... too bad its not rated as well as it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightychir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a game that comes with the wii for free, i consider this a bargain because its a 
 very good game worth playing ( and might be the only game u have at first.) wii sports includes 
 5 sports to play with  and boxing. tennis is quite easy to 
 start with because u just swing the control as if u were holding a tennis racket as ur personilized 
 mii. tennis plays two on two, u can play against a friend or the AI which gets harder after u beat 
 it and u gain some skill points to show off how good u r ( this includes in all the sports in the 
 game) the motion controls work very good and actually makes u feel as if u were playing for real. 
 another sport is baseball which u play one on one with someone or the AI were ur teams r arranged 
 automatically. one player justt pitches the ball were u can do  
 or the regular fastball. the other player just swings were he or she has no control how the player 
 runs to bases and the other player doesnt even control the field players when they try to catch 
 the ball. golf is very relaxing game were there r nine courses. 4 people can play by just using 
 one remote and taking turns. there is meter that will tell u about how strong u can hit the ball, 
 and if u hit it to far, it might go to a direction u might not want it to go. bowling is the same 
 thing as golf, were u can just take turns throwing the bowling ball with just one remote. boxing 
 is the most thrilling one were two players pit against each other with the wii remote connected 
 to the nunchuck were it really feels like u r throwing punches by just thrusting the remote and 
 the nunchuck and u can dodge punches by moving ur body. if u feel u r not good enough, u can just 
 do practice sessions with all the sports were u train ur skills. there is also a wii fitness test 
 were u can see ur fitness age by doing tests that include stamina and speed. wii sports is a good 
 game were u will be entertained with friends with hours and have a lot of fun. u shouldnt really 
 sell this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  okay you guys out there ever heard of swing zone sports it is complete copy without the ability 
 to play a different game on it like the wii does. all in all wii sports is pretty good at first 
 but after a wile you buy real games and this gets boring. the way i see it the average wii game 
 is 50 bucks well I am thinking that the wii should only cost 200 dollars not 250 they just needed 
 to get rid of there wii sports games so instead of giving you a free game they made you buy this 
 game that no one except your parents play if only they could find out how to turn the wii on without 
 our help. okay so i have less than 200 words left witch is so unfair i wish I could write as little 
 or s much as I want and also i have another complaint when I tried to watch on the spot last week 
 it said i was not old enough to watch the video I mean it is not like I put in my real age I am 
 actualy allot younger but who cares they are just sombies really really fake sombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peasantquest101
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports consists of five sport like games and two mini game like areas. The first sport is tennis. 
 This is a fun game that you always want to come back to to improve your score. The multilayer for 
 this one is a little annoying because the split screen is not good. The next game is baseball. 
 This is probably the most challenging of all the sports. This is one of the best multilayer games 
 because you are always the pitcher or batter. The bad thing about this game is that you can't make 
 your mii run faster or slower. The third game is bowling. For me this is the most boring game for 
 single player but the best in multi. This is with ought a doubt the best multi player game in this 
 game. The third game is golf. I was surprised when i played this game. I thought "oh good golf 
 this is going to be fun (not) " but then i gave it a try and it turned out to be fun, especially 
 in multi. The last sport in the game is boxing. you need a nunchuck for this game. It is one of 
 the best at first but after a while it gets boring. Like tennis the 2 player has a bad screen view. 
 Next are the two "other" things you can do. The first one is training. In this game there are 3 
 mini games that you can play for each sport and you get a medal for how well you did in them. they 
 are fun at first but you can't compare your scores with other people. The last thing to do is your 
 wii sports age. This gives you three random training exersizes to do and grades you on how well 
 you did them. The best age is 20 and the worst is 60. I can not judge this game cause you get it 
 with the system but if for some reason you didn't get it and you see it on ebay then i would recommend 
 that you buy it because it is a great party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowysea07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  At first its hard to figure out how hard to swing the wii remote. I still haven't gotten it at 
 golf. But I've gotten it at bowling, boxing, tennis, and base ball. Bowling is the easiest to master 
 tennis second baseball third boxing 4th golf is the hard one and takes alot longer to become pro. 
 You get points towards your skill level when you use your mii. Depending on how well you play your 
 skill level will go up or down. Once you reach 1000 you get pro status. In bowling You get stars 
 on your ball. There aren't any special features for getting it. 
  The training mode is fun. Trying to earn all gold medals in the 20 different games to choose from. 
 The easiest are tennis the hardest are all 3 in bowling, 1 in basesball hitting home runs, all 
 3 in golf, and the punching bag in boxing.
  Then finally there is Wii fitness. You play 3 randomly selected training games. It tests you on 
 stamina speed and balance. You will receive an age when your done. With the best possible age being 
 20 and the worst is 80. You can only do one a day and can't quit and come back or restart. So if 
 the wii gets accidentally unplugged or the power goes out your screwed.
  
  All in all its the best out of all their wii sports games they've made and the only one which you 
 can use your Mii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nukeboy14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  As soon as I started playing this i got into it and i must say, its awesome! Nintendo made the right 
 choice by packaging the game with the wii and it plays really really well
  
  tennis: Fun while you are playing alone or multiplayer
  baseball: This one is a bit hard but 
 with some practice you, ll learn it
  
  bowling: This game is only fun when you are playing it with a friend or two (or three) So you wont 
 be enjoying it as much while you are playing with no one
  
  Golf: I am not really a fan of golf but this game plays nicely, and it also quite smooth , but the 
 way you hit it is a big factor
  
  Boxing: A great Workout, but too much boxing will make you sweat out terribly
  
  Training: 
 Some training exersices are good, others are ok, few are bad
  
  Overall: Its quite a good game actually , all the games make you feel a little bit like you are 
 in it and they are really fun. Its an amzing way to start out with your Wii
  , and best of all it comes packaged with your wii (in most regions) so Its worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 80 % The gameplay is well made this game is all about motion-control and about movements 
 example if you play tennis you need to do the forehand move, backhand and the SERVE wich can be 
 pretty fun. If you play golf you can actually control the movements that you do. All the sports that 
 this game has is  boxing of course is the hardest because you need 
 to do quick movements.
  
  
  Graphics 79 % The graphics are surprising the tennis courts in the game looks real and etc..
 
  
  Sound 81 % The sound is realistic because you can actually hear the real sound for each sport.
 
  
  Controls: For wii sports you need to be skilled and you need to learn how to control your controller 
 to have more precision.
  
  Value : This game is worth it because it comes with the wii what i like is that it keeps you busy 
 for allot of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Since Wii Sports comes packed in with the Nintendo Wii, this might be the most worthless review 
 that you will ever read. Nonetheless, it is worth commenting on the game, since there will almost 
 certainly be a Wii Sports 2. If you are thinking about buying a Wii, then I can at least tell you 
 what you should expect out of the box. It is a worthy demo for the console, and it appears that 
 sports games will provide some of the best uses for the Wii-mote. However, only a couple of the 
 games in Wii Sports have depth or lasting value. Packing this game in with the console was a smart 
 move by Nintendo, as Wii Sports would be worth renting and it is a fun party game, but not much 
 more.
  
  The main goal of Wii Sports seems to be showcasing the unique Wii-mote. For the most part, it succeeds 
 at this goal. Games like golf, baseball, bowling, tennis, and boxing get a boost from motion controls 
 that other games don't seem to realize. At the very least, there is a sense of satisfaction in 
 using a motion with the controller that somewhat matches what is happening on the screen. Swinging 
 your arm to whack a tennis ball or a baseball is certainly an upgrade over pushing a single button. 
 Bowling, especially, is a huge upgrade, and arguably the best use of the Wii-mote to date. All 
 of these games are very easy to pick up and play, but that ease of use comes at the expense of 
 some depth. The computer opponents gradually get tougher as you get better, but you don't have 
 much variety in the techniques that you use to respond.
  
  In tennis, you swing the Wii-mote above your head to serve and then make a simple swipe gesture 
 to return the ball when it is hit to you. You don't move your avatar on screen at all, and you 
 have essentially no control over how you hit the ball. The only thing that influences where the 
 ball goes is when you hit it. If you swing early, you pull. If you swing late, you slice. You can 
 also ace a serve with a well-timed swing. It is moderately fun, especially in multiplayer, but 
 the simplicity wears thin fast.
  
  In golf, you simply make a backswing motion to hit or put the ball, and use the D-pad on the controller 
 to aim. Once again, it is moderately fun, but not without problems. The motion sensitivity isn't 
 very good, which makes a chip shot or a short putt a lot harder than it should be. There isn't 
 much content here either  only nine holes. That said, it is accessible, but also challenging.
 
  
  Boxing is pretty lousy. The game instructs you to use the Wii-mote and nunchuk to do stuff like 
 block punches, jab, feint, etc. In reality, the motion detection doesn't work well enough for those 
 tactics to work, so the best way to win a fight is to spam punches endlessly until you are sweating 
 and out of breath. I played the Wii boxing just a few times before never touching it again.
  
  Baseball is also moderately fun, for a short time. Overhand wii-mote gestures pitch the ball, 
 and a horizontal swing hits it. The pitching is very well done, as how hard you gesture with the 
 Wii-mote does affect the ball's speed. How you spin the Wii-mote also appears to affect the type 
 of pitch that you throw. The hitting is pretty much a disappointment, as the only thing that matters 
 is timing. The game last three innings, giving you no control over fielding or base running.
  
  Bowling is arguably the best application in Wii Sports. It is one of the few games that is 
 undoubtedly better because of the Wii-mote. The motion detection works excellent for this game, 
 and it simulates bowling very well. You can throw and spin the ball all sorts of different ways, 
 depending upon where you release the ball, and how much English you put on it. If you want to demonstrate 
 the Wii for anybody, this is the game that you should show them.
  
  How much value you get out of Wii Sports depends somewhat upon how often you plan to have friends 
 over to play with you. The tennis, especially, is fun to pull out at parties. The game also has 
 a few special challenge modes (such as a challenge where you knock down 30 bowling pins) , but I 
 didn't get a lot of value out of those. Wii Sports is ultimately a very solid minigame collection 
 that does a great job of introducing novices to the Wii and showcasing the remote. It is somewhat 
 of a disappointment that it lacks some basic features that you would hope for in a sports game, 
 like nine innings in a baseball game or an 18-hole golf course. Regardless, every Wii owner should 
 make sure to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes bundled in USA and Europe with Nintendo's Wii. As a "free game" it fares incredibly 
 good  it's nice, incredibly friendly to new players and is easy to just pick up and have some 
 fun with. Anyone can play thanks to the easy controls with the Wii Remote.
  
  There are five different sports to exercise and test your skills in; tennis, golf, bowling, baseball 
 and boxing. They all play differently and each sport offers something new to the whole experience. 
 The game supports four players, and you'll be using your Miis as your player characters. That fact 
 alone surely makes for some gags, and it all reminds us about what videogames are supposed to be 
 in the first place; fun!
  
  Each sport has three training exercises you should do before you start playing. This works as a 
 tutorial on how the Wii Remote is used, and how the game functions. For the most part it's incredibly 
 intuitive, and if you're a long time player (and have experienced wonky controls before) you'll 
 be amazed the first times you try it.
  
  Apart from the tutorial mode you can just play the sports, like you would do in real life  either 
 against AI controlled opponents or with people locally - this game does not support online play. 
 What's more interesting is the Fitness mode in which you will be asked to perform three different 
 activities connected to the five sports. After these activities, the game will calculate how well 
 you did and record your data and your "fitness age". It is taking your strength, stamina and speed 
 into the calculation  measuring your stats towards the age data in the game. The ideal would be 
 to reach an age as low as possible, and you can only do the Fitness mode once per day. Your results 
 are stored and you can see your progress across days and months. Is that enough to motivate you 
 into doing more bodily training?
  
  Not only does the Fitness mode keep track of the data  the rest of Wii Sports do that too  in 
 order for the game to raise the challenge level when you become better at the different sports. 
 You will, between each game see your score and what skill level you currently have. As long as 
 you keep winning it will raise and you will meet harder opponents. That way the game will dynamically 
 set a difficulty level for you  which always should be challenging but not impossible to beat.
 
  
  The tennis game is probably the easiest to start with and probably the most entertaining in the 
 long run. You play tennis in doubles, and you can play with or against a friend. You don't have 
 to control your legwork here. All you need to do is to swing the Wii Remote as a tennis racket 
 at the right moment. Depending on how you swing, the ball will fly in that direction. This generally 
 is fun if you aren't playing too seriously. It's easy to play, but to really aim the ball at an 
 intended direction can seem more random than what I think was intended by the developers.
  
  The baseball game offers some more variation  either you are the batter or the pitcher. Being 
 the batter is a refreshing experience and feels great - for a few hours. You need to time your 
 swing, and the harder you swing the further the ball will fly. But again, to really feel confident 
 with the controls will take time, if that is at all possible. The ball will fly seemingly in a 
 random direction most of the time. Playing as the pitcher will encourage you to swing the Wii Remote 
 as hard as possible in a throwing motion, with the potential to make your shoulder hurt!
  
  The golf game is also nice and well done. Again, the controls will take some time to get used to, 
 but when you do you will be swinging away like a veteran golfer. You have some choices you can 
 make here  which club, what direction and how to swing. There are other things to take into consideration 
 such as what terrain you are on, how the terrain slopes and what direction the wind blows in. Golfing 
 in Wii Sports is fun, and with more players it's just that more fun!
  
  The bowling game is what I find the hardest of these five sports. It's very hard to send the bowling 
 ball in a straight line and to use any precision at all. But overall it's fun to play  at least 
 as fun as bowling is in real life.
  
  The boxing game is cool  you need the Nunchuk controller to play this, because the Wii Remote 
 will act as your right hand, and the Nunchuk as your left. Swinging away punches and uppercuts 
 with this controller set up is great fun  and when standing toe-to-toe with an opponent you are 
 sure to literally break a sweat sooner than you might think! The controls also work great for dodging 
 and parrying too.
  
  Overall these sports are fun and offer much gameplay variation  but it must be said that none 
 of these five sports games offer any real depth. That is a shame, because depth is the only thing 
 that this game lacks.
  
  Wii Sports has a unique look and feel. It doesn't quite remind you of anything you have seen before, 
 as the graphics are quite simple but still utilizes advanced graphics technologies such as blur, 
 depth of view, lightning effects etc. It all looks very appealing despite the minimalistic Mii-characters. 
 The game keeps running at a steady frame rate, which is a feast to the eyes.
  
  
  The sounds in this game are very generic, and doesn't stand out at all. It ain't bad or anything. 
 It's just that they are exactly what you would expect  nothing more, nothing less.
  
  Wii Sports is a perfect introduction to the Wii, the Miis, and the unique Wii Remote controls. 
 It's fun to play and also a nice introduction to the world of games. I can imagine that many non-gamers 
 could consider playing this and actually find it a worthwhile pastime. But as a game it doesn't 
 really offer that much replay value  as the grand novelty of the Wii Remote eventually wears off, 
 you'd probably prefer to play this in multiplayer or indeed something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm gonna start out by saying that baseball and bowling suck, golf is okay, and boxing and 
 tennis is fun. A lot of people like bowling on wii sports but I HATE it! It's too boring. Baseball 
 is very childish and is NOT IN A MILLION YEARS going to seem like the real thing. Baseball I was 
 really disappointed in because I'm a baseball player (in real life, not the game) myself. Golf 
 is okay because even though in real life I hate it, on the wii it's not so bad. Boxing is really 
 fun because you KICK THE CRAP OUT OF PEOPLE!!! It also makes you get a sweat if you're working 
 really hard. Tennis is very fun mainly for the fact that the character moves on its own and that 
 all you have to do is flick your wrist to swing the racket. Like I said before on the review deck, 
 it's a great game to get you started on the wii, but save up your money because this game gets 
 boring after a while and there are MUCH better games out there like Super Smash Bros. Brawl and 
 Mario Kart Wii especially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramzes64
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Kada nowa konsola musi mie jakie tytuy startowe, ktre zachc 
 i przekonaj potencjalnych graczy do jej zakupu. Jeli chodzi o Nintendo Wii, to sprawa 
 jest o tyle prosta, e wraz z konsol dostalimy Wii Sports  gr (program/popierduk 
  jak mawiaj inni) , ktra w swojej prostocie pod wzgldem graficznym i prostot 
 w obsudze (gameplay) , cieszy miliony graczy na caym wiecie. Dlaczego? Co w tym 
 fajnego i co zawiera ten zestaw piciu gier sportowych  o tym przeczytacie w recenzji
  
  Wii Sports jest gr (zestawem piciu gier sportowych: tenisa ziemnego, krgli, 
 golfa, baseball'u oraz boxu) . Po wczeniu pyty od razu pojawia si menu, 
 z ktrego do wyboru mamy pi dyscyplin, oraz dwa dodatkowe okienka Training" i Wii 
 Fitness". Nie ma adnych innych opcji  wszystko jest proste, czytelne i atwe do opanowania.
 
  
  Przed rozpoczciem gry pojawia si okienko informujce nas, abymy upewnili 
 si, czy wok nie ma adnych obiektw i ludzi, o ktrych moglibymy zahaczy 
 wykonujc wymachy Wii Remote. Dla pewnoci warto rwnie zaoy 
 sobie na nadgarstek smyczk z Wiilota, aby przypadkiem nie wyrzuci kontrolera z rk. 
 (dotyczy to raczej osb, ktre dla zabawy i z wasnej nieodpowiedzialnoci przesadzaj 
 w symulacji sportowcw, ktrymi graj) .
  
  Na wstpie rozpoczynajc zabaw z Wii Sports radzibym wybra trening, 
 z ktrego moemy nauczy si podstawowych technik, w kadej z dyscyplin (cho 
 i bez tego mona sobie poradzi) , a przy okazji pobawi si w pobijanie wasnych 
 rekordw w mini gierkach treningowych (kada dyscyplina, podzielona jest na trzy etapy, np.: 
 nauka odbijania, celowania i nakierowywania pieczki chociaby w tenisie ziemnym) .
  
  Wii Fitness  to codzienna dawka sportu (w minimalnej oprawie) . Gra, czy te program  
 raz dziennie pozwala nam si wczy i zagra w zestaw trzech losowo dobranych 
 mini-gierek" dostpnych z treningw. Po wykonaniu zadania podliczana jest nasza wytrzymao, 
 prdko i balans, co na wykresie pozwala okreli wiek (taka skala) , 
 ktry jest naszym wynikiem  najlepszy moliwy to 20lat, najgorszy to 80lat. Jeli gramy 
 codziennie, to moemy ledzi wykres przedstawiajcy w jakich granicach wieku 
 oscylujemy. Czy daje to co wicej, ni przyzwyczajenia gracza do codziennego odpalania 
 Wii Sports? Tego nie wiem, ja daem si w to jednak wkrci i przez miesic 
 staraem si codziennie wykona swoje zadanie.
  
  Warto wspomnie, e po kadym zaliczonym fitnesie", dostajemy wiadomo 
 na Wii Message Bard o naszym wyniku, czy poprawilimy si, czy moe poszo 
 nam gorzej ni podczas ostatniej sesji. Otrzymujemy rwnie informacj, i 
 Wii Fitness przeznaczony jest dla osb dorosych i dzieci mog nie by w stanie 
 osign maksymalnego wyniku (20lat) .
  
  Przejdmy jednak do meritum, tzn dyscyplin sportowych ktre stanowi trzon tego produktu. 
 Na pocztku kada z nich nakazuje wybr swojego Mii, ktrym bdziemy sterowali, 
 a pniej, okrelenie czy dany Mii-ludek jest praworczny, czy moe leworczny. 
 Po ustaleni tego, moemy zabra si za gr. 
  
  W tenisie odbijamy pieczk robic wymach tak, jakbymy rzeczywicie trzymali 
 w rku rakiet. Nie musimy wciska adnych przyciskw, caa reszta to 
 relaksujce machanie", a nasz tenisista (lub tenisistka) biega sam po korcie za pieczk. 
 Napisa naley, e zawsze gra si w dublu (jeli nie z koleg, to 
 z konsol) , wybra moemy jednak czy chcemy sta bliej siatki, czy na 
 kocu kortu. Krgle s ju bardziej zoone, bo mamy moliwo 
 ustawienia si z lewej lub prawej strony toru, a take ustawienie lekkiego kta 
 rzutu kul. Ruch jaki bdziemy musieli wykona jest identyczny jak ten, ktry naley 
 wykona w rzeczywistoci. Baseball (najbardziej chyba uproszczona z dyscyplin: rzucamy, 
 lub odbijamy pieczk  caa reszta to szybkie zajmowanie baz przez Mii odbywajce 
 si automatycznie) . Golf, tak samo jak tenis jest rwnie przyjemny i relaksujcy . Nasze 
 uderzenie powinno uwzgldnia kierunek i prdko wiatru, wysoko 
 pooenia doka wzgldem naszej pozycji, kt nachylenia nawierzchni, si 
 uderzenia i miejsce z ktrego wybijamy pieczk (np. piasek lub wysoka trawa) . Ostatnia 
 z dyscyplin, Box jest jedyn ktra wykorzystuje Nunchuk, i zarazem jedyn ktra naprawd 
 pozwala si zmczy. Nasze ruchy to uniki, bloki i uderzenia  wymachujc rkoma.
 
  
  Wszystkie pi gier w tym zestawie mierzy nasze umiejtnoci i w zalenoci 
 czy wygrywamy, jak wygrywamy lub przegrywamy  nalicza nam punkty i pokazuje je na wykresie. Gdy 
 dojdziemy do pewnego wyniku, dostaniemy wiadomo w Wii Message Bard, w gwnym 
 menu konsoli, informujc o naszych osigach. Wydawao mi si, e 
 ta gra nie ma wyznaczonego celu i poziomu trudnoci, a jednak ronie on wraz z iloci 
 zdobytych punktw  mona si o tym przekona grajc w BOX (przy 1500 ja wysiadam) .
 
  
  Gry chyba nie mona przej, mona tylko stara si uzyska 
 jak najwicej punktw w kadej z dyscyplin, a po duszym rozpracowaniu i dojciu 
 do maximum swoich umiejtnoci chyba nic wicej nie da si ju zrobi. 
 Gra nadaje si wietnie do multi i do odpalania pytki z Wii Sports w wolnej chwili, 
 do krtkiego, niezobowizujcego pogrywania".
  
  Jeli chodzi o opraw audio-video, to jest ona schludna. Obraz w menu jest przejrzysty, 
 a podczas minigierek ogranicza si do niezbdnego minimum. Dwik wyglda 
 podobnie, w menu syszymy lekko wpadajcy w ucho podkad, a podczas samej rozgrywki 
 tylko to  co powinnimy (adnej muzyki) . W golfie np. szum fal, wist wiatru, szelest 
 trawy i adnie oddane dwiki uderze w pieczk. Wii Remote z wbudowanego 
 goniczka rwnie wydaje dwiki, co pozwala zbliy si 
 do gry", np. w tenisie moment zamachnicia si rakiet.
  
  Podsumowujc, naley powiedzie i jest to gra przejciowa midzy 
 jakimi konkretnymi tytuami. Razem z konsol Wii na samym pocztku moe 
 zapewni wiele frajdy wszystkim, ktrzy maj z ni styczno. Kady 
 gracz / niegracz" jest w stanie po wymachiwa Wii Remote, czerpic satysfakcj 
 z prostoty (nie prostactwa) jakie oferuje nam Wii Sports i nowe sterowanie tej konsoli. Recenzowany 
 tytu jest jak najbardziej dobrym dodatkiem do Nintendo Wii i cho nie zapewni dugiego 
 grania (no chyba, e kto bdzie si bawi w Wii Fitness) , to z ca 
 pewnoci na starcie ukazuje zalety sterowania teje konsoli, jest takim demem/przycigaczem 
 niegraczy" i sprawia radoch kademu, bez wzgldu na wiek, pe i zamiowanie 
 do gier.
  
  Grafika  7
  Muzyka  7
  Grywalnosc - 10
  
  
  ----------------------------------------
  recenzja ukazaa si w portalu:
  www. retroage. net
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungryfrog
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Now, if you get this game without your Wii, it's worthless crap. But if you get it when you first 
 got your Wii, well that's a whole different story!
  
  It's simple controls, user-friendly interface, and fun gameplay are great. My family gets together 
 every night to play Wii Sports Bowling. That is so awesome!
  
  Here is my review of each sport.
  
  
  Tennis 7.5
  
  Too easy, just pretty much swining 
 your Wiimote.
  
  
  Baseball 8.5
  
  Great fun, and you get a team of 9 (or is it 10?) Miis.
  So, it's different every game.
  
 
  
  Bowling 9.5
  
  Best game on Wii Sports.
  
  
  Boxing 9.0
  
  This one is fun, and gets you a workout!
  
  
  Golf 8.0
  
  Tedious, but fun with friends.
 
  
  
  
  A Wii console is a must-buy! They are only currently cheap and it's worth the price! The technology 
 is amazing, and it gets you active! Sure, this game might not be great, but other games on the 
 Wii are incredible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  In this game you use your new created character called the Mii. You use them by playing Baseball, 
 Golf, Tennis, Bowling, and Boxing. The game is free because it comes with the Wii when you get 
 it. The game has great motoin but can drive you a little crazy. The graphics are really good and 
 you won't get bored with the game. In tennis you play by 2 miis against 2 miis or multiplayer by 
 using a mii or 2 on one side and the other. In baseball you randomly have a team of nine miis and 
 if you created 9 miis or more they pick them randomly so you may not know who you might get unless 
 one of the players is your mii that you chose at the start of the game you versus you against a 
 cpu player or multiplayer. In bowling you can play 4 player multiplayer and you can just share 
 one remote for it. You just play a bowling game like you would in a real bowling place. In golf 
 you can play up to 3 holes, 6 holes, or all 9 holes. You can also have a 4 player multiplayer by 
 sharing a wii mote. The last sport that is inside Wii Sports is Boxing you just play against one 
 against one. This game is very great for multiplayer. There is also training when you can work 
 up you level score on the game. The last thing in the game is that there are test that you take 
 everyday.
  
  The good of the game is that it is a great multiplayer game. The sound effect is amazing. The sports 
 are very fun.
  
  The bad of the game is that there is a sound in the Wii mote and it makes a ding noise when it 
 is your turn and it gets a little annoying. The game's motion effect is sometimes drive you crazy.
 
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a launch game that comes with your wii and they made the right choice with it but 
 it didn; t come without flaws.
  
  1. Graphics
  Very nice is all I can say really. I didn't find anything wrong with them.
  
  2. Gameplay
 
  The use of the wii's remote motion controls is just genius. A very good variety of these controls 
 keeps you smiling and having fun.
  
  3. Multiplayer
  The multiplayer in this game spells F-U-N! Whether it your friend or your grandfather, the multiplayer 
 in this game is great for anyone. When people get mad at you for beating them, you will jeer. That 
 is having fun, folks.
  
  
  Complaints: Sometimes wii remote controls are unresponsive and that is infuriating when you lose 
 just because you wii remote is not responding. Also, they should have had more sports like maybe 
 hockey or something like that. Last is that the game is no fun when you are playing by yourself. You 
 need someone to play with you.
  
  To conclude, Wii Sports is a great launch game but the orbit is rocky.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaman321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  this innovative and fun game gives you a good workout. with all your favorite sports like golf 
 tennis boxing base bal and bowling. if you want to up your skills get right on into the training 
 area with up to fifteen training minigames you can unlock and play. you can even see some of your 
 miis in the crowd.
  
  so whether your training working out or just hanging out with friends wii sports is alot easier 
 than going to the gym, bowling alley, or park this game never gets old! if you can make it to the 
 top you might just get something in return! so if you a sports lover youll love this!!!! if your 
 not the sports lover try it out and see how you feel about it so first rent it then buy it if you 
 like it. its great for a healthy life style and dieters alike. the best game by nintendo that now 
 stands beside mario in the hall of fame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports brings gaming sports to life. It is a highly addictive, fun playing game. In some ways, 
 Wii sports can be annoying but great? If you really suck at a game, your not going to win and you 
 get really annoyed. But apart from this negative, lets look in to the positive.
  
  Tennis: Tennis a great game and if your friends are over, this would be the game out of all of 
 the rest to play. It's a great four player game which isn't too easy yet not too hard.
  
  Bowling: This game challenges you. You need good skill to become a pro and you must be in a constant 
 strike mode.
  
  Golf: Golf is a cool lay back game, which lets you choose what level you are at and how many holes 
 you want to play.
  
  baseball: This is the worst one of all. I find baseball very boring and too long. Other people 
 would like this game but for me, i don't.
  
  Boxing: Boxing is a great two player game which is great to build your muscles up. Playing this 
 game too much will hurt your arms in the mornings to come (seriously) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  For those of you who buy an Nintendo Wii for the fist time and you find the follow contents...
 
  
  * THE WII
  * Cabling (Power & AV Cables)
  * Sensor with Braket Stand
  * 1 x Controller Set (Remote & Nunchuck)
  * This game I'm Reviewing - Wii Sports!
  
  If this 
 is what you should find in you're Wii Box, then you're in business! (USA, Australia - DEFINITELY!, 
 and not sure whoelse) .
  
  This is definitely a game you can play with or without company, which is great!
  The one thing 
 that stands out about Wii Sports is the fact to motions on playing the game actually does something 
 to contribute to your fitness!
  For those who love to smash a ball down the court and grunt while doing it, there's tennis!
  
 For those who love a ballgame, baseball is for you!
  For the "Allycats" who love to shine up their bowling balls and knock down some pins, Bowling is 
 the ticket!
  If you're dream is to sink a hole in one, Golf!
  But if you're like me and anyone else who shares this in common - Relieve some stress after a day 
 at the office by beating the snot out of an equally matched adversary, uh huh BOXING!
  
  Seriously Wii Sports has something for everyone!
  
  This is definitely one game you'd have 
 on your videogame party playlist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysrock981
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports could be described as many things. It has so many things to like, and few to dislike. 
 It's likes consist of the fact that it's free, it introduces you to the wii remote (or wiimote) , 
 and that it has so many modes. There are five actual sports in all, Golf, Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, 
 and Baseball. There are also two other modes, training, and fitness testing. The training mode 
 takes skills of the different sports (three skills per each sport) and puts them into seperate, 
 simple but fun mini-games. The fitness mode, which can only be taken once per day, per mii, takes 
 three random mini-games and grades you on them, the better you do, the lower your age. Tennis is 
 very simple, the players move for you. However you do have to shift your wiimote to either forhand 
 or backhand and choose weather to swing hard or soft, there is also aim involved, aim is based 
 specificly on the timing in which you hit the ball. Bowling is just like real bowling, hold onto 
 the B button until you would let go of a real bowling ball in your wind-up (back then to the front) 
 you can put extra spin the ball depending on your release, one annoying factor is that that ball 
 always seems to have spin, even if you let go of it straightly. Boxing uses the wiimote and nunchuck 
 extention, just extend your arms out like you really were punching. Unfortunatly for boxing, it 
 seems like a lot of the time your motions are not mimeceked very accurately by your boxer. Baseball 
 is very simple, you swing, and pitch up to 4 different pitches. Fielding and running are completly 
 automatic. The last sport- golf, is probally the most satisfying sport. It has nine holes, with 
 some of them being a bit abnormal, but they added so many things to the golf game! You have to 
 factor in wind, and uphill terrain. There are bunckers, and there's a rough. You can use four clubs 
 (Driver, Iron, Wedge, and Putter) . The green reading is incredibly accurate, if there's a small 
 hill, your ball will go slightly down, a big hill, a long ways down. The wiimote does a great job 
 of mimicking your actions. Overall, the game lacks some graphics, and is very simple, but if you 
 get mad that these things happen in the game, just remember how much it cost you. Thats $0.00! 
 It's a great game to play alone, or with up to four friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustavos4
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  If this game didn't come with the Wii, I'd still say it's worth paying 30$ for. But you don't have 
 to worry about that as it is free. This game would definitely keep you occupied until you can find 
 your first Wii game. And every once in a while, you get the urge to run on back and play some more.
 
  
  This game has an addictive and revolutionary feature called the Wii Fitness Age. A thing that tells 
 you that you are as fit as a ___ year old. From age 20 to 80. What's your age? You just do three 
 different event practices testing your balance, speed, and stamina. Then the game calculates the 
 age. Get better, and watch your age go down as you try harder each day. Now I'll talk about each 
 sport:
  
  Baseball: baseball is alright. to swing and pitch is definitely fun, but the game gets boring quickly.
 
  
  Tennis: The most addictive sport. There's no explaining it, tennis is just fun. The matches are 
 quick, and it really does test your timing in your swing.
  
  Bowling: the sport for old players? I don't think so. Bowling is actually quite fun. It really 
 doesn't take too much skill though.
  
  Golf: Probably as boring as baseball. But hey, it's better than watching Golf. There's not much 
 to say about it. It's golf.
  
  Boxing: Oh boy. This sport requires the nunchuk, but the nunchuk comes with the Wii. Boxing will 
 be fun the first ten or so rounds, but then it gets hard. And all of a sudden, you get taken down 
 without knowing how you started sucking. Boxing just gets unfairly hard, to the point of when you 
 say to yourself, "how am I not hitting him?" "How come he can block my hits and I can't?" It's 
 because of the motion controls being a little flawed. Which is disappointing.
  
  Extra Comments: Anyway, Boxing is really the only thing keeping me from giving this game a 9.5. 
 This game also has mini games, which are basicly training for each sport to get you better. And 
 these mini games are actually really fun. Maybe funner than the sports themselves. You can try 
 getting high scores to get medals. Which is good for a little self accomplishment.
  
  This game is great, and to anybody who says it's only for casual players, I personally give them 
 a bonk to the head while calling them a poopyhead and a buttface. Good day to you sir.
  
  And I can't wait for Wii Sports 2 to come soon. Not only will it be more sports, but the game comes 
 with the Wii Motion Plus, which better calculates the remote's movement. Making all motion games, 
 more epic, and maybe making Boxing more playable. We'll just have to wait and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayTogether
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I'm going to get straight to the point and look at the good and bad points of this game followed 
 by an overall look.
  
  + Massively fun on multiplayer (especially 4 people)
  + Fun sound effects
  + Training mode is ridiculously addictive if you're looking to better your 
 high score
  + Accessible to anyone
  + Golf and Bowling can be played on multiplayer by taking turns with one wii remote
  + Includes 
 Fitness Test, very simple yet fun
  + Has the genuine Nintendo quality shining throughout
  
  - No online play!
  - Limited single player experience
  - Lacks customisation options (different 
 courts, rackets, clothing etc)
  
  
  My favourite part of this package by far is Wii Golf, it has a perfect learning curve and is brilliant 
 to play with someone the same level as yourself. I would love to see Wii Golf made in to a full 
 game containing hundreds of courses but unchanged in terms of simple, fun gameplay.
  
  The best part about this game is that everyone who bought a Wii has it for free and its better 
 than 90% of the Wii titles available, so there's no excuse not to play it!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bart_Simpson2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Awesome multiplayer | Great Sound | Great Tutorials on how to play it | Wii Fitness Test is actually 
 fun | Great response of the Wiimote (Wii Remote)
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Bad:
  
  Golf can be quite 
 annoying | Sometimes the controls on Tennis are mistaken | No Wi-Fi Connection play
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Wii Sports is actually a great 
 form created by Nintendo to players get used to the revolutionary Wii controls. The tutorials on 
 how to play it are great explained but when you create a Mii and you want to play with it on Wii 
 Sports you have to read again the tutorials and sometimes it can be really frustrating because 
 you want to play the game and it looks like it never end. Well let's get on with the review.
  
  Graphics: I was expecting a little less from the Wii but Wii Sports can show that Wii maybe 
 weaker in therms of graphics but it can really have great one if the publisher works on them... 
 A well deserved 9/10 here
  
  Sound: I was like WoW! Sounds are great specially when the Wiimote does the Woshhhh from the racket 
 hitting the ball on Tennis or the countdown when you are down on Boxing. There is some great sound 
 effects and sounds so a 8.5/10 is great...
  
  Gameplay: It's good to have to go for 1000 points to be considered a Pro and the Wiimote really 
 responds well to the movements. But still, Golf could be a little more improve since it's a little 
 hard to go for the exact Power that we want... Imagine that you go to the max. When you try and 
 stop the Power bar continues to go and it screw the direction of the ball. Here the result is 9/10 
 since to date is and addicting game.
  
  Replay Value: The Wii Fitness training is a good excuse to go back to it... For those that doesn't 
 know it, the Wii Fitness measures the age of your muscles and reflections by testing it playing 
 a few games of Tennis, Bowling and Baseball. Oh by the way my age on it is 34, and I'm trying to 
 improve a little more since the better result is 20. (In real life I'm 16) Playing with friends 
 is the better excuse to play it again, but I feel sorry for Wii Sports since it doesn't have Wi-Fi 
 Connection. Still with the coming of the new Wii Sports Resort the Wi-Fi Connection is a possibility 
 and maybe a MUST... A 9/10 here.
  
  To finish I only say that I agreed entirely with Will Wright, the game designer of The Sims series, 
 when he says that Wii is the only console of the Next-Gen. The Xbox360 and PS3 are only upgrades 
 of the old versions...
  http://www. guardian. co. uk/technology/2007/oct/26/willwright
  This is a link to the interview I'm talking about.
  See you soon players... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  hi and welcome to my revieew on wii sports. wii sports is a family fun game with great games to 
 choose from like baseball, tennis, golf, boxing, bowling. each game is really fun. when you win 
 each game your skill level grows and hen you reach 1000 you become a pro at which ever event it 
 is. its easy controls and it never gets on your nervs. my faviroute game will have to be baseball. 
 also on wii sports you get to manage your fitness level on wii fitness by playing diffrent activitees. 
 so overall wii sports is a great game to play with family and freinds so thanks for reading my 
 review on wii sorts for the nintendo wii. so go out their and get wii sports so again thanks for 
 reading harryrjjj's review on wii sports. so bye an read my other reviews bye !!!! have a nice 
 trip home remember not to crash in to a car lol. see ya soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  When someone mentioned about Wii sports I was wondering what was so great about it. Just when I 
 first played the Wii I thought it was just a normal sports game. I guess I was wrong.. The wii 
 remote definetly supports the game that you are playing on the screen. Whatever you do on the wii 
 remote it responds back on the game to do whatever you just did. Total awesomeness. Personally 
 my favourite would be boxing because I think that's the most interactive sport on the game. There 
 is also modes for you to play with. Although after you play this game awhile you will start to 
 lose interest of it because it gets really repetivive especially on bowling and tennis. Anyways 
 I would consider this one of the least games that involve pushing buttons and that's a good thing 
 so instead of going outside to excersize in a rainy day, you can play on Wii sports to exercize. 
 This is the perfect package for the whole family to gather along to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatSexual
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is hailed as one of the best games on the Wii, highly incorrectly. While the controls 
 are innovative and much more intuitive than and other sports game on any other console, a lack 
 of purpose is really what brings this game down. Sure, all kinds of games are there, but there's 
 really no point. No story, no where to go with them, just play them over and over again. It gets 
 repetitive fast. 
  This game really has incredible potential and with the absence of professional sports stars, it 
 creates the illusion that you're the star of the game, but with no where to go, you might as well 
 just go into your back yard, local tennis court or bowling alley and physically play the games 
 instead.
  Overall, this game is a good time waster for when you first purchase your Wii and don't buy any 
 other games, between other games, or while drunk at a party or something, but there's really no 
 reason for it to be one of the highlights of your collection. You have to keep in mind that you 
 get what you pay for, and this game comes for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great party game to play with all your friends. The game is well structured and 
 easy to play. The games in Wii Sports are well chosen, but I wish that there were more games to 
 choose from. I also wish that you could play against your friends and possibly compare scores online. 
 Despite of the minor flaws that Wii Sports has, I give Wii Sports a great rating of 8 because it's 
 just plain fun! Let's face it, games are more fun to play on Wii because it makes you move and 
 feel like you're in the game. The graphics in this game are not the best graphics you'll see on 
 Wii. However, good graphics does not make a good game, the material and the hours of fun you are 
 going to get out of a game is what matters and what makes it good. Here are the games in Wii Sports 
 (for the people who don't have a Wii) : Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Boxing, and Golf. Wii Sports 
 has a training mode to provide more character and fun to the game and it has a fitness mode that 
 tests your stamina, balance, and speed to determine your Wii Fitness age. The Wii has alot to offer 
 so I do recommend for everyone to try out Wii Sports and other games that the Wii offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: In bowling, baseball, golf and tennis, the controls are absolutely amazing; the game 
 utilizes the hilariously cute Miis; it feels like a steal that the game came with the Wii; the 
 music is simplistic; it's tons of fun to play with family and friends; you'll be able to casually 
 play all the time; it'll convince your family to play games, and to buy more Wiimotes.
  
  The Bad: Boxing's hit detection sucks, and sometimes the remote isn't as sensitive as you'd like; 
 the Mii creator might be offputting to newcoming gamers; the graphics are certainly subpar; the 
 music is just background music; the Miis are sometimes unfinished in the games.
  
  When Nintendo announced that while they want to continue appealing to the hardcore gamer, and yet 
 bring in a broader range than the average teenage boy, hardcore and non-gamers alike couldn't believe 
 it. It's not a bad idea making video games more mainstream, but how on earth could it be done? 
 Games have far too many buttons nowadays, right? Sure the DS was attempting this, but it had only 
 middling success.
  
  So it was with bated breath that the whole world watched the unveiling of the Nintendo Wii. Even 
 if people couldn't believe it, they wanted to see what all the fuss was about, and if Nintendo 
 could live up to their word. Wii's sold out everywhere in the world, Americans, Europeans and Japanese 
 alike swarmed to the local Target, and Wii reached more households than any video game system has 
 ever done before.
  
  And, despite the disbelieving masses, Nintendo fulfilled what they had set out to do: thanks to 
 packaging Wii Sports in with the system, everyone with a Wii (or anyone with a friend or family 
 member who had it) , found that video games could be picked up and played once again, and it was 
 better than ever.
  
  Wii was the first platform to plan using motion sensitive controls and a pointer, a much easier 
 interface than five buttons to pull games off. This, and the fact that the Wii Remote looked much 
 less scary than a ten button mainstream controller, just added into the appeal. Sure, those 'hardcore' 
 gamers could put a nunchuk into the bottom and add in one of those joysticks, but Wii Sports is 
 available to absolutely everyone.
  
  The motion sensing controls are even more amazing than you would at first believe. The Wiimote 
 feels like a tennis racket, a bowling ball, a baseball bat, a boxing glove (with the nunchuk) and 
 a golf club all in one. Tennis and bowling in particular allow for tons of fun with four players, 
 and everyone will want to try that sees it in action. Even your mom, who so disapproves of that 
 Wii and wishes you just played it an hour a day.
  
  You can in fact get excercise playing too, especially in the two most popular games on the disc. 
 Plus, most of the time and effort seems to have gone into these two, because they would clearly 
 be the most popular, and the most important to make work.
  
  Tennis allows for doubles play, and if not, you can have two characters controlled by you (who'll 
 be identical) , or a computer player. You can play single player too. Bowling gives you the actual 
 number of pins and throws and the pins react rather realistically, if a little nicer than real 
 life. It's certainly much easier to pick up strikes than in real life, and curve balls are much 
 easier to pull off, but that just adds to the enjoyable environment, as you'll feel like you're 
 getting better.
  
  Meanwhile, your tennis racket works like normal. At first the game just expects you to shake the 
 controller, but it'll later want you to play more and more like real tennis. This is a double-edged 
 sword. It makes it tougher, but again you know you're improving, and you can then add top spin 
 and control where the ball goes better, which will surely delight real tennis players.
  
  Baseball is fun, and the Wiimote responds to swings and throws pretty well, but it's only two player. 
 Also, you have no effect on how your character runs the bases. This allows the game to be simplistic, 
 but it's not as easy to turn into a party game. And that's where you'll notice where the game loooks 
 a tad unfinished. The Miis don't have legs, or even arms, just little balls (none of that from 
 you) to hold the bat. On the other hand, it's amusing watching your little Mii bounce their way 
 to home plate.
  
  Golf does react to your swings pretty well. You can even play four players, and it's a little more 
 kind to you than real golf. Again, Nintendo hit the nail on the head by letting you in easy and 
 progressively letting you feel you're improving. You can take practice swings, tell how far the 
 ball will go, you can see the slope of the green, switch between clubs (just four major ones though) , 
 and tell the wind speed.
  
  Golf is pretty fun as a party game, but the Wiimote's limitations come into play here. Those dreaming 
 of pinpoint precision of the controller may be a little let down. Using a big old driver works 
 just fine, but using a putter to just tap the ball in doesn't always pick up. Still, it doesn't 
 get in the way much, and the Wiimote doesn't do an absolutely terrible job.
  
  Boxing, however, just sucks. Your boxing gloves are disembodied here too, and the hit detection 
 is pretty much awful. You won't feel as if you have a ton of control over the game (although blocking 
 works okay, somehow) , and while you could get a workout here too, you won't feel like you really 
 won or loss. Plus, it's only two player, but then that's to be expected.
  
  So Wii Sports went out there to do the impossible: get your mom and dad to not go see Batman or 
 watch Simpsons, but play your new Nintendo. Wii, despite the funny name, does appeal to 'we', not 
 'the teenage boy'. Yes, your girlfriend will be more than happy to play and make their Mii too.
 
  
  You could complain about how in-depth the Mii creator is, because it may annoy newcomers, but it 
 is funny making them, so it turns out okay.
  
  By the gaming standards of a video game review site, this game has many flaws. Boxing hit detection 
 is awful, and the graphics and music are pretty bad. Sure there's training mode, so you can see 
 how you're improving (a single player only experience, but that may appeal more to game critics) , 
 but you can't sit down and play for hours very well.
  
  Instead, Wii Sports is meant for casual play, just for an hour or so. And that's how long Mom wants 
 you on, that's how long a casual gamer's attention span will hold at first, and that's how long 
 Nintendo meant it to be played in one sitting. This is truly the sign of a video game revolution. 
 There was once a time where anyone in the world could go to an arcade and have fun, with Pac-Man 
 or Galaga or Donkey Kong. Now games have advanced so much that buttons confuse just about anyone 
 who tries to get into it.
  
  And sure, there are plenty of ten button games for those reading this. Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 came out at the same time for a reason, and it was sold with three of every four Wii's (yes, that 
 statistic was taken) . But this way, everyone can enter into video games for the next ten to twenty 
 years. This way, Nintendo can slowly bring new games to the masses with just one more button, or 
 maybe just a new controller addition. While you play Mario, Zelda, Metroid, Resident Evil, Okami, 
 No More Heroes and Brawl (all of which I suggest) , your parents and friends will be playing Wii 
 Sports.
  
  Then they'll be playing Wii Play. And Guitar Hero (which sold best on Wii for a reason) . And Wii 
 Fit. And hey, maybe even Mario Kart.
  
  And eventually, people can slowly learn more until they're a 'hardcore' gamer, like the sixteen 
 year old nerding out on MadWorld. You know yourself that you started out with a game that didn't 
 use a ton of buttons. Maybe it was Mario, or a handheld Zelda, or a sidescroller. Or, well, Mario 
 Kart.
  
  Now everyone can get there. We've hit racing games that the masses can play now, plus, for those 
 still new to the system, more games where you use your body, not forty buttons. Soon those newcomers 
 might give Super Mario Galaxy a try. After all, you just have to jump, run, spin and shoot Star 
 Bits at people, right? Then who knows? They might give Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles a try 
 if they're older. Soon you could have more Brawl partners than you have already and not need any 
 friend codes.
  
  When a Zelda game is sold with every new system, not three out of four, then we'll know Nintendo's 
 done their job.
  
  Therefore, I give this game a higher score than average. It still has its flaws, but it is far, 
 far more than the sum of its parts. My mom played bowling, and my dad has played every game, plus 
 Wii Fit, and they've both played Guitar Hero. So have I, and I'm loving that I can connect with 
 them like that. I'm a teenager, so that's important anyway.
  
  And they say this game is simple? Think again.
  
  Oh, I have to say it. I played with my Wii 
 for hours and hours. Then I played with my new Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghosteye10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is lots of fun when you play with 2 or three people. You can have tournaments and boxing 
 matches with friends. And owning little people with other little people never gets old, well... 
 maybe it does. Overall I think the wii is a system that was designed for more than one person in 
 general. If you want to gather up some peeps to play a couple rounds of tennis then you will enjoy 
 this. The fact that this game comes with the wii makes it a great first game to play on the wii 
 and get used to to all the functions and controls. And you will have some fun too. But like I said. 
 Unless you want to gain some points for your mii you should only play this game with some friends 
 or siblings. I can't really recommend this considering it comes with the wii, but you most likely 
 will enjoy this. Good job Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewieGee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  As we all know, Wii Sports came free when we bought our Wii's.
  So, for me at least, i wasn't expecting much.
  
  
  But i was pleasantly surprised.
  
 
  There are more expensive, technical sporting games out there now.
  But I'd still say (perhaps with the exception of Facebreaker) that Wii Sports is the best sports 
 game out there generally.
  
  It's format is so simple, it's genius. All the sports still work and everyone in the family can 
 get involved because this game is the polar opposite of complicated. A blind chimp could become 
 a PRO.
  
  Okay then lets start with the first one up, and my favourite of the five available. Tennis.
  
 
  It's simple and basic, but that doesn't matter. Because if it wasn't, this game would be crap. 
 You hit left and right with your fresh-out-o-the-box Wiimote. You hit the ball. It's that easy. 
 You'll be a PRO in no time, and get onto more challenging opponents. And then you'll become tennis 
 champion. Yay!
  
  Next up is baseball. This too is impressive. This, along with golf, might seem hard at first, but 
 it really is a doddle once you get the hang of it. It is harder against the CPU, because they always 
 seem to know when you're throwing a curve ball or a splitter. Damn. Stupid gullible human opponent's. 
 
  Also, the teams will consist entirely of your created Miis, providing you've made enough. Homer 
 Simpson making a home run, whode have thought?
  
  Third is bowling. This is casual, rather than competitive. It's easy, and you'll soon be getting 
 Turkeys. Nice.
  
  Then we get to Golf. I didn't like this at first. Too tricky. But once you gain confidence with 
 your Wiimote, it becomes easier. And it's the only game my dad can beat me on. : (
  
  
  Finally, there is boxing. Some people find it very entertaining and ingenius, others say it's stupid. 
 I'd say that it's good, but FaceBreaker is way, way better. But, this isn't too bad. The movements 
 often lag and it's hard to block properly, so you'll usually end up just whacking your fists forward 
 in a desperate attempt to pummel your opponent to the ground. XD
  
  But what's this? Training? 
  Like Old Kawashima's chart-hogging titles, Wii Sports will keep 
 you coming back day after day to improve your Wii Sports fitness level. There's also challenges 
 to be done, and multiplayer stuff.
  
  All in all, Wii Sports is an excellent game, but the nivelty does ware off a teensy bit after a 
 while.
  That is, until a friend joins you.
  
  
  Oh, and taking all this into account, it's free! FREE!
  
  Bravo. 9/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGoodlife
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  It was my first experience with the wii console and the experience was better than i expected... i 
 didn't knew that the motion sensor of the Wii console would be that great, i was very surprised...
 
  
  Wii sports is a game that you will enjoy a lot playing with your friends.
  In the beginning is a little hard to catch the move... (as it is in every game) ... but when you get 
 it right, the fun has just begun.
  The graphics aren't the best but it looks good when the aim its having fun with friends.
  The 
 gameplay sometimes it's a little tricky. You have some controls for some effects depending on the 
 sport that you're playing.
  And you have a lot of sports to choose from golf to boxing (that makes you tired as hell) . I' ve 
 just had the chance to play boxing, tennis, baseball and bowling, but i think the others are good 
 as well.
  
  Resuming... its a great game that is very good for family and friends and because its a new way 
 of playing games (you play it with your body)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark17622651
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing wii sports. I think it is a great game. But, some sports are to simple. Take baseball 
 for example. You can't control where you run and it doesn't have realistic baseball rules. You 
 can still be out if the ball bounces in the diamond and someone picks it up. You should be able 
 to control running. Also, when you are not batting the only thing you get to do is pitch. This 
 makes baseball much less exciting than it could have been. I think tennis, bowling, and boxing 
 are just right the way they are. But, in golf the swinging is to senitive. If you swing slightly 
 hard the force meter (shows power of your swing) will go extremely high and ruin your shot. I think 
 the idea of adding wii fit was excellent and added a lot to the game. Overall, this game and all 
 of its sports are fun except they are simple and need more detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  The wii sports game which most wii owners should have (being as it came with the Nintendo wii) 
 is very fun and a great way to start off your wii experience. It shows the wiis ability of the 
 remote being in tennis which uses the wii remote to a high standard. The game has 5 different sports 
 being Tennis, baseball, bowling, boxing and golf. which are all great games and it is not like 
 you are just sitting down pressing some buttons and not being energetic and sporty because the 
 wii lets you feel like your playing the sport for the real deal.
  
  
  Wii sports games and very good I will start off with tennis which for me was fun as you play you 
 start off against two low skill level players (being as you play in doubles) . If you win your skill 
 level will go up and the players you verse next go up but if you lose there is a possibility of 
 you gaining in skill level but the opponents you verse next will go down that is wii sports tennis.
 
  
  Base ball the same in skill level just do the hard hits quite easy like most of the other sports 
 you play it and your aim is to get your skill level up to a certain goal. There is also your fitness 
 age you can check out which is fun seeing against your friends who has the best skill level, the 
 game is also good in multilayer mostly because in tennis I myself found it fairly easy so your 
 friend might too as you could battle it out to see who is the best.
  
  Over all I would buy wii sports even if it did not come with the wii it is a great starter for 
 the wii only a few games lack in how good it is to me so great job Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Well, I don't really consider this a real game for Wii. It's just a little collection of minigames 
 that show off what the Wii is capable of.
  
  In Wii Sports you can play a variety of different sports that use your Wii-mote and Nunchuck in 
 fun creative ways. In Tennis, you use your Wii-mote like a racket, and hit the ball when it comes 
 your way. When you Bowl use your Wii-mote like a bowling ball. The sport that uses both your Wii-mote 
 and Nunchuck is Boxing. 
  
  Aside from the main sports there is a training mode where you play little mingames from each sport 
 to earn a medal.
  
  But wait, there's more! There is a workout mode where, based on how well you perform, rates how 
 fit you are. Think your as fit as a 20 year old? The workout mode will be the judge of that!
  
  In Wii Sports you use your Mii to represent your character. You make these on your Mii Channel 
 then in the game you select one of your Miis to play with.
  
  Wii Sports does a great job of giving you your first taste of the Wii's technology and capabilities. 
 Plus, in North America it comes absolutely free with your Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I do not usually like sports games, so when I saw this free game with the Wii when I bought it, 
 I thought it would be dissapointing. I have been proven wrong, but only slightly.
  
  The game is simple, making good use of the Wii's motion-sensing controls to make the games realistic 
 and fun. The wii remote and nunchuck are good with all the games and the training and Wii Fitness 
 Age modes as well.
  
  This game is fun when you play it with a friend. It is competitive and enjoyable
  
  Like most 
 games, Wii Sports unfortunately is not perfect and suffers from some minor problems. There is not 
 a great selection of sports and some of the mini - games in training mode are too hard or do not 
 work. The opponents in the baseball game are amazingly ruthless. The bowling game is tedious and 
 too simple. Once you have played the game for a bit it loses its appeal and becomes slightly boring. 
 It does not really distinguish itself from any other middling sports game.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a fair game, its good points only just outweigh its bad points. It is a 
 reasonably good free game, but I would not go out to buy it for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigifan323
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  In this game, you can play Baseball, Tennis, golf, boxing, Bowling (my favorite) and so much more. 
 The more you play, the better you get, and the more your score rises!! If your score reaches 1000, 
 you turn into a pro.! But, if you stop playing, you may not be as good as you were and your score 
 could drop, and you may not keep your title as a pro. Also, if you want to play a game such as 
 bowling where the players take turns, even if you don't have four wii consoles, you can have more 
 then one person use the same console! That way, more people can play!! If you get tired of just 
 playing the games, you can go into training and do the different practices, then, you can Test 
 yourself to see what your fitness age is!! Kind of like brain age! So, I hope enjoy this game and 
 if you have any questions, just send me a PM!! 
  
  
  ~Luigifan323 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This is really fun, i got it for free which was of course very very very very nice also it has 
 a lot of good stuff to do, four different types of sports to play and alot of different things 
 to do in those separate games the best must be tennis which everyone likes alot it is quite easy 
 and slightly repetitive but for the first couple of weeks it is really really really entertaining. 
 Golf sucks......... ass really it is horrible, the meter thing is way too sensitive but overall 
 the variety of games and the different things that you can do
  
  whats good is that there is lots of stuff to do and lots of things to come back to like that life 
 fitness thing
  
  whats bad is that after a while it gets pretty boring and i lose all interest in playing it, despite 
 that having that be the first game you play on the wii is great first of all it makes your parents 
 think that you are getting excercise and its fun at the same time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a great multiplayer game. It comes with the wii when you buy one. My favourite sport 
 to play on it is tennis because, in real life, I would be scared of getting the ball of hitting 
 my face. But in wii sports, the ball can't actually hit you in the face and it is a challenging 
 game to play with computer players and sometimes with your family and friends. The sport I like 
 the least in the game is baseball because I always miss the ball or get a foul. I also like bowling 
 because it is just like real bowling but I think in the game, it is easier to get a strike than 
 in real life. Also, I like how we can play with our mii in all 5 sports and we can make our own 
 mii at the wii menu. I wish there were more than 5 sports. Wii sports is a good game and it comes 
 with your wii when you buy one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimazuxi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  First off... the pros that are ... so obvious
  - Motion censored sports..?
  - Free?
  --Didn't I say... free?
  -Something anyone of any age can enjoy
  The.. bad things
  - not 
 a wide selection
  - Golf gets really annoying
  Essentially, you use your mii character that you create to play on wii sports. It has.. not such 
 a wide range, but offers tenis, golf, bowling, baseball, and boxing! All in all, it is the type 
 of thing you can take with friends of any age and just have some mindless fun. I would like to 
 add you can train, and use the fitness test once a day to check your wii-age and.. well your reflexes! 
 Also, if you are not-so-hot with the wii-mote, yeah this is -great- practice, and... make sure to 
 use the wristband, don't chuck the controller at the TV! 
  Some notes~
  The skill level of games rises as you do better, so.. yes it does get harder
  -- their is a cap 
 to this, but hey, if the cap is no challenge.. then.. wow
  The training method is defiantly recommended for bowling.. so you don't throw the remote, but I 
 won't rant this isn't a guide
  All in all, I give it an 8.5 for the lack of more games, would've loved to see maybe a basketball, 
 or a soccer but meh
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  ............. use and can be picked up easily. The game features  
 +more and varries from using the remote to using both (Remote and numcuck) The experience is good 
 and i like the abilty to be picked up by everyone. I enjoyed the way your drawn in by how playable 
 this is. Especially when your little Bro/sis is there and your actually beating the craout of them.... On 
 the Wii......
  The flaws in this game are few but the main reason why i didnt rate it 9 because it isnt really 
 a game .Mor elike a Tastier for what the wii can do and apart forom the gamer score thats really 
 all it is which enhances its longevity but does not make it a real game. Its fun and easy and it 
 doesnt care about that.
  That said it is an orginal game, cool to use and a unique idea and it does deserve some credit for 
 its simplicity.... Good ..........8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Videogamer765
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: *Four Player Tennis is fun *A good variety of games *Games are easy to understand and 
 play * Is the the Wii pack in title for the USA *Great for families. * Some games let you use one 
 Wii-mote for more than one player
  
  The Bad: *Some games are too simple, such as baseball, where you can only pitch and bat. *Graphics 
 are simpler than other Wii games. *Sometimes the game will not respond correctly to the remote, 
 like in Boxing.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a great multiplayer and family sports game. It is worth buying (or renting!) 
 for about $10 if you lost it or something. It will keep you entertained for about an hour, but 
 with friends, it will be more fun. So, if you own a Wii. It is a fun game to come back to to get 
 yourself up and doing something or to play when you've spent hours playing your other games, and 
 want to play something different or whatever. Don't forget to buy more Wiimotes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Zero94
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The second I started playing this game I knew I would be hooked on it for a pretty long time. It 
 greatly showcases what exactly the Wiimote is made of. I spent hours on this game at a time and 
 worked up quite a sweat back when I got it. xD But anyway the game is especially fun with friends 
 and family and even some random hobo you found in the corner of your block. Even my mom enjoyed 
 the game and she thinks all video games are stupid. All of the sports are pretty good, well except 
 for maybe golf. That's just boring.  .  Baseball is probably the best, but that's just me. The 
 controls are a little too much on the easy side. But still fun nonetheless. It's a good filler 
 game for when you don't have any new games or when you have some company. And plus it's free. Who 
 can hate on that? =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_zergling117
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  OMG. Where 2 start. Let's see. the only fun game on this entire Wii Sports game is bowling, which 
 gets repetitive after like 10 seconds. this game sucks.
  Also, the only reason anyone liked it was becaose it was sold with the Wii. if it would have been 
 its own thing everyone would be lik' dude 50 bucks on this"?
  so like this is my first review, and no, i don't say this about every game. (except halo 3, it 
 blows! o.0) [lol, kidding} so i g o t t a t y p e l i k e t h i s so i c a n p o s t m y r e vi 
 ew. PEACE OUT HOMES olololololololo
  gdbfgvghvgvjfvgbfcgbfk
  
  1112223334445556666
  666 is my favrit numba
  l o lo l o l ol o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o 
 l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l oo l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l 
 o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o l o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  All of us that have a Wii know that Wii Sports came with the Wii. And its an allright game is it 
 not? I know its more like a fitness game, but its actually pretty fun to play.
  
  First of all, if u havent already made ur Mii, then u need to make one. I already did. Then u get 
 to jump into Wii Sports! U got Tennis, Baseball, Boxing, Bowling, and Golf. My favorite is Boxing. 
 I think its everyones favorite.
  
  Anyways, u can train in any of the courses to improve ur skills. Or u can take a Fitness Test! 
 I dont do it that often. But its fun to train. U will get better and u can try to win the medals. 
 U got Bronze, Silver, Gold, and even Platinum! And if u get Platinum, u get a sweet reward!
  
  Thats really pretty much it about Wii Sports. I cant belive that this many people have actually 
 wanted to review Wii Sports. But hey im the 990'th person to review it! Thats fine to me!
  
  Overall Wii Sports is a game to play when u feel like doing something active. Besides going 
 outside. I give Wii Sports an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecookie29
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  When you buy a Nintendo Wii, the first game you'll play will be Wii Sports. It'll be pretty easy 
 at first, but the more experience points you gain the harder the computers will be and the closer 
 you'll be to becoming a pro! With easy controlls and motion sensing movement, you'll quickly understand 
 how some other Nintendo Wii games are like. Also with a fitness test, you'll find out if your as 
 good as a twenty year old or if you're way older than that. Plus with five different sports on 
 the disc, you can play as much as you like. There's even a training mode where if you do good enough 
 in a task, you can win a gold, silver or bronze medal. Then when you get lonely playing by youself, 
 you can always play with friends and family. So when you're either hitting homes runs or punching 
 someone in the gut, you'll always have fun doing whatever it is you're doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantrichardson
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  good game for a couple of days and then you forget about it completely and finally when you do 
 find it under your bed covered in dust take it out to play a couple more times with your brother 
 it gets lost again and since its not that great of a game in the first place you don't look for 
 it until finally two years later you just might find it in your closet under a bunch of stuff. 
 This is just a example of the quality and playability. Basically it is a soft core game that is 
 only interesting for about a week or less but you can't complain after all the game does come free 
 with the console. in the end the game is about a solid 7.1.................. I don't realy have 
 much more to say about this game after all it is just a few small games that come with the console 
 to keep you busy before you buy a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  nowas everyone knows wii sports comes with the wii console, and it is the best free game ever. 
 it is because you use your own miis you make to play classic sports. i really enjoy this game alot. 
 and the graphics arent even bad either. infact i like the graphics. i like that you use the wii 
 remote to box, bat, and throw. it is so much fum. i have a high score on every sport. and its good 
 that it gets wii fans off there buts and have fun while exercising. wii sports is and wii be a 
 great experience for the whole family. also my favorite sport on this game is bowling. its so fun 
 and im good at it in real life to. but overall wii sports is fun and should not be tossed away 
 when you get a new wii game. so enjoy this for all it has to offer. and remember it has multiplayer 
 so get your friends and go bowling or play some baseball. and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports was released with the Wii in November 2006. While many were overly anticipating Twilight 
 Princess and, well, the Wii itself. They failed to even fathom what fun Wii Sports could give 'em 
 when they got home and plugged in their shiny new console.
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of sports centered games that help you understand the Wii's motion sensing 
 a bit better. Each game allows you to use a Mii character you create. Thus, Wii Sports can get 
 really involving.
  
  Tennis is first on the list. Tennis is probably the most active of all 5 games. The concept: an 
 auto moving Mii character has to hit the tennis ball back and forth from one side of the net to 
 another. You swing the Wii remote very precisely in order to hit the ball where you want it to 
 go. You can even lob and silce your hits making it more fun and involving. As you progress and 
 your skill points grow, you are faced with more challenging, smarter opponents. This can lead to 
 some lengthy matches. Trust me, I've played a few that lasted up to 30-45 minutes. After long matches, 
 your arms feel like jell-o. Overall Tennis is great with friends, just make sure you have lots 
 of open space.
  
  Baseball is different. The concept of Baseball is to use your Mii character to hit the ball with 
 the bat, or pitch the ball by making motions. Hitting the ball can be frustrating, that usually 
 means you'll hit more fouls than fielders. To add to that, you can't run bases. So that means if 
 you hit the ball anywhere near the middle of the diamond, you're automatically out. Baseball is 
 more about luck than anything, and usually results in quarrels if you add a friend to the mix.
 
  
  Bowling is the best part of the compilation. Other than being completely fun/relaxing/competitive 
 to play, bowling is the deepest game too. Your Mii rolls the ball down the lane to hit the pins. 
 Deep within all of this, you can: move your position, zoom in on a selected area to see your exact 
 position, curve the ball, and roll the ball into the audience and make them scream. Bowling is 
 up to four players and really fun with other people as well. The best thing is that when you play 
 with people who never played Wii Sports before, they seem to pick it up quick
  
  Golf, golf is... broken.
  
  Boxing is the most intense. The concept is to use your Mii character 
 to punch, jab, and uppercut another opponent. Boxing is really exiting with a friend and is also 
 the only game in the package that uses the nunchuck.
  
  Along with each sport is training modes, which are fun-based minigames that help you on your skills. 
 You can even take a Test that is much like Brain Age. You do an event for each sport and depending 
 on how good you are your "Wii Sports Age" will be high or low.
  
  Overall Wii Sports is the ideal beginners game. Sure you wont be taking this game for a spin a 
 lot after you get more Wii games but it's great with friends and great fun all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs. It is not a perfect game but it does have it all. You can play 
 the following: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. I think that bowling is the best game 
 for the whole family to play. You can have up to 4 people playing this game at the same time. Boxing 
 is a very fun and challenging game as well as golf. Baseball is a very fun game to play when you 
 want to play the computer or friend. Tennis is a great and fun game but the bad thing is you can 
 only play doubles and its really not that realistic. This game is kind of funny how the people 
 dont have arms or legs. But overall this is a great game to start your Wii collection off with! 
 It also has fun for the whole family and this game brings together your whole family. So get out 
 and if you dont have this game, bring the family together and get it and have fun the whole night 
 and day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kierantoocool
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I decided to do a reveiw for this game in particular for a number of reasons. Mainly because I 
 think it is was way to over-rated.
  
  so first things first, I played this game first at a freinds house going 2 player and I thought 
 it was a great idea and sounded really fun, I played it and saw nothing very special about it, 
 then I played it a few more times at another freinds house and still thought it wasn't too good 
 as I didn't find it fun or a bit funny. Anywho then my big bro got a WII and this with it so I 
 actually got a chance to play it on 1 player and I thought it was boring, fustrating, not one bit 
 funny and most of all, it does NOT make you any more fit.
  
  gameplay
  I could go on a rant about how bad it is but I'm just going to cut it short, tennis - way to easy, 
 bowling - very unrealistic because the only way to get a strike is by bassicly throwing the ball 
 about 2 metres from the floor, golf - okay, baseball - imposible to hit the ball unless you hold 
 the WII remote with one hand, yeah one hand, have you ever seen a pro baseball player do that... 
 no, boxing - the only sport that made this game bearable and still not to good, I mean its fun 
 and you need alot of energy, oh wait no you don't, me and my freind even proved that just flicking 
 your hands about is better than actually boxing properly so that smells. One more thing, I think 
 I know why this is so popular, because the people that play it think its awsome because its so 
 realistic but in fact its very unrealistic and they won't know because they never touched a tennis 
 racket, a bowling ball, a golf club, a baseball bat or never actually punched anything.
  
  graphics
  terrible - unrealistic, baby-ish, cartoony, unrealisticly coulourfull and unrealisicly 
 shiny, enough said.
  
  sound
  pretty bad - terrible quality, and very unreal sounds and terrible, boring, repetitive music
 
  
  value
  okay cause you get it free with the WII but still, you get Motorstorm and Resistance free with 
 the PS3 and they are awsome - differret story
  
  overall
  very bad - baby-ish, bad graphics, un-realistic gameplay, boring and plain sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklinuxmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very fun game, weather alone, or with friends, there is something to do. You can 
 play Baseball, Golf, Tennis, Boxing, and Bowling. And all of these games can be played with more 
 than 1 player. I like the fact that the Wii came with this game, and didnt make you rush out and 
 by a 50 dollar game right away.
  
  Gameplay --
  Wii sports is a very relistic game, and has lots of realism in it.
  The game play is smooth, 
 and never bumpy.
  10/10
  
  Graphics --
  Some People dislike the Wii's graphic style, but I enjoy it very much.
  Wii sports has nice, 
 colorful graphics.
  10/10
  
  Sounds --
  The sounds are mostly unique, and provided some laughs at times.
  9/10
  
  Controls --
  The 
 controls are very realistic, because you swing you Wii Remote, if you are swinging a Golf Club, 
 tennis racket, baseball bat, ect.
  10/10
  
  Replay Value --
  You could play this game for years and not get bored. well, maybe.
  10/10
  
  Overall = 9.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DotHacck
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a perfect 10. It may not be the game the with best graphics, but it's one of the 
 most creative, and fresh new games I have ever played. The controls are amazing, I love how they 
 made the Wii-mote, and you can play tennis like real tennis, golf like real golf, etc etc. I also 
 love how you can make your on Mii character, and then play it on the Wii Sports games. The games 
 are addictive, fun, and perfect fr family and friends to join in on the fun. If they came out with 
 a sequel to this game with new sports, I wouldn't mind at all, this game is great!
  
  If you like games that are fun and for friends and family to play, like Mario Party, then this 
 game is for  
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoy53
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Many would think that the game might not be all that great since it would take a while for Nintendo 
 to find the true potential but so far this game could very well be considered about the best sports 
 game so far on the Wii. Wii Sports showcases all of the Wiis capabilities in a way that only the 
 systems inventor could do. Sure, the concept is extremely simple but its still a pretty good game 
 for being a freebee. The best part is probably the multiplayer. And Wii Boxing is awesome when 
 you feel like beating on your friend after a long day but still don't want to physically harm him. 
 The only problem is how repetitive it is. It just doesn't feel the same after you've become a Pro 
 on everything and have Platinum medals on all the training events. So, if you dont have a Wii already, 
 you should get one. Even if it is just for this little gem. Its easily worth the price of the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Stand up, find your friends and family, and get ready to play Wii Sports! Bundled with the Wii 
 console everywere but Japan, you will be up and moving in a heart beat. But does the game offer 
 anything to the table that, say a hardcore gamer, could enjoy?
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  It's why you buy a Wii in the first place. Gameplay. Moving your arms has never been so much fun! 
 But what if you and your grandmother wanted to play? You love doing full fledged swings in tennis, 
 while your grandmother could only wiggle her hands. Is it still fun? One word. Yes. Two words? 
 heck yes. You can do full fledged swings, or little wiggles. Everyone can enjoy Wii Sports. Even 
 your dog. Well, maybe not your dog. Sorry. 
  
  Wii Sports gets a 8.5 in gameplay.
  
  STORY:
  
  Wii Sports has no story, duh!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This is NOT why you buy a Wii. 
 But, nontheless, the graphics are great. Great anti-aliasing, bright, vivid colors, and sharp, 
 detailed enviroments make this game a top notch Wii game.
  
  In terms of Wii games, it gets a 9. In terms of all games, it gets an 8.
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
 
  
  You Wiill (hehe, pun intended) play this game a long time. Maybe not for extended amounts of time 
 all at once, but like pick up and play every once and a while. I love it, you will too. 
  
  In terms of lasting appeal, Wii sports gets an 8.1.
  
  IN THE END?
  
  It is a worthy Wii 
 launch title, and shows the potential of sports on the Wii.
  
  In the end, Wii Sports gets an 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, a game in which you can amount to your daily exercise whilst gaming. Who knew gaming 
 could be so fun? There are numerous games for the five featured Sports, Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, 
 Boxing and Golf. You can do 3 different training activities for each. You can also calculate your 
 Wii Fitness age. You select the option and then it gives you tests on 3 random activities, could 
 be any of the training activites and then it will calculate your age. Mine is 28, you have to aim 
 for 20.
  
  Wii Sports is great fun and its also a great family game. I play it with my brother because it 
 is his Wii. Sometimes my parents play also and bowling is my favourite one. I have over 700 skill 
 on both Bowling and Tennis and I like he fact that you can become a pro by getting over 1000 skill 
 and that is what I am aiming for next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeyStix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  For an inclusive game, it rocks. It's clear, solid, and great fun. It's possible to understand 
 the extent of the Wii's abilities even if you haven't bought a single game, thanks to Wii Sports. 
 Sometimes it even beats games that are technically better.
  
  It's the sheer pick-up-and-play-ability that makes it so easy to approach and so fun. It's way 
 better than Wii Play.
  
  Graphics are alright, they have some shine here and there, and to be honest, for what it is, the 
 graphics don't have to be better.
  
  It can last however long you want it to last, as it isn't one of those completable games. Though 
 it takes quite a while to gain all around Pro status.
  
  Multiplayer's even better. It gets really fun, and it allows people who've never played a game 
 before to completely pwn everyone. I think that's a lovely quality, though the hardcore gamers 
 will always find a way to beat everyone.
  
  But that doesn't matter, because it comes with the Wii anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shants
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game comes in along with the Wii I bought. All five sport games here are very interesting. 
 It gives a new look to console gaming being able to use a remote and simulating the actions rather 
 than using the conventional gamepad. It makes playing the game more fun and more realistic. Even 
 my wife would start playing it since it is a very light game where the controls are easy to manage.
 
  
  Tennis (9/10)
  This is one of my favorite. When I am playing this game, I felt like I was really playing the game 
 simulating the racket swings. You can only play this game in doubles match (unless there is a switch 
 that i am not aware of) . You can set yourself as the controller of your doubles partner or even 
 go against yourself by setting all players to your control. It's fun and a great workout game.
 
  
  Baseball (9/10)
  This is also a good game to me because it introduces the sport to me (where i live, they don't 
 play baseball) This game makes me appreciate baseball more because ever since I played this game, 
 I got to like the concept of the game. Before, I would never watch a baseball game (since I did 
 not understand) . Now, am beginning to like the game.
  
  Golf (6/10)
  The "rich man's game". Now, I can afford to play the sport through this game. Although am still 
 getting the hang of it, swinging the club can be a bit tricky. A lighter activity compared to the 
 other sport games. It's fun but it might get too redundant as you play longer.
  
  Bowling (7/10)
  In terms of strenous activity, this is the lightest. All you have to do is move 
 to a position and swing the remote. I like bowling in real life and this game strikes an interest 
 to me. But the same as golf, sometimes it become too redundant. I would play this game only when 
 I am tired and do not want to exert much effort.
  
  Boxing (8/10)
  This is the most tiring game of the five. All you have to do is simulate the boxing much using 
 your remote and nunchucks. I can only box only once because after that, I get so tired and my arms 
 and shoulders hurts (maybe am not doing it right) . You definitely can't get me to box another opponent 
 after the first one; but definitely worth the workout.
  
  Overall, this is a great package game because it specially highlights the versatility of the console. 
 A great neutral game where all gamers and non-gamers will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most interactive Wii games put out! It feels like your playing Baseball, Tennis, 
 Bowling, Boxing, and Golfing! I played this game so long and so much that I was really sore the 
 next day! Even though there isn't much to the game, you get a bunch of exercise, there is a fitness 
 mode, training mode and you could use your Miis'. If you want to exercise, the you would love this 
 game! It's fun, It's addictive, and it's hard to stop playing. Any body who doesn't have a Wii, 
 Wii sports comes with the Wii. There could have been more sports to select and there could have 
 been more features but I think think this game is still fun and the graphics are good, the difficulty 
 is just right and it is a very interactive video game. I recommend getting it some way or somehow.
 
  
  
  Overall Rating , 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is the first game that you will ever get on the Wii because, well, it's free! 
  
  Wii sports is obviously a sports game where you take part in lots of different sporting events 
 with your Wii remote and occasionly Nunchuk. These events include Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling 
 and Boxing. Boxing is the only one which uses the Nunchuk.
  
  The controls are perfect apart from boxing which is still great fun but you have to really punch 
 the Wiimote and Nunchuk quite hard for it to actully pick up the signal. The bowling is probably 
 the best as you do really feel as if your bowling because you actully do what you would in a real 
 bowling match.
  
  There are some nice little gimmicks that are in there too, such as a fitness test were it tells 
 you your fitness age, 20 is the best you can get. Also another nice thing is that you are able 
 to do all types of events to do with the certain sports you play, for instance, in a boxing game 
 you have to see how many punchbags you can destroy beffore the timer runs out.
  
  Unfortunatley there is no story mode in it at all so all you can do is try to beat your high scores.
 
  
  All-in-all Wii sports is a fun game and although it suffers from flaws it's not too bad as it come 
 free with the Wii! 7/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is game that you do not have to buy separately from your Wii, because it comes with 
 you Wii, and if you are wondering if you should run out and buy another games to play on your Wii, 
 or just play this one. Here is what I think.
  
  Wii sports is a party game that includes a bunch of sports games. The games are bowling, boxing, 
 golfing, tennis, and baseball. All the games are really fun to play with another person, or even 
 a group od people. My personal favorites are tennis and bowling. But this game is not a very fun 
 game to play by yourself, you if you are the only person that is going to play your Wii, then I 
 would go out and but another game.
  
  In Wii sports you create a Mii, which is an person on the screen that represents you, and you participate 
 in a bunch of games. The games are really fun, but they can get kind of boring after awhile.
  
  The graphics are funny looking, but they are bot bad looking, and they music is pretty good 
 too.
  
  Wii Sports is a fun game that comes with your Wii that people of all ages can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Alright to start this off you get this game automatically if you buy a new Wii system and I think 
 that its a cool and good thing too. This comes with Bowling, Boxing, Tennis, Baseball, and Golf 
 which are all fun but its more fun playing with friends though. This game can make you break a 
 few sweats just depending on how long you played the game and what clothes your wearing. Because 
 I play this game with a lot of sweats sometime to work out and I lost like 5 pounds in one day 
 and is really a good way to lose weight too. 
  This game comes with also a feature for the elderly to see what fitness age your at and actually 
 works pretty good and the best age I got so far is 24. This game is pretty good but I also recommend 
 getting the Wii Play and Wii Fit (still need to get those) and working with those with sweats will 
 defiantly make people get in shape and fit too. 
  So if you wanna game anyone can enjoy get this game well you already get this game but if you buy 
 a used one and it didn't come with this game try and find a copy of this game and get to working. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a Wii fan myself but when I played at my Cousion I found it enjoyable. Wii Sports 
 would have probably been your first game you'd played when you first got your Wii. Before you get 
 started you would have to create your own charcter in order to play any sports, like Brain Training 
 there is a mode you you can train and it will read your Body Age trying to get a lower score like 
 you would do on Brain Training.
  
  Gmaeplay= You'll get into strieght away using the Wii mote to swing or whack at the screen if your 
 playing Baseball or Tennis. Bowling was my favourite you just swing the Wii mote under arm and 
 hitting the pins, exercise was even more fun your you had to take out a lot of pins like you would 
 do in other games taking a 100 odd baddies in actions such as Kingdom Hearts 2 or Devil May Cry 
 or Mario Bros. Golf very basic just act like you would play Golf as normal trying to get a lower 
 score. Boxing would need the nunchuck to play Boxing your just waveing your arms fight how you 
 would or copy moves out of other fighting games. But try not to hit anyone esle in the room while 
 doing this.
  
  Graphics and Sound= Love how it has setten out for the Wii creating your Wii charcter and playing 
 sports. It does look like a DS game but lighter and cleaner to see. Sound effects normal to other 
 games such as round 1 or strike or your out. Music you'll listen to alot just like you would hear 
 in other sports games or on Eye Toy where you would see your self on camera but on the Wii is more 
 fun to play.
  
  Overall= You'll just want to keep coming back over and over again. Earning new challenges and records 
 which can keep you busy for hours not that long like 30 hours that you would do in an action. You 
 would probably play this game for at least an hour becuase if you played it for hours your arms 
 would hurt. Pending on whats your favourite sport you like playing you would play it alot, but 
 it should have had more in it such as Football, Badminton, Skiing or even archary. Not bad for 
 a Wii game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doughboy93
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Wii sports comes with the Wii console and has 5 different games- Baseball, tennis, golf, boxing, 
 and bowling. Not only can you play these games by yourself/with your family and friends, you can 
 also track your "Wii fitness" age, which is something a lot of people look over. This feature is 
 basically a simpled down version of what you'll get in Wii Fit. It gets a new age for you every 
 day and it'll compare it to previous months of taking this age like in Wii Fit. You play numerous 
 mini games that focus on one exercise associated with each sport. I. E. if it's a bowling exercise 
 you might try to knock down as many pins as you can (each time there's more and more: 25 on level 
 2 50 on level 3, etc.)
  
  Graphics are pretty simple. Very colorful and the lighting is good. It's not really anything to 
 wow you though, everyone plays with their own or a generated Mii.
  
  Gameplay is really fun and anyone can play it, your 5-year old brother, grandma, dad mom, your 
 friends anyone! It's all controlled by motions you make with your arms and hands, rather than constant 
 button-mashing.
  
  This can be a really fun game to get together with people on, and it has tons of replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordWaspy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Firstly I have to say, I got this game with the Wii and was the first ever game i played on the 
 Wii.
  
  Now, this game is one of the most fun i have ever played. It makes you really feel like you are 
 playing the sport and is amazing fun when you play it with other people and on top of that it keeps 
 you fit. However, I felt that maybe it got a bit boring after a while as you kept on having to 
 play the same games. Maybe if there were more sports on the game then i might have been a bit better. 
 But for those who are really into the sports on there then it is well worth trying and is a one 
 in a million game.
  
  So why don't you go out and find out for yourself just how addictive this game is! I sure found 
 that it is fun to play and learnt how to play one or two sports and considering it now comes with 
 the Wii, it gives you another reason to buy one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 2
Date: May 21, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first introduction to the Wii system. After much skepticism (and much bad blood 
 over the Twilight Princess delay) I was approaching the Wii with a bad attitude but with an open 
 mind as an avid gamer. This "game" is an embarrassing intro to the Wii console and amounts to little 
 more than a bad tech demo of the motion control of the Wii-mote. It is shallow and childish and 
 almost insulting to any long-time fan of Nintendo expecting a true next-gen system. Nintendo is 
 truly going to need a new fan-base if this is what we are to expect from them.
  The use of the personalized Mii characters in the games is a good idea in theory but the characters 
 themselves are so oversimplified that they detract from the quality of the games. I guess I should 
 applaud the efforts of Nintendo for trying to create a more interactive family inclusive game experience 
 but I am more interested in the technical and artistic development of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  You don't even have to know have to play sports. All you have to do is hold a remote and swing 
 it. Does that sound so hard? Well, if you like sports, this is a great game that you might like. 
 If you like baseball, tennis, boxing, bowling, or golf, then Wii Sports is the way to go! Simply 
 by holding a remote and doing what is indicated on your TV screen, you can play sports. Even if 
 you are not good at all at real life sports, this game makes it so easy that you can be good at 
 it! Well, at least as long as you are playing Wii Sports. You can check your fitness age, to see 
 how well you are training in Wii Sports. You can practice for these tests by going to the Practice 
 Tourneys that are in the game. All in all, if you have a Wii, then play this game often because 
 for some people, these kind of sports could turn out more interesting and fun than real sports! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echofoxz
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This comes with every box of wii console sold in North America, Europe, and Australia. Yup, this 
 game you saw on the commercials, it's sold world wide 21.56 million copies of the game at the end 
 of March 2008. And it's the best-selling game for the wii console. That's just some facts you should 
 know. Now let's talk about the game.
  
  Tennis:
  One of my favorites on wii sports. Very simple, only time you press a button is when you serve 
 the ball, otherwise, just swing the wiimote. It's really fun, by yourself or with friends (if you 
 have any, jk) . But sometimes the wiimote sensitivity get a little annoying, but that only happens 
 like once. 10/10
  
  Baseball:
  Two position of playing, batter and pitcher. As the batter, swing as hard as you can and try to 
 hit the ball. As the pitcher, 4 kinds of throws you can throw, fastball, curveball, screwball, 
 and splitter. This baseball game is pretty short, it only has 3 innings. Not as great in multi-player 
 as tennis, but it's still fun. But, sometimes sensitivity is a problem also. 8/10
  
  Bowling:
  Personally, i don't like bowling in real life. But in wii sport it's different, you 
 don't need much skill to make your ball spin right or left. Simple, just the hit the pins. Great 
 with friends. 7/10
  
  Golf:
  Um... i would not recommended to anybody, and golf it's not really my sport. The only problem and 
 biggest problem is sensitivity, you just cannot hit the same power twice, only way you can finish 
 a hole is by luck. If you think you're lucky today, knock yourself out, but you probably end up 
 smashing your wiimote on the floor. 5/10
  
  Boxing:
  This my other favorite in wii sports. What can be more fun than punching people for NO reason. 
 Many different punches you can do, and you can also block punches. It also gets really hard when 
 you get to pro. VERY completive when you fight against a friend, but fun. Still, some flaws like 
 bad sensitivity (example: a short punch to the head, ends up to be a low punch to the gut) . But 
 it's still great game. 10/10 
  
  Overall:
  You can use your own custom-made mii in wii sports. Very easy to learn, simple, fun, great multi-player, 
 and it's a great exercise. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for the whole family. Simple games, and simple controls is what makes this game 
 so good. It is fun playing by yourself but playing with a friend is what puts the icing on the 
 cake. What I like about this game is that it doesn't take a hardcore gamer to play it and play 
 it good. My sister gives me good competition in this game and she's only eight years old! If you 
 are the ''Fun for the whole family'' type of gamer you should check this game out. I also like 
 how you can play any of the sports with your created Mii. It's like you are in the game. Another 
 thing this game is a hell of a exercise! Play this thing for 2 hours straight and see how much 
 energy you have left. 
  
  But yea you don't even have to worry about buying this game because it comes with the Wii. Get 
 Your Wii Today!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  "Twas the night before Christmas and all I could see,
  was a decently large box that I hoped was a Wii.
  I giggled and chuckled at the thought of such 
 fun,
  and the console, once ridiculed, was now #1.
  The next morning I ripped open the box and my intuition was right,
  For when I opened the gift 
 all I saw was a bright, holy light.
  Then I saw what I had wished for:
  A Wii at my presence and I couldn't ask for more.
  I set up my Wii,
  my face shining with glee.
 
  I looked all around for a game to be played,
  But then I saw Wii Sports, no extra money had to be paid!
  I popped in the Disk and began my 
 parade
  for this was the 1st Wii game both made and a must-play..."
  
  All right, all right. I know it's lame and it's a little bit too early/late for a Christmas poem 
 but I couldn't help it. :P
  
  Anyways, when you buy your Wii it should come with a game titled Wii Sports for free. This is a 
 game that showcases the Wii's capabilities and proves most doubts about the console false. This 
 game basically turns your Wiimote into a tennis racket, baseball bat, a golf club, boxing gloves, 
 and... your fingers in a bowling ball. As you can tell there are a variety of Sports you can play 
 from this one Wii game alone. The five sports that are featured are tennis, baseball, bowling, 
 golf, and boxing. It is a great game for both single-player and multi-player.
  
  Wii Sports is a basic package, but all 5 sports provide fun for whatever you feel like playing. 
 You may get so involved in the game, that you actually scratch or even break your TV. Yes, it's 
 happened before. Not to me specifically, but this point is not a negative one. This means that 
 people get so into the game and they actually feel like they are the Mii. Now let's discuss the 
 five sports within the game.
  
  Tennis is, in my opinion, the most amusing of all five games. You start the game by choosing your 
 Mii. This game can support one to four different players at once, making it a great party game. 
 Unfortunately, you can't play a singles court but you shouldn't mind playing doubles. If you are 
 playing by yourself, you can either make your partner a CPU or control both players. The most awkward 
 thing about Wii Tennis is that when you actually start playing you have no control over your Miis. 
 The Miis automatically follow the ball, which can either annoy you or relieve you. To swing the 
 racket, it's as easy as a slight flick or an all-out swing of your Wiimote. The motions are very 
 responsive, which means you don't always have to give yourself the "Wii Arm" when playing Wii Tennis. 
 Now please remember that how fast you swing will not affect the ball at all; it is just the timing 
 in which the racket hits the ball. It is very simple as you cannot control where your Miis walk. 
 Wii Tennis makes for some great single-player options, but multiplayer is where this game really 
 shines.
  
  Baseball is one of the more complex games of the bunch. Wii Baseball supports one to two players 
 at once: You on one team, your friend on another. Wii baseball is basically all reaction time, 
 especially when you're up to bat. When the ball starts coming at you, you have to time your swing 
 at the right time. If you swing too fast you'll swing before the ball even gets to you. To get 
 a home run you must hit the baseball correctly, which, depending on your reaction time, can be 
 a piece of cake or a fistful of crap. Much like Wii Tennis, once you hit the ball, all the action 
 on the field is controlled by AI computers. Once again, you can either like this as it seems more 
 relaxed or hate it because it lessens the intensity; it is all just determined on personal preferences. 
 To pitch, you swing the remote and it calls it out as a strike or a ball. Wii BAseball is a great 
 addition, but most players either hate this or love it.
  
  Personally, these next two sports are the most boring of the five sports given to you; it might 
 just be my dislike for bowling and golf, but many people do seem to enjoy these. The next sport 
 up is bowling and many people do seem to find this entertaining. Bowling can be played with up 
 to four players. You can position and angle your shot manually. To roll the ball, you swing the 
 Wii remote in an upward motion and let go of the B-Button. It's very simple and almost seems like 
 you're actually in a bowling rink. In golf, you can play it with up to 2 players. You have a choice 
 of a beginner, intermediate or expert 3-hole game, or you can do a 9-hole game. You must input 
 your power and then swing. The motion-sensing is incredible with this one. Golf is the most strategic 
 of all the sports as you cannot hit too hard or too light and you have to take notice of the wind.
 
  
  The last sport, but not least, is boxing. The most interesting aspect of the game is that it is 
 the only one bundled in the game that uses the nunchuk attachment. You hold the Wiimote and nunchuk 
 up and you can do several things involving the motion control. If you tilt left or right, that 
 is where your Mii boxer will tilt. This is used as your basic dodge function. If you hold the remote 
 and nunchuk combo up to your face, then your Mii blocks an attack. You can swing or "punch" your 
 nunchuk to punch with your left hand and swing with the Wii remote to punch with your right hand. 
 Sometimes the motion controls can be unresponsive, which can frustrate even the most down-to-Earth 
 gamer. This game is much more fun with multiplayer (like the rest of the games) as you can beat 
 up your friend instead of beating up some chump CPU.
  
  It should be noted that Wii Sports is the first game on the Wii that integrates the Miis. These 
 Miis basically set the mood for the look of the game. The backgrounds are very simple and probably 
 overlooked by many people. They are nice, but probably isn't the best thing to look at in the game 
 package. Much like the simple graphics, Wii Sports hold some simple tunes that you either hate, 
 love, or don't even notice. The sound feels crisp and it effectively uses the speakers in the Wii 
 remote. It's not something that is truly memorable, but it seems to fit in with the theme of this 
 game.
  
  If you're a fan of sports, I can imagine that you would come back to this game time and time again. 
 If you're a casual gamer, you'll love coming back to this to play with some friends on a Friday 
 afternoon after a dreadful week of school. Though, if you consider yourself a "hardcore gamer", 
 you may only see this game as a "15 minutes of Fame" game despite being one of the best sports 
 game collection ever.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: 
 [7/10]
  Sound: [7/10]
  Gameplay: [9/10]
  Controls: [8/10]
  Replay Value: [8.5/10]
  Overall: 7.9
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  ..::The Good::..
   It comes free with your Wii!
   Acts as a great guide to getting used to the Wii Remote.
   It is fun to play with a group of 
 friends.
   The sports are easy to get used to.
   Great Mii functionality. 
  
  ..::The Bad::..
    It's gameplay over graphics, but could have looked loads better
    Won't 
 last long in single player
   Motion sensing controls aren't perfect and needed some tweaking.
  
  Wii Sports is most likely 
 the first game ANY Wii owner is going to play; why? Well because it comes packaged with every European 
 and American Wii. That's great, but is the game even worth removing it from its packet?
  
  Wii Sports is - as you might have expected from the title - about playing sports and in particular 
 simple versions of Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing.
  
  Tennis, for example, can be opted to be played by one to four players and you can have a single 
 game, best of three or best of five. There isn't any exhibition, tournament or unlocking modes 
 to master, just simple gameplay and even in-game there's no music to distract.
  
  This being Nintendo, it's an interactive affair and you've got to swing the motion sensored controller 
 to serve and return play. However, if you had four players bustling for space, you might find that 
 the average lounge a bit crowded.
  
  The only game to use the Nunchuck attachment is Boxing, the only other sport that offers exercise 
 while playing. Playable either against the computer or another player, your task is, as in boxing, 
 to beat the other player to a pulp with punching motion thanks to both controllers. 
  
  This makes boxing games in the past rather sedate and boring.
  
  Bowling, Baseball and Golf 
 also make for good gameplay with Bowling probably being the sport that gets the closet to playing 
 the real thing. 
  
  Aside from the sports themselves, there is also a mode called Wii Fitness which allows you to test 
 your balance, speed and stamina and then gives you a Fitness age. You can only take the test once 
 a day and the game records your progress so you can see over time how you are doing.
  
  You can also select the option to "Train" and get better at each sport. Each sport has three training 
 modes from hitting targets with tennis balls to destroying innocent boxing-bags in the gym. These 
 training exercise are the same exercises used in the Wii Fitness test and are selected at random. 
 
  
  Wii Sports is neither bulging in features nor graphically impressive, but when you put everything 
 together, you have a fun package that, although better in places than others, is varied enough 
 to keep you entertained for a good while and brilliant in multiplayer.
  
  Some people would probably pay around 15 for it. You're getting it in the box with your Wii. You 
 can't complain but we're sure some of you will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  There is one thing I despise about this game, as much as people keep rambling on about "mass market 
 appeal" and a target audience of everybody, more games like this are being attempted to be made, 
 and end up totally crap. Wii Sports was the starting point for casual gaming and in itself opened 
 up an entirely new market of gaming, unfortunately the cons severvely out weight the pros.
  
  I do not own a Wii for a start, and never plan on buying one. Ever. Quite frankly I'm happy 
 with my PS3 purely because not every living soul on earth is playing one. I like it because my 
 gran can't use it, my mum thinks it isn't "hip and trendy" and that every second game released 
 on it isn't some kiddies rip off and works as a dirty big obvious cash in on a machine so in demand 
 that Reggie french bloke down at Nintendo says it will stay on the shelf for an hour max. That 
 is why I chose PS3 over Wii.
  
  Now, you may say my review will be slightly bias, and quite frankly, it is. 
  
  Wii Sports 
 then, a compendium of 6 or 7 sports that is free when bought with a Wii console, and if anything 
 is free in my books, it instantly gets a bump up the old points ladder. So that's 1/10 so far. 
 Many of the sports are fun and fairly easy to get to grips with, after you've spent half an hour 
 tying to suss out what the bloody hell you're supposed to do. Boxing being a particular favourite 
 of mine, which involves both Nunchuck and Wiimote throwing uppercuts blows to your opponent. It 
 is simple no-nonsence fun that anybody can play.
  
  However, as many people who are saying this is brand new and unique, I can distinctly remember 
 a boxing game on Eyetoy Play which was fun and a Virtua Fighter battle arena on SEGA Superstars 
 which I would rather play on.
  
  The tennis irritated me slightly as I'm used to playing Virtua Tennis, and for me, this was too 
 inaccurate a less skillful and I have barely any control of my player. Though with 2 or more players, 
 it becomes an excellent addition alongside Guitar Hero and Singstar as a party game.
  
  I know the Wii isn't exactly a graphical powerhouse, but in all honesty the presentation is far 
 too basic for my liking, I've never grown to entire Mii idea, as I believe the design of them is 
 drab and boring, and makes the overall look of Wii Sports look very pedestrian in comparison to 
 Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a fun and innotative title but lacks any depth whatsoever with the non inclusion 
 of awards or merits, apart from a weak leaderboard. It is an excellent party game to pick and play 
 for anybody but would only come after Singstar and Guitar Hero and Dance Revolution. This is my 
 first Wii experience and in all honesty, I can't see what everyone is cheering about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I just got a Wii yesterday and my 1st game was of course Wii Sports.
  
  Gameplay: Wii sports has some of the most simple but fun gameplay ever. Lets say your doing the 
 Bowling game. Simply move your arm like your swinging a real bowling ball and youve got it. The 
 package comes with 5 games. Bowling, Boxing, Baseball, Golf, and Tennis. Each is very fun in its 
 own way but tenis is by far the best. The gameplay is very simple, Very fun, and easy for anybody 
 to pick up and play.
  
  Graphics: From the get go you will notice that the graphics are nothing special. The devs probably 
 spent much more time on gameplay than on the graphics because they arent up to par with many next 
 gen games. For most it wont matter but for a special few the graphics will be painstaking to look 
 at. Overall this is the worst part of wii sports.
  
  Sound: The sound of Wii Sports is not bad or good. It lies somewhere in between. The main sounds 
 youll here from wii sports are your characters when they dive for a ball or something like that.. or 
 when they make contact with something.. other than that theres not much in the sound department
 
  
  Multiplayer and Replay value: Wii sports is great fun with a friend but the chances you will pop 
 it in to play single when theres all these other great games out is slim.
  
  Overall: A great introduction to the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  It has been so hard to get you hands on a Wii, has it not? Well most people finally got it and 
 guess what they played first? Wii Sports of course. The packed-in classic title marks not only 
 a great introduction between you and the Wii, but for a new revolution. Just please, keep the wrist 
 strap on and resist breaking the TV.
  
  The game has 5 sports that you can play itself and another 2 modes which combines all the sports.
 
  
  The first is Tennis. Many people probably haven't had a chance to play it, but the Wii brings it. 
 It is just like basic Tennis; you hit the ball across the net, and after 2 bounces on the ground, 
 you score. Although this simple sport can be done with the tiny flick of a hand or sometimes when 
 throwing the ball up, the A button, this will tempt you to actually swing it like a real Tennis 
 ball.
  
  Next is baseball. All you do is pitch the ball and hit it. There is nothing letting you decide 
 wether to go for home or just stay on third base. You really swing the Wii remote like a bat, or 
 pitch the ball with it, and it does feel a little realistic. A great oppurtinuty for 2 friends 
 to get together and hit home runs.
  
  Never had a living room worth a couple thousand, maybe couple 10 thousand dollars? Well, then here 
 is where you can put a bowling alley in your living room. You really do swing your hand and then 
 drop the ball. You really can twist your bowl. You really feel like you are playing it. It may 
 not be as hard as real life bowling, but it can bring a joy to a family of four.
  
  My old man has found a loving for golf and has even become a PRO at it. The controls are simple, 
 especially hitting the golf ball. Your swing power really effects how far the ball goes. Everything 
 here is realistic and can actually help you work on your swing.
  
  Lastly, there is something all men of most ages will love. A battle that comes to the ring. That's 
 right, boxing. This one requires the nunchuck, and educates that the nunchuck is motion sensitive. 
 Ignoring the annoying wire, it is very fun although the response might be a bit touchy, but it 
 is just amazing.
  
  There are 2 other mode using the same sports. The Training modes takes 3 challenges from each sport 
 and has you do it. If you score high enough, you might even get a medal. Turn away if you are looking 
 for actual action, but come if you're practicing for that big game.
  
  There is also the Wii Fitness mode. It takes the same challenges from Wii Training and has you 
 do 3. Then it determines your Wii Fitness age. This is nowhere near what Wii Fit will be, bit it 
 will just simply tire you out after a while.
  
  Nintendo has done the unimaginable. They have turned your living room into a tennis court, baseball 
 stadium, bowling alley, boxing ring, and a huge park for golfing. This game can also help you lose 
 weight or just burn calories as it actually has you doing work. It is amazing that people will 
 sweat after playing some Tennis, or have their spine hurt after beating someone in the ring. You 
 should where the wrist strap to ensure your TV's saftey and hold on to the Wii remote at all times 
 so you don't hit someone. But all that aside, this game worth around $40 comes free with the Wii 
 and brings more than $10,000 worth of real life things into a virtual yet realistic room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the first game to come out on the Wii console and may i say, its a blast for parties 
 and when you people over. Its not a game you should play by yourself but with others. It's very 
 original and "athletic" in some sports. Some tennis matches with make you sweat if you have a good 
 opponent and same goes for boxing. Bowling is a game that is good for the end of the day AFTER 
 boxing or tennis. Its a "time to take a break" type of thing which i love also. The best part of 
 this game is that you can actually loose calories especially with tennis. I'm not saying its guaranteed 
 after all there are some idiots who play sitting down. Its up to you how you play. Controllers 
 get a little mushy at times and the boxing doesn't work out 100 percent all the time. The visuals 
 are a bit cheap since the characters have no arms but this game is not for visuals or graphics 
 but just plain fun. Who says fun games are always violent?
  
  Pros: Sports are great and realistic. Loose weight!!! enough said. Great for parties. Break a sweat. 
 
  
  Cons: Controls screw up at times. Boxing ain't that creative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  I played it a several times, and at the beginning it was really amazing.
  Maybe that's because it was the first game I played on a next-gen console. Its a average game in 
 all the aspects, but the graphs really sucks. It is not worth to call himself a next-gen console. 
 If you compare it with the games on the X-box 360 or the PS3, the graphs are not those you would 
 expect of a next-gen. But when I played it multi-player, it was much better. In fact they should 
 make it only for 2 or 3 players ,with better graphs, and no on-line mode. When you play it in Single, 
 you will find out it is too short. And even with the short play, after a while it even gets boring 
 too. So, if I may conclude: good Multi, but single  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Despite the controls been frighteningly simple, even for begginers, wii sports is a fuin challenging 
 game. There are fine different sports games each with fairly similair controls, tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf, boxing. By the way if your a gamer who likes games with lifelike graphics don't 
 read this review, well you shouldn't of bought a wii in the first place.
  From imagining your mii character on centre court in wimbledon or having your face punched off 
 by Mohammed Ali wii sports is a decent game.
  The graphics don't look lifelike put the animation of the courts and the stadiums are quite good.
 
  The aim of wii sports is to try and get your mii up to the highest skill level possible in all 
 sports. By the way don't worry if you've reached professinal in all sports bring a friend into 
 challenge you as the multiplayer game play system is brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a great introduction to the new revolutionary wii system controls that offers loads 
 of fun and an enperience that will make you keep coming back for more. The game includes 5 games 
 bowling, boxing, baseball, golf and tennis. The games show off the versitility of the new Wii motion 
 controls that allows the player to interact with thier character. Each game introduces different 
 coltrols that the player will need to get used to for playing the other games on the Wii. These 
 games also take full advantage of the mii's that people create by being able to use them in the 
 game. Someone can create whomever they want and play as that person increasing the vicarious play 
 of the game. All of the games are multiplayer which adds another great element to the game and 
 lots more fun.
  The best and most polished game in the set is the bowling. This game is just plain out fun and 
 enjoyable to play. The bowling like all the games allow you yo use your created mii to play with. 
 The more you play the better you get and earn experience points for a higher ranking. Once you 
 reach the pro level you get a new ball that is sparkly. Other mii's that you create make up the 
 other bowlers and crowd watching you bowl. So you can create multiple mii's and have them at the 
 lanes with you. Each player can have their own bowling style from straigh bowling, to curving and 
 hooking, strong throws or soft accurate throws. Each person can find out which technique works 
 best for them.
  All of the other games offer an enjoyable experience. They all have upside and will provide hours 
 of fun and enjoyment. The boxing game emulates the movements a real boxer would have to do in a 
 fight. It is a pretty smooth transition and also gives you one heck of a workout. You can play 
 against a buddy or the wii. You start off easy and as you win it progressivly gets harder with 
 smarter opponents which offers a good challenge. 
  The baseball and tennis are good simulations that invlove similar movents by the player with the 
 controller. They both are fun to play but much better with a friend rather than alone. The least 
 fun of the bunch is the golf not due to the nature of the sport but the controls are be sketchy 
 at times. The controller is a little sensitive and can get frustrating at times.
  There is also a skills challenge where you can work on your skills for each of the games and practice 
 so you can beat your friends. Each sports offers three different skills competitions where you 
 can earn medals based on your performance. These are very very fun to play especially the bowling 
 and boxing. There isnt any element of the game that is bad.
  The wii fitness test will keep you coming back for more. You can do this once a day and it tracks 
 your performance each day and you can see how you are progressing. It charts your progress each 
 day that you do it and tells you your wii fitness age according to how well or badly you have done 
 that day. This game gets a huge thumbs up and should be in every wii gamers library and that should 
 be easy because it comes with the system and that just sweetens the deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is okay at first, a good introduction to the Wii Console. But in a few weeks it can 
 get a little repetetive. Wii Sports can still be used as excersise. In this Review, I will be reviewing 
 the 5 sports in the game.
  
  Tennis, an excellent way for swinging the Wii Remote and also a great way to get excersise. It 
 would be better if you could choose singles or doubles Tennis, it would be better if they included 
 a Pro Tennis court. Multiplayer is great fun, a rough 9/10 for this sport.
  
  Baseball is okay, but it always seem as if the computer controlled fielding is just a little too 
 hard because you always tend to hit it to the fielders. The pitching is okay, but sometimes hard 
 to hit. It would be better if more innings were included. An average 6/10 for this
  
  Bowling is great, but a little simple. Variety of bowling alleys could make a good difference. 
 Spin control makes it a challenge, very realistic in pin action. A good 7/10 for this one.
  
  Golf, I would say is not so good. The way in which you overhit could make it slice or hook, 
 but you don't know whether or not that could happen. Courses are very repetitive with the same 
 holes in each. Putting ain't good, probably the hardest part of it 'cause I tend to always overshoot 
 the hole. A mediocre 4/10 for this.
  
  Finally, Boxing. Boxing is very good but it would be better if maybe the sensor could actually 
 sense the punches more effectively because it you muck up, it could get you Down. K. O's are quite 
 easy to get, very good sport, gives you a quite good sense of excersise in your arms. A positive 
 8/10 for this sport.
  
  So there you have it, I would reccomend Tennis to be the absolute best, but overall Wii Sports 
 could have put in a little bit of improvement but otherwise, it is a great game to come with the 
 Wii Console, thank-you Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the first game to come out for the systems. To me, I think it's just a knock off 
 game, to help you get ready for other games that come out and you can get used to the controls. 
 Otherwise, an action packed little game it is. Great sports ideas, my favorite is probably boxing 
 because it gets you a good shoulder workout, belive me if you don't feel it just above your bicep 
 after a while you have a problem because I felt like I was power lifting, haha. I also really like 
 just the simple game play it brings. You don't have to go out on a limb if you loose, its just 
 awesome, you hit the ball and it runs the bases for you, you bowl, you swing your arm, just it's 
 a nice addition for paying a cheap two hundred fifty dollars for the system. Also there is one 
 thing I want to know about the Wii system if someone can respond. I have my wifi internet and it 
 keeps on saying error when I bring up internet connection test, can somebody help? Just add me 
 to friends and send messege. Anyways thanks for reading, and I thanks Wii for making a nice addition 
 to the system. 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, is the title that comes with the Wii when you buy it. It's purpose is to show Wii's 
 motion sensing capabilities, and to give a chance for the whole family to lose a few calories. 
 It's not designed to have the perfect graphics or music, nor to have in-depth gameplay. It's a 
 simple game, consisting of 5 sport games, and it fulfills it's purpose.
  After you select your Mii, you can choose to play one out of the 5 sport games I mentioned above. 
 All of the games can be played multiplayer as well, which adds a lot to fun.
  I'll start with Tennis. You don't control the player, you only control the racket. So, all you 
 have to do is hold the wiimote as you would hold a real racket, and swing it to simulate your Mii's 
 moves. According to how you swing your racket, you can make strong shots, loop shots, or even add 
 curve to the ball.
  Next, is baseball. This game, will make an amateur's life hard in the beginning. You have to hold 
 your wiimote like a bat, and swing it in the right time to hit the incoming ball.
  Third game, is golf, one of my favourites. There are only 9 holes to play though : ( You hold your 
 wiimote as you would hold a golf club, and all you have to do is swing it with the right amount 
 of force.
  Next is bowling, another one of my favourites. You hold the wiimote as you would hold a real ball. 
 You keep B pressed, swing the wiimote, and release B to release the ball. You can also add curve 
 to the ball.
  Last is boxing, the only game which requires you to hold both nunchuk and wiimote. Nunchuk acts 
 as your left hand, while wiimote as your right. By throwing punches with the controllers on your 
 hands, you make your Mii punch as well. By making the right motion, you can hit your opponent in 
 his stomach, face etc. You can also do special moves, like uppercuts. If you lean backwards, right 
 or left, your Mii will do the same action, dodging incoming hits. This is the game that will make 
 you sweat, and i'm dead serious.
  In all games, if you defeat your opponents or make good scores, you increase your rank, thus you 
 fight against tougher opponents as you progress. If you reach a rank of 1000, you become a pro 
 and can brag to your friends.
  To track your overall progress, you can also take a daily test. Each daily test consists of 3 challenges, 
 each one measuring a different category. The categories are speed, stamina and balance. You will 
 have to hit incoming balls in tennis, make long drives to land the ball in the green in golf, dodge 
 incoming punches by your trainer in boxing, etc. There are 15 challenges in overall, and each time 
 you'll take the test, you'll face 3 different challenges.
  When you finish your test, the Wii will calculate your Fit Age, by measuring your test results. 
 20 is the lowest age you can accomplish, and 80 the highest.
  I bought my Wii a year ago, and I now have titles such as Metroid Prime 3, Resident Evil 4, Mario 
 Galaxy etc, which i have finished them all. The only game which i keep on playing until today, 
 is Wii Sports, because it's the most realistic of them all. I don't play Wii Sports on daily basis, 
 but when I wanna relax, I throw some punches in Boxing, or make some Birdies in Golf.
  Since most players don't have the option to buy it or not as it comes with the console, the only 
 thing I can say, is just enjoy it. If you don't have it, I recommend buying it, because it is one 
 of the best games to play with your family and friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  For the difficulty, it gets harder the more you play and also, it depends on who you are playing 
 aganist.
  This is game is actually a little hard to review seeing as it is a game with many other games in 
 it. The games are boxing, golf, tennis, bowling, and baseball. Most of these games, can give you 
 quite a work-out mainly boxing. This game is mainly a party game for everyone to enjoy. It is also 
 neat, it that it works with your Miis inside your Wii so you can play as you in all five of the 
 sports. The biggest perk of all though is that it's FREE! Every Wii you find WILL come with Wii 
 Sports. Some sports though, have very sensitive controls mainly golf. You just barly need to move 
 the Wii-Mote to swing your golf club which allows you to very easily overshoot your shot. The baseball 
 and bowling in my opinion are the best to use at a get together. This can game and bring families 
 together OR tear them apart thanks to sometimes very competitive matches. Boxing is the real king 
 of Wii Sports with it's full body motion and arm wearing out feature. This game can also give you 
 alittle self-confidence boost here and there by making you believe that you really do this and 
 be good at it. This game is a great deal to get with your Wii and will provide with some good entertainment 
 until you get your first real Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  It's indeed a fantastic intro to the motion controls + its free :D. Graphically its O. K. but the 
 "I want to have a false sense of being better the Tiger Woods" is the thing that makes me mad. 
 When people brag about their wii scores! Like sierously... I overheard my friend saying he got 
 200 in bowling and I was amazed thinking my best was 125 but he was talking about the wii -_-. 
 Personally i hate that, but thats not the only reason its not the game it should be, the motion 
 controls can be bugged (Badly) .
  
  Graphics 7.0 Its not crysis ppl...
  
  Controls : Can be buggy or unresponsive but still fun 8.0/10
  
  Addictiveness: I got bored 
 after 3 days. 5.0/10
  
  Family Fun: BIG CHECKMARK 9.0/10
  
  Value: Its FREE :D 10/10
  
  Avg Score: 7.8
  
  Conclusion: For those of us who want to play a game for a long time wii 
 sports isn't a game for you. Those of us aged 10+ would have some fun but sooner or later your 
 phoning your friend to play wii bowling against eachother -_-. 
  
  My reaction to wii sports is: :D (3 hrs later) D:
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejsimon
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a good demo game to give away for free. The game does a good job of showing where the potential 
 of this system may be heading. There is very little realism or feeling of actual involvement when 
 participating in Wii Sports. This game is also accessible to all age groups. While Miis are the 
 greatest thing in the world to my eight year old, I personally do not like looking at the little 
 cartoon-ish creations in action. While this collection offers an appropriate appetizer to whet 
 the appetite, there really needs to be more attention to detail to make this any more than a demo 
 disk.
  
  Tennis - Why ???
  
  Boxing - I haven't gotten the feel for how to control this in any appreciable way.
  
  Golf 
 - Fun to look at, but needs much better control and a couple of additional clubs. Far to many balls 
 let loose in the back swing. 
  
  Baseball - Great for small children.
  
  Bowling - This is probably the only game that you actually feel like you are an active participant.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Here is my review for Wii Sports:
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay consists of five different sports: baseball, tennis, boxing, golf, and bowling. All 
 the sports are fun to play with. Controls are simple to pick up and mastering it is no problem. 
 Playing with a friend is even funner but playing alone stinks. There isn't really a single player 
 campaign and training can be done with two people. The Wii fitness mode is really boring and not 
 worth touching. Overall, gameplay suceeds. 8/10
  
  Graphics:
  You get cute little 3D graphics. They are really nice. Enviroments are wonderful and the mii's 
 look wonderful. Although these look nice, the audience in baseball and tennis don't look very nice. 
 Overall, graphics are not bad. 7/10
  
  Sound:
  Catchy little tunes are nice to hear now and then. The announcer's voice isn't that bad. The only 
 repetive music is the main menu music. It can get a little annoying from time to time. 8/10
  
  Value:
  The game is free with a Wii in North America. That's really good so you get a really 
 fun, free game. I like this a lot but the bad thing is trying to find this game if you didn't get 
 it with a Wii. 9/10
  
  Tilt:
  A really fun and simple to pick up game overall. The single-player could use more work but overall, 
 mutiplayer balances out everything. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  wii sports is a demo game that comes with the wii. considering it is a starter game its fantastic, 
 but the lack of depth and complexity to any of the sports u play brings it down to an instant short 
 game of either tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. golf is the most complex and skillfull 
 of the games as u have to deal with wind and have the skill to hit the right speed. Tennis is probably 
 the most fun and liked the most out of the sports. swinging the wii remote to hit the ball. timing 
 is everything. If u are looking for fightness work out boxing is the sport 4 u. using the numchuk 
 and wii remote as punching glows and throwing punches at each other. bowling and baseball are more 
 just plain luck and can be frustrating due to the incompetence of the motion and lack of skill 
 needed to play. but overall the game is a great sart off and it has a few extras in it like the 
 training and fitness corse. it is a great multuiplayer game if u have a large area to play infront 
 of the tv. it also has full use of your mii characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neutron777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  2006. This was the year Nintendo made a huge announcement. They said that they were developing 
 a console that would revolutionise gaming. That console was the Wii. But of course, the Wii needed 
 a killer launching title to show that it wouldn't flunk like the 'Cube. That title was Wii Sports, 
 and before Super Mario Galaxy came to exist, this was the Wii's first and best game.
  The five sports in this gave was Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing.
  Tennis is an absolute 
 joy to play. It is so slick, so fun, and yet so minimalistic. It is not what you would call authentic 
 tennis, but, it is soooo much fun.
  The same can't be said for Baseball. Sure enough, its entertaining, but Nintendo said it themselves, 
 "It's a simplified version of real Baseball". It works for Tennis, but when this formula is applied 
 to baseball, baseball just falls flat on its face.
  Bowling. A Bowling game had never been made before, so Nintendo wouldn't have known how to have 
 made this. But Wii Bowling set the benchmark for Bowling games, and that benchmark is well deserved.
 
  Golf- ehh. I'm not so sure about this one. It's ok, but you have got to like real golf to appreciate 
 this one.
  Boxing. This is pretty much a brilliant workout. Good if you want to shift some weight off those 
 thighs before Wii Fit comes out.
  There is also some pretty stellar features also with Wii Sports. There is a Wii Fitness Test, the 
 exercise-man's answer to Dr Kawashima's Brain Training Test.
  The only real problem I have with Wii Sports is that there is no online play. Online Play could 
 have elevated it to a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  When we got our Wii, the first thing we did was pop in Wii sports because it came with the system 
 and it was a pretty good example of what kind of system Wii was: a party console. The sports are 
 really made for multiplayer; sure you can play alone, but it really isn't much fun. I will briefly 
 explain the game, there are four sports: Golf, Bowling, Tennis, Baseball, and Boxing. Bowling and 
 tennis are the best sports: they are both four player, (unlike Boxing and Baseball) and they aren't 
 boring (unlike golf) . Baseball is probably the worst sport in the game: all you do is hit the ball 
 and pitch, there isn't any running or catching, that's the computer. And the hardest game (In my 
 opinion) is boxing, because when you're trying to duke it out, sometimes the sensor doesn't pick 
 up the Wiimote's motion and you get K. O. ed.
  Summing it up:
  the good:
  Awesome party game
  Not to hard in some areas
  the Bad:
  Some games are boring
  Boxing 
 gets a little frustating
  
  The only problem with this review is that you don't buy this game, it comes with the wii, and anybody 
 that doesn't have this game doesn't have a wii either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports isn't realy a game you have to think about buying ,because it is automaticly packed 
 in with your wii. So weather you want it or not, your getting it. But I'mglad to say that the pack-in 
 is great. Tennis and bowling are absolutly fantastic. Golfing and baseball are on the same level 
 as each-other being good. And even boxing (being the worst) is still fun in it's own right. Tennis 
 and bowling are my favorites. Tennis is first off, you don't actualy move yourself, but you do swing 
 the tennis racket. second off is bowling, it is an extremely acurate bowling simulater that is 
 sure to please any bowling fan. Third off base-ball you don't run or catch, but you do hit the 
 ball and pitch. Fourth is golf, it's pretty self explanitory and it works pretty well, except it 
 is kinda hard to puttt, due to bad putting controls. And last and also least boxing, the only game 
 that you use the nunchuck, this is also pretty self explanitory. And all of these little games 
 put together with a work-out mode where you play mini-games having to do with each sport. There 
 are 4 or 5 mini-game things per sport to try to get high scores on.
  
  good: All games are playable.
  Bowling and tennis are fantastic.
  base-ball and golf are good.
 
  And even boxing is fun at times.
  FAntastic controls for the majority of the games.
  
  bad: Only five sports? Come on!
  Where is basket-ball?
  
  But you realy can't complain......... 
 because it is free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoman3000
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  If this game was solo play, I would buy all the copies from all the stores and burn them all on 
 international tv. The golf cheats, bowling curves, tennis is the best one although when it is on 
 the line they just choose who threw it, boxing dosen't have an actual know how hard it is so... 
 Baseball is in two groups, pitching and batting. Batting is good cause it is sort of accurate, 
 pitching sucks on all levels so we won't go there. I think I figured out something about the game. 
 When your skill is higher the game helps you cheat. I don't fell like writeing anymore so... BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH I LIKE PIE BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
  
  ~Nintendoman3000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game comes included in the Wii console package. It is a game that showcases some of the Wii 
 capabilities, which ultimately unravels its true purpose: it's for kids.
  
  It includes all the games on the cover, such as tennis, bowling, boxing, etc. You'll need to create 
 a Mii before you can play, the Mii is your avatar. That whole process, I cannot stress how child-like 
 the Wii is. As a somewhat hardcore gamer, having to create what looks like Playdoh avatars and 
 silly representations of other players in the game is downright laughable and painful to watch.
 
  
  The Wii is limited in its sensor bar, you've got to place it at the right spot in order for it 
 to register most of your movements. Since it's got a cord, it's limited in range in terms of where 
 you can place it. I found the ideal spot is below the TV, but when you're up and about, the best 
 spot is in the middle of the TV, which is possible but there'll be furniture in the way and it'll 
 block your view.
  
  I found that the Wii isn't as receptive as I thought, there are certain tweaks you'll learn about 
 to maximize your swing (in tennis) and you can take tutorials to learn more about how the remote 
 can affect your actions. In the end, it doesn't match your body, you've got to match how the remote 
 works with little tricks along the way. A good example is boxing, I punched left and right quickly 
 but only a couple of my punches went out. When I punched towards the center, the arm on my avatar 
 goes straight. And never mind the kindergarten avatars you're playing against or with.
  
  Silly gamer, Wii is for kids... unless you're playing with friends and intoxicated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halbridious
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a surprisingly good and fun title. Its easy to play, no matter what age you are. 
 The controslls are realistic, though boxing can feel a little awkward at first. They are so realistic 
 in fact, that you might even get tennis elbow. baseball can chafe your hand depending on how you 
 hold the bat, but thats ok i guess, cause its fun anyway.
  
  Even with the sports being so easy, good players have their own ranking, so you can play against 
 AI of like skill. This means that it will always be as challanging as the day you first played, 
 so it will always be fun.
  
  Even the training is fun, sometimes more fun than the actual game. Three different activities appear 
 for each sport, all of them concentrated on different aspects of the sport. 
  
  Finally, the Wii fitness age is one of the best parts. you play a random 3 of the training games, 
 and it tracks your progress over the course of the months you've been playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colts99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Look Wii sports is not a full game. Get that straight. You cant be playing it for a month non stop 
 as it you will go insane and becomes very repetitive after a while. 
  Anyway.
  This game is good, for the first week you have your Wii. It has 5 sports and they are all simple 
 to master and easy to learn. 
  
  Graphics
  Cute graphics that you wont be watching in amazement. the Ps1 could probably handle these graphics, 
 they aren't good at all. But I suppose they didn't think about the graphics when they were making 
 it. 
  
  Sound
  Barely any
  
  Gameplay
  This game is all about gameplay. its basically to show what the Wii mote can do and how it moves 
 and works. Tennis is very fun, I still play it from time to time. Baseball is boring and so is 
 golf (too hard and gay) . Bowling and boxing are equally fun. really this game only has three good 
 games. Boxing, bowling and tennis. 
  
  Thats about it. wii sports is a fun game, dont get me wrong but it dosen't last and at the bginning 
 you may think it will last forever but dont get fooled as it wont. playing with other people is 
 more fun but also playing by yourself can also be entertaining. Anyway, play this game with other 
 people at parties and youll have a great time. If you live in Japan... DONT BUY IT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogoni
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Comes with the Wii console, so if you got one, and don't have Wii Sports call 911! Kidding, but ALL 
 the Wiis come with Wii Sports. Enjoy a Tennis Match, a nice swing at the golf grass, punch your friend 
 for fun and also play as yourself on a Baseball game... HOMERUN!!
  But try not to be crazy like some guys on www. wiihaveaproblem. com, they hurt their child, their girlfriend, their 
 babies! And some hit the dog and spinned so much that fell on the floor and cut his head! So play 
 normally, because YOU AREN'T PLAYING REAL SPORTS!!!
  
  So it is just the experience to have fun when you are not playing Zelda: Twilight Princess (This 
 thing IS good) , so humiliate your parents on tennis and do not break the lamp or anything else, so 
 take care and play this game, I recommend it for you and for the whole family, except your 3 year 
 old sister and this includes your parrot and your Poodle! Start heating up 'coz this game is nuts! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Interactive, Amazing, Nice content!!, Your looking at the Nintendo Wii Sports!, Well Sometimes 
 it gets fraustrating due to the "not exactly the same", Well what I'm trying to say is, It's inaccurate, 
 Like if you do a jab on the boxing part, It does a hook, so... It is really hard to set up, So... Better 
 get used to it!, Otherwise it's really fun!, Multiplayer is amazing!, My sister now have to settle 
 our fights in Wii sports :P, Anyways... Hold on to that strap, because you never know when you 
 might break something, or someone!, Anyways... Wii keeps a record of your status, Like everytime 
 you workout, It will tell you if you get better... Very attractive to young people of age, May be 
 attractive to your Mom too!, Well if that is they wanna work out, Best workout in this game is 
 probably boxing, It forces you to pretty much jab and move your hands crazily!, lets get to the 
 bottom point!, with Pros and Cons!, But I do suggest you create a Mii first...
  
  Pros
  -Interactive!
  -Creative
  -Helps you Workout!
  -Great for Multiplayer!
  
  Cons
  -PS2 
 graphics
  -Could hurt someone by swinging,
  -Inaccurate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  When I got the wii, wii sports came with it and it was the first game I went on. I tried out golf 
 and had fun apart from it's too easy too make it go left or right and then you get annoyed if it 
 goes in the ruff or out of bounds. Next was bowling and I became a pro within 10 games, but then 
 lost it again and still trying to get it back. This is the vest out of the sports on it. After 
 bowling I tried tennis and was as good as that as I was at bowling. Lot's of fun, especially against 
 other people / victims :) .
  Boxing was next on the list and well, I lost every game to my dad n a few to my brother. It just 
 wasn't my day. Lot's of fun, makes you feel like your actually in the game boxing. Last but not 
 least I tried baseball. Erm, it just wasn't happening. I didn't get one home run on the score sheet 
 so I wasn't doing that good.
  Anyway, this game is great, not because it came free, but becasue it's like playing the sports 
 in your front room. Very realistic. The training is great because you have all different challenges 
 to get past to unlock the next. You can also work out your wii fitness age. You want to do good 
 otherwise you'll get an age of around 50-70 :S. I got 54 first time. 
  So much fun you don't want to leave the screen. Definetly a must have if you don't have it already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHACKR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is usually the first game every Wii owner plays. As it may seem like it may not be so 
 good, it actually is. The controls run pretty smooth overall. Wii Sports seems like a simulator 
 more than a video game. No need to stress over the controls.
  
  The graphics are good. They are cartoonish rather than the real-life look, since you play with 
 your Miis. The framerate is actually pretty good in the game, since it doesn't seem to lag much. 
 The graphics aren't eye-sores.
  
  The audio isn't bad, though can get annoying at times. The chimes can get repetitive at times. 
 The sound effects of the game are superb though.
  
  Wii Sports gives you tons of replayability since it is an arcade game. It is probably the best 
 sports game out yet. The game is still very fun for me up to date, so it isn't bad to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that comes free with your Wii... in America at least. It is fun, and lets 
 you get the feel of sports in real life. Play in 5 different sports... tennis, baseball, golf, 
 bowling, and boxing! 
  
  Use your Mii to help you in five different sports!
  Play against your friends, family, and even strangers!!! (ok, not really that last one)
  Get 
 on your quest, to be a pro and all-star!
  
  Wii sports is an awesome way to experience sports, and even work out some sweat while playing video 
 games. Wii Sports may be really cool and all, but it is far too easy, even when you face better 
 opponents. The controls are very simple to get used to. Another flaw in Wii Sports is that the 
 Wii remote is too sensitive. This could get annoying, and that's not good. Otherwise, Wii Sports 
 is the game you need!
  
  8.5 It's just plain fun. Still some flaws, but could be dealt with easily... when you're having 
 fun beating up someone in boxing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that you get with the Wii console when you first buy it. The sport games that 
 are on Wii Sports are Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and boxing. You only need a Wii remote to 
 play the games except for boxing where you have to have a Nun-Chuck. 
  Sometimes the motion-sensing controls are a little erratic. The good thing is that it is good for 
 fitness, group multiplayer and the concepts are are easy to get use to. 
  The controls are really simple. All you need is your hand and some of the buttons on the Wii remote. 
 The graphics are really good on Wii Sports for the Wii. Also you can use your Mii on each of the 
 different games in Wii Sports.
  You get this game with your Wii console and so you don't have to worry about getting it or choosing 
 it from the shelves. It is a great game with group mutliplayer or your fitness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inamon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  The Wii - a console for the current generation. It is currently winning the console war. Millions 
 have bought and appreciated the art that the Wii can do: its Remote, the Wiimote, has motion sensing 
 abilities and controls that are used in a typical television remote controlled form, making it 
 easier to handle for people who don't tend to play video games and just watch TV instead. But, 
 when you've purchased a record-breaking console, you need a game. A good one. Uh-oh. So, what do 
 you get? Wii Sports. It's bundled with the Wii, and is free. It provides five sports in one package: 
 baseball, tennis, bowling, golf and boxing - as well as a training mode and a fitness test.
  
  It's really, really easy to get into Wii Sports. Its simple design and technique makes it user-friendly 
 for anybody. Pick a sport, select the number of players, select a Mii (or choose from nine, pre-made 
 guest Miis) and start playing. The controls are excellent considering the use it has from the Wiimote's 
 motion sensing fun. Tennis is simple - just swing the remote to swing the racquet. You also use 
 A to serve. Pretty straight forward. Tennis is easy, and sometimes a bit tiring, but it's fun. 
 There are some flaws with tennis, however - there's no crowd and/or music, meaning that it's complete 
 silence while you play. However, it is a realistic atmosphere. So, if you like quiet, then that's 
 your thing.
  
  Tennis is the most featured and focused sport of the game, but there's more. Bowling is also in, 
 and it's a bit unbalanced; it's awfully easy once you've got the use of it, yet it's difficult 
 when you're new to the mode and even frustrating once you've never played and seen bowling. You've 
 got to use the spin control, that is used by 'controlling' your wrist. Don't worry - it's easy 
 once you've got the game. Hold B while you've got the Wiimote above you, then pull it down and 
 throw like a normal game of bowling. In addition, there's baseball. Amazingly, it covers both pitching 
 and batting (no catching however) . It's possibly the best sport. Hold the Wiimote like a bat and 
 throw to hit the ball. Hit it at a good angle or hit the ball hard and you may be successful, and 
 gain a 'single', 'double' or 'triple'. Hit in in the crowd or out of the park and it's a home run. 
 You may find it a bit different to real baseball but it's still excellent.
  
  Pitching is more realistic, but less exciting than batting. Throw the ball, and press either A, 
 B or both together for different styles of throws. Now when baseball's over, you've got a challenge. 
 Golf. Grr. Golf is hard in real life, and Wii Sports, if a compliment or a critical statement, 
 is even harder. Training hardly helps. The Wiimote's motion sensing sometimes is dodgy, and swinging 
 is a pain. It's sometimes inaccurate, or just plain frustrating. The wind is annoying, and goes 
 inconsistantly wonky in every single pitch. If you're a golf fan it's quite good but otherwise 
 you're better with a different sport. Golf is simply one of the most frustrating sports in Wii 
 Sports, and is one of of the downsides of the game too.
  
  Then, last but not least, boxing. It's also a bit hard, but very enjoyable. You need the Nunchuck 
 for this one, to act as the left hand and the Wiimote as the right hand (of course, if you were 
 left handed, then it would be completely opposite) . It's not the most realistic feature but it's 
 fun. As well as all these sports, you've got multiplayer support, which is excellent, a training 
 mode, which is no better, and a fitness mode that has several minigames (taken out of the training 
 mode) which should be played every day to make you fit. Overall, Wii Sports is a great bundled 
 game. It's not realistic, it hasn't got the best graphics nor controls, but it's an addictive game 
 that's great in multiplayer and provides fun for all the family. Especially grandad. Just see him 
 bowl that ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semixx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Sorry for all of you wii sports fans; its was okay since the wii is the closest to virtual reality 
 at the moment, but sonic and mario @ the olyimpic games beijing 2008 is a lot better for sports 
 fans, mario fans and sonic fans (go sonikku za hejjihogga!) . 
  
  Plus sonic and the secret rings is alot better, this game has a storyline compared to wii sports. 
 Anyway if you like the mii idea on M&S@OG 08 you can be the miis too. (I'd prefer to be sonic, 
 tails or shadow though) .
  
  Back to the game, theres only baseball, golf, bowling, boxing and tennis; unlike M&S, there over 
 22 games, each more complex. Now if your thinking "oi, what about training" that nothing much different. 
 It will get boring fairly quickly.
  
  To be honest, thers not much point in this review since its a free game, maybe sell the game on 
 eBay or something. Or buy M&S. Some people rate M&S poorly, I do think it needs a storyline; but 
 does wii sports?
  
  
  
  Makes ya think... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Play Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling and Boxing in the comfort of one's living room. No ball boys 
 scurrying about, no oil from the alleys to get players dirty and no rain to keep anyone from a 
 day at the court, park or course. Use the Wii Remote controller to mimic the actions of swinging 
 a racket, bat or club, roll a ball down an alley or bring the left jab.
  
  
  Wii Sports is a great introduction into the Wii system itself. before you start playing Wii Sports 
 you need to cast aside a few thoughts. First off, this is not a the graphics blow my mind away 
 collection of games, secondary you probably wont play most of these games solo. Wii Sports is ment 
 to be played with a group of people or a friend. Now that those two things are cast aside lets 
 look at Wii Sports.
  
  There are five different games in Wii Sports, Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Boxing and Baseball. Each 
 has its own way to play the game. Tennis I played with a friend you can play up to 4. The graphics 
 where fun and my player was customised to my profile.. he sort of looked like me. Playing Tennis 
 is as easy as swinging the controler to hit the ball or as specific as putting a top spin on the 
 ball when you hit it. Golf was next on my list Again this was played 2 player, it was easy enough 
 to pick up but again had the ability to get more specific if you wanted to get better. Now bowling 
 was my favourite game, for this game we had 4 people playing. Again once you get the swing of using 
 the controller to bowl its very fun. Picture your friends bowling in your living room while you 
 taunt them to hit a gutter ball.. uber fun. Boxing was the one i least liked, its a two player game 
 that utilizes both controllers per player... i rated this one the lowest of the group. Baseball 
 was fun as well we played it 2 player and it was pretty wasy to play you can pitch and the other 
 player is the batter.
  
  Overall the system got me moving around and after playing for 4 hours with a group of friends by 
 elbow felt the usage. You may have heard about all the people breaking the straps... well if you 
 go to excess sure you can break the strap, but take it from our team if you play the game normally 
 you will have no issues. All the games were very fun and we recommend them,,, except boxing.
  Cons
  Most of the cons are with Boxing and the controler. First off we are not sure if this issue 
 is with the particular game or the wireless connection. As the connection worked fine for other 
 games we have to say boxing was not built well enough. It did not respond fast enough to our moves 
 or blocks, and in many cases we found it hard to see what was going on if we where in front of 
 another player... even though the transparence was on there where still issues. 
  Interesting Info
  For bowling you can put some extra gust behind the ball and even make it spin.. pretty 
 fun and in baseball if you dont want to let the other player see what you are pitching you dont 
 have to use the full motion of the pitch... just move the controller in the direction you wan it 
 to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBbrawler30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, no matter what, Wii sports is a great game because it is free and comes with your Wii. 
 Once you create your mii at the home screen on your Wii, you can use it in Wii Sports. Although 
 the multiplayer mode of the game is very strong the single player mode is a little weak.
  Although the game does not have a storyline, the point of the game is to get points, and if you 
 get 1,000 points you become "pro". Besides having a star by your name, pro ranking doesn't get 
 anything new besides a diamond marked bowling ball.
  The five games in Wii Sports are Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Boxing, and Baseball. Although all are 
 fun, Tennis, Baseball and Bowling are the Best. All of the games take advantage of the wii's brand 
 new remote. You'll be swing a bat, rolling a bowling ball down the lane, and hitting the ball back 
 and forth with your rackets.
  Conclusion: Wii Sports is free, so why not give it a try? Out of the five game's there is sure 
 to be one that you will enjoy. Have fun playing virtual sports with other people, but if you want 
 a challenge try to get to pro.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  This was a truly awsome game to include with the Wii when you bought it. It's not an adventure 
 or anything but I still love it. I mostly bowl, and the second thing I like to do is tennis. boxing 
 has to come next, and then baseball. I believe the controls for golf r too complicated. for instance: 
 you swing the remote a tiny bit and the ball goes 200 yard away or something! i usually lose in 
 boxing, but its still so much fun. baseball is cool, too. just wish u can chose your teammates 
 (if u have more than 9 miis) and run around the bases or tru 2 catch the ball. that would make 
 it more fun. i used to be a pro at bowling, but then i lost that streak. stinks, right? im pretty 
 good at tennis, but my friend owns me in it evry time. when my parents ask to play it (not so much 
 any more) they will only bowl. my sister and i also make funny looking miis. for instance: we made 
 a shark, an alien, the Mario gang, the Zelda gang, Pikachu, Hello Kitty, and a guy with an upside 
 down head! its so much fun to play sports as weirdos. i loved this game when i first got it, and 
 i still do! such an awsome game. i hope u still like it, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii Spaorts is a Wii game that comes free with the Wii. There is no storyline to talk about, but 
 there is a collection of sports games. Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, Bowling, and Golf. The game also 
 lets the player do the physics right with the Wii Remote. The game also features a multiplayer, 
 mini challenges, and a Wii age check mode (I can't remember what it's called) to see if your score 
 is at a good rate.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the mini challenges are fun. It feels like you're actually 
 in the sport you're playing. It's always good to check your Wii body age with this game. Amazing 
 multiplayer. Graphics overall are good.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the motion sensing can get frustrating. Single player 
 could have been more fun. Some parts in the game have cheesy graphics.
  
  Overall, this first Wii sports game is fun, I just wish the single player was a little more fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Since even the sparsest details regarding the Wii were unveiled, gamers were giddy with excitement. 
 Truly, the Nintendo Wii would open up brand new venues of interaction in video games. The motion 
 sensing capability of the Wii controller would no doubt allow gamers to do just about anythingAnd, 
 in an effort to show off just what their controller could do, Nintendo bundled a neat little title 
 called Wii Sports with every Nintendo Wii.
  
  Immediately upon powering on Wii Sports, there's likely nothing in particular that will catch your 
 eye. In fact, if anything, Wii Sports may impress an idea of this game being something of an underachiever. 
 Graphically, Wii Sports absolutely fails to impress. The characters that occur in Wii Sports are 
 actually Miis that you create on your Wii console. They're undeniably cute, featuring huge, smiling 
 heads, and lacking arms or legs. However, at the same time, they just fail to impress. They're 
 the kind of graphics that would be a piece of cake even for the GameCube.
  
  Despite that, though, the graphics might actually grow on you as you play the game more and more. 
 They're very cutesy, which may be a turn-off to some gamers. The thing is, though, is that that 
 graphical style fits quite nicely with the overall style of the game. The music, also fits in with 
 that sort of cutesy overriding theme. Like every other aspect of the game, it's very simple, but 
 at the same time, it's pretty catchy. It's by no means particularly great or immersive, but it's 
 good enough that you'll happily play the game with the volume on.
  
  The real magic of the game, though, lies with the beautifully intuitive controls. Everything that 
 you will do in the game is controlled via movement of the Wii remote. For each of the five sports 
 that Wii Sports features (tennis, golf, baseball, bowling, and boxing) , you will mimic the actions 
 that you would perform in the sport while waving around the remote. It may sound a bit gimmicky 
 at first, but trust me: it's not. The controls are completely immersive and totally believable, 
 and they're the one biggest aspect of the game that ensure that Wii Sports is a game that's definitely 
 worth playing.
  
  Naturally, the controls would be nothing without good application. And for the most part, Wii Sports 
 utilizes those awesome controls quite nicely. All five games are fine, but some are definitely 
 better than others. What makes them all fun and worth playing, though, is the fact that each of 
 them is definitely unique.
  
  The best game in Wii Sports and the one that you'll likely play most often is without a doubt tennis. 
 Of all the games, tennis definitely does the best job of really pushing the controls to their absolute 
 limit, showing what the Wii is really possible of. Before you even begin to play, Tennis has a 
 ton of options that will keep each game fresh and fun. You can decide how many games to play (1, 
 2 out of 3, or 3 out of 5) , and you can assign human or computer players to each slot. Unfortunately, 
 you have to play doubles; there is no option to play a singles match.
  
  Once you actually get out on the court, the fun really starts. Serving is a rather simple matter, 
 although there is some potential intricacy to it. Simply swipe the remote upward to toss the ball; 
 while it's still in the air, give the remote an overhead swing to send the ball toward your opponents. 
 Also, if you hit the ball in the height of it's toss, you'll send over a high-speed Power Serve, 
 making it more difficult for your opponents to return it. From there, simply volley back and forth 
 with simple forehand and backhand swings of the remote. When one player fails to get to the ball, 
 doesn't get the ball over the net, or allows the ball to hit twice on his side of the court, then 
 the other player wins a point.
  
  Golf is also a pretty fun sport in Wii Sports, although it's not quite as good as tennis. You have 
 the ability to select which difficulty to play on; each difficulty consists of three holes; if 
 you'd like, you can play a nine-hole game, consisting of all three difficulties. Hitting the ball 
 is also a rather straightforward matter. Simply swing the remote in a manner emulating swinging 
 a golf club. There are only a few clubs to play with, though: the driver, the iron, the pitcher, 
 and the putter.
  
  You can gauge the required strength of your shot rather easily, as well. On the power gauge, there 
 are a number of markers. These markers will correspond with markers on the green. So, if you see 
 that the hole is three marks away, you should try to swing your club so that the power goes up 
 to three markers. Also important is the fact that the ball will hook or slice if your swing goes 
 over the top of the power gauge. In addition, most courses will have a wind, which is important 
 to take into consideration when aiming and gauging your shot.
  
  Bowling is where the game starts to head downward a bit. Bowling is fine, I suppose, but it's rather 
 repetitive. To throw the ball, you simply mimic the act of throwing a real bowling ball with the 
 remote. Hold it up, parallel with your body. Then, slide it back, then throw it forward. This will 
 send the ball rolling down the lane, knocking down as many pins as possible at the end.
  
  There are a few significant problems with this game, though. The first is that it's very repetitive, 
 and it's not interesting enough to really keep you engaged. But even a bigger problem is the fact 
 that the controls are kind of shoddy in bowling. You can apply spin on the ball by twisting your 
 hand as you release the ball. Annoyingly, though, most times, unless you're very careful, the ball 
 will spin itself. This is really annoying, especially when it's a close game and you're going for 
 that last pin that will give you a strike.
  
  The last two games, baseball and boxing, are rather poor. Baseball is mediocre, at best. Pitching 
 is controlled by flinging forward the Wii remote (remember to hang on to it, though!) , and you 
 can use button presses to throw a slight variety of pitches (only three, though) . Hitting is a 
 simple matter of just swinging the remote like a baseball bat. The controls are also pretty poor, 
 and the game is far too simple and repetitive. The controls aren't very responsive, and the motions 
 on-screen are also not synced in time with you actions, which can cause some problems when trying 
 to hit.
  
  Boxing is outright the worst game of the bunch, though. You need to play with the Nunchuk attachment, 
 which causes something of a hassle. You move the remote and Nunchuk simultaneously to the left 
 or right to dodge, and swing either one of them to throw a punch. The biggest problem is that the 
 controls are not at all responsive, and you'll often have to try a move three or four times to 
 get it to register on the screen. Also, boxing is pretty much the Wii version of button-matching. 
 There's not much skill at all involved, and the game is overall very repetitive and boring.
  
  One very nice thing about Wii Sports in general , is that there's a monstrous amount of replay 
 value. It's a really great game that anybody can get into, and it'll keep you entertained for quite 
 a while. While not all of the games are that great, tennis and golf alone make Wii Sports a pretty 
 fun, while shallow, diversion. You earn points for every match that you win, and once you earn 
 a thousand points, you become a "Pro" in that sport, and gain some neat little bonus. If that's 
 not enough to keep you playing, then the overall fun (particularly when playing multiplayer) should 
 be.
  
  While Wii Sports is not the greatest game ever created, it's definitely a worthy pack-in with the 
 Nintendo Wii. It does a fantastic job of really showing off the control capabilities of the Nintendo 
 Wii, which is obviously what it was meant to do. In terms of graphics and music, Wii Sports ay 
 fail to impress. But the sports themselves, especially tennis and golf, are quite well done, and 
 control nicely. Especially considering that you're getting it for free, Wii Sports is a surprisingly 
 fun and satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrn
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Overall, Wii Sports was a GREAT method for testing out the Wii's capabilities. But, it's five games 
 in one, so I'll review each part of Sports in the following paragraphs.
  
  Bowling: My favorite. It's ten-frame bowling, and a great game to play with friends that are experienced 
 in the ways of the Wii. However, even if you try to put no spin on the ball, you're almost always 
 guarenteed to get some. Play a trial game before you play with others so you know your sweet spot 
 to throw the ball from.
  Score: 9/10
  
  Baseball: Use A and B, or neither, to produce different variations of throws while you're the pitcher. 
 Rules are a bit lame, with you being out if it doesn't go past any of the bases. Splitters are 
 a bit cheap (A+B) , but overall it demonstrates the Wii's capabilities very well. I have no problems 
 with the sensor for this game, but the rules make this game fall a bit short.
  Score: 6/10
  
  Boxing: My other favorite. The motion sensor for this requires a lot of practice, rather than 
 just punching with the controllers non-stop. The only thing that I don't like is the knock-out 
 system, which I'm still trying to figure out...
  Score: 8/10
  
  Golf: Never really liked golf, but the Wii's system of measuring how far your projected ball will 
 go helps out a lot. There's also a wind-meter to see how the wind is so you can see if you should 
 alter your ball's trajectory.
  Score: 7.5/10
  
  Tennis: Overall a fun game, but the Wii limits your play potential into double games, leaving you 
 as the loser if your AI partner is in an undesirable position. Wildly swinging, in my experience, 
 often lets you consistently hit the ball, and will get the ball onto your opponent's side roughly 
 75% of the time.
  Score: 7/10
  
  As a freebie game with the Wii, Wii Sports gives you a taste of what to expect with other games 
 to come. Definitely worth giving a try.
  Overall Score: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jckpodkid2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great game to come with the Nintendo Wii. A fun game to play with friends makes 
 it a good game to have. Wii Sports includes the following games: Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf, 
 and Boxing. All of these are played using only the Wii remote except for Boxing which requires 
 the nunchuk also. This is a great game to come with the Wii because it helps you get used to its 
 unique control scheme with the motion sensitivity. While being a fun game, it can quite quickly 
 grow old. I suggest playing this and switching to something else every so often. This game is also 
 a great game to play with family and friends. It also lets people who have never played or cared 
 for video games have fun playing one. These games are particularly fun because you actually go 
 through the same motions that you would be going through to play that sport. For example for tennis 
 (my personal favorite) you actually have to swing the Wii remote like you would swing a tennis 
 racket. Although this game is very fun when you first get the Wii, you will want to move on to 
 something else. My recommendation would be Super Mario Galaxy. If you want to know more about it 
 check out my review of it. Overall Wii Sports is a fun and entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the reason the Wii has managed to maintain so much momentum. It makes great use of 
 the Wiimote controls and is a lot of fun with multiple players. The game is completely approachable 
 and should appeal to anyone regardless of their gaming experience.
  
  Wii sports consists of 5 mini-games, Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Boxing, and bowling. While all of 
 the games are good everyone will have their preference. I personally enjoy Boxing and baseball 
 the most, and don't really enjoy tennis or golf. It does seem unanimous that Bowling is pretty 
 good though. Anyway, there is something for everyone. All the games control pretty well, but the 
 on screen action is not necessarily representation of the players actions with the wiimote. This 
 can be frustrating, but since the game is not incredibly competitive, it tends to not be a real 
 problem.
  
  In the single player portion of the game you play against the computer or try to achieve a certain 
 score in an effort to become a pro in all of the 5 games. This doesn't take too long and is not 
 very difficult. Another single player element that is fun is playing the "fitness test" in order 
 to reduce your Wii Fitness age. This game can be played once a day and the game keeps track of 
 your progress over time. There are also 3 single player challenges for each mini game and they 
 keep track of your best score.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is pretty simple. It is just the main portion of the single player mode 
 for more than one person. Boxing and Baseball are only two players and the rest are up to four 
 players. Since Boxing Requires a nunchuck attachment you'll need two to play multiplayer on it. 
 Multiplayer is pretty simple and all character play the same regardless of the skill rating on 
 one player.
  
  Overall Wii Sport is a simple game that is fun to play. It doesn't try to do a whole lot but what 
 it does do it does real well. That is really what makes this game work and everyone should be able 
 to find some enjoyment in it every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittenToes
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  WII Sports.
  
  Wii sports is the game which comes free with the Wii when you buy it, so inevitably more or less 
 everyone whos got a Wii has this game.
  
  Which then enters my first bad point... 
  
  If you got your WII on launch day or just after no doubt you proberly played the guts out of this 
 game and are proberly quite bored of it, so when your mates buy one a few months after and they 
 like you did at first want to play ALLLL the time, the games can start to reallllly craze you. 
 
  
  Wii sports is a revolutionary game, nothing like this has ever been done, its energetic, great 
 multi-player, sounds good, and nice colourful graphics.
  
  I personally enjoyed tennis and boxing the most, wasnt to keen on baseball, golf and bowling were 
 also ok if not a little repetitive after a while.
  
  I ENJOYED THIS GAME FOR A FEW MONTHS BUT IN THE END THE SHINE DID WEAR, AND I HAVE TO ADMIT I HAVENT 
 PLAYED IT FOR A WHILE NOW (unless i go my my mates houses who've just bought it and play endless 
 amounts of bowling... again...!!!) .
  
  Defiantly worth a play but no staying power!!!! 
  
  7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Wii motion it uses are great and they simplify it so amybody can do it for their first Wii 
 experience. The only problem is that it has a weird scoring system for pro levels and stuff like 
 so it will like not move you up if you don't destroy the team you are playing. It is great for 
 families and amazing for parties, and the fact that it comes free with the Wii is a great bonus, 
 even though I would probably buy it for fifty dollars anyways it does not make a difference except 
 the actual Wii hardware would be cheaper, and I probably would have been able to be another game 
 right then and there but who cares it is a free game. If you are looking for a great family game 
 look no further than this so if you can afford it go out and buy the Wii console right now if you 
 don't already have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink182plus44
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Hey am Brett Manning and am going to review wii sports. This game is just alot of fun. You could 
 play for a long time before you get bored . Good for family and freinds. Play with your miis is 
 fun. The wii controls make the game awsome. Theres not alot to say about this game. The only thing 
 you really can say thats its just really fun. Plus you dont have to pay for it so if you dont like 
 it its not a waste of money. But i think they could have addded more sports. Hey am Brett Manning 
 and am going to review wii sports. This game is just alot of fun. You could play for a long time 
 before you get bored . Good for family and freinds. Play with your miis is fun. The wii controls 
 make the game awsome. Theres not alot to say about this game. The only thing you really can say 
 thats its just really fun. Plus you dont have to pay for it so if you dont like it its not a waste 
 of money. But i think they could have addded more sports.... for wii sports 2 - soccer, paintball, 
 skate boarding, go kart and volleyball this would awsome:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpackfrenzy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Story 5.5/10:
  No Story, except a competition if you're playing multiplayer. The training modes and all are a 
 neat added feature.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10
  -You can use your Miis which adds a little customization.
  -Only 5 sports games, could have added 
 a couple more, but for free you can't be too picky.
  -Baseball and Bowling are just awesome. 
  -Boxing is awesome too once you get used to the controls 
 and the sensitivity.
  -Tennis is a little lame.
  -I'm a golfer in real life, so the wii sports golf doesn't really impress me much.
  -I like the 
 added mini games in training mode. Definitely changes the gameplay.
  
  Controls 8.5/10
  An excellent example of what the wii is capable of. Boxing is the only difficult one, the controls 
 are not that responsive to punches.
  
  Sound 7/10
  Eh...
  
  Graphics 7.5/10
  Eh... nothing too impressive to say.
  
  Fun 9.5/10
  It is FREE, it comes bundles with the 
 wii console. You can't be to picky about a free game. The motion sensitive controls on a home video 
 console is revolutionary and breaks out of the typical button mashing games.
  
  
  ************
  Overall 8/10
  ************
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nulvix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Although the Mii usage is great and the sports aren't that bad, it lacks substance. Once you get 
 to a certain point you can't go any farther with it, and then it really only becomes good for practice, 
 the fitness test, or an emergency back-up muliplayer game when you only have one Wii remote on 
 hand. Sadly though, there is no Wi-Fi, so challenges must be done in person locally.
  
  Because it is such a short game involving Miis, it's no surprise that the graphics are relatively 
 OK. Even so, the voice acting was not so good. It was plain, involved little to no enthusiasm, 
 and was very automated. It sounded like a man's voice being translated though a computer. 
  
  Although the games can be fun like boxing or tranquil like golf, they can also be frustrating. 
 Often times the controls are unresponsive, sluggish, and rarely smooth. In golf it's very hard 
 to swing with little to no power for close shots, even if you only flick your wrist an couple inches. 
 In boxing it is very hard to go from blocking your head to blocking your torso, which enables you 
 to be vulnerable to big hits. It is also difficult to make your own big hits, especially when it 
 is hard just to swing your fists. You can flick the remote and nunchuk a whole foot forward, and 
 you still might not punch your opponent. 
  
  Overall this game is very lacking, which makes for a short review. With not much in it, there isn't 
 much to say. This game is certainly not worthwhile for the advanced Wii player. There's a good 
 reason why it came with the Wii, because it would never sell in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  There a lot of things in the game you will like to play. You have a bunch of things to do. There 
 are 5 sports you can play there is also training and Wii fitness. There are skill levels in the 
 game for every sport - the higher the skill level the better. And yes the game is all about the 
 mii you are using. The game can be fun for a while but if you don't have any other wii games it 
 gets a little boring .It is a great multiplayer if you have more than 1 wii remote. O. K graphics 
 .The color is good and it comes with the wii. The gameplay is very well done there is almost no 
 music but the little music in the game is good. The 5 sports are baseball, bowling, golf, tennis and 
 boxing. My favorite is baseball. You can play up to four players with one wii remote on bowling and 
 golf. The good things are-great multiplayer, great gameplay,. The bad things are-it gets boring, and 
 it is harder as your skill level is higher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The best things about Wii sports is quite obviously the fact 1. absolutely anyone can play it, 
 and 2. the controls are based on how you would physically play the game ie, swinging the remote 
 for golf, punching infront of you for boxing, and using the remote like a raquet for tennis (forehand 
 and backhand swings.)
  
  Its basic for a reason, and that is to introduce the new methods of controls in gaming technology 
 in a breif form to enable users to get used to before either moving onto more specific games of 
 the sports genre, or other similar games that anyone can play regardless of age, skill, or wether 
 you like or dislike computer games or consoles at all. 
  
  Obviously, now its a foregone conclusion, we know how to control our remotes, and it's something 
 of second nature to most gamers that either own or have played the Wii. But Wii sports was the 
 first to illustrate the power of new control method in the most simplest and no doubt the most 
 effective way. It is what it is, and it's fun being what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the free game you get with Nintendos Wii. It provides an introduction to the Wii's 
 intuitives new controls, and it even can be a more long-term game with its skill rankings and its 
 downright addictive games.
  
  With this package you get Baseball, Boxing, Bowling, Golf, and Tennis.
  
  Baseball is by far 
 the most difficult. It takes real timing and concentration to hit a ball out of the park. Pitching 
 is fun. You make a throwing motion to throw balls, and hold certain buttons to throw a variety 
 of pitches.
  
  Boxing is my favortie. It really gets you going and even make you stop after a match to catch your 
 breath. You use both the Nunchuck and Wii Remote to throw punches and block your opponents punches. 
 If you want to play 2 player though, you will need to pick up another Wiimote AND nunchuck.
  
  Bowling is great fun as well. You throw the ball as you would in real life, but twisting your 
 wrist at the right time will give your ball some extra spin, making for some interesting gameplay.
 
  
  Golf is pretty good, but you wont find yuorself coming back to it as much as Boxing and Bowling. 
 You need to practice a bit at timing long drives and aiming your putts. You will undoubtably get 
 some double and triple boggies, but with practice, the birdies will come.
  
  Tennis is a good 4 player game, given you have 4 Wiimotes. Its fairly simple. Hit the ball as it 
 comes at you, but with the option of backhanding it and twisting your wrist for funky spins, you 
 will have a good time with your buddies as you try to throw off their hits as well as trying not 
 to miss yours.
  
  Not much to say here. You dont have to buy it, so im just going to say Go Buy A Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendudes_2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  
  Wii Sports comes with the Wii when you buy it new. It does not have a case, but instead an envelope. 
 It offers five different sports: baseball, tennis, bowling, golf, and boxing, and each game creatively 
 uses the Wii remote (you also use the nunchuck while boxing) .
  
  Story: --
  Wii Sports is a sports game (obviously) , and most sports games do not include story mode, so I 
 cannot rate this factor.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The graphics for this game are exceptional for the fact that it was one of the first games sold 
 for the Wii. I think that tennis has the best graphics and that boxing has the worst (I can't get 
 over the basically 2D Miis in the crowd) in the game.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Got a friend/friends that you wanna' do something fun with? This is a great game for that purpose. 
 The game gets a little stale when nobody is there to play with you. Most of the sports wear off 
 in a while when there is nobody to play with. Some may not agree with me but I think that boxing 
 is the best for single-player. A con in this game is that whenever you use a new Mii, it forces 
 you to constantly practice swinging the golf club or swinging the baseball bat. But it is fun to 
 beat up the AI when it forces you to practice your before-match boxing skills.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  There really is not much to say about the sound in this game, because basically, 
 there is no sound in this game, besides background music and the creepy voice that says things 
 like "KNOCK-OUT!" and "HOME RUN!".
  Ah, I still get the creeps from that.
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10
  Multiplayer is pretty much the whole point of the game: to introduce new video-gamers 
 to the world of gaming. Each sport has great multiplayer except boxing which has poor multiplayer 
 visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a very unique game, and because of this I am not sure how best to go about reviewing 
 it. I guess I wont rate each aspect out of 10, but will talk about each of the sports.
  
  Tennis: 10/10
  This game is so fun! It is really addictive and provides the highest level of 
 skill needed to do it and a lot of concentration is required. The ball makes a realistic THWAK 
 sound when you hit it and it gos in the correct direction, as if you were playing normal tennis. 
 I love this mini game, and have probably spent more time on it than all of the others combined, 
 and have a 1400 plus skill level. This is a fun game, and I always play it with friends. The multiplayer 
 is great and you can both play on the same team, which is the most fun. Also I have done a rally, 
 I swear lasted 10 minutes! It must have been like 200 strokes.
  
  Bowling: 7.5/10
  While not as good as tennis, this is still a very fun game, and it can be addictive as you try 
 to get strikes. However it is extremely easy and you can manipulate it so you get strikes almost 
 every single time whereas in tennis there is a real challenge, but this never gets any harder or 
 easier. The multiplayer isn't very innovative
  
  Baseball: 8/10
  Being a cricket fan, I don't really like baseball all that much, but this still makes for a very 
 fun game. It gives the highest challenge out of all of the games, and a game can last up to 20 
 minutes, which is great fun. There is also great multiplayer, which is very fun and is really exciting, 
 but can make you angry
  FOR GODS SAKE STOP THROWING SPLITTER BALLS!!!, but in a fun way. Yeah I get competitive
  
  
 Golf: 1/10
  *snores*
  
  Boxing 5/10
  Not a lot of skill required at all, you just move your hands forwards and backwards as fast as 
 you can, and hope they connect with the opponent. However it can be fun, if you don't take it seriously 
 and are having a laugh. Wouldn't play it single player though
  
  Overall, 7/10
  Its never going to be game of the year, but it is innovative and fun enough, to be highly enjoyable 
 and provide lots of multiplayer fun when your friends come down. I just hate the golf mode though.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  anyone who but the full wii package has this game. that being said you wouldnt think that it would 
 be that good of a game but it is. it consists of tennis, baseball, golf, boxing, and bowling. each game 
 is fun though some are better than others [baseball is probably the hardest to get a hang of] but 
 each has a unique feeling that makes it worth trying them all out at least a few times so I'll 
 review each by itself. Boxing is really fun especially against another human and can get pretty 
 frantic after a while, though the more you play you will learn a couple little tricks that reward 
 skill. tennis is fun whether or not your playing by yourself because it is fun either way, the controls 
 are pretty responsive tough the court is really bland. Golf probably takes the most patients to 
 play and definetly rewards skill because of how just like in real golf you have to hit the ball 
 just right, compensate for the wind and aim it pretty accurately [putting is a real pain] golf 
 doesnt really change if your with others though it is more fun like in all the other games to play 
 with other people. Baseball is my least favorite because of how you have to perfectly time hitting 
 the ball and how easy pitching is though it becomes more fun once you get it. bowling is definetly 
 the easiest and most fun to play with others, though sometimes it feels to easy but that doesnt 
 mean it isnt fun. In every event you get to [maybe even have to ] use one of your miis [user created 
 avatar] that you have designed. the game also has a challenge modebnd points system [higher the 
 skill harder the event] along with a workout mode [havent used it so I dont know what its like] . while 
 it may be free it is definetly a good game that showcases the wiis capablilty I have played it 
 alot and still enjoy it [it was the only wii game I had for like 5 months] so if you want a good 
 games that plays well with others get it [though if you have a wii you probably already have it] 
 and hey what more do you want its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a lot of fun. It's easy to learn and gets progessivley harder. It's got Bowling, 
 Tennis, Boxing, Golf, and Baseball. My personal favorites are Bowling , Tennis, and Golf. The games 
 I don't like in it are Boxing because the lag makes the game require no skill. All you have to 
 do to do well in boxing is drum the controllers. I also don't care for the baseball. Sometimes 
 it can be pretentious the way they seem to grandslams off a ball in the dirt when they're down 
 by 5 or more. (On Higher Difficulty Levels) The Bowling is a classic. Yes... it is easy. This may 
 dissappoint some but after they get playing it even the greatest critics will fall in love with 
 it. The tennis is fun. It's easy, yet gets progressivley harder. My personal favorite is GOLF!!! 
 The scenery is great, and the controls are just how you'd think they'd be. Overall, this is great 
 and it comes with the Wii console! Nintendo did a good job by putting this with the wii console. 
 Without this game the bar would not be set for the future of Wii Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blob1118
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great sport game. It includes  boxing. It lets you 
 use your miis you have made on your mii channel. It has great control, and is highly interactive. Its 
 a great family game, and is easy to learn the controls. You can take a daily fittness test that tells 
 you you fittness age. There are also mini games where you can train for each of the sports. It has 
 good graphics, and comes with most Wiis. There are 9 differnt holes for golf,3 easy, 3 normal, and 
 3 hard. You will need the wii nunchuck to play boxing. Bowling, golf, and tennis are up to 4 players, and 
 boxing, and baseball are up to 2 players. There are a few bad things about this game In base ball 
 you don't control the fielding in baseball, there are only three uinnings in baseball, and it gets 
 boring if you play it to much. But Wii Sports is an over all good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  By: Nintendo.
  Genre: Sports.
  Release Date: November 19, 2006.
  Players: 1-4 (One to four) .
  System This Video Game Is Available For: (Nintendo) Wii.
  Rating: 
 E (Everyone)
  
  Game Play- 8/10:
  
  Wii Sports may be too simple of a video game for some people, but others will find it to be an 
 enjoyable experience that is different in every way imaginable. While you can see almost everything 
 there is to offer in a couple of minutes, the true essence of the video is replaying those fun 
 sports that are for Wii Sports over and over again, and you probably will find yourself doing so 
 a lot. 
  
  Wii Sports consists of five different sports, and they all have a different control scheme to them. 
 There is Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, Bowling, and Golf. Although the sports called "tennis" and "bowling" 
 do seem to get more attention than the other three sports, the other three sports are quite fitting 
 for a video game like this. 
  
  I will now describe each sport individually:
  
  Baseball:
  
  Of course you cannot actually expect a girl to hit a pitch like that I am just 
 kidding! Plus, a girl is throwing the ball I think.
  
  The baseball is known to be the simplest sport in this package, and it does rely too much on luck 
 and how well or bad the computers perform. It is not horrible, but there is not much to it, and 
 your best performance could be your best game, while your worst performance could be your best 
 game. This is all because once you hit the ball, it is all up to the computers to decide if they 
 catch it or not, and they will drop it out of their gloves most of the time, causing you to run 
 an extra base or two, providing you with much ease towards winning the game. That is the definite 
 downside, but the upsides are good, too. 
  
  To bat, you must swing the Wii Remote, and although it does not have to be the same way you would 
 swing a real baseball bat, it does make it a lot more enjoyable to do so. When the ball is approaching 
 towards your bat, you are to swing the Wii Remote, causing your player to hit the ball and run 
 one to four bases until they feel like they will get out if they run any farther. The only real 
 chance you have of getting out is striking out or having the opposite team catch a fly ball, but 
 since you cannot choose whether or not your character runs to the next base or not, you will not 
 find yourself playing the game as much as you hoped, but most baseball games in real life do not 
 have players playing in real life as much as this does, anyways, but you will probably find the 
 sport to be more enjoyable in real life than in the game, but that goes for all the sports, too. 
 
  
  When you are pitching, you must either throw a fast ball by pressing nothing, or you can hold A, 
 B, or A and B to perform a different type of throw to your ball. I do not believe that the speed 
 in which you throw the Wii Remote matters, but it seems like it does sometimes. It is a very perplexing 
 concept. 
  
  Bowling:
  
  Bowling is probably the sport in Wii Sports that involves you the most. It is quite simple, but 
 it is very fun, nonetheless. In bowling, you must roll the ball down the alley to hit the pins. 
 The exciting part is turning the ball the way you want with the Wii Remote to actually hit all 
 the pins down. Your score can go as high as three hundred, just like in real bowling, and this 
 all depends on how many pins you knock down. If you knock down all ten in one turn, you do not 
 go a second turn. If you did not hit all the pins down, you get to go a second time before repeating 
 the progress in which you have ten pins. A spare is when you knock down all the pins in two turns. 
 
  
  The bowling is probably the most realistic sport, but it is quite frustrating when the controller 
 does not respond to you, and I only found this problem in the bowling, and no other sport.
  
  If you drop the ball behind you, the Miis will all jump and show no emotion at all. You do 
 not know why they jumped, and it seems pretty unrealistic that the Miis would even think that a 
 ball would hit them going at that speed and not even around them. 
  
  While you are bowling, you will see other bowling alleys, and other Miis bowling. There are also 
 some Miis walking around. You cannot make contact with them, but it can be interesting to watch 
 them bowl their own game and see their own techniques, but you still probably will not use it. 
 
  
  At times, the bowling can seem quite dull. One game, I had myself hitting a nine on one turn, and 
 then knocking down the last pin the next turn for a whole game! It was the same pattern, and it 
 seems like you can just turn your character the way you want to ensure that you always get a spare, 
 or there could even be a way to get a strike like that! 
  
  Gamers are allowed to adjust their characters with the D-Pad on the Wii Remote, and moving their 
 character to an angle or left or right. This should be obvious, but I just thought I would let 
 you know.
  
  Tennis: 
  
  Tennis for Wii Sports can have some intense matches.
  
  Tennis is probably my favorite sport in Wii Sports, and most people will find that waving the Wii 
 Remote around has never been more fun, but it does have its flaws, and its rather long volleys 
 that can turn into frustrating competitions that you just do not care about anymore, but you still 
 keep competing to get your extra experience points. 
  
  You can just tap the Wii Remote a little bit forward to hit the ball, but swinging the Wii Remote 
 like it is a real tennis racket is so much more fun, and it sometimes makes you feel like you are 
 experiencing the real sport called "tennis" itself. 
  
  Unfortunately, you cannot move your characters around with the nunchuck, and it is a huge disappointment. 
 While you are playing, you will just find yourself waiting to swing the Wii Remote as the ball 
 approaches one of your characters. Players will swing both of their characters' tennis rackets 
 if they are playing by themselves when they swing the remote, or they will swing all four of their 
 characters' tennis rackets if they are playing against themselves. 
  
  The real bad part about this sport for Wii Sports is that it seems as though the characters that 
 you are facing can run faster than you, and you cannot help but lose some matches because it is 
 impossible to win when you are not even controlling your character. 
  
  Although you cannot control your character, it still does involve strategy. It is not all about 
 swinging your Wii Remote forward. No, there are some techniques that will lead you to victory with 
 ease, as long as you use the Wii Remote in different ways, such as swinging from down from your 
 legs to the top of your head, which will make the tennis ball go a lot higher in the air, and that 
 may help you. 
  
  This is another sport for Wii Sports that you do not need to use buttons for, but you can press 
 A to throw the tennis ball up in the air while you are serving, if you choose to. Gamers will find 
 throwing the ball up in the air with their Wii Remote to be more enjoyable, though. 
  
  Golf:
  
  Although there are only three holes, most players will find themselves very bored 
 with Golf in Wii Sports to even consider playing all three holes. It just lacks any use of creative 
 controls, and it is quite boring. 
  
  There is a choice of four different clubs that you can choose from. You can either choose an iron, 
 a pitching/sand-wedge, a putter, or a driver. The driver is best used when you are teeing off. 
 The iron is best used when you are on the fairway. The putter is best used when you are on the 
 green, putting. The pitching/sand-wedge is best used when you are in the sand. It would be nice 
 to have more choices of irons/clubs, but it is not exactly necessary. 
  
  When you golf, you must wave the Wii Remote at a certain speed, depending on how far you want the 
 ball to go. Most people will find that when they swing their golf club back, like they would do 
 in real life, they will hit the ball, causing them to hit a ball somewhere they might have not 
 intended to be hit. 
  
  This is probably my least favorite sport in Wii Sports because of how hard you hit it. When you 
 hit it, you will almost always hit it as far as you can, and that can be extremely vexing. It is 
 not as hard as lifting a house over your head to hit the ball where you want it to go, but it is 
 still quite frustrating, and most gamers will not even think that it is not even worth their time. 
 
  
  The direction in which players hit it can be changed by simply moving the D-Pad around. There is 
 a nice map on the right hand corner of the screen that will show you where the flag is, trees, 
 out of bounds, and other various things that may help you. 
  
  To see where slopes are when you are putting, you can press the B Button, which makes some weird 
 light shading that makes the slopes more visible than they would be with normal lighting, and it 
 can be quite helpful. 
  
  Boxing:
  
  Boxing for Wii Sports is not as enjoyable as it looks
  
  This is the only Wii Sport that is 
 not four players. All of the other Wii Sports are, but this one is probably the most unique, considering 
 you do use the nunchuck. 
  
  Gamers will not see the player they are controlling when they begin their fight. They will see 
 the gloves that they are wearing, and a character that is a male that has two boxing gloves on, 
 as well. It is the only first-person view in Wii Sports. 
  
  To fight your opponent, you must use the nunchuck and the Wii Remote. The nunchuck acts as your 
 left hand, while the Wii Remote acts as your right hand. Swing those two controllers forward in 
 which ever direction you want to either create a high punch, a low punch, or a punch in the middle 
 of the opponent's (I would not consider him an enemy, so that is why I use the term "opponent instead 
 of enemy.) stomach. You can also block by putting the two controllers side-by-side; together. This 
 way, the opponent cannot hit you in the area that you are blocking. 
  
  There are a couple of rounds, but they are no different. Simply diminish your opponent's health 
 to the lowest it can go, and he or she either gets up or he or she does not. It is quite simple, 
 and there is not much to it. 
  
  "What Keeps The Players Coming Back For More?"
  
  It is simple! There are experience points that upgrade you to different levels, depending on how 
 well you perform. Each Wii sport has a different meter in Wii Sports. So if you gained one hundred 
 points in boxing, those points will not be added in to the other four sports. Getting more points 
 means playing against harder opponents, and it keeps you coming back for more. You can also lose 
 points if you do not do so well, but you can still gain points from losing a battle. 
  
  "Is There Anything Else To Wii Sports?"
  
  There are fifteen mini games that you can play, 
 and that means that there are three mini games for each sport. Some of these mini games are just 
 solely meant for practicing, but some are also just for you to have a good time. 
  
  An example of one of these mini games is for bowling. One mini game allows you to roll the ball 
 down the alley, avoiding blockades along the way, to hit the one pin there. You have five chances 
 before you must start over to Stage One (1) . As the stages progress, the challenges get harder 
 and harder. Another example is for bowling again. You must knock down as many pins as possible 
 in ten turns, and the amount of pins you knock down multiply by two to make even more pins! So 
 if you knocked down forty pins, the next round, there would be eighty pins! Another example of 
 a mini game is just practicing knocking down a couple of pins that are set up randomly, sometimes 
 two pins set completely opposite of each other, and you must knock those down. 
  
  "Any Additional Information?"
  
  People can create their own Mii, and then use that character 
 to compete in Wii Sports. Unfortunately, if one character has four hundred experience points towards 
 every sport, if you create another Mii, those experience points will only remain on the other Mii, 
 and not on any other Mii. Other than that, making the Miis, designing their eyebrows, hair, moles, 
 eyes, and other things can be really fun. 
  
  Graphics- 6/10:
  
  The graphics are not noteworthy at all, and they just seem silly at times. The environments do 
 not have that much color to them, and the Miis that are just walking around do not even have any 
 legs! Only the Miis you are competing against do. It is highly odd, but it gives the developers 
 less work. 
  
  If you look around, you will see nothing new. There are no birds in the sky or anything. Like in 
 tennis for Wii Sports, all you see are the Miis looking back and forth at the tennis ball with 
 most of the same colors as the other Miis. 
  
  It is nothing great, but it is nothing to complain about, and the Miis do have a rather original 
 style to themselves, anyways.
  
  Sound- 7/10:
  
  Players will hear their balls roll down the bowling alley as they ball, and they will hear that 
 smack on that tennis ball when they hit it with their tennis racket, but they will not hear Miis 
 murmur in the crowd, and they will not hear laughs from the crowd or anything like that. 
  
  The sound fits the video game fine, but there could be some adjustments to it, and some of 
 the sound effects repeat way too much, but not as much as the burping you would hear in a video 
 game like Rampage: Total Destruction. 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  With Wii Sports's promising control scheme, and irresistible multiplayer feature, it is no wonder 
 that Wii Sports is such a success. Although some adjustments could have been made, it is still 
 a great introduction to the Wii's brilliance. It truly demonstrates what the Wii is capable of 
 doing, and I can only hope that other video games for the Wii will have just as good or better 
 controls in the future. Hopefully this is only the beginning for the Nintendo Wii. 
  
  Game Play: 8/10
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  Review created 
 on November 21, 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakdude799
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports comes with the Wii console. You can play  and Golf. There 
 is a fitness mode, and a Training mode. In Wii sports you can only have 4 players. In Wii spots 
 when you play a game you get to pick one of your Miis. My favorite gazme Bowling. For Tennis if 
 you are the server you tilt your Wii remote up and then you have to swing. For Baseball the pitcher 
 pitches to you and then at the right time you swing your batt whoever gets the most points wins 
 the game. For Bowling you swing your arm back and check if anyone is behind you just in case you 
 hit them and then you swing your arm foward and realese the B button. For Boxing you need your 
 knunchuck to punch and you DON`T swing your arm or wiggle it you punch foward and that will punch 
 the player (person) you are playing. For Golf you set up where you want to hit the ball, and then 
 you pick your Golf club, and then you should take a practice swing by pressing the B button, and 
 then you let go of the B button and take your actual swing, and if you are the first person on 
 the green then you get extra points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superchi1d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports
  
  I think wii sports is a great game, firstly it comes free with the wii. If it hadn't I think lots 
 of people would have missed out on this great game.
  Overall this game makes great use of the wii controls and makes you feel like your there. Sound- 
 6/10 it's a sports game.
  Gameplay-9/10 it's a great sports game!
  Time-You can get stuck in to this game for at least 1month and if you have a willing brother sister 
 someone to play with then ages.
  Graphics- 7/10 There cartoony but its all about the sport not the graphics.
  
  Tennis 
  
 
  At first you'll be thinking omg wherever I swing the ball just flies out, but eventually you'll 
 get used to it (multiplayer helps a lot) and finally become a pro. Multiplayer for tennis is one 
 of the best as it is like your playing tennis, the only downside is backhands and they sometimes 
 muck up. Otherwise it's probably my favourite.
  
  Golf
  
  Golf is great fun and really really good to play multiplayer. Singleplayer is ok and practicing 
 in the holes is fun. But not nearly as good as getting 2 and winning to your friend by 8 J. Great 
 multiplayer but the wind is annoying.
  
  Baseball
  
  At first you will think why did the put baseball on it's rubbish and way to hard. But eventually 
 you'll get the hand of it and the timing and hey presto its great fun. Don't give up on this one, 
 as it gets good. Multiplayer on this one is good but I recommend the bowler stand's out of the 
 way so as not to get whacked.
  
  Bowling
  
  Bowling is probably the best at the beginning but after that it's probably the worst. It's to easy 
 once you work out how to get a strike every time and it's only really fun playing someone who hasn't 
 played before.
  
  Boxing
  
  The single player is really easy at the beginning but later on it gets really hard and you get 
 really frustrated. The multiplayer is easily the best as you actually feel like you are punching 
 them (make sure you wear the wrist strap) . This one's great fun,
  
  Practice
  
  Very good for practicing and getting better apart from some of the tennis ones and boxing are really 
 hard. The rest are fun.
  
  Test
  
  The test is really fun when you don't have the boxing one when he throws balls at you and you have 
 to dodge (very hard) . Otherwise it's great fun.
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Superchi1d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I first played this on a friends Wii which prompted me to purchase a console for myself. The games 
 are fairly simple but very playable. I have heard a lot of people say the Wii does not cut it with 
 graphics. However even in these simplified games you just want to play more and more. The bowling 
 is absolutely ideal for any age, I have a 4 and 6 year old who play this very well.
  
  The game make excellent use of the motion sensor which means you have to get up to use it. Much 
 better than just sitting down playing video games.
  
  
  It's graphics are obviosly not as great as the 360 or PS3 but honestly, who cares when your swingn' 
 your remote all over the place to score home runs. Wii sports is the best game for parties and 
 large groups because the controls are so easy yet entertaining. My aunts who never played video 
 games in their life are beating me the ruler of all games! I like the way that you play as your 
 mii's and how you could train them. 
  
  The sports that were selected are very good and simple yet they don't make you feel like your wasting 
 your time. The Wii remotes motion sensors are amazingly responsive and it makes you feel like your 
 actually in that stadium swingn' your racket or bat. Overall I give it an 8.0 for good enough graphics, 
 lack of a core based story, good fitness challenges, and simple controls that anyone can understand. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eboyy47
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my wii working after fifteen minutes on trying to figure out how to synchronize 
 my remotes I ripped oppen my game and put it in. It was the best game you could get in a bundle 
 because it gets up to slick and ready on how to play the wii with other games. 
  
  It's graphics are obviosly not as great as the 360 or PS3 but honestly, who cares when your swingn' 
 your remote all over the place to score home runs. Wii sports is the best game for parties and 
 large groups because the controls are so easy yet entertaining. My aunts who never played video 
 games in their life are beating me the ruler of all games! I like the way that you play as your 
 mii's and how you could train them. 
  
  The sports that were selected are very good and simple yet they don't make you feel like your wasting 
 your time. The Wii remotes motion sensors are amazingly responsive and it makes you feel like your 
 actually in that stadium swingn' your racket or bat. Overall I give it an 8.0 for good enough graphics, 
 lack of a core based story, good fitness challenges, and simple controls that anyone can understand. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  hi i know every one has this game and hopefully everyone enjoyes it as much as i do there are five 
 sports tennis baseball bowling golf and boxing you can become a pro on each sport when you reach 
 a certain skill level (1000) when you become pro you get certain rewards such as a sparckly ball 
 on bowling although if you dont do so good skill level can drop and you will lose those rewards. 
 you can also do training mode where you receive 3 different types of training for each sport such 
 as picking up spares in bowling or returning balls in tennis. 
  you can also do something called wii fitness where each day you will be given three different events 
 after you have done them depending on how well you do the minimum is twenty which is also the best 
 it can then go up to anything the worse. thank you for readingggggggggg joshhhhhhhhhh immmmmmmmm 
 nowwwwwwwww wastinggggggggggg spaceeeeeeeeee sooooooooo iiiiittttsssss longgggggg enoughhhhhhhhhh 
 biiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickw49
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a fairly ok game but you only get the most fun out of it if your playing with friends.
 
  
  Story:0 What Story?
  Sound:0
  Extremely dull piano sounds on the bowling. No Sound except the whacking of the rackets and applause 
 from the crowds on the tennis.
  Same with the golf (but theres no applause) No sound except applause on boxing. And the Baseball 
 pretty much sucks.
  Graphics:7
  Uses your mii and smooth backgrounds. Not that Detailed though.
  Audience:10
  Can be used and 
 enjoyed by all ages that even your nan can play (assuming how old she is) .
  Fun Factor:7.7 Not that good while playing by yourself but excellent with friends.
  Controls:9
 
  Responsive, gets you a bit fit and, well its great, bit shallow though.
  Overall:6.8:
  You can't put that in but thats my overall score
  Patrickw49 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartingd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  I honestly believe Wii Sports is still the best sports game on the Wii by far. I know it has it's 
 weak points, but all in all, it's the one game that I can always count on people to want to play 
 when they come over. Well, that and Guitar Hero III! The graphics are, of course, decent. They 
 definitely don't "push" the system to it's limits, but also aren't bad. This game even got my dad 
 playing the Wii! I would recommend buying a Wii even if it was for this game alone! I mean, I know 
 that's a very bold statement, but the amount of time I've spent on this game alone and with friends 
 is in no way equaled by any of the other games I own on the Wii. I guess if I had to give the game 
 a rating based on graphics, gameplay, sound, and replay value, it'd be:
  
  Graphics:8.0-We knew Nintendo wasn't going for anything amazing with this, but the textures and 
 stuff are still good, with a nice, smooth framerate.
  Gameplay:9.5-This was the first game to showcase what the Wii-mote could do, and I think it passed 
 the test with flying colors. A few of the controls, as in boxing, are a bit weird, but I gave it 
 the high rating due to it's innovation
  Sound-9.0-Sound is decent, but increased by the fact that the Wii-mote has a speaker. Again on 
 the Innovation Ticket
  Replay Value-10.0-As stated before, it's the one game I can always go back to alone or with friends.
 
  
  Total: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I actualy don't consider Wii Sports as a game, because of its lack of... Everything. I consider 
 it as a DEMO of the Wii. But I totaly accept this because this game wasn't made for you to be entertained 
 forever, but for you to be EXTREMELY entertained at the moment you win your Wii. When I got my 
 Wii, and played Wii Sports for the first time, I got realy addicted and played for hours, because 
 I had no idea that the Wii was so fun! And Wii Sports was the best (and only) path for that incredible 
 experience. The graphics of Wii Sports are good, and its simplicity doesn't make it worse. Of course, 
 being a sports game, it has great replay value. It has realy good multiplayer, and has good and 
 relaxing music, and great SFX at the sports, wich include Tennis, Golf, Boxing, Bowling and Baseball. 
 The motion sensing controles of all sports are perfect, but I only have a complain with boxing, 
 wich sometimes, actions simply doesn't respond, or respond in diferent ways. Another complain is 
 the stupid fact that you can't play single mode tennis! I never saw that! I know I said I accept 
 the lack of content of this game, but this is crazy! The basic of a tennis (wich in this case is 
 sports) game is to be able to play single and double games! But overall, this... DEMO is a great 
 start off for the Wii, but only untill you get your next Wii Game. Normaly, after that, Wii Sports 
 will probobly get forgeted... But it is always fun picking it up again, to play with your friends! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fun game that will keep you playing. Here's the games that can be played in no 
 order:
  
  Bowling: Great game for some people it can easily lean left or right but for most ( 3 of 4 ) it's 
 fine. You can have up too 4 players here using your own Mii characters if you want them! Playing 
 alone will increase your rank for awhile but later you must keep doing better or fall down in the 
 rankings. Playing with other players is a lot of fun! The standings could change anytime depending 
 on how well you do. Really i love this game: 5/5
  
  Boxing: Yes may suprise some may not.. Might be the sport where you sweat the most in and get tired. 
 Up to 2 players you can jab upper-cut swing left and right and a few combos of your own! Very interesting 
 gameplay for a boxing game. It's probably one of the games you probably should show your guest/friend. 
 4/5
  
  Golf: Fun golf game doesn't allways recognize all of your moves sadly though, so you could swing 
 and it doesn't count it or if you don't it swings. Each hole has a fun strategy for you to figure 
 out. The graphics are pretty nice and scenery is good. Up to 4 players for a fun full blast game! 
 4.5/5
  
  Tennis: Great game that will keep you playing for awhile! Up to 4 players can have a human and 
 comp on one team together ( each comp comes with a different rating ) or 4 humans on a team. Can 
 also be just you with a comp and against 2 comps! Scoring system is 1 = 15, 2 = 30, 3 = 45, 4 = 
 win. Or if a Duece first person to score 2 times in a row wins ( Duece = both teams tied at 45. 
 ) Very enjoy able fun game! 4.5/5
  
  Baseball: Hmm it's the only Ok game, How hard you swing doesn't really matter since it's hard to 
 get a super hit ( try really hard and it hurts... ) Pitching doesn't really matter too much also 
 hard to throw a superb pitch. 
  Baseball rules but with 3 innings and you really don't controll anyone else besides the pitcher 
 and batter. So the out field comp does all the work.... 
  It's fun but not that great as some other Wii Baseball games. 3/5 
  
  Overall: This comes with 
 the Wii and it's loads of fun!. 21/ 25 or 8.5/10
  
  And also there's a daily workout mode too see how well your doing!
  
  This was brought to you 
 by another Ccooldudecool review taking opinions of others. To make a request go to Ccooldudecool's 
 blog and post what game you want to be reviewed or if you have a comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durhamster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those few games that everyone, and I mean everyone can and will play. I come from 
 a family full of non gamers, but during family reunions I got all of them... even my Grandpa to 
 play Wii Sports! 
  
  The Christmas after the Wii came out, I was the only one of my friends to get a Wii, the rest got 
 a 360. They all laughed at me for getting a "kiddie toy box", then I invited them over and we played 
 Wii Sports.... now they all got a Wii.
  
  The controls are pretty simple which is why its so easy to pick up and play. People looking for 
 more depth however will find that several of the games such as baseball rely greatly on luck.
 
  
  As a single player game it'll get old pretty quick. The AI is virtually impossible to beat (example: 
 boxing at higher difficulties) or laughably easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a straightforward demo disc that shows how the Wii's motion controls can be utilized. 
 The disc contains 5 types of games: Boxing, Tennis, Golfing, Baseball, and Bowling.
  
  Golfing in my humble opinion is the most enjoyable sport to play if you're just playing Wii Sports 
 by yourself. It's quite fun and relaxing to get out on the green and hit that ball around, believe 
 it or not.
  
  Tennis would be the best sport for selling the overall idea to Wii skeptics, as it utilizes the 
 motion controls beautifully. Whenever I'm showing the Wii to someone for the first time, it's always 
 the tennis mode that wows them the most. The first time they see me swing my arm and then have 
 the ball get smacked across the court accordingly, newbies shriek, "are you kidding me!?"
  
  Baseball can be surprisingly fun, at least when you're batting (as opposed to pitching) , because 
 the bat has a one to one relationship with your real movements, unlike in the other games.
  
  Bowling is technically impressive, and feels fairly real. My only complaints about bowling 
 are that the character's animation does not match your movements, and also that the ball tends 
 to always roll to the left with 9 out of 10 people.
  
  Boxing is a great concept, and can be fun with two players, but the controls are not terribly responsive, 
 and may make people feel detached from the experience. In that sense, the boxing experience is 
 the antithesis of the tennis experience. 
  
  There is more depth to Wii Sports than one might think, as there are 3 training levels for each 
 sport, if you're wanting to hone your skills. Furthermore, there is a fitness feature to the game, 
 where you are given several skill tests in various sports, and then you are given an overall Wii 
 fitness score, which you can take at most once a day. Over time you can repeatedly take the fitness 
 tests, and measure your improvement.
  
  Finally, from a graphical perspective, the game is cute and nice to look at, but doesn't do anything 
 incredible with the hardware. Textures are reasonably hi-res, there's some bump mapping here and 
 there (on the trees in golfing, and the punching bags in boxing, for example) , as well as some 
 touches of light blooming, such as on the golf club when you're in the sunlight.
  
  All in all, Wii Sports isn't perfect, as boxing can feel somewhat broken at times, but the good 
 absolutely outweighs the bad. This is a very fun game, which will prove to those willing to believe, 
 that the Wii truly is the next step in gaming evolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the ideal choice for families as virtually every age can play it. Wii Sports is free 
 which is the best thing about it. It has simple games for you to play to better understand using 
 the Wii remote. But this is also a flaw as after a while well it gets a little bit more boring 
 each time you play it. The games in Wii sports are baseball, tennis, bowling, golf and boxing. 
 Note that if you want to play multiplayer on boxing you have to buy a extra nunchuk before you 
 can : (. Wii Fitness is also a nice finish-off feature to the game. You do some events then afterwards 
 it calculates what is your Wii fitness age. Well Wii Fitness doesn't really give you your fitness 
 age. It just tells you if you are reasonably good at the games :) . This game is free some you can't 
 be to picky what you get. It's a solid, fun game for you and your family to play until you get 
 another game and store this in your cupboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prsman
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  When I think of a free game, I see a handful of mini games. In Wii sports, what you get is half a 
 handful of sports-mini games. While the bowling is O. K., it is better than giving $7.99 for 1 game 
 to a zit-covered teen at the local bowling alley. The base ball's pretty good, but can sometimes 
 seem unfair. For example, when you hit the ball, the other team's players seem to be able to jump 
 15 feet into the air and never drop the ball, but your team can never catch it. The golf is impossible 
 to get a hole-in-one. Tennis is too easy. Boxing isn't all it could have been. The main problem is 
 that it won't always (well, most of the time) respond to your swings. But, if you want a very goooood 
 game for a specific game on the Wii, the buy a specific sports game. Overall, it is a very good 
 game to pick up and play, especially for a free game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  In a lot of ways, Wii Sports is damn near perfect. It comes free with the system, all the games 
 are simple yet addictive, and the flaws it has are very few. Why they couldn't bring this formula 
 to Wii Play is beyond me.
  
  Wii Golf is my real passion. It's not very complicated, but it's a simple game you can lay back 
 and enjoy. Bowling is the same way. Boxing is the best workout in the game, and if you download 
 the right Mii's from the "Check Mii Out Channel" you can have a boxing match between Mr. T and 
 Chuck Norris. And who hasn't wanted to do that?
  
  There are a few set backs. Tennis lacks the ability to control your players movement, which can 
 be frustrating at times. Also, in Gold, having a back swing can seriously hurt your performance. 
 This turns even a long drive into a simple flick of the wrist, just so you have more control.
 
  
  Those points aside, this is a fantastic launch game to display the Wii's abilities, and could easily 
 be all that some people need from their Wii system. Oh and did I mention that it's FREE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CERB3RuSX
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The game over all is good. it needs some work and if it didn't come with the system i would have 
 never got it. But it is a good starter game for new owners too the Wii. Thats probably why they 
 packed it with the system. If you love sports it isn't really the game to go crazy about and play 
 24/7 its just a simple game if your looking for the all night game i would go with Zelda it'll 
 take you a couple of weeks if your persistent. I guess this is why it is with the system, well 
 when i first got my Wii i was really fun i had a lot of fun beating up people in boxing so i guess 
 you will forget about it when you get other games so i give this game a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langy_01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  I first played this on a friends Wii which prompted me to purchase a console for myself. The games 
 are fairly simple but very playable. I have heard a lot of people say the Wii does not cut it with 
 graphics. However even in these simplified games you just want to play more and more. The bowling 
 is absolutely ideal for any age, I have a 4 and 6 year old who play this very well.
  
  The game make excellent use of the motion sensor which means you have to get up to use it. Much 
 better than just sitting down playing video games.
  
  This is the reason why I purchased a Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: full1820house
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game to pack in for wii. it has 5  and boxing. bowling 
 is just swing back and throw basically. if youre doing bad heres a tip: move your mii to the right 
 and throw it low it will hook into the headpin. tennis is just like regular tennis except all you 
 have to do is flick it. really easy. golf is diificult at first but once you play it more it wiil 
 be easier. and also dont smack it like crazy it will hook or draw very bad. baseball is reduced to 
 hitting this game could have been better quite boring. finnally boxing is the only sport to use 
 the nunchuck. this game (if you play like me) burns the most calories. best game in my opinion. well 
 thats it its a great game that you will enjoy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getinbelly3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a very fun game that has a lot to do. You can choose from tennis, baseball, boxing, 
 golf, or bowling. 
  
  In tennis, you move around and return hits from the computer. It can get you tired and worn out 
 if you play a lot. The more you win, the better the opponents get. It is a fun game to play multiplayer 
 on.
  
  In baseball, you uase the controller as a bat to swing. You pitch by swinging your arm like a real 
 pitch. The computer does the feilding for you. The more miis you make, the more play on your team.
 
  
  In boxing, you use the nunchuk and the controller to use as fists. you punch your opponent by swinging 
 the controllers. Boxing really wears you out.
  
  In golf, you point the controller like a real golf club. You swing just like a club too. This is 
 fun to do to cool off after boxing.
  
  In bowling, you roll the ball down the lane, just like real bowling. This is my favorite game to 
 play. It is fun and easy.
  
  All the games are easy to learn and are fun too. I would buy this game if it didn't come with the 
 consloe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well this is the first wii game i played and even with mario galaxy it cant compare to having a 
 room full of people having a blast swinging that controller around. First off the wii sports game 
 really fits well for your mii's and makes good use out of them.
  
  Bowling is my dads favorite one, i really like everything about it , it feels like your actually 
 bowling. But this one could get on the boring slide but really there are no faults with it.
  
  Tennis is my favorite and so far im undefeated in it and my cousin played me 18 times and lost 
 every time. The only thing here is you cant play 1 on 1 which is pretty annoying. 
  
  Baseball , is good but everything is too delicate if you move the controller just a tad it might 
 throw a pitch and then you wonder why doing the whole formula. Also you cant play a full 9 inning 
 game which is pretty pointless.
  
  Boxing, this game gets really tired and is really fun but lots of times your throwing punches and 
 completely missing.
  
  Golf, well nobody likes golf but it is really not that bad. It is a little confusing with the swing 
 and is annoying and does take for ever to do one game especially in a 9 whole game.
  
  oh yea and its..
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  FREE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Let's get started on this awsome game, it's fun , very fun and never stops being fun. It never get's 
 old because so many things can happen that arn't intended to happen, wich can be a great laugh 
 and fun for the whole family. Now as a boy my personal favourite has to be boxing mainly because 
 i like kicking the snot out of people when i'm worked up, i'm up to a high level on boxing so i 
 tend to only just win and not get much satisfaction from it, so i be a cheapskate and go on a geust 
 Mii and then thrash them. It's a neutral game so you can't class it as a male or female game, me 
 and my sister always go on it together, it's a great laugh and we don't mind losing.
  To really get full enjoyment out of this game you'll need a Wii remote and Numchuck if you did'nt 
 get one (wich you should of with the wii) also if you have a sibling who is old enough to listen 
 what to do you'll need two Wii remotes and two Numchucks.
  There is a disapointing part to this game wich is the lack of amount of game you can play. There's: 
 Boxing, Tennis, Golf, Baseball and Bowling. That's not a lot if you can't find one you are good 
 at there's a very limited choice. But you can't really complain when it's free with most Wii's. I'd 
 also advice not to buy it off internet stores (i'm not going to name any) but Wii sports dosen't 
 come in a case online, if that dosen't bother you, you should be fine, but if you worry about losing 
 an amazing game (like me) it's best to purchase it from a higstreet shop, such as Game, and your 
 usual game shops.
  All the games on Wii sports are totally diferent in control wise, the actions you have to make 
 are unique and sometimes hard to perfect, i despice baseball because you have to hit the ball at 
 the perfect, and i mean perfect time or you'll either strike or foul ball, this is extremly frustrating 
 and if you haven't got a good sense of timing this isn't the game for you. On the same note boxing 
 can become frustrating because you could be the best boxer in the world and only get up to a low 
 level, this is because you can actually cheat and not use the basic boxing moves and wave the Wii 
 remote and Numchuck right infront of the censor bar, thus causing your Mii to attack franticly 
 and not let the other player get a hit in. On a higer note Golf and Tennis are quite easy to master 
 and can become extremely fun even if you don't like the real sport, these two are also an awsome 
 multiplayer and can bring you, friends and family closer together.
  Overall despite the small faults, this is an amazing game it is EXTREMELY fun so get out your pocket 
 money and buy a Wii and this game, or if your Wii did'nt come with one buy this trully addicting 
 game now, before it runs out of stock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraGhost82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports obviously exists to show of the Wii's capabilities, but it manages to pack in a pretty 
 enjoyable gaming experience. After only a few hours of playing, you could very well have played 
 every possible thing on here. Really, you could play everything at least once in the first hour. 
 But the game keeps you playing as though these were the real sports, and while they can't compete 
 with the actual sports, they provide a pretty fun experience for someone who doesn't have access 
 to the sports.
  
  It consists of 5 games: Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and Boxing. The rules are all basically 
 the same as the real games, only with lengths being shortened. For the most part, all the games 
 are easy to control, though golf is often unresponsive. The controls often require no more effort 
 than swinging the wii remote. The simplicity takes away the fun of the challange, but makes it 
 an easy to pick up and play game.
  
  Graphically, Wii sports is nothing special, but then again it's not supposed to be. Character designs 
 are kept simple, and while this may lead to some odd looking characters with annoying expressions 
 constantly on their faces, it doesn't distract to much from the fun. Sound effects and music are 
 also basic, but do suit the mood quite well.
  
  The games themselves are all well and good to play, working almost exactly like they were the real 
 thing. Tennis is made overly simple by relying simply on swinging the remote and it doing the rest, 
 but as I stated earlier, this gives it a more pick up and play feel. Baseball has problems, in 
 that your opponents are constantly standing in the perfect position to catch you out, and your 
 computer controlled characters are almost completely useless, but it is the most fun of all the 
 games on here.
  
  There are also training and fitness mini games. These don't provide any where near as much entertainment 
 as the main five games, but they are nice to have.
  
  Unlike other games made to show off a systems capability, Wii Sports feels like a proper game, 
 which just so happened to show everything off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsludge56
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is an extremely well put together introduction to the brilliant console, the wii. This 
 game contains five sports for you and your friends to play: baseball, golf, tennis, boxing and 
 bowling. In each paragraph i will tell you a bit about each game.
  
  First is tennis, my presonal favourite. All you need is the wii remote, and all you do is swing 
 the 'raquet'. The character will move around on their own, leaving you to perfect the strokes. 
 Of course not being able to control you mii can be good, but can result in losing points very rarely 
 that you may feel you could have got too.
  
  Next is baseball. Basically you control the pitcher and the batters. To bat you just hit the ball 
 at the right time to hit the ball where you would like to.
  Pitching is simple, just do a throwing action and if you like you can put spin on the spin by usiing 
 A and B and a combination of both.
  
  Boxing is interesting. It is the only sport that uses the nuchuk attchment. Al you do is punch 
 left and right, and dodge. Sometimes the punches are unresponsive and you feel that you are cheated 
 out of victory.
  
  Bowling is the most calm game and the most boring, but not boring in a bad way. It is simple but 
 my only complaint is that you always play alone, unless you are playing a friend.
  
  Last there is golf, definitely the most complex sports. There are nine holes and four clubs. There 
 is a power bar that if exceeded means a hook or slice, resulting in your ball being in a bunker, 
 water, rough, or maybe on the fairway.
  
  Also there is a fitness mode to see how old you are (??) and various training excercises which 
 are surprising fun.
  
  Overall i think that wii sports is a brilliant game for wii. The multiplayer is good and the game 
 is solid- all wii owners (in the UK anyway) have this anyway! Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2-10-08
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports contains wii motion enabled forms of bowling, tennis, boxing, golf, and baseball. The 
 motion controls work well in each game and are best played with, well, anyone.
  
  Tennis is probably my favorite one, you just wave the wii mote on either side of your body and 
 it reads it as a backswing or a regular swing. The strategy comes in when you have to wait for 
 a certain point to hit the ball. Say for a regular right hand swing, if you swing a bit early, 
 the ball will move to the left, while if you wait until it's almost past you it will go to the 
 right. The wiimote also reads how hard you hit the ball, if you swing lightly it'll be a high lob, 
 and swing fast for a lower, but faster ball.
  
  Bowling is the best game to show casual gamers, it's very easy and that also happens to be a fault 
 of the game. You start by holding the wiimote up and pressing the B button, as if you were holding 
 a real bowling ball up, then drop your hand to a degree higher than 180, bring it forward and let 
 go of the B button to release the ball. You can set your position and direction to throw the ball 
 and even add spin, but, unlike real bowling, lose interest when you realize you're dominating at 
 the game and there's nothing left to improve your skill.
  
  Baseball is kind of boring, one player controls the batter and another the pitcher. You swing the 
 wiimote just like a bat, and the ball goes flying. You know how to baseball, right? Well you didn't 
 need to anyway, because the outfielders are all CPU controlled. While that does kind of suck, you 
 have to admit that that's where first time gamers would lose it and give up. As the pitcher just 
 wave the wiimote to throw, and if you hold down one of three buttons on the wiimote it changes 
 up the throw. Watch out for those cheap sliders.
  
  Golf is actually pretty good. Once you get the hang of the controls, it's not that much different 
 from any other golf game. Thing is, I never was really interested in golf games from the start. 
 This is not one for the casual gamers, either. It requires precision in every swing, and fortunately 
 the deepest game in the package. 
  
  Boxing game me mixed reactions, at first you think that it suck because you the game can't read 
 your punches when you're throwing them out constantly one after the other, but then if you think 
 about real boxing, that just doesn't happen. This one really gets you into the game, you'll be 
 where to dodge in game all you have to do is lean both remotes slightly sideways, in the heat of 
 a match you'll be on your feet ducking and sidestepping like crazy. If you take your time, and 
 get used to the rhythm and how to correctly perform punches, you'll have yourself a good time. 
 Also, boxing is another game that everyone can enjoy, the common man can't tell if a good videogame 
 should be instantly recognizing his uppercut into a left jab. 
  
  Quite fun at first, but when you reach the bottom of the game's depth, you'll just sort of stop 
 playing. But when showing the wii off to a friend, little sister, or grandparent, this is the game 
 that they'll appreciate the most, just because of the game simplicity.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CC-ledges1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, to me, is a grand and so far the finest introduction to the Nintendo Wii console. Wii 
 Sports has many games that are lots of fun, and contain a large variety of games, but the main 
 joy of Wii Sports is that it uses the use of the Wii Remote and Numbchuck like no other Wii game. 
 The Wii Remote and Numbchuck require you to control the movement of swinging bats and balls and 
 boxing, by using you arm, and, not only is Wii Sports is a greatly fun game on its' own, but, it 
 symbolizes what the Wii is made for, and it is to rise the benchmark of gaming by engaging the 
 use of the physical body of the player. Wii Sports has captured that in its' gameplay perfectly.
 
  
  The characters you play as in the game are your little Mii guys you create for you Wii console. 
 The little personalities that your little Mii react or do to your playing, is incredibly funny, 
 and for basic animation and modelling in a Wii game, the expressions sure are sharp.
  
  The programming in this game is mezmorizing. Each action you do, is solid and fluid and the game 
 does every movement you do from the Wii Remote or Numbchuck. The programming really does what its' 
 meant to do, and it is technically flawless.
  
  As far as I can recall from playing Wii Sports, there are really no problems with it. Apart from 
 the fact, this game is so good, it can get a little too addictive, so I advice you not to play 
 it every consistent, not unless you want sore arm strain or not really doing anything else natural, 
 which is what we should all do in life.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is one of the most charming games ever created, and its' programming will keep 
 the Wii standard set very very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Baseball to simple it doesnt even let you really play defense and its only 3 innings
  Golf never really played it but it wasnt good
  tennis is really good its simple but in a good 
 way not like baseball
  bowling is great a good party one to its more realistic then the others
  Boxing is great it really 
 fun but could be more responsive.
  this is an ok game i wanted something better with the wii tho like mario galaxy except it wasnt 
 out but they could have made it earlier. This game isnt that good that if you lose it your going 
 to buy another but when theres a dry season of games you can play this. Check out my blog for funny 
 videos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros., Sonic and Pac-Mac. They were all bundled games that you got when you bought 
 the system.
  
  I'm not sure if Wii Sports will have the same 'Iconic' effect as the superstars of the 80's and 
 90's but it completely keeps people having fun.
  
  I have several games for the Wii and when new people come over to play it for the first time, they 
 almost alway pick this game to play first. I don't know if it's because it all they know, or if 
 it's because it has fun simple games that everyone already knows how to play. None the less, they 
 really seem to enjoy this title.
  
  I can't say I disagree with them. I expected to play this game for a little while to get used to 
 the Wiimote. I still find myself putting this game in and playing it.
  
  Before I got a Wii, I thought this was just the 'introduce the Wii' game and that it was for people 
 who didn't get any other games with the system. I have to admit, I was wrong. There is a large 
 amount of content to this game. 
  
  Between the Training missions, especially the second bowling one, and the wii Fitness section. 
 We have been having a ton of fun playing this and I can't image it will not continue to be a game 
 that is frequently played at our house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Of course if you have first gotten a Wii and you are wondering if this is good (if anyone is really 
 that skeptical?? but its a free game so why not go for it) ... then yea, this is a great way to start 
 off with your wii to get familiar with everything... you got some real fun games to play on here 
 too.
  
  My personal favorite might have to be the boxing one... you pretty much try to box like you would 
 in real life (kinda) and as you keep going, you build up skill level and you will keep facing harder 
 opponents but it makes it more fun to try harder and such... also good cause you can practice on 
 your speed and such.
  
  There are other games such as Tennis, Baseball, and Bowling on here that you can try out... but 
 it all just depends on what you like so you will have to try it.
  
  This game is even better when you have all your friends and/or family around so if you are having 
 a party... this game is sure one to add. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bunit23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports, the game that everyone gets free with the purchase, has revolutionized gaming. This 
 game introduces players to the Wii's interactive gameplay using the wii remote (and the nunchuck 
 in boxing) . The beauty of this title is that it is addictive even you don't play sports titles. 
 Below is a listing of the advantages and disadvantages of each sport (starting with the entire 
 game as a whole) .
  
  Wii Sports
  
  Pros:
  -Realistic controls: It feels like you are really playing each sport.
  -Variety: This title features 
 golf, tennis, bowling, boxing, and baseball.
  -Skill level points: Every time you play the game you earn or lose skill level points. This makes 
 the challenge of the game adjust to how good you are. Wii Sports considers you a Pro at 1000 points 
 in each game. As you gain points the game gets harder, but if you continue to lose points the game 
 will get slightly easier until you are able to compete again. This allows all gamers to enjoy the 
 game now matter how good you are.
  -Players can design their own "Mii." A character that you design yourself to be used in a variety 
 of Wii games. All Miis you have stored on your console become playable characters.
  -You have the choice to play right or left-handed.
  -An optional sports pack can be purchased 
 that has a tennis racquet, baseball bat, and golf club.
  
  
  Cons:
  -For some sports it takes longer that it probably should to get to the pro level (even though it 
 is still fun whooping up on the CPU in the process) .
  -Online play would be nice.
  
  
  Golf
  
  Pros:
  -Has three-hole courses for beginners, intermediate, or expert level players.
 
  -Maximum of a nine-hole game which incorporates all three levels of gameplay (rather than 18 holes 
 for those of us who have short attention spans) .
  -Power meter makes the ball slice left or right if a player swings too hard.
  -Beautiful golf 
 courses.
  -Wind conditions vary during each hole, adding to the challenge of the game (you face more wind 
 if you have more skill points) . 
  
  Cons:
  -Can't play against CPU in one player mode. I'm a competitior and I always want to play against 
 someone. If you don't have anyone to play with you just golf by yourself instead of a computer 
 opponent.
  -A few courses take extreme percision just to get a good second shot. For example, the third course 
 is labeled as a beginner course but a noob will probably hit the trees everytime for a while (I 
 usually shoot for a small island of fairway off to the left) .
  -Sometimes it is hard to hit in the middle of the power meter. You either hit it hard or hit it 
 soft (for putting) .
  
  Boxing
  
  
  Pros:
  
  -Makes use of the nunchuk. You hold the remote in one hand and the nunchuck in the other and throw 
 punches with both (this the only game to use the nunchuk) .
  -Realistic: It's like a real boxing match. You mix up body blows and head shots to find an opening 
 to hit your opponent. You also can put the controllers in front of you face to block and you can 
 lean from side to side.
  
  
  Cons:
  -First few fights are very easy (but when it gets hard... it gets hard) .
  
  
  
  Baseball
 
  
  
  Pros:
  -Swing just like a real baseball bat. Pitch just like a real pitcher.
  -Variety of pitches to use.
  -Three inning games with a 5-point blowout rule.
  
  Cons:
 
  -Game is built for too much simpicity. You can't steal bases (or choose when to run period) . When 
 you get a hit it tells you if you get a single double or triple based on how long it takes to field 
 the ball
  -You can't field, you can only pitch (which is kind of fusterating when you can see the outfield 
 out of position) . 
  -Slider always seems to fall way short of the plate.
  -The higher you skill level is the more errors you can expect.
  -The long longer you pitch the 
 more tired the pitcher gets. This would be cool if it didn't lead to totally erratic throws (ie. 
 a curveball turns into a 64 mph fastball which is really a changeup pitch) . 
  
  Bowling
  
  Pros:
  -Realistic (minus the heavy ball you get to lug around in real life) . You get to add 
 power and spin to knock down the pins. (This game and baseball might have the most realistic feel 
 of all) .
  
  Cons:
  -Like golf, you can't go head to head with the CPU.
  
  Tennis
  
  Pros:
  -Can choose single match, best of 3, or best of 5.
  -Once again the controls are 
 for the most part realistic (see cons) .
  
  Cons:
  -Only problem with controls is the harder you swing, the more likely you are to go out of bounds. 
 You have no chance to put some velocity on you swing.
  -Movement is limited to wherever the computer will let you go. You have no control over where you 
 go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geesquared
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  The Wii Sports games do a wonderful job of getting first time Wii users familiar with the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk. In addition to getting your heart pumping it also allows a person the great ability 
 to do a work out. I always enjoyed seeing the "Take a Break" reminder that pops on the screen between 
 games. Setting up a Mii is equally as fun and will undoubtedly take some time out of playing, but 
 the beauty of setting up one of these avatars is that it will track your progress in any of the 
 games you play. The only minor downside that I found was that while I do enjoy doubles tennis, 
 it would be nice if the option to play singles was there as well. Other than that small criticism 
 I have enjoyed playing Wii Sports over and over. Of course, it is the only Wii game I currently 
 own, but I will be soon adding more to the collection as this innovative way of playing video games 
 has definitely moved up to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuch9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  wii sports is a freebie game you get with the console and consists of 5 sports:
  
  golf: golf is great fun with 2 or 3 players but 1 is boring and 4 is too much. there is nuthin 
 like chipping the ball into that hole ha ha. it doesn't take long to get use to the sport and once 
 you have there is endless amounts of fun in front of u. 7 out of 10
  
  tennis: the tennis game is probly my least favourite sport but ALOT of people love it. the sensor 
 used very well in it and makes the sport unbelievably realistic. lots of fun. 6.5
  
  bowling: my favorite sport :D. bowling is so much fun and is just great to play weather your alone 
 or with 4 people. the sensor is even good enough to sense the swing on the ball by you turning 
 your wrist with the wiimote. endless fun this one. 10 out of 10
  
  baseball: this is really on the same level as tennis for me. theres not much to it just timing your 
 swing and chucking the ball. you cant control your running or fielding so its a shallow game. 6.5 
 out of 10
  
  boxing: lot of fun and a huge workout. boxing is great fun just letting out some anger or just 
 trying to hit some guy silly. love to play it a few times a day 9 out of 10
  
  
  the wii has a few other feature like fitness test and training which is great fun.
  
  
  all 
 round 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruudi86
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Let's not gloss it up, this game was designed first and foremost to show off the Wii Remote's functionality. 
 The game works really well, none of the five 'sports' are particularly complicated (Tennis for 
 instance, does not give you any control over the players movement) but, for what is effectively 
 a 'demo', the gameplay is uncomplicated, fun, visually appealing - and with features like 'Training', 
 'Fitness' and experience points, will keep you playing until you are a 'Pro'. Nine out of ten people 
 will switch this game on to show off how the Wii works - and a good majority of them will continue 
 to play the fitness, or wear themselves out as a form of light exercise - and the pleasure you 
 get from seeing your Mii's in action on the screen just simply never gets old. This game shows 
 how the Wii works, and what is possible with the Wii... and does a wonderful job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahil29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The wii sports is brilliant and extrememly fun. 
  
  Another great thing about Wii sports is that its free with the console and therefore money is being 
 saved :D 
  
  Tennis- This was the first game i played when i started it up and my whole family enjoyed as well 
 as me. Its a good work out and just plain fun especially with friends. 
  
  Bowling- This is a really good game which is again really fun and grows on you. At first you may 
 not master spin but it will become familiar to you once you play more often 
  
  Baseball- This is a game which can't really be played against a computer because it is difficult 
 to hit home runs. Best to be played with a friend. Unless you are prepared to attempt to beat them 
 (doesn't make sense) . But do try this game out every now and then.
  
  Boxing- Really enjoyable even though other reviews have said your moves with the controllers are 
 not reflected on the Wii. But i feel it is great fun and should be played every now and again.
 
  
  Golf- This is the poorest game in the title. I didn't really jump in excitment when i played this. 
 Its really a one try game and leave it. "been there done that" game.
  
  Training- Enjoyable as it helps you with the sports and also provides mini games :D
  
  Fitness- 
 Only one a day is allowed but isnt really that great i would stick with training 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that is bundled with your Wii when you buy it. the game has many simulated 
 sports such as Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, Baseball, and Golf. in Bowling when you throw the ball 
 you hold the B button, swing the Wii remote and then, let go the B button when you want to let 
 go of ball. in Tennis you swing the Wii Remote in the direction you want to hit the ball. in Boxing 
 you just push the Wii Remote or Nunchuk forward like you're punching. in Baseball you either swing 
 the Wii Remote like you swing a Baseball Bat or you swing the Wii Remote like you pitch a Baseball. 
 in Golf all you do is hold the A button and swing the Wii Remote like you swing a Golf Club. the 
 game may sound boring but it will supply you endless fun no matter how long you've owned your Wii. 
 I think it's safe to say if you don'y have Wii Sports you don't have a Wii. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuR3SkiLLZ3525
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Tennis - The best of them in my opinion. Simple controls- you don't even need to press a button! 
 You control your character's swings really well- you can even put spin on it! I'm a pro in this, 
 with 1968 points (the max is 2000) Brilliant with multiplayer- very competitive edge.
  
  Baseball - Good fun- you can change the spin on the ball when you throw it, and it gets harder 
 and harder to hit it when your points go up, but gets boring after awhile.
  
  Bowling - Quite good with mates, but it's missing something. Or not. It might just be that bowling 
 is, well, boring.
  
  Golf - Good for people who like golf, but it's all too easy to get Par, until you get to the later 
 holes. Better than bowling though.
  
  Boxing- Second best- loved it. Kills your arms the further you get into it. The controls again 
 are really good- copies your movement really well, and, like tennis, you don't have any buttons 
 to press. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  As this is likely the first Wii game you will play you are going to be pleased that this title 
 has an easy to use interface and shows how to add new players, a feature which is unfortunately 
 lacking from most Wii titles at present.
  
  You can choose between five sports: Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and boxing. Other features 
 include Training and Fitness. Wii Sports allows you to choose which Mii you want to play as and 
 rewards progress in each event by acquiring skills points which can be given or taken away depending 
 on your performance, it also affects the difficulty of the enemy AI. At the end of each sport your 
 score will be plotted on a graph which shows how well you are doing compared other Mii's. This 
 is a nice feature and adds to the reply value.
  
  I will review each of these sports separately and then give an overall score at the end.
  
 
  Tennis
  
  You know the rules of Tennis and in that respect it's almost like playing the real thing! (Except 
 no running is required, but feel free not to tell them!) You can have up to four players and one, 
 three or five sets. Doubles is the only option which is a little disappointing; it would have been 
 nice to choose more then five sets. The court surface can be changed using a cheat. Why didn't 
 they include a choice of courts?
  
  The remote acts like a tennis racket, swing to hit the ball and depending on the timing and power 
 it will go in a certain direction and speed and you can put a spin on the ball by twisting the 
 remote. The AI gets difficult when you get to the pro skill level.
  
  Mii's are the spectator who has the willpower to watch the balls every movement, plus when someone 
 scores they jump up and down in delight! That does make up for the lack of variety in the textures 
 and environments. 
  
  It's a good thing that the annoying background music stops when you start playing, the sound quality 
 is good and the remote speaker does a good job of making sure you know that the racket has made 
 contact with ball. I didn't like the sound my Mii makes when he serves..
  
  This game will be the first choice for beginners as the controls are very user friendly. While 
 the graphics, audio and lack of customisation can leave a lot to be desired, it does the job of 
 showcasing some of the unique benefits the Wii Remote has to offer. 
  
  Bowling
  
  The best game in the line-up, this single game is better then games with bowling as the only function 
 (Brunswick Pro Bowling (WII) ) and it's a good thing the rules of bowling haven't changed, the only 
 slight disappointment is that you can't play against the enemy AI. Single player acts as a practice 
 session and multiplayer is competitive, you can play with up to four people with at least one remote.
 
  
  To bowl use the remote as you would if you're holding a bowling ball, aim hold down B to take your 
 shot. You're also able to move your aim on the spot and move your Mii from side to side. Like tennis 
 you are also able to put a spin on the bowling ball by twisting the remote respectively. 
  
  It's brilliant and well worth a night in with your friends or family! It does a great job of 
 telling the player how to use the controls and how to throw the ball using pictures in the bottom 
 right, it never intrudes on the gameplay and eliminates the fuss of telling the first time players 
 how to throw the bowling ball. The Mii you are playing with mimics your actions when you prepare 
 to bowl, when you have taken your shot the camera switches to the traditional bowling allay view 
 and follows the ball towards the pins, this helps the feeling of immersion. 
  
  The Audio is nothing amazing, during multiplayer the remote does have give the player a sound to 
 indicate which controller to use which is useful.
  
  This is one of the better looking sports in this collection. Reflections on the shiny bowling allay 
 floor look excellent. Seeing your competitors sitting down and random other Mii's playing on other 
 allays add to the charm. If you let go of your ball when you swing backwards the Mii's will jump 
 then laugh at you (Like in real life!) Pity it only has one bowling environment.
  
  
  Its not so good single player as there is no AI to fight against, playing with friends however 
 is a lot more fun, the phase "easy to learn and difficult to master" springs to mind which makes 
 it the most suitable for all ages. 
  
  Baseball
  
  You can play with either the AI or against another friend, one team will be batting, the other 
 will be pitching. The team with the most runs wins.
  
  If your not American or have never played Baseball I drought you will be familiar with the way 
 this game is played, so let allow me to explain 
  
  Players who are batting swing to hit the ball, if successful the batter will run a base and depending 
 on the distance the ball travels your batter will automatically go to 1st, 2nd, 3rd or back to 
 the home base. Each time a batter gets back to home base, he scores a run. If you don't hit the 
 ball you get a strike, three strikes and your out. Your also punished if you are try to hit a foul 
 ball, this is very difficult to judge as is the batting, this goes on until all your batters are 
 out then you switch to fielding.
  
  The problem with batting is that timing my swing is difficult to judge,. The game does give a means 
 of leaving the sport rather then having to reset the console. The pitching is ok, but it would 
 have been nice to control the fielders.
  
  When pitching the remote acts as baseball and the player can choose different types of pitching, 
 this includes a screwball, curveball, splitter or fastball. (You don't have to throw the remote 
 because I am not willing to pay for a new TV!) Some tactics can be used such as throwing a foul 
 ball and if they attempt to hit it they get the foul. 
  
  This game is unbalanced in favour the pitcher due to it being so hard to judge when to bat so expect 
 to hear foul ball or strike, you shouldn't have any problems fooling a human opponent. 
  
  The environments look acceptable, but it doesn't utilize the graphical potential of the console. 
 Some minor clipping issues like the camera sometimes passes through the batter when you hit the 
 ball. 
  
  It is also disappointing that the game it lasts too long with no option to limit the number of 
 rounds or number of players in the team, the difficulty you will have trying to hit the ball will 
 damage the experience. Either with a friend or alone won't play this more then a few times and 
 it will leave anyone who plays it with nothing but a sense of dissatisfaction. 
  
  Golf
  
  This sport allows you to play four player with one remote like bowling, there are only nine 
 holes with the first three being beginner, the next three being intermediate and so on.
  
  The strength of this title is easy to use controls and interface especially on golf titles on other 
 consoles.
  
  I was able to practice my swing before I took my shot, the power of the swing is indicated by the 
 bar on the bottom left of the screen which can be plotted against a map which shows the location 
 of your ball and were it will go depending on how hard you swing the remote (as seen on the power 
 bar) in addition consideration of the direction and speed of the wind is a must, the direction 
 of the shot can be aimed using the digital controls. When your ready hold A and take the swing. 
 During putting you can view height of the ground by pressing 1 on your remote and plan the shot 
 accordingly.
  
  Visuals again look ok, nothing special, environments look nice enough. Despite the lack of holes 
 and the absence of computer controlled opponents the multiplayer components and the gameplay will 
 keep your interest for some time to come. 
  
  Boxing
  
  This game can be played either single player or with a friend, this game requires the Nunchuk and 
 requires you to punch in front of you with the remote repressing one hand and the Nunchuk the other.
 
  
  Graphically this game is the best in the package with cool effects shattering effects when your 
 life bars goes down, cool light sourcing and the presence of Mii's in the audience.
  
  This can be a lot of fun if a little tiring, however hitting your opponent seems far to random, 
 its far to shallow to even bother commenting further, but it makes your friends look like they 
 are having arm spasms which is always a plus! 
  
  Training
  
  Gives you an option of playing mini games in the various sports, three mini games per sport. You 
 must play the first mini game in order to unlock the second and the second in order to unlock the 
 third, all these games help the player in various disciplines for various sports and it is addictive. 
 Plus you are given medals based on how well you perform during the mini games; this usually involves 
 getting a certain amount of points. 
  
  It's a nice little feature, but really its only for the hard core Wii sports fans who want to get 
 gold medial in every training event, casual gamers won't be interested in this for to long.
  
  Wii Fitness
  
  Is simply a random choice of three mini games based on what you played during 
 training, it then estimates your age based on your performance which is judged on speed, stamina 
 and power. It is good fun and will give you a daily workout. I can only be played once per day.
 
  
  Good for families and adds to more replay value to try and get there fitness age down.
  
  Overall
  
  The Tennis, Bowling and Golf should last you a fairly long time and is ideal 
 for parties and when you have a few friends round, you can also play four players on Golf and Bowling 
 with just one remote. If you had any fears that the game will be too complicated to participate 
 then don't worry it is easy to pick up and play, even if you have never touched a Wii remote. 
 
  
  The training, fitness and skill points will keep fans coming back for a while and it is a great 
 showcase for the Wii Remote. Don't expect anything in depth, just relax and take it for what it 
 is. A party game!
  
  Strengths: Bowling, Tennis, Golf
  
  Weakness: Baseball, Boxing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports isn't one of the best games ever thought up, but it was a good game to start players 
 off with. I mean, newcomers would obviously want something easy to help them develop their skills 
 for this new system, but after a while, when friends visit and play your games with you, and they 
 learn the ropes via your teachings, it becomes pointless for them to buy the Wii and still receive 
 Wii Sports with it. 
  
  Since you can only use Miis, it makes good use of the Mii channel, which forces you to learn more 
 of the system. The graphics also aren't that bad, and are quite smooth and realistic, besides the 
 fact that the Miis look like Chibi things.
  
  Other than that, however, this game has no other function that to teach you how to use the Wii 
 remote and nunchuk. After that, it should just be ignored, unless you have someone over who wants 
 to play with you, and you have no other multiplayer games.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, there is no point in maintaining this game to be free with the Wii. They 
 should change the game to some other popular one, like Cooking Mama, or The Legend of Zelda Twilight 
 Princess, or maybe even Super Smash Bros. Brawl when it comes out. Some other game to attract people 
 to buy it, because some cheesy basic sports game isn't going to do the job. People look for the 
 'bundles' these days, which generally includes a good deal. Like maybe a Wii, a remote and nunchuk, 
 and Cooking Mama would be a good one, with a slightly higher price than just the regular package 
 to accommodate for the cost of the game. For example, more people buy the Nintendo DS when it comes 
 with a cool game like Nintendogs or The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass, plus a few styluses 
 and maybe a skin for the hand held. All for a slightly higher cost than the system itself, but 
 still a good deal compared to the cost of both the system and the game separately. 
  
  All in all, this game is painfully mediocre, but still not a bad game for absolute beginners. Personally, 
 I haven't played mine since the day after I got my Wii, and that was a year ago. After a while, 
 it just isn't fun anymore, because it's just too simple, and it's all the same stuff. When you've 
 set ridiculous records and you've got drop-dead skills on it, the interest level just plummets. 
 Which is why I really believe that if this game weren't free, it wouldn't be sold. It's that bad. 
 Unless you're a younger child who likes recurring things and enjoys the Chibi figures, I'd give 
 it away, and I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that is bundled with your Wii when you buy it. the game has many simulated 
 sports such as Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, Baseball, and Golf. in Bowling when you throw the ball 
 you hold the B button, swing the Wii remote and then, let go the B button when you want to let 
 go of ball. in Tennis you swing the Wii Remote in the direction you want to hit the ball. in Boxing 
 you just push the Wii Remote or Nunchuk forward like you're punching. in Baseball you either swing 
 the Wii Remote like you swing a Baseball Bat or you swing the Wii Remote like you pitch a Baseball. 
 in Golf all you do is hold the A button and swing the Wii Remote like you swing a Golf Club. the 
 game may sound boring but it will supply you endless fun no matter how long you've owned your Wii. 
 I think it's safe to say if you don'y have Wii Sports you don't have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karma0666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Wii sports, it was simple an yet fun. The only true problems of the game 
 was that it had absolutely no way of any sort of online play. Sure it was released with the Wii 
 but Nintendo could have found some way using Wi-Fi with the game, but oh-well enough of that. But 
 for the most part it was a pretty good game despite its poor graphics. The best part is really 
 that in one game of bowling I earned 222 points toward my pro score, now that was just plain out 
 hilarious to me, also since my friends got like -14 and then 43 I think. LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilj0e777
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, when I got the wii, I didn't really expect much from wii sports, it looked like a demo and 
 all. But wii sports is as good as any game, it is very creative, fun, and makes good use of the 
 wii avatars, miis. The graphics are very cartoony and simple. It makes good use of your muscles 
 (depending how you play) and it demands at least some motion of your body. It has sports such as 
 tennis, baseball, bowling, boxing, and golf. They are all very fun, (personally, i hated golf) 
 and has much replay value. I think that nintendo did a very nice job with this game, decent graphics, 
 creative graphics, they really made this game nicely. People of all ages can play this game, so 
 everyone can gather around the TV and just have fun. So if your a person who likes something new, 
 creative, and something that is simple and not too hard that you can play with your family, you 
 should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  For a game included with the hardware, this is a winner sure to appeal to everyone. Easy to play 
 for all ages, I love playing it with larger groups! Also the Wii Fitness is fun and continuously 
 reminds me how out of shape I am - let's just say that according to the Wii I am 10 years older! 
 All of the games are great fun with decent replay either playing alone or in a group.
  
  MY+++
  
  Great re-play value.
  Good fun for all ages (my father-in-law (60+) was boxing, 
 my dad (55+) and my niece (5-) were bowling!
  Gets you in shape (especially the boxing) .
  Great biology lesson - you learn of muscles you never thought existed.
  
  MY - - -
  
  Shows 
 how out of shape I am.
  Hurts. Pain. Stiff. See first comment in - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Wii Sports is little more than a tech-demo. Yes, it has very little depth when you compare 
 it to a regular game. And yes, it's really only fun with other people around. But for a FREE game, 
 I don't think Nintendo could have made a better example of what they are trying to do with the 
 Wii than with Wii Sports.
  
  There are only five sports here to play, but some of them are so much fun with other people that 
 you could be busy with this thing for hours. It is the perfect party game, especially the bowling 
 game. I really don't mean to sound sexist here, but this is the game that I have more girls telling 
 me to play than guys. It's also the reason those same girls want to shell out $250 to purchase 
 a Wii. Not because of Zelda: Twilight Princess. And not because of Resident Evil 4. It's because 
 of Wii Sports.
  
  And that is where I think Nintendo has had a stroke of genius. This is the type of game (along 
 with the Wii's motion controls) that gets the person that isn't necessarily into video games to 
 give video games a look. And it's fun enough for the more hardcore gamer to get into especially 
 while playing in a party atmosphere. Let's be honest...... your girlfriends don't want to sit around 
 and watch you play Final Fantasy all night. But those same girlfriends would love to join in a 
 game of Wii Sports with you.
  
  The game also uses your little Mii characters that you create on your Wii. This is another stroke 
 of genius as it's a blast to create an avatar of yourself and your friends and then go start bowling, 
 play tennis, or even hit a few home runs. Sure the visuals are a bit crude, but it's not in a bad 
 way. They are VERY simple, but it fits the feel and atmosphere of the game.
  
  There is a training mode for people who want to learn how to play, but it's so easy that going 
 through that mode was very boring and unneccesary. I really like the Wii Fitness mode. Here you 
 play through 3 random training challenges and how you do at them goes into your age ranking. If 
 you suck, you will have a higher age. My first time playing I got a age rank of 38. I am 32 yrs. 
 old. But as you get better at the games and go back to this mode everyday (you can only do it once 
 a day) , you will eventually drop your age down. It's a fun mode and provides the game a little 
 depth.
  
  Sure it's hard to argue whether this would be worth a purchase if it was a stand alone retail game, 
 as the lack of depth and the crude visuals really don't show what the Wii is capable of. But as 
 a free pack-in game, Wii Sports is a great experience and really accomplishes getting a bunch of 
 people together to have fun and experience the Wii motion controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_and-Omega
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii sport is a game that you get with the Nintendo Wii console if you buy it brand new.
  
  I think that this game truly brings out the full p [otential out of the Nintendo Wii, it has got 
 all the usual movements that yopu may use in any game and some really fun games on it.
  
  The games that are featured on this title are: Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and Boxing and they 
 are all fun to play. The only sport that you need the numchuck for is the boxing, so it doesnt 
 really matter if you dont get a numchuck with your wii.
  
  With the abillity to go pro on some of the sports is just an added extra, like in bowling if you 
 go pro then you get to have a bowling ball with sparkles.
  
  The opponents get harder each time yopur skill points do so they keep getting harder (the hardest 
 they can get is 200skill points) , (but you can go over that amount) .
  
  this game is really good so i recommend it if you didnt get it with your wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game has 5 short sports games. Each, at its longest, would take no more than a half hour to 
 complete. After you play this game for a month (at most) you won't want to play it again, unless 
 someone who hasn't played the Wii before comes to your house, then you can pop this in for a half 
 hour before moving on to the real games.
  
  
  I'll rate these based on how good they are as mini games, and compared to the other mini games 
 in Wii Sports.
  
  
  Tennis - 6.5/10
  You only control the swinging and you get two swings, swinging left and right. But it's fun.
 
  
  Baseball - 4/10
  While you bat, you can only swing, you can't run bases. While pitching, you have 4 pitches, which 
 is really good, except you don't field. Yes, you literally ONLY swing and throw a pitch. Not that 
 fun. Luckily it's only 3 innings.
  
  Golf - 3/10
  It doesn't read your swings good. I swing the same speed most of the time, and it either reads 
 it as an over-swing, an 80% swing, or nothing. It's too hard to get under par.
  
  Boxing - 2/10
  There's supposed to be 3 different punches (jabs, hooks, and uppercuts) , except 
 it rarely reads uppercuts. When you play, you can just swing away wildly and win. After one or 
 two matches, you're exhausted.
  
  
  Bowling - 9/10
  This game is so fun. It is very good at reading how you move your arms to put the kind of spin 
 and power on the ball you wanted. The pins fall down realistically. There's 10 frames. It has everything 
 put a season mode. This is easily the best game on Wii Sports and the one I played way longer than 
 any other game on here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS4L1F3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports only got 5 games. Boxing, tennis, bowling, golf, and baseball. All the games only need 
 the Wii Controller except boxing. Boxing needs both the Wii Controller and the Nunchuk. There is 
 this mode called "Wii Fitness". Wii Fitness lets you do some sports and will show what your "Fitness 
 Age" is at the end. There is also "Wii Training". There are 3 training challenges to finish in 
 each game. In bowling, you will see other people play too but those are just comps. In baseball, 
 if you only have 1 Mii, there are comps to help you. In golf, if you did a really good job, people 
 will cheer for you. In tennis, it's just plain and simple, swing the Wii Controller. In boxing, 
 each level will get harder if you keep winning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  *** Wii Sports ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Good controls
  -Fun for all ages
  -Easy to pick up and play all the games
  -The game is FREE!
  
  THE BAD
  -Some games are 
 too simplified
  -Graphics are plain
  
  OVERVIEW
  Wii Sports is a good game for the whole family. When your 80 year old grandmother has a blast, 
 you know you have a good game. The hardcore gamer will enjoy this game but I think that the casual 
 gamer will enjoy this game more because anybody can easily pick up and play. Wii Sports contains 
 the following simplified versions of the sports: bowling, baseball, tennis, golf and boxing. Not 
 only can you play these sports but there are training modes for each sport and a fitness test.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  All the controls are easy to learn and each game is simplified to make it easy to pick up and play. 
 This game really uses the full range of motion of the Wii Remote. Also, the controls fit well with 
 each sport which makes each game feel like reality. Now I will give you a short break down of the 
 gameplay per sport.
  
  BOWLING (my favorite) does a really good job with the accurate pin action and smooth controls. 
 You can even throw the ball on the other lanes or backwards, which gives a startled reaction from 
 the crowd. This game allows 1-4 players to bowl against each other. Before each shot you can change 
 your position from left to right and also the angle. Then, just hold the Wii Remote in front of 
 you, press and hold the B button, make a swinging motion (while the computer moves you forward) , 
 and release the B button. You can change the speed of the ball by making a faster motion from start 
 to finish and the curve (or hook) is determined by how much you twist your wrist when you release 
 the ball. I will say that the pin action closely resembles real bowling which is a nice touch. 
 In the training mode you can practice spares, using hook, and even your power.
  
  BASEBALL is much simpler then regular baseball because you only play three innings and you don't 
 use the players to field the ball. In baseball, which is for 1-2 players, one person pitches and 
 the other bats. All the fielding and base running is done by the computer. The pitcher has a few 
 pitches that they can use like the curveball and screwball for example. To pitch just swing the 
 remote like you would a normal baseball. The harder you motion the faster the ball will go and 
 you can choose the direction by using the D-pad on the controller. Batting is even easier. To bat 
 just swing the remote and time your swing with the pitch. In the training mode you can have a home 
 run derby, practice swing control or just some battling practice.
  
  TENNIS is another sport that doesn't require you to move your character on the screen. This sport 
 is for 1-4 players and you can play singles or doubles (just make sure you have enough space for 
 everybody) . In tennis the computer moves your character towards the ball and all you have to do 
 is swing the remote to hit the ball back. Serving is done by flicking the remote upward to toss 
 the ball up and then downward to swing the racket. Timing is key to placing the ball where you 
 want it to go on the court and power is generated by how fast the user swings the remote. The training 
 mode lets you practice your swing, timing and control.
  
  GOLF is another fun little game that lets 1-4 players compete against each other. Before each shot 
 you have the option to change you club between a generic driver, iron, wedge and putter. Once you 
 have the right club you can zoom out to aim where you want your ball to go. To hit the ball just 
 hold down the B button (not holding it down will result in a practice swing) and make a swinging 
 motion like you would a normal golf club. Distance is based on how hard you swing but if you swing 
 too hard the ball will either slice or hook. Putting can be a little tricky because the remote 
 is a little touchy here. The training mode will help you improve your putting, chipping, and accuracy.
 
  
  BOXING is very, very tiring! You can duck and weave your opponent while trying to connect their 
 face with your jab or hook. To play you just hold the Remote and Nunchuk up and make a punching 
 motion with your arms. If you tilt the controls to the side your character, on screen, will move 
 in that direction and if you hold them together you can perform a block. Each time you play you 
 start off in a practice mode for about a minute to get a feel for the game and then the bell rings. 
 Each player has a certain amount of life and when it runs out your player will fall to the ground 
 and the referee will start the count. If you get knocked out multiple times you won't get up and 
 the match will end. The training mode will let you work the punching bag, and practice dodging 
 and punching.
  
  GRAPHICS
  There is not too much to say here because the graphics are very plain.
  
  SOUND
  The sound 
 effects are pretty good and help with making each sport feel realistic.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Even though each game is simple and the graphics aren't the best you really can't go wrong with 
 this game. It is fun for everyone and whether you like it or not the game comes FREE with the Nintendo 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  have very mixed feelings about this game for the fundamental reason that I get quite a bit of enjoyment 
 out of it from time to time, but at its core it is completely lacking substance.
  
  When I first got my Wii, I was quite excited to try this game out and quite justified was this 
 desire since it is quite innovative in terms of how you play it. Though, if you put aside it's 
 unique approach to how you play games, it is generally a title lacking much to warrant more than 
 playing it from time to time with a group of people.
  
  Graphically speaking it is a nightmare. By todays standards it is well below par. In fact, I would 
 go so far as to say that more than half of the PS1 and N64 era games boast better graphics. The 
 polygon count is miserable and most of the time Miis don't even have arms or legs. Style or not, 
 it simply doesn't look nice. Since all Mii faces are fixed, there is no variation in facial expressions 
 which further hurts an already dull looking game. Most of the textures and polygon shading are 
 mediocre at best, and many times you have to ponder how Nintendo put their name on such a shaudy 
 looking game.
  
  The sound is also nothing to brag about. While the sound effects are not so bad, and their presence 
 on the Wii Remote brings a nice feel to the games, not much can be said about the game's other 
 sound. The music is boring and could have used more lively music to get you into the groove with 
 certain events. The cheers and sighs from the audience are almost always repetitive and annoying.
 
  
  Though, Wii Sports is by no means a horrible game that doesn't deserve to be played either. In 
 fact, it can be quite entertaining to pick up, especially if you have guests who are new to Wii 
 to join in on the fun. Unfortunately, you do need a very large area to completely enjoy the games 
 (unless you want to break something) . While the game consists of five sports; tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf and boxing; you use only the Wii Remote for every event except boxing, which requires 
 a nunchuck as well. Most of the time, the events feel quite natural and life like, although at 
 times it feels as though it's difficult to get subtle movements registered, which can be irritating 
 at times, especially in golf. Boxing will give you a nice workout even if you play it for only 
 ten minutes. Most of the time you really do get a sensation of partaking in the event you are simulating, 
 but still the little quirks here and there with sensitivity issues can get annoying. The game is 
 also hurt by an unbalanced skill system which tends to make matches either too easy or too difficult 
 - there is very little gray in terms of AI performance.
  
  Disappointingly, aside from choosing if you want to play right or left handed, there are no options, 
 no configuration and no customization menus which is a real drag. If you play the game repeatedly 
 the warnings about watching out for nearby objects really get on your nerves and there isn't a 
 way to disable these obtrusions. During certain events, particularly baseball, you find yourself 
 wanting to just cut to the chase and skip over unnecessary animations of things such watching the 
 runners run each base. It's pointless to watch when the game calculates how far they go ahead of 
 time anyhow and even tells you but still makes you watch it everytime which can be boring when 
 you just want to play the game.
  
  It's unfortunate that Wii Sports was capable of being so much more but Nintendo seemed to have 
 neglected its various problems in hopes that everyone would overlook it's faults and be awed by 
 it's innovation. Sure, it does bring a new approach to how we play games, but not without it's 
 fair sure of problems. You wont find yourself outright hating the game, but it may not take too 
 long before you get bored of it. At least a daily performance tracking system was added to the 
 package which allows you to see how well you are progressing should you play it often. If you're 
 new to Wii then this game is a must for you, but if you know your way around the system's library 
 pretty well you will likely encounter far more entertaining titles that also make creative use 
 of Wii's unique control device.
  
  Gameplay: (6) A bit monotone and repetitive after a while, but can still be quite fun with friends. 
 The small annoyances add up and get in the way of making it more enjoyable than it could be.
  
  Graphics: (4) Horrible! What was Nintendo thinking? Of course the Wii is not exactly capable 
 of state of the art graphics, but this was very disappointing. Fortunately, some of it is polygons 
 and it is at least in color.
  
  Sound: (5) Blah. Mediocre at best. Irritating audience sound effects and dull and unmotivating 
 music.
  
  Lasting appeal: (7) Unique style of game play allows you to enjoy this title even after months, 
 though you wont want to play too long at one sitting because it can get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Micro-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is what you want to come with the Wii. The game displays the basic functions of the 
 Wii controller and allows you to feel the controller's sensitivity. The game itself is very fun 
 with a lot of people, its just plain fun by yourself. The ability to have up to 4 people swinging 
 and thrusting the controller in 5 various games becomes addicting and a hit for all. The game will 
 be enjoyed by most, but is obviously not the best if your looking for graphics or value. It's very 
 addicting, but doesn't have enough options to satisfy someone looking for a long-lasting game. 
 Wii Sports includes game such as Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf, and Boxing. Some are geared more 
 toward multiplayer and some singleplayer. Tennis, Bowling and Golf tend to be more for singleplayer 
 since users will want to be able to continue their turns quickly and improve their skill and engage 
 in quicker games. Boxing and Baseball are more fun in Multiplayer then the other 3, quite simply 
 because they require certain movements that require more advanced strategies to beat your opponent. 
 Also, Boxing and Baseball become extremely hard your skill level is high. You'll be knocked out 
 or have the mercy rule enforced in a small amount of time since the computer will be able to read 
 your moves quicker then another player would be able to. The huge downside of Wii Sports is the 
 inability to provide various options for the games that most people look for. Such as 9 innings 
 in baseball and additional rounds in boxing. Wii Sports is worth playing considering it comes free 
 with new Wii's and will be an overall enjoyable experience for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy340
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  This game becomes an instant classic. Its fun and addicting for hours of play. The game is fresh, 
 new, and simple. My whole family gets in on the fun and my parents are almost never interested 
 in video games.
  Lasting factor:
  This game is really all in all simple and effective which makes the game somewhat last less than 
 the newer games coming out. But mostly you; ll come make to this sooner or later to enjoy it.
  Game play
  Wii Sports has the most original game play that I have seen. There isn; t a learning 
 curve at all and everyone of all ages can play which increases your fun. 
  Downsides 
  The only real downside is overplaying and waking up the next day with pain in your shoulder but 
 that will go away after an day and since your body adapted you should be fin to do it again without 
 pain. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHimz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the free game you get with your Nintendo Wii when you purchese it. Wii Sports is 
 an intresting game because of how, while it's free, it is still a solid game. The game doesn't 
 suffer from the usual problems that most free games suffer from, like totally sucking. This game 
 breaks that totally sucking free game curse, but it still has its problems.
  The gameplay in Wii sports is the most innovative part of the game. The game takes totall use of 
 the Wiis unique controls. First, lets talk about baseball. Baseball is a simple game. All you do 
 is hold the Wii controler like a baseball bat and swing at the pitch. Then, to pitch, you hold 
 one of the direction pad directions and pretend to throw the Wii remote. The one problem in baseball 
 is that all you do is pitch and hit. The game does everything else of you. Next, there is bowling. 
 Bowling is the most realistic game in Wii sports and is one of the best. To bowl, you hold the 
 Z button and then do a bowling motion with Wii controler. This works really well and the game even 
 does rotation of the ball, which is another realistic touch. Another game in the package is Golf. 
 In my opinion, this is the best game because it feels like you are playing real golf. My only grudge 
 with it is that there are only 9 courses, which isn't a lot, so that stinks. This game plays totally 
 like real golf, so it feels really good to play. Tennis is the game I liked the least in Wii sports. 
 The only think you do in tennis is swing the Wii remote to hit the ball. You can't control the 
 characters, which really stinks. One nice touch, though, is that in the game, you can do forhands 
 and backhands, which is a nice tough. The last game in Wii sports is boxing. Boxing is the only 
 game to use the nunchuck attachment. To play this game, you punch with the controler and nunchuck 
 untill you win. This is the only game that you will get a leginiment work out in the game and trust 
 me, you will get a SERIOUS work out. Overall, Wii sports has some of the most enjoyable gameplay 
 I have ever expierence.
  The graphics in the game are ok. In the game, you control the Miis, the special characters you 
 can control in the game. Other then the Miis, the rest of the game looks decent. Each of the stadiums 
 look like the place were you would play the sports, but since the Wii can't do that great of graphics, 
 they can sometimes look underwhelming. The sound in the game is ok. The Miis don't talk, so the 
 only human voice you will hear while playing the game, besides your friends, is the announcer, 
 who isn't really announcer. All he really says is out and YOU WIN, so he greats really annoying 
 after a while.
  Overall, Wii sports is an innovative game just because of the Wiis special controls. So, if you 
 are buying a Wii, watch out. In that box is a game that is a fun and addicting that will be fun 
 after a while, but you will get bored after a while. But, the game is fun and will have you coming 
 back for more every so often when you get sick of Zelda and other games on the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is one of the Wii's gems. It was a pack-in that came with the best console ever, simplifying 
 five great sports to make up Wii Sports. It's a simple game, accesible to all ages from four years 
 (my little brother was 3 when we got the Wii and was a master in bowling and golf in just days) 
 to even 70 (my grandfather plays Wii Sports as well, loves it and mastered golf) . 
  
  Bowling is the best sport on the game, with realistic actions and is not simplified too much. You 
 hold the remote in front of you and hold B down and swing. You let go of B as you swing. There 
 aren't too many problems here besides sometimes letting go of B too early, which an annoying message 
 repeatedly pops up. Other than that, it's an ingenious game that's great for parties.
  
  Baseball is another good game. It's simplified, but not by too much. You hit the ball by swinging 
 the remote, and AFTER (may I repeat this, AFTER) the opposing team's outfielders or infielders 
 get the ball, your Miis run to the bases. It may be confusing at first, but works ingeniously after 
 a while. The only problem is that when you're pitching, you can't control the out or infielders, 
 which is a bummer because the AI on your team always sucks. 
  
  Tennis works well, but is not as good as the two sports above. You swing the remote to serve, than 
 give it a smack again to hit the ball. It works sometimes well, but the controls don't always work 
 and it isn't that fun.
  
  Boxing can wear you out after a while because you hook up the Nunchuck attachment and swing your 
 arms at your opponent to hit them. It's an okay game, but not the best, not the worst.
  
  Golf is probably the worst sport IMO because... well... it's just plain boring. You just swing the 
 remote and hold down A to hit the ball. Sometimes the remote gestures don't work, either you swing 
 too hard or too soft and it's just plain annoying.
  
  Other features include Training games, which have 3 to each sport, totaling out to 15 training 
 minigames. They're simplistic games that hone your skills to each sport. Most of them work, but 
 some don't. The final feature is Wii Fitness, which randomly gives you three training games. It 
 tests you for a 'Fitness Age', which is an age that you're at comparing on how good you were at 
 the three training games. 
  
  As you see there isn't much of a variety to do, but it will keep you going so you can achieve PRO 
 status, a status given when you get 1000 points in each sport, which will make you happy with a 
 few awards (bowling gives you a starry ball, tennis gives you more audience members, boxing gives 
 more audiences and silver gloves, and baseball gives.... well... nothing, really) .
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  The graphics aren't anything special, but it's a pack-in game that is first-gen 
 for a new system. It has a simplistic art style too that uses your Mii caricatures, so I have to 
 be easy on it for this.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7.5/10
  
  There are a few catchy tunes for each sport that you'll hum often (I know me and my family do) , 
 catching the tone and spirit of the game.
  
  SOUND: 7.5/10
  
  There isn't a lot to offer in Wii Sports, with 5 sports, 15 minigames and an age tester. But it 
 all pays off with it's addictive gameplay and undeniable charm.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 8/10
  
  As a pack-in game, Wii Sports is a well-made game. It seems a bit like a demo with its limited 
 features but, hey, it's free! Plus, it's addictive and uses the Miis in a great way, not just to 
 use them. The Wii is well reccomended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRustyB
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I use this game every week. The games don't have much depth so it can get pretty old if your just 
 playing by yourself, but in a group there's hours of fun to be had. It's a great party game, the 
 bowling has been a huge hit with the group I use it on. Another great thing is you don't have to 
 worry about the content this is a game that you can play even as a small child. I don't know that 
 I would have purchased this game by it's self but it is such a great starter game. The funny thing 
 is reviewing this game really doesn't do much good cause if you buy a wii your gonna own this game 
 whether you want to or not. So buy the wii and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmkj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii play comes with the wii when u buy it so ya.... its a good enough game to keep u coming bak 
 to it plus its free. if u were kinda low on money after u bought the wii, dont worry, this game'll 
 keep u busy at least till u get ur next game. graphics too kiddish though but probably cuz wii 
 sports is for the whole family so u wouldnt want to see a gun in there (my family is coo with it 
 though) . so all in all, the game is great with 5 modes to play, free with the wii, what more could 
 u expect? baseball, bowling, tennis, gold, and boxing, the funnest. plus the wii fitness will keep 
 u coming bak everyday aiming for the lowest age (mine now is 28) . everyone has it so ya. its good 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Nintendo made a smart move by including a free game with their new system. It was easily accessible, 
 fun, and showed off the new remote controller well. It appeals to almost all people, whether they're 
 gamers or not. It includes five sports: tennis, baseball, boxing, bowling, and golf. Tennis is 
 really fun and probably the best and most nongamer-friendly game and is very enjoyable even though 
 you just swing the remote and don't move your Mii yourself. Baseball is pretty fun, but not one 
 of the best in the package. You swing the bat and pitch the ball, and the rest is up to your other 
 eight Mii players on your team. Bowling is very fun and a little bit more complex. You can make 
 the ball curve, which adds a little more depth. Golf is fine, but probably my least favorite in 
 the game. You swing the remote golf club style, and it even senses your speed and how hard you 
 swing. It can be frustrating and difficult, but still just fine. Boxing is great. You use the remote 
 and nunchuk as your fists and throw punches at your opponent, dodge, and even do hook punches. 
 The five sports all support at least two players, and that's where Wii Sports shines most: multiplayer. 
 It's a blast to play with friends and family. When you play single player (and multiplayer on bowling 
 and golf) , you gain skill points for your Mii, which improve their ability to play that certain 
 sport. This adds a little more depth to such a simple game and was a decent extra. The training 
 mode is surprisingly fun. It's pretty much a collection of minigames involving the sports in the 
 game, and they're really not too bad and worth playing. There's also a fitness mode, which isn't 
 anything too special.
  
  So, Wii Sports is a great bundle package game. It is enjoyable, simple, and accessible to all ages. 
 Nintendo couldn't really have included a better game for free that showed off the remote just right 
 like this does, and it's nice to have as an extra bonus with your Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Like i said before this game is revolutionary, but needs more detail, and more could be added. Overall 
 this game is great, but you can also add a lot more, like in baseball. You can't even run, and its 
 not long enough, plus no arms? Just about everything else is realistic and most of the motions run 
 smothly. My favorite is boxing (with friends) , and my second favorite is bowling (with friends) because 
 i cant get enough of both. Actually i like all of them because they are so fun to play. The only 
 one game i get tired of is Wii golf because for some reason i cant play the 9-hole game, because 
 it gets boring. I guess Wii sports is a great multiplayer game, and is a good single player because 
 the Wii age thing keeps you playing day after day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  It's a fun game and great for having a laugh and a muck around with your mated but it's really 
 not as gr8 as its sed 2 b. I did enjoy playing it when i got it a lot it was my only game for about 
 3 weeks and so it was the only thing to play i brought a fair few friends round to show them i've 
 got it and it's good. But it soon was a boring game on single player except from perfecting your 
 wii fitness age getting 250 on bowling and becoming perfect on golf and baseball it was missing 
 absoulote amazingness. I still play even now with friends on multiplayer! but never on single player. 
 It has a lot of hype it's not that good. It's main advertisement was the tennis but that wasn't 
 really that fun. after about 6 games of absoloutely whooping your friend because he's never played 
 on the wii it is boring and you move onto baseball. I'd say a 7/10 meowcow22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterboss34
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is disliked by some people. For me, it is perfect for what I need it for. This game is 
 really needed just so, when you get your Wii, you have something to keep playing. After you beat 
 your first game (s) you really need something else to play. OR: if you have friends that come over 
 your house you need a pretty fun game to play. Most of us our first game (s) are Adventure. NOW....... 
 Onto the game itself.
  Tennis really was great. It was real simple. Anyone can play it. You didn't need to do much. Just 
 hit the little ball over the little net with your little racket. Although I say it is easy, that 
 doesn't mean the sport is stupid or lame. It was still extremely fun. It for sure had me coming 
 back to try to get PRO. Also, it is probably #1 in playing with friends or family. I'm not gonna 
 say that Tennis is perfect or else I would have given it a 5/5. I really think they could have 
 let you walk around. BUT, although they didn't, it doesn't matter too much. I give it 4/5 Stars.
 
  Baseball was a lot of fun too. Not as good as tennis though. It is great to see some of your Miis 
 that you have made and placed in your Mii Channel to come out every once and a while. I really 
 didn't find any problems with pitching or batting. Pitching was cooler than I ever thought a simple 
 game could be. You could do virtually any kind of pitch with just your Wii remote. Also you could 
 change the Direction of the ball too. The one and only problem I found is that I really do think 
 they could have maybe added fielding to the things you have to do. I don't expect it to be like 
 a $50 Baseball game, but a little fielding would have made the game 100% better. These are the 
 reasons why I feel Batting gets a 3.5/5 Stars.
  Bowling is another great option for you and your friends to play. It seems to take a little more 
 effort to play this than tennis. Keeps you doing more than just leaning back. You can do anything 
 you could hope in a bowling game. This includes being able to throw the ball behind you and see 
 some of the Miis that you have made jump out of surprise. They even went to the trouble to add 
 other bowlers next to you bowling as well. This is another game to shoot for getting PRO at. It 
 is one of the easiest since you play against yourself. But be careful. Your score can easily slip 
 from under you if you slack. CONGRATS bowling on getting 5/5 Stars.
  Golf is one of the most hated sports on here I believe. If you give it a chance you will seem to 
 like it. Any event or sport is fun if you play it on the Wii. I feel that the wind gave it a real 
 Golf experience. You also really had to keep focus on the Clubs that you chose to use. Again, another 
 perfect multi-player game. Once you really start actually playing the game, it is surely hard to 
 quit. The difficulty levels also make it satisfying to play. Playing all holes makes it a fun way 
 to play. I give Golf a 3.5.
  Finally, I feel Boxing IS TOO MUCH FUN TO BE ON A FREE GAME THAT COMES WITH YOUR GAME CONSOLE. 
 You can do anything a real boxer would do. You must duck, block, pivot, jab, upper cut, and much 
 more. The difficulty really gets fun as you go higher. It gets to be a real challenge after you 
 become PRO. Boxing is great to play with a friend too. You get to see which one is better at fighting 
 without getting hurt or injured (speaking hypothetically) After playing boxing for a while, you 
 feel like you been playing games all day when you have just been on for an hour. Boxing keeps you 
 coming back and that's why I have given it a 5/5 Star Rating.
  Training Mode is a real fun way to spend your time after playing all the games for a while. It 
 keeps the same basic controls as the real sport but it kind of puts it into a little mini-game 
 so to speak. You can practice dodging balls thrown at you by an instructor or practice hitting 
 the tennis ball in the right direction by playing Wall Ball. The Medal Awards giving out is a real 
 incentive on coming back and playing more also. I played games for hours trying to beat my highest 
 score in order to get a gold medal.
  Wii Fitness test is the Finally Mode on the game. It is a daily test that you can choose to take 
 that will keep you coming back. It is a fun way to see how the Wii judges your age by how well 
 you play the 3 games they give to you. You can also see how well or badly you are doing by looking 
 at past results that you have done. 
  Now that you have read this, isn't Wii Sports a good game. I feel we should all give Nintendo 2 
 Thumbs Up on making such a great and fun game to give to us free with our Wii console. THANKS NINTENDO!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sienikastike
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  So, Wii Sports. The game that's supposed to be playable for every person out there. Is it? 
  
  The answer is yes, and to a certain extent, no. Just about all the games CAN be played by anyone, 
 but some of the subtleties of the games won't be easy to understand and master for example people 
 who've never played a game before. But, at its core, Wii Sports IS an extremely easily approachable, 
 wonderful product that you should at least try. 
  
  So, the gameplay. It's just so intuitive and easy, I can't believe it. You know, there's got to 
 be something in a game when my mother who doesn't like technology at all and has never even touched 
 a game controller before can just pick up a Wiimote and start playing, and most of all, having 
 tons of FUN. Most of the mechanics work really well, but there are a couple of things that could 
 have been explained somewhere, for example that you can actually jump and hit the ball in tennis 
 by holding down A. The golf mechanics also take time to grasp, it took me a while to understand 
 that the game reads the swing correctly usually when your swing ends up in the remote pointing 
 to the TV. The only a little more difficult game is boxing, which many have said to be unresponsive 
 and generally not very good. I happen to think it's most fun and addictive, but there certainly 
 IS a learning curve there. You can't just mindlessly punch in the air, you have to have a good 
 rhythm in it. Nonetheless, one of the most accessible and well-working titles ever.
  
  The graphics? I think they are pretty nice, actually. Yes, it's simplified almost to the extreme, 
 but hey, the framerate NEVER hiccups. The look is rather pleasant, and what textures there are 
 are really sharp. Also the subtle lighting effects are just wonderful. Especially during boxing 
 some of the harder hits look really visceral and surprisingly painful (considering this is supposed 
 to be a game for everyone) . Of course, Wii Sports doesn't really show what Wii's hardware can do 
 in the graphics department when pushed to the limits, but it's very pleasing and easy on your eyes.
 
  
  I don't think I need to cover the sounds of this game that much here, I'll just say I like the 
 sound effects and the music is pretty much just some insignificant muzak. Why can't you listen 
 to your own MP3s from an SD card here? Or hell, why can't I just put the music volume to zero?
 
  
  So, all in all, Wii Sports is a great very first title for the Wii. Everyone, EVERYONE, even fans 
 of other consoles and PC gamers should at least try it, so they could see how games could and should 
 be different. Wii Sports is a revolution. A very friendly and pleasant revolution, that could get 
 even your grandmother interested in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Games that come prepackaged with systems typically suck. Note that I said typically. My Jungle 
 Green N64 came with Donkey Kong 64 and that was a pretty good (albeit freaking long) game. Mostly, 
 when a game comes with a system, it is so that people are not discouraged from buying an expensive 
 system without being able to use it unless they also buy expensive games. Wii Sports is different 
 in one effect: it is entirely necessary for people who buy the Wii to become accustomed to the 
 unique control scheme through some simple minigames.
  
  Wii Sports is a perfect warmup game for newcomers to Nintendo's unique Wii. In this title, players 
 take control of their Mii profile in such Sports as Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. 
 All of these games are simple -- each involving either a motion of the wiimote, or of the nunchuck 
 attatchment. In Tennis, horizontal and vertical player movement is automatic -- players simply swing 
 the wiimote at the right time to send the ball away. Baseball has the same idea -- albeit with a 
 bat or a pitch. As a matter of fact, all of the games play similarly -- it is all about timed wiimote 
 swipes. Yes -- the games are all simple, yet all necessary for players to become accustomed to swinging 
 a controller rather than, say, tapping a button, to denote an action.
  
  The game is very simple, but still very fun. I spent hours playing this title with my siblings -- Wii 
 Tennis and Bowling were highly competative between us -- and very very fun.
  
  The game looks like a gamecube title, but there's really no need to make it look any different -- it 
 is a simple, simple party game that helps players become accustomed to using the Wii.
  
  This is an average game -- same old, same old, but a necessary one for newcoming wii players.
  
 
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game a 5/10. Remember, this is an average rating. It is an average game with really 
 nothing new to offer except the experience to learn how to use the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblane
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I've gotta say, I was so impressed when I cracked open my Wii, put in Wii sports and started playing 
 baseball... while I couldn't hit the damn thing, I was having so much fun just swinging the Wiimote. 
 
  
  A wonderful selection of games that work so well with the Wii-mote. For a bundled game, it is just 
 great.
  
  Wii sports has a really good skill system that grants you skill based on how well you defeat your 
 opponent and based on their skill level. Which means, you can win the fight, but lose XP for getting 
 knocked out too much. 
  
  Its a great party game, provides enough of an entertaining challenge to keep trying to better yourself, 
 become pro and keep going off the chart!
  
  I would like Wii fitness to be slightly different, ie, your fitness is cumulative so that to become 
 fit, you need to keep working day by day to get to age 20, but hey, still loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Sneak peek: Wii sports is a delightful game of 5 different sports, but sometimes lokk gets in the 
 way along with no straight shot detection!
  
  The Good: -Use of miii's
  -It's freeeeeee
  -Makes games easy to play, simplified and funnerer.
  -Did I mention it's freeeeeee??
 
  -Great multiplayer.
  
  The bad: -If lady lucks not on your side say goodbye to a pro in Golf, Baseball and Boxing
  -Bowling 
 cant see a traight show
  -Baseball is too luck based!
  
  
  Wii sports is a pack in with the wii that utilizes its motion controls and miis!
  
  There are 
 5  and boxing!
  
  Bowling is a game of tradional swing and hope for the best. For me, I keep my shot straight yet find 
 that from time to time it curves one way!
  
  Baseball is Swing ing and pitching. Ones you swing and hit, pray if you havent hit a homer because 
 its too luck based if your'e balls caught or not!
  
  Golf involves just swinging, but I didn't like this game because-
  -Too luck based
  -Shots are 
 tricky to get right
  -Too diffficult to get pro!
  
  Tennis was my fave because it invloved just hitting, which I was best at. Although you can't move 
 yourself, which is a real drag considering you can screw up too easily if your not in place, it still 
 brings a real enough experience.
  
  Boxing is the usual left-right-left-right hitting but with the luck coming in knockouts. Once ypur 
 out you cant do a damn thing because it's computer based on performance.
  
  
  All in all, although the reviwew sounds negative, this is a wii gem that perfect for anyone andbrings 
 friends togethor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgame78
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  wii sports is divided into 5 different sport categories; 
  
  TENNIS 
  just imagine playing tennins on a wii! swing your contoller to serve the ball over the net and 
 defeat your opponent. 
  
  GOLF 
  basically put the ball into the hole. decide how hard you wish to hit the ball, then swing it onto 
 the green then put the ball into the hole. easy! 
  
  BASEBALL
  score as many home-runs as possible in the 3 innings by batting and fielding. how fun can it be 
 to home run! 
  
  BOWLING
  swing your arm back and release to knock down the skittles but watch out for the gutters! 
  
 
  BOXING
  my personal favourite. connect the nunchuk contoller to the wiimote for hours of beating up the 
 worlds top boxers. bascially all you need to do is punch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Baseball- Very fun Makes You Fell Like You Hit The Ball Which Is Funny Makes You Fell Like You 
 Are In That Field Which Is Cool As A Gamer To Exprience.
  
  
  Bowling- Who needs to pay for Bowling when you get it free on the Wii? real like play from the 
 bowling game i like this one the best. Its a great add-on to the game
  
  
  
  Boxing- This one tired the crap out of me. I did not like this one too much because i broke bulliets 
 after this game haha but its a fun game to play neither way 
  
  
  8.0 good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  When I played this game, it was usually Wii bowling and baseball.
  
  Bowling: The best sport in the game. It has curves, speed, and cheers.
  
  Baseball: The game 
 is alright, but it gets difficult to hit a baseball very far. 
  
  Golfing: The game is modest, but it does have it's slowdowns/
  
  Boxing: Punching pwnds!
 
  
  Tennis: The game is good, but it needs more advice on control.
  
  The graphics are very sweet, 10/10. The music is really good, it features 80's style rock most 
 times.
  
  The sound and audio are very annoying sometimes, but they are pretty good.
  
  The difficulty is hard.
  
  The control is amazing, but at some points, jerky.
  
  Finally, 
 the best part of the game; the camera. It will stay on any target, zooming in or out.
  
  The game is great and all, and you should buy the game. You will anyway. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is an amazing game with a good multiplayer, and tons of sport.
  
  Baseball:1 of the Americans fav sport. It is very fun to play it on wii, caus u get to use ur remote 
 as a bat in real life which is very fun, and entartaing. Wii remote is a motin sensor , which fits 
 perfectly for baseball on wii.
  
  
  Boxing: Is real crackdown , u get to use ur remote as a boxin glove, Though u get to feel tired 
 using ur arm all the time , but its still fun.
  
  Golf: Is really unspired , since u got use the buttons instead of ur remote. Its so boring that u 
 dont need to play it. But its still fine
  
  
  Tennis: Tennis is an amazing game, it really fun with the motin sensor , bu its hard to use the 
 buttons and the sensor at the same time. But still it really great.
  
  Bowling: Bowling Is really fun, u dont need to press any buttons, its all about ur arms movement, 
 its a great deal of fun.
  
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer works great , and really fun with friends.
  
  
  Overall its 
 a fantastic sport game, Too bad i have only PS3, ( my bro owns wii) Its good that its for free otherwise, 
 it jkinda ov will be a rip-off
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigamouse510
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  this game shows the wii want it can do and it is want everyone is going to be playing that game 
 cause it cames with a wii free!!! it really fun there not a lot of thing to do but the game can 
 be played for a long time and not getting bored right away i think this game can be that game that 
 ur parent can play too wii all can play :D yea that it all the games are fun and enjoy wii sports 
 went u get a wii :D
  that why this game is good that why i give this game 8.0
  yay so dont hit stuff or your friends :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is probably the most owned wii game, because everyone with a wii is almost garenteed 
 to have a copy of it. It is probably the best "free game" of all time when it is bundled with a 
 console. The graphics aren't that good. Tenis, Baseball, and Bowling all look fine, but golf looks 
 pretty bad and boxing seems to be broken, but i'd give the graphics a C. Sound, its really good. 
 The sound of a tenis ball hitting the racket coming from the TV and the remote sounds perfect, 
 this is where wii sports excells, id give it an A in sound. Value, standing alone with a $50 tag, 
 i wouldn't buy this game on my life, i'd give it an F, but bundled with the wii makes it a whole 
 lot better, id give it a B. Gameplay i pretty predictible, to swing a tennis racket u swing the 
 remote, to bowl a bowling ball u give ur arm an under hand motion, ect. I'd give it a B+ because 
 boxing is just messed up. Its a good game, but not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller4him
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  While Wii Sports may, at first, seem to be a bit of a low-key simulation with only a basis in getting 
 the motion sensing gameplay on the market, it proves to be much more than that once you really 
 immerse yourself in the various challenges that the game has to offer.
  
  I'm not going to lie, if you hate moving around while playing video games, this isn't the game 
 for you. If you are looking to just kick back and relax with the controller to play a few tennis 
 matches, then this is not what you are looking for. Wii Sports takes every advantage that the motion 
 detection of the Wiimote has to offer. Five minutes into your first tennis match against the computer, 
 and you may very find yourself already working up a sweat. Ten more minutes and you will be resting 
 your sore arm and going to find something to drink. Yes, folks, this game can get that intense.
 
  
  With its competitive AI, as well as the great individual challenges, Wii Sports is sure to find 
 a home in the Wii games library of individuals of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardkieran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I dont need to say much about Wii Sports, as everyone in the US and most other regions of the world 
 who owns a Wii has this game. What I will say is that its a great package and a great way to just 
 hang out with some friends for a casual gaming session, having some laughs in the process.
  
  Graphics: I really don't care much for the armless/legless Miis, but for the sake of the pack, 
 I can overlook it as the Mii isnt as vital as the actual gameplay.
  
  Controls: The definitive demo for different ways to use the Wii controller. There are some glitches 
 here and there, like dropping a bowling ball, or lack of detection on tap-ins on golf, but overall 
 pretty fun.
  
  Sound: Nothing major for this title, average at best.
  
  Gameplay: Lots of fun. Not so much fun alone, but a great title to show off the Wii to non-Wii 
 players, or just for having a fun time with family or friends.
  
  Conclusion: You probably dont need to get this game, because it comes with the Wii in most countries. 
 All the same, a fun party game or ego-stroker if you really stink at sports in real life. =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaGoomba
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is the game all wii owners have. It comes with the wii so you know its not going to 
 be a high caliber gaming experience.
  
  This is one of the best party game out of the many so far. But Its not really such a great of a 
 game once you go a couple hours straight into it by yourself.
  
  As you know there are 5 sports baseball, golf, tennis, bowling and boxing. I will give short but 
 informational reviews of each sport and which is worth it and which is not
  
  Golf: 1/10
  This is compleatly horrible and unplayable in my taste. Belive it or not i love golf and i love 
 the other golf games for the wii but the controlls for wii sports golf is horrid. Avoid playing 
 it. you will go crazy if you play it.
  
  Baseball:7/10
  Baseball is an average but good sport on wii sports. You hold the wiimote just like you would grasp 
 a baseball bat at a big game. You swing to hit the ball and and watch your character run. Its very 
 simple and somtimes wont respond right but its worth a few play. even on multiplayer.
  
  tennis: 10/10
  Now it gets good. Tennis is awesome. The controll functions feel just right. best 
 multiplayer along with bowling. Its flawless.
  
  bowling: 10/10
  This is my favorite. You will feel right in your local bowling alley after playing this. Amazzing 
 multiplayer and fun controll mechanics. Another flawless wi sports title
  
  boxing: 6/10
  owch it gets sloppy now. Controlls almost never function but when it does its great. Painful AI. 
 But multiplayer is a blast. THis has flaws scattered around.
  
  Now i round it together and i get a 7.5, Its is an average sports game. Great for the launch of 
 the wii. You will have so much fun when you play with friends the fun will never ewnd. Only horrible 
 parts is somtimes unfunctional controlls and the horrid golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_0f_Hyrule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports. Wiisports is a great game. Has many modes and different sports. Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, Golfand 
 Bowling. All these games are fun except for golf. I hated the golf game. You have to swing the 
 wii mote the lightes you'll ever swing. Very Boring. But, the other games are great. Tennis is 
 probably my favorite because its so entertaining to actually keep a tennis ball in a court for 
 more than 5 bounces. Bowling is also great, just like a regular bowling game. Then boxing and baseball... 
 pretty basic. All you do in Boxing is beat the heck out of the guy youre facing. And baseball is 
 a regular game. You just bat and pitch. You do no fielding whatsoever. Very good game. Great Multiplayer. 
 
  Score 9.3 out of 10 (rounds to 9.5)
  
  - Link_of_Hyrule - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSmashX_202
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game were instead of you sitting down on your lay Z boy chair looking at the screen 
 you actually get up and be in the game. With about 5 sports and a few unlockables this game will 
 test your athletic skill to the very limit. Don't forget that it's a multiplayer game allowing 
 you to face 3 other people right in you living room.
  
  Those no one main character in the game. In fact, there can be about 100 characters in Wii Sports. 
 These characters are called Mii and can be made in the Nintendo Wii's Mii Channel. They come in 
 a variety of forms, big, small, tall, short. You can use these Mii's to play any of the sports 
 in the game. If you didn't make any mii the game with substitute one for you to use. This feature 
 allows even more of a felling that you are in the game doing these sports.
  
  As I said before, there is 5 sports in Wii Sports. They are (and in no particular order) Bowling, 
 Boxing, Baseball, Tennis, and Golf. 4 of these sports only need the wii-mote to play, boxing is 
 the only one which need a nunchuck. For Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Tennis you use some different 
 movements with the wii-mote to play each sports. In Bowling you swing the wii-mote like you were 
 holding and releasing a bowling ball. Or in Tennis you swing the wii-mote like a tennis racket 
 to hit the ball. You could probably guess what the other sports movements are. Remember that all 
 of these sports a multiplayer so you can train with friends and family.
  
  If your not doing so well in Wii sports you can always get some training in Training mode. In every 
 sport there are 4 unlockable training procedures that involve you doing differet task to help you 
 master each sports. If you are doing great you might want to test out the Wii Fitness mode and 
 see what you age is. Just like in the Brain Ade series, you do test (in this case sport test) to 
 to find out your age. The best age you can ever get is 20. If you get that than you one heck of 
 a player on Wii Sports.
  
  So if you like to compete in sports Wii Sports is a great to start of you love with your Wii. If 
 you like have company and have fun this is also your game. With great replay value and cool unlockables, 
 Wii Sports is sure to put you on the field of next gen gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purarnick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay Wii Sports, the free game, an instant classic, and it has so many different games to play!
 
  Okay, okay just 4 aspects:
  Gameplay: This my friends, it's the best part of the game, because this game it's exactly just 
 for having a taste of wii's great gameplay and nothing else (excepting golf) :
  9.8/10
  Graphics: Let's say just right, this is how they were supposed to be so it's hard to critisize 
 this game:
  7.5/10
  Sound: This sound would be a classic in a few years and I just love it, really cool sounds:
  
 10/10
  Tilt: Nothing bad i could say about it!
  10/10
  Total:
  9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m00finman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  When I first got my Wii (off eBay) I didn't have any money at first for any new games. I was very 
 grateful that Wii Sports came with it, otherwise I would just have spent the day looking at my 
 Wii haha. I played it non-stop that day, not having played a Wii prior to my purchase of one. The 
 next day my arm literally ached - in a good way. I was amazed at the interactivity which Wii Sports 
 allows you in five very different sporting events - Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, Golf and Tennis. 
 For example, in the Baseball game, you use your mii (identity you create of yourself on your wii 
 to use in certain games) and a whole host of others that are on your team to take it in turns to 
 be either the batting or fielding team. If you are on the batting team, you have to use the remote 
 as if you are actually holding a baseball bat, and swing it when the bowler bowls the ball to you. 
 Your timing and method of throwing the ball is vital to the direction and distance of your ball. 
 When you miss a total of three bowls, or your ball is caught by the fielders three times, you then 
 swap sides. When you are on the fielding team, your job is quite simple: All you have to do is 
 pitch the ball to the other team, although there are certain factors that affect your throw. Say, 
 if you hold a certain button when motioning a bowl, it will make a different type of throw. There 
 are four more games that are almost as detailed as this, meaning that you can have a lot of fun 
 if you have lots of people round. The bowling was exceptionally good in my opinion, it makes you 
 feel like you are playing a real game of bowling.
  
  But although I played it non-stop on the first day, I began playing it less and less, and once 
 I had saved up enough money for Zelda: Twilight Princess, it began gathering dust on my shelf soon 
 enough. Also, the golf and boxing games on it seem exceptionally hollow, especially on the boxing. 
 Whilst playing the boxing game, it seems like you just have to wave the Wii Remote around and you'll 
 somehow manage to either win or lose. All in all, I would say that Wii Sports is an exceptional 
 way of introducing the Wii to gamers who have never played one before. The feeling I got when I 
 first hit a tennis ball back with the flick of my wrist was immense. Although this is a great introduction 
 to Wii gaming, it soon loses it's fun after you have, say, Zelda: TP. Some flawed game modes mean 
 that you cannot enjoy some parts of the game as much as the Bowling and Baseball. But you can't 
 exactly complain too much, as it is free :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay Wii Sports, the free game, an instant classic, but it gets boring!
  Okay, okay just 3 aspects:
  Gamepaly: This my friends, it's the best part of the game, because 
 this game it's exactly just for having a taste of wii's great gameplay and nothing else (excepting 
 golf) :
  9.8/10
  Graphics: Let's say just right, this is how they were supposed to be so it's hard to criticise 
 this game:
  7.5/10
  Sound: This sound would be a classic in a few years and I just love it, really cool:
  10/10
 
  Total:
  9.1/10
  
  Conclusion: a great game for a demo but just boring after time of playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a introduction for who buy Wii that let everyone happy. With 5 sports (Bowling, Golf, 
 Baseball, Tennis and Boxing) this game makes you, your parents, your relatives play, cause everyone 
 like it (my parents and old relatives really played) . With a sample but intellingent engine, WIi 
 Sports is like a introduction for other games that I think will be developed, like Tennis - Mario 
 Tennis, Golf - Mario Golf. Even without the ability to walk on tennis or to have more options when 
 playing Wii Sports is fun and has an attractive media. The Wii Fitness make you play every day, 
 because you'll be always wondering: Will I get age 20 today? Will the test be easy or difficult? 
 Another way to continue playing is the training mode, with 3 different types of playing each sport, 
 like who makes more Home Runs in baseball or who can dodge more balls in boxing. If you bought 
 your Wii in Japan, that doesn't come with Wii Sports, I recommend it, if don't you already have 
 your Wii and know what I'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is Free what else can you say, well you can say much more about this game. All these 5 
 games are brilliant in just a disk but they can get boring after 3-4 weeks after you buy the game. Boxing 
 is 10/10 ,Tennis 9/10, Golf 8/10, Baseball 9/10 and Bowling 10/10. Wii sports can get anyone fit 
 and is a nice family game, there is lots of competion of this game between so many people. I can 
 say no more about this so just buy a Wii and be suprised about Wii Sports.
  
  Oh i nearly forgot you can not get Wii sports with out buying the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rognarock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Some may think this a bad or a worse game becouse it dont have acction or something good but is 
 becouse this innovative is the first master piece of a nintendo work why?? you ask... this games 
 you could play some sport games like boxing, bowling, baseball, golf and tennis those games are good 
 but first you must create a MII to play all games and before playing you must choose wich MII to 
 choose and start playing. in golf you must play as someone on TV you can choose 5 diferents sticks, 
 in boxing use the controler to hit any oponent, the tennis is the same hit the ball and have fun 
 the other one`s is the same with the controler the good part is that you can do a exam to see how 
 old are not in age in weight it acurate form 20 year`s al older the younger will get the lowest 
 score 20 if he`s on fit or a higger is you`re a little fat but there is a error if you could play 
 well that another history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is one of my favorite games because one it has enough content to keep you coming back 
 to play, two it has a good multiplayer experience, and lastly it was free with the purchase of 
 the Wii (in North America) . Sure it is just a collection of games, but the games are really fun 
 to play especially with friends. When I first opened up my Wii and found that in there I was more 
 that surprised that this was free because it was pretty good and to this day I still can't get 
 enough of this game and I can really see me coming back for more of if and it more than satisfies 
 my sports needs for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Well how do I start? This game is properly the most overrated game in the history of the world, 
 The reason, It's Unresponsive! Tennis- The worst of them all, first of you must select a Mii (whicch 
 can be created on the mii channel) Once you've chosen your mii, you have the choice of the amount 
 of sets you want to play and the amount of players you'd like. I chosen to play against the computer, 
 the way this game works is that you must swing the wii remote in any direction, let's say you wing 
 it to the right, your mii will run to where the ball is swing the in game bat towards the other 
 side of the court, this is where the problem lies, when you are trying to hit the ball the way 
 you want, it often goes the other way, also, if you hit the ball, you would often be out, but sometimes 
 for multiplayer you can play doubles with freinds and family, the controls are clunky and unresponsive. 
 Score- 6/10 Golf-This game is quite difficult, but the way the motion sensing works, but usally 
 the ball goes out of bounds and you'll be racking up the bogeys, because the controls for golf 
 is too sensitive. Score-3/10 Baseball-The controls work very well on this game, but you will need 
 high accuracy to be able hit the ball the way you want, simply tilt the wiimote where you want 
 the in game bat to be swung. Score- 5/10 Bowling- When you try to make the bowling ball go the 
 way you want it to go, it often goes out. Score 2/10 Boxing- this is properly the best game out 
 of the lot, but still the most unresponsive game. You use both the nunchuck and wiimote for this 
 to work, If you are right handed the wiimot goes in your right hand, and the nunchuck in your left, 
 you punch by jabbing with either the remote or nunchuck in your hand at the same time, but when 
 you want to do an uppercut or hook, it always never works! Score- 8/10 Wii sports is a free game 
 that can have a long life span if your the type of person who is into sports, it's free with Wii 
 so you have no choice of having it, it's a mediocre experience and a poor way of introducing you 
 to how the Wii works, but if you have friends, it can be fun in short burst Simply the most overrated 
 game ever Total score 55% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  It's not everyday we see games where everyone can get involved and in this case the game becomes 
 far more fun when they do! Using your created Mii's the game assembles teams for Baseball and creates 
 audiences for Tennis, Bowling and Boxing.
  
  The controsl make the game feel realistic. You swing the Wii remote like a Baseball / Tennis bat, 
 a golf club and a Bowling ball while using the Nunchuck as your other glove in Boxing. In each 
 sport you gain rating over time. When this rating reaches 1000 you will achieve the PRO status 
 ****SPOILERS**** which unlocks a nice little addition to the sport for example, the Tennis reward 
 is a new coloured bat while Bowling gets you a new ball design. You may even get the chance to 
 take on the champion of that sport! ****SPOILERS END****
  
  If you already know the basics of various sports this game will not take long to learn. The movements 
 are surprisingly realistic so you won't be complaining If that was in real life it would have done 
 this! much like in other sport games. There are also many realistic shots such as the slice in 
 Tennis which is performed like you would in real life.
  
  The only sport that annoyed me was Bowling. Often you get a message basically saying you're not 
 Bowling the ball correctly. A lot of people get this message but when you get the hang of it you'll 
 be fine. Bowling can also produce major left spins on the ball for no apparent reason - this is 
 not because there is a glitch but simply the way you are bowling. I know it's hard to accept when 
 you get the game but it is true. Get the family involved for the true experience of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zofc
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is pretty fun the first time you play it. After you play alone for a while, it gets 
 rather boring due to the repetitive nature of the game. However, if you play with a friend- or 
 even better, 3 friends- the game is a whole lot better and it's definitely worth the money (that 
 is unless of course Wii Sports came with your Wii) . If you don't play with friends, you not getting 
 the full Wii Sports experience. Even if you trade off one controller while your bowling, the gaming 
 experience is heightened. For the following, I am mostly talking about playing single player.
 
  
  Tennis- the easiest to learn and the 2nd best one. IMO.
  
  Golf- The Wiimote doesn't do a good job responding to your swings, this is especially true while 
 putting.
  
  Baseball- If you can get down the swinging, it's definitely fun. The pitching always seems a little 
 too easy on your part. Bowling- If you like bowling it's pretty fun. The only thing I don't like 
 is the spin function. Now this could be just me (and my 3 other friends playing) , but if your right 
 handed it's near impossible to bowl without the ball going on a ridiculous spin to the left. Tap 
 the D-Pad twice for best results.
  
  Boxing- My personal favorite just has to have a huge downside. When you first start out, the opponents 
 seem really easy and you feel pretty confident in your skills. Once you skill level gets higher 
 in the game, boxing becomes near impossible. For me, the only way I could reach Pro was beating 
 other people (friends) . The opponents were just smashing me at 700 skill points.
  
  Like Gamespot said: Daily fitness test keeps you coming back. I completely agree. Nuff-said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkystobartPSP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is designed to fill in the gap between getting your Wii and buying some decent games. 
 It is a very fun game to play and very energetic with it - ideal for people wanting to lose weight. 
 Wii Sports has fun built-in and is one of the best freebies you can get with anything that beeps, 
 nevermind games machines. If you hate sports, buy a Wii with it anyway. It grows on you, like your 
 favorite mug or seat. And its better than any other party game you would find on a PS2. To sum 
 up; easy to use, fun, entertaining but not challenging at all and impossible to complete, because 
 there are no objectives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I have had the WII for almost a year now and this game is still as fun as the day i got it ON CHRISTMAS!!!!!! 
 This game gives you a preview, you can say, of what the WII can do. It gives you 5 games to play. 
 The games are tennis, golf, baseball, boxing and bowling. Each one of these games is fun and uses 
 the WII remote outstandingly. The game also has a training mode where you can train for your next 
 boxing match or improve your shot in golf (among other things) . You also can take a fitness test 
 once a day and see what your WII Sports age is. All the games are just straight fun TO THE MAX. 
 If you don't like this game then you are just stupid. This game has something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Great Game, good use of Wii hardware. Great combination of games, everyone can enjoy. Who doesnt 
 love a Freebee, Baseball, Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, and Golf, all great games to play in this game. 
 My personal favoriate is Baseball I love to run the Score up on the other team. Bowling is nice 
 to play, my best score is a 236, am not really good. Boxing is good, but make ur arms sore after 
 awhile. Golf is nice to play with friends or by urself. And last Tennis is easy to pick up and 
 play by urself or with a partner. So go get a Wii and get is great game as a freebee lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLoveMatt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow who would think such a cheap fun system would have a game come for free right? That games gotta 
 be bad or something but Nintendo Wii Sports is all fun and its just fun to play and quick to learn. 
 Although you cant play it online, with golf, baseball, bowling, tennis, and boxing its the ultimate 
 party pack for the wii. Its also good that they have it where you get points if you do good. This 
 game is a great one and its enjoyable for people of all ages. Especially since theirs training 
 to practice that arm of yours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenRamoth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  -I like this game, as the controls are unique and intuitive. (it's Nintendo. what's new) The game 
 play is also really fun until you get to the professional level on your Mii character, as that's 
 really all the work you can do on the character itself. If they'd add more difficulty, or more 
 skill improvements to the Mii as you get better, it would be even better.
  
  -Back to the game:
  
  Tennis is fun, even if i'm not so good at timing swings, as you only 
 have to worry about the swinging, so all the extra stress of having to run around isn't really 
 there.
  
  Baseball is very fun, in fact, it may be one of my favorite games, as it eliminates the defensive 
 aspects of baseball (which is really annoying in a game for me) , and but it still has all of it's 
 main features, with swinging and pitching. Boxing is really fun when you start, but it gets old 
 after a while, especially since I seem to lose the ability to use hook puches and uppercuts, I'm 
 pretty sure that's just my problem though.
  
  Bowling seems to be the best game of the five, as it has almost of the features of real bowing, 
 such as spin and power, heck even the swing is realistic.
  
  Golf doesn't seem that fun, as I haven't played it much and when I have, I don't want to play it 
 again.
  
  -Almost all the games are fun, but the only real weakness other than lack of difficulty is that 
 there isn't online play. I thought there was, because the Miis can go online, but apparently playing 
 sports online with them just wasn't thought of. It would be fun to play friends online ('cause 
 i only have 1 remote) Other than those two little flaws, it's really a good game, especially for 
 a free starter game, considering most freebees are junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Great selection of sports
  Great multiplayer
  Great graphics
  
  Bad:
  
  Sometimes has a hard time recognizing when you swing your Wii remote
  
  Wii Sports is a 
 great, fun idea for a pack in game. It shows off how well sports games can be played on the Wii.
 
  
  Wii Sports is very easy to play, practically all you have to do is swing the Wii remote.
  
 
  The graphics look great in Wii Sports. The golf courses look real, the tennis' court's ground 
 looks pretty real, and the baseball field looks like it should. Even though this helps, when you 
 are doing something like swinging at a baseball, most of your Mii's body disappears, so you can 
 see the ball. Even though this is helpful, it can get annoying after awhile.
  
  The gameplay is fun and easy.
  
  The controls in Wii Sports are very simple. To do just about 
 everything, you just need to swing.
  
  In conclusion, Wii Sports is a great game that every Wii owner owns, since it's packed in. But, 
 it can get boring after a little while to hardcore gamers, because it's so simple, and not much 
 of a challenge to those who play tons of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanger277
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say this is the most mediocre piece of trash to ever be put on a game disc. Lets 
 start out with the fun, oh wait, there is none. I played this a few times and I got bored very 
 quickly each time. No matter what sport it was, it kept me amused for a minute or two, but then 
 it got very boring. And people wondered why it was free with the system. I didn't expect much but 
 I expected more than this. If you found it with your Wii and lost it, you can find it in trash 
 cans across America. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaques_unc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I feel it deserves to be applauded for it was free and came with the 250 dollar system I bought. 
 At first i thought it was the best game ever, but it has died down ever since.
  THE PROS
  -free
  -fun
  -family
  -easy
  -sports
  THE CONS
  overall they maybe could have added 
 to some of the features.... as in Baseball.... maybe more than 3 innings... not ending in a tie....
 
  Overall good job on the gameplay...
  Nothings ever been done like this UNIQUE...
  9/10
  
  I have to add more words to this review so this is why I am typing.
  happy
  fun
  baseball
 
  boxing
  wish they had soccer....
  wish they had bball
  wish they had snowboarding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebetai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  i enjoy playing this game even today. it's easy to control and and just plain fun. i didn't like 
 sport game until i played this. wii is clearly the system for sports games. i've tried playing 
 tennis on other systems but found it difficult. tennis is simple and yet still can last awhile. 
 my longest tennis round was about 20 minutes. good back and forth action. i've been able to achieve 
 a par 1 in golf, a sport i despised until this game. bowling is challenging in knocking the pins 
 over. the ball rolls with your sending power. baseball is best used for you hitting, although fun 
 to see if your side can catch the ball or not. boxing... another sport i disliked. but now i love 
 it. the sound of a hard punch is so cool to hear. all in all, a great game. can't wait to hear 
 if two will be in the works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  As I said in the review deck this game is a simple way to have a lot of fun, especially with friends 
 and family. This game is all about fast and easy game play, which is both a blessing and a curse. 
 It also makes for a great party game, or way to get the rest of your family to play if they weren't 
 already interested in video games. The controls are very responsive, especially when compared to 
 the likes of Red Steel. The other great thing about this game is that if you play long enough, 
 it can actually get you to work up a sweat. I've noticed this to be especially true with boxing. 
 There are a few problems I have with this game. There is no real incentive to keep playing other 
 than getting your ranking higher. Also, there is no online, this game would have been the perfect 
 introduction for online, I could see many people playing this for ours against people from across 
 the country. Lastly, and probably the most obvious is the graphics. the graphics are terrible, 
 but it comes for free with the Wii so you really can't expect all that much I guess. I'd say go 
 out and buy this but if you own a Wii you already have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowie1979
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is shipped with the Wii Console and provides a pretty nifty introduction to the motion 
 sensitive controls offered by the Wii Remote. Wii Sports offers five games which each use your 
 own created Mii's. This is great as there's nothing better than seeing your whole family lining 
 up on your Baseball team!
  
  Tennis - Probably the best game of the bunch, the response to your actions is spot on and the game 
 moves your character for you meaning you just concentrate on your timing. Its all about how late 
 or early you swipe at the ball which determines its trajectory. You can also apply spin if you're 
 feeling flash!
  
  Bowling - Another strong game with realisitc swerve and spin. You'll never need to go out down 
 the bowling alley again!
  
  Baseball - A pretty poor addition. The basic swinging the bat action, and even more basic pitching 
 soon become repetitve and dull.
  
  Golf - naturally taken at a more sedate pace, this game is all about the strength of your swing. 
 Too hard and you'll go off target. Although not a lot of depth, its still engaging enough.
  
  Boxing - Vent your fustrations by pummeling with the Remote and Nunchuk. There's not much correlation 
 to how you swing your arms to how the boxer punches, meaning its a bit of a random bash.
  
  The game has some extra modes in the form of Wii Fitness Age (which gives you some random tests 
 and determines your fitness age, in a style akin to Brain Training) , and Wii Training (which sets 
 up some mini games based on the five main games above) .
  
  In conclusion, its a great introduction to the console and great to show off what the Wii can do 
 to your mates, who are still fumbling with their joypads. Its let down by some underdeveloped games 
 though (Boxing and Baseball) and a limited lasting appeal. Plus its crying out for an online mode! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezz-mezz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games on the wii ... and it was free . The only downside to this game 
 is the fact there is no wifi but that can be fixed in the future. The graphics on this game are 
 not the best but the gameplay certainly is because this game will keep you playing for as long 
 as you have your wii. Also the fact that you get to use the Miis you created in the game is another 
 feature that stands out in this game. All in all i give this game a 9.0 / 10 because it is extreamly 
 fun and a brilliant party game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaCrystal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  In Wii Sports, you can choose from five different sports. And theyre all loads of fun, and anyone 
 can pick up a controller and get lots of fun out of it, even if they arent hardcore gamers. Tennis 
  a fun game that actually feels like youre playing real tennis. The controls are simple (just 
 swing the controller to hit the ball) . Baseball  Also a very fun game. Just swing the controller 
 to hit the ball, and in the pitchers case, do a throwing motion. You can even mix it up by pressing 
 A, B, or A and B at the same time to do different types of throws.
  
  Bowling  One of my favorite games. Beginners tend to be really good at this game. Just move the 
 remote like youre rolling a ball (while holding down B) . If you get Pro in this sport, you get 
 pretty stars on your bowling ball. Golf  Also one of my favorites. Even though the controls are 
 a little bit more complicated, this game gets you really into it, and is very fun to play.
  
  Boxing  Probably the sport where you move around the most. Even when youre on the verge of 
 being knocked out, youre still moving you controller (and nunchunk) to get them back up. This 
 is another sport thats easy to get really into.
  
  The fitness and training portions of the game are fun as well. Overall, this is a very fun game 
 for friends and family. Besides, who wouldnt want to play as themselves? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  This game is very well put together with pretty good replayability. The games that are in the wii 
 sports package are:
  Boxing
  Tennis
  Baseball
  Bowling
  Golf.
  
  The graphics are very cartoony but this is intentional and works very well.
  The game is fun 
 but will get boring after and couple of weeks or so. The controls work well in most of the games 
 but in golf it sometimes will incorrectly register the force of your swing. For most of the games 
 you don't have to jump around like a fool but it feels alot more realistic. With baseball and golf 
 your arms will become very painful after constant gameplay.
  
  But all in all Wii Sports is a well made game and great to have thrown in the Wii package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Gingersnaps
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports. not much to complain about because its free in North America. Wii sports is a Tutorial 
 game for the Wii. It just is there to teach you the basic controls for most of the games, nothing 
 more. It has five games...
  
  Baseball-A simple version of baseball you swing like a real bat and you pitch like you would if 
 you were doing it for real. If you hit it to a defensive player your out. There is three basic 
 pitches, Fastball, curve, And splitter. Though the fastball is very slow unless you start doing 
 well.
  
  Bowling-My favorite, this is the best game in my opinion, You just bowl like you would in real 
 life and to put spin on it when your doing the motion you twist the wiimote in a direction to turn 
 it.
  
  Boxing-Awesome, but not perfect. You use both the nunchuck and the wiimote to boxing like a real 
 boxer. With uppercuts and heymakers its cool. The controls aren't as responsive as i would like 
 though and it gets really hard later.
  
  Golf-Basic no tiger here. You just swing like you would with a real club with a basic power meter. 
 There is only 9 holes in the game so it gets old quick, though you can change the difficulty. Its 
 extremely hard to putt in this so i hate it.
  
  Tennis-This is a good game, I even hurt my arm playing this for a good amount of time. You control 
 both the players on your side, you can't move your players and you can't do singles. This is the 
 best 2-4 player game here so i like this one a lot. You just swing like a tennis player would.
 
  
  There is all so mini game for each of the five games, so there's a bit more play time there. Overall 
 its a OK game ,but, hey its free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is the best game I have played on Wii so far. It's a really good start for Nintendo 
 Wii. You get to play baseball-pretty fun, bowling-alright, tennis-the best one, golf-awesome and 
 boxing-I love hitting things! This is the great start of this console and I would rate the graphics 
 an 8 because it is simple, the gameplay 10 because it is really fun and the sound a 8 because I 
 didn't hear the sound but I think it would sound ok for some reason. So overall a great game especially 
 2 player. I hope you enjoyed this review as much as I enjoy eating **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  The game includes Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf, and Boxing. THe game controls are easy and are 
 just showing you teh basics of what the wii is capebull of. My personal favourite is Boxing because 
 when I dodge punches I find myself all over the room. When you play boxing for a while you get 
 so tired you wanna stop, but its so fun you cant. Tennis is also one of my favourites. Its cool 
 when you hit the ball a smack noise comes out of the wii remote. Baseball is amazingly fun because 
 it feels like you acully are hiting homeruns. Pitching is fun. Golf is good but often you dont 
 know how hard you are going to hit it. Last but not least is Bowling. This is one of the better 
 ones because the phisics are good and it sounds like a real bowling ally.
  
  The controls for Tennis are simple. All you have to do is a under hand motion with the wii remote.
 
  The controls for Bowling is just how you bowl in real life.
  The controls for Baseball is swing the wii remote like a baseball bat and pitching is an overhand 
 motrion while pressing different button combos.
  The controls for golf you swing the wi remote like a golf club.
  The controls for Boxing are 
 more dificult. You use the wii remote and teh Num-Chuck. To punch you jab with the wii remote or 
 num-chuck. To block you hold the wii remote and num-chuck to your face. And you can also dodge 
 by leaning with the wii remote and num-chuck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------
  SCORE: ( ( ( 8.0 ) ) ) - (in a scale of 0.5 increments, without a formula)
  --------------------------
 
  Gameplay - ( 8 )
  Graphics -- ( 7 )
  Sound ------ ( 7 )
  Value ------- ( 8 )
  --------------------------
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Simple and intuitive controls makes it fun to 
 play for almost anyone;
  - Easy to understand simplified sports concepts;
  - Daily fitness and medals add a good value;
  - Fun multiplayer that can be played up to four 
 people;
  - Clean presentation is easy on the eyes;
  - Great sound effects coming for the wiimote speaker;
  - The game is "free" in North America 
 and Europe.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Simplified gameplay makes it less replayable, because it lacks depth;
  - Motion-sensing controls 
 sometimes don't work very well, especially in boxing;
  - Poor textures and light effects;
  - The soundtracks and sound effects get repetitive after a while, and should have more quality.
 
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  Great pack-in with the Wii console. A great game for hardcore gamers to play with their non-gamers 
 friends. A refreshing way to get more people into the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clkidisme
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorate games, Wii Sports adds the fun of tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing 
 with the Wii's motion-controlled controller, and the fact that you can use your own Mii's (creations 
 of yourself) to play as means that you will have fun. It is an addictive game that you can play 
 over and over again. I personally like the bowling because it, and every other game, make it look 
 you are really competing, while watching it on tv! If you want this game or already have it, this 
 is the game for you! You wont be disappointed!
  -clkidisme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelcoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Award to: Great Motion Sensitive Controls
  Award to: Good Game for the Family
  Award to: Great Value: Comes Free with the Wii
  Award to: Very Innovative (It's never been done 
 before!) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The Bad: Graphics are cheesy ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Wii Sports, before I even put it into the console, I knew it was going to turn out great! And, 
 it did! It was a great Success! I played From: Baseball-Tennis! But the only game I didn't really 
 find challenging was Tennis! Because the AI Controls your Mii's moving around the court, all you 
 have to do his swing the remote when the ball comes near you. Bowling was great! I didn't make 
 it to a 300 Perfect game, but I did rather fair! Boxing was really great Challenge, it's one of 
 my favorites. The blocks and the dodges along with the jabs, your doing the whole time really take 
 out a lot of energy out of you! Golf was Superb. Putting Felt really easy but. Baseball was really 
 fun to! I preferred Pitching more than batting! All well! It was Great game to play over and over 
 again! The First on the Wii, and Simply the first system to ever release I game Like this! So, 
 It was great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey-squable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  wii sports bundled with the wii and is probably the best family game you will ever play for all 
 ages between 3 and 765. wii sports is one of those games that you, youre little sister or brother, mom 
 and dad, grandma grandpa will wanna play some game are as simple as flicking the wii mote and some 
 will make you having to plug in the nunchuck. all i can say is if you cant get a wii game for another 
 week its okay this will hold you off.
  nintendo sucseeds in making a good replaca of 5 good sports  
 som it all up wii sports is like a bigg jawbreaker it lasts a while as it changes flavour. a 8.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It uses all the features of the wiimote and nunchuck, u can play with ur mii's, addictive
 
  
  The Bad: it can get old, is sorta a demo type game, not enough optionons
  
  well as far as demo's go this game is off the hook, but sadly i am not gonna count this game as 
 a demo, for a real game (non demo) it really doesnt have enough to offer, theres not anough things 
 to keep u goin in the game, but on the upside it really makes u use ur skills and uses everything 
 on the wiimote, whick is fun and gives people workouts. this game can be addictive but i think 
 this game is really to hoold u off for about a week before u get a game in stores... i give this 
 game a.........................
  .......................... 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is quite simply one of the best launch games ever. It's just soooo much fun. That's it... FUN. 
 Not immersive, dazzling, challenging, lengthy, or anything like that, but sooo much fun.
  I'll go from the worst game to the best.
  Boxing, in my opinion, doesn't really work. I mean 
 im in my defence position and my Mii has one glove infront of his face and the other one is pointing 
 to his side, or maybe he's not hitting high enough so I swing the wiimote almost vertically but 
 still he refuses to go for the head. And trust me on this, everyone that I know, who has played 
 boxing and gave it their best shot to win, the next they where uder alot of pain. Your arm muscles 
 will DIE the day after you first play wii boxing. Does have it's fun moments, but in my opinion, 
 I think it's broken.
  Baseball, is the only one where you do need a bit of practice. Throwing the ball is easy but hitting 
 it with the bat is all about timing and HomeRuns do require a few tries before you get the crack 
 of it.
  Golf is a slow pace put rewarding game. It's all about swinging the remote just right: too slow 
 the ball wont go far, too hard and the ball will go sideways.
  Bowling is probably the easiest. Just swing the remote and depending on how straight you did it 
 the ball will curve or go straight for pins. When you learn the basic skills you can pull of some 
 stylish throws.
  Tennis, what can I say? Get 3 friends and 4 wiimotes (and enough space, you don't want broken faces) 
 and trust me when i tell you that it's hard to more fun with a games console. The fact that this 
 game come free with the console is awesome, because it could have been a compilation of boring 
 mini games like WiiPlay (don't bother getting the wiimote and wiiplay package, save some money 
 and just get the remote) but instead it's a proper and fun arcade game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports will most likely be the first game you play on the Wii, considering it is packaged along 
 with the console. This game was practically made to be included with the Wii, as it is not excactly 
 worth buying. Don't get me wrong, the game is fantastic, it's just that there are five sports and 
 it's easy to get pro status in every single one.
  
  But, I must admit, this is the first game that my whole family played more than once. Which means, 
 they must have enjoyed it.
  
  Although you can't expect major fitness results from a free video game, Wii Sports could get you 
 sweating if you play long enough.
  
  So to wrap it all up, Wii Sports is a great game, but could have been better in so many ways.
 
  
  Happy October,
  
  Never_Fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that a game that comes free with the Wii would turn out to be THIS good! 
 It may be easy, but it's a good way to get used to the revloutionary Wii's controler. Wii sports 
 can become wicked repetitive and sometimes cheats, the game is actually pretty easy once you get 
 used to it all. The multiplayer is actually something were you get the family to play and not have 
 to worry about them trying to learn complex controls, which is a complete relief. Before I got 
 this game, I couldn't even go against anyone because they had no idea what the controls were, so 
 Wii Sports is one of the best multiplayer choices on the Wii. It may not have perfect graphics, 
 but who cares this is a fun game not to mention that it's FREE! This isn't some cheap game that 
 came with the Wii, this could be one of the best sports games in history!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Tennis : this is one of the most re-playable games on the package . It supports up to 
 4 people in one match (all using their own controller) and is just really fast paced fun. Baseball 
 : One game of this will take about 10-20 minutes , it's more slow paced and only 2 people play 
 in one game : also you need at least 2 controllers for competitive play. Golf : can be really fun 
 , but defintly slower paced . Bowling - you only need one controller for this one and it's the 
 easiest to get into . Boxing - requires the most movement and can be really fun
  
  Graphics - you can use all your created characters for the games - they aren't amazingly realistic 
 : but their cartoony appeal is good enough for this game Length : the variet of games and off-line 
 multiplayer will make this one you'll be playing for awhile
  
  good tilt - comes with the system
  
  bad tilt - only fun to play with others - single player 
 is missing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets get straight to the point: Wii Sports is an experience like no other. Parceled alongside 
 the Wii itself, it demonstrates the consoles motion-sensitive concepts brilliantly and blends 
 them together with an unprecedented multiplayer presentation. Just as well, it reinvents the conventional 
 athletic video game and takes it to an entirely different level of entertainment. That level of 
 entertainment, however, is varied: While its a blast to play with friends and family, Wii Sports 
 wont keep avid gamers occupied for long because of its minuscule single player eclecticism. At 
 the same time, the playability is infrequently hampered by non-obscured bugs and faults that can 
 easily affect your performance.
  
  As the name suggests, Wii Sports presents a series of 1-4 player sports mini-games induced by creating 
 self-expressed characters called Miis. The Mii controls your actions throughout all five of the 
 provided sports, tennis, baseball, golf, bowling, and boxing. Each sport is elementally interconnected 
 to the Wii remotes motion-sensor aptitudes, making it possible to swing, roll, throw, punch, and 
 smack the designated target on screen by simply committing such actions as you would in the sport 
 itself.
  
  Tennis is predominately the oddball of the five sports. The modes branch out into singles and doubles 
 games in sets of one, three, or five. The objective is simple: Stand in an isolated area and hit 
 the ball as it glides over the net. The Mii character will run, dive, and jump on its own, indicating 
 your sole intention is to spank the ball as neatly as possible when the time comes. Occasionally, 
 the proper input isnt always required: No matter what angle the ball comes at you -- whether it 
 bounces on your left side or right -- a simple swing will insure its return back over the net. Serving 
 can be done in one of two ways: Flicking the Wii remote upwards to throw the ball in the air, or 
 by simply pressing A, which also sends the ball upward, and with either step followed by a swing 
 of your arm will produce a full-on serve. Timing your return can be tricky, and poorly judged returns 
 can send the ball out-of-bounds, while the best of timings can deal out savage shots that are extremely 
 difficult to resend back over the net.
  
  In baseball, players can only bat and pitch, while computer Mii characters operate the infield 
 and outfield. In a sense, baseball is probably best at manipulating the Wii remotes motion-sensitive 
 controls as far as power and timing. Swinging the bat can be done by executing assorted layers 
 of power, with the strongest and fastest swings, of course, capable of producing home runs, while 
 meager swings propel the ball to the infield and shallow outfield. And timing is everything: Getting 
 under the ball can be a handful when a talented pitcher is on the mound. The pitching layout is 
 one of the most artificially intelligent aspects of the game. You can pitch with a variety of power 
 to turn out a mixture of different speeds, while holding down a specific button to thrust a fast 
 ball, slider, or breaking ball into the catchers mitt.
  
  Golf is mainly in correlation to accuracy. As you prepare to hit the ball, a meter will specify 
 the power in your swing and also signifies how hard the ball should be shot. If hit too hard, a 
 red bar will meander frantically on the meter, indicating a wild shot that more than likely will 
 stray further from the hole. Little notches will also occupy the meter, and in addition, a map 
 in the lower right-hand corner of the screen points out how hard you should swing by bearing in 
 mind the corresponding notches on the meter with the notches on the map. This is especially essential 
 in putting because of the sleek durability of the green. In any case, golf is probably the most 
 difficult sport to get used to, and its more than likely youll spew out bogey after bogey when 
 playing on the first few holes.
  
  Its worth saying, bowling is definitely the easiest sport to play, but its not oversimplified. 
 Upon choosing your Mii character, youll be able to spot where you want to ball to go by moving 
 either to your left or right. In the same instance, while preparing to release the ball, you can 
 add a spin to your throw by flicking your wrist sideways. Being able to manipulate the mobility 
 of the ball is especially helpful in tricky shots that have split pins or are parallel to each 
 other.
  
  Boxing is the only sport that employs the Nunchuk attachment. However, like most of the previous 
 sports, you can complete a match without pressing any buttons, therefore the Nunchuk only functions 
 as a second punching hand. Each motion deals a punch to your opponent, while swaying back and forth 
 allows your Mii character to dodge oncoming blows. The multiplayer matches are what makes boxing 
 enjoyable, especially with two well-absorbed players that know what theyre doing. Boxing against 
 a computer opponent is inconsistent, and its easy to just wail on him or her rather than inputting 
 useless dodges.
  
  Apart from the core components of the game, there are other mini-games classified with each sport. 
 You can engage in such events as a home run derby in baseball, a 100-pin challenge in bowling, 
 and punching bag practice in boxing, and each mini-game details awarded medals for the best performances.
 
  
  Wii Sports is an all-around fun game with other players to compete against, but it thrives below 
 the single player standards that weve come to expect in sports games. Suffice it to say, the first 
 few times through each sport will be a blast, and moreover, youll get a workout -- no matter your 
 level of fitness -- during each activity. In conclusion, youre getting more bangs for your buck, 
 simply because Wii Sports comes free with the Wii console, and when you look beyond the despicable 
 single-player management and faulty glitches, this watered-down version of five popular sports 
 is something worthy of appreciation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I bought the wii about two weeks ago and it was really hard for me to find it. So the next day 
 I tried out wii sports and found its pretty good and its a good selection for a free game ( I would 
 expect nintendo to give zelda) . Well the game might have many glitches and graphic problems but 
 it does introduce you to the new console.
  
  In the beginning the game is quite easy and as you win and your skill level improves you play against 
 much more competitive players.
  
  training is not really required but if your not a natural player then you'll have to do training 
 before you play the real thing.
  
  Wii fitness is the best feature of the game which determines your mii's age. I think this is the 
 best feature in the game, however you can only do it once a day.
  
  hassam7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongobbo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Usually if something comes free with something else, it is usually crummy with few ecceptions. 
 Wii sports is a great ecception. The game is a combination of five sports (Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, 
 Golf, and Boxing.)
  
  Tennis is the first spor on the screen. The control is simple, swing the wii remote to hit the 
 ball. When you start tennis, you choose your character, choose the field setup, and you choose 
 if you play a single, triple, or five game match. The game starts off, you allways serve the ball 
 on the first round. The ball goes untill someone dosn't get a hit on it, and then the match goes 
 untill someone wins.
  
  Baseball is simple, all you do is swing when you bat, and you pitch with a pitching motion. There 
 are five types of balls you can pitch (Fast, slow, curve, screw, and splitter) . The computer does 
 the running for you, and you just do the actions of hitting and pitching.
  
  Bowling is my favorite sport of the 5. All you do is the swinging motion of the bowling ball, and 
 letting go of the b button at the right time. You can curve the ball by turning the wii remote 
 either way. You can slide the direction of your character with the d pad and press A to toggle 
 to angle change to change the angle of the initial throw. Golf is played by swinging the wii remote 
 infront of you. The gameplay is similar to Mario Glof on Gamecube. you use the power meter to judge 
 your swing, and you have to adjust your swing to go with the wind. When you start it, you u can 
 choose to do three holes of beginner, intermediate, or expert. You can also do all the holes at 
 once.
  
  Boxing is the last sport you see. The controlls seem simple, jab with the wii remothe and ninchuck 
 to punch, but whan you are put in the ring, the controlls only work if you give the wii remote 
 and nunchuck sharp flicking motions.
  
  There is a wii fitness which gives you three randomly selected challanges, and it gives you a Wii 
 fitness age that really is not that acurate. Whenever I played, It differed in age every time by 
 15 or more points. There are also training challanges. Ther are three for each sport, with a total 
 of 15 challanges. The training games are more addicting than the actual sports, and you have something 
 to actually compete against. You can earn medals by preforming well in the training.
  
  Wii sports is a game everyone with a Wii will have, and its a good game to have, just one more 
 reason to get a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi286
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is very easy to just pick up and play, that makes it a very good multi-player game. You 
 will be spending lots of time playing this with your friends. It still is fun by yourself, but 
 nothing special. The way you play the game is the best part, there is still nothing that matches, 
 the use of the wii mote. The main problem is that is will get boring without other people after 
 a while.
  
  Good:
  great multi-player, a game that gets you moving, Miis
  
  Bad:
  lack single player, fat kids won't like it
  
  Buy it?
  yes, it was free in the US 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwsiowsnowy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports offers 5 mini-games of different sports; Tennis, Boxing, Golf, Bowling and Baseball. 
 The different games vary in difficulty, though most are fairly easy to play. It is a great game 
 that anyone can just pick-up and play. The controls are very simple, but very effective and innovative.
 
  
  The game-play is very fun, though in my opinion, bowling is way too easy... Each game is pretty 
 good though, and slowly gets tougher as you gain more points. Points are gained, or lost after 
 each game you play. The only problem I have with this is that, in boxing, it just gets too hard. 
 As well as these games, there is a training section on each sport, and a fitness section to test 
 your fitness age. In the training section, there are three mini-games to train in each sport. All 
 of these games are quite fun and easy. The fitness section is based on the mini-games in the training 
 section, and it is very easy to get a low fitness age if you know how to play. There are three 
 mini-games chosen at random.
  
  The graphics, are, unfortunately, not very good at all, compared to other next-gen systems (since 
 the Wii is supposed to be next-gen) . But, it doesn't really matter, because the mini-games do not 
 require good graphics, and you shouldn't really be concentrating on them. You should be concentrating 
 on playing! The graphics are, however, very smooth and the frame-rate is solid.
  
  The sound is quite good, or at least fun to listen too, not only does the sound come from the TV, 
 but also from the wiimote! The sound is quite realistic, in tennis anyway.
  
  There is quite a lot of re-playability in this game as you keep playing to make your score go higher 
 to become a pro, and you can also play with up to four friends, which is excellent if you like 
 playing with friends or family.
  
  In conclusion, Wii Sports is a great game that's lots of fun. Despite the not so good graphics, 
 it is very easy to enjoy, and even more enjoyable when playing with others. This game does not 
 require much skill, which makes it fun for everyone.
  
  Game-play: 10
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8.5
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryinmw
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  -Good
  Wii Sports a game that comes packaged in with the wii. First pack-in game with orginal launch of 
 a nintendo system since then NES. And for a free pack-in it is not that bad. All of the sports 
 (bowling, baseball, tennis, boxing, and golf) are really simple but have great replay value. Especialy 
 if you have friends you can play it with. And if you want to get all gold medals in the training. 
 Also you can keep track of your fitness age you can take a dayly test to see if your in shape or 
 not. (although it is better for adults then kids.) -Bad
  Graphics are nothing like a PS3 or 360 game or even a really nice Game Cube game. But they are 
 unique.
  Very Simple not much to control, but nice for new gamers.
  Very small, but what do you expect?
  Glitchy and not responsive all the time with movments such 
 as punching in boxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonBlazer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing for a out of the box game
  Graphics 9
  The charecters you use are your Miis which you can personally design. The Miis look like little 
 cartoon charecters from Japan. I like the cartoony graphics because they make the game really fun, 
 but the only thing bad is the golf courses seem to always look the same the farther you get, but 
 it still is good
  Gameplay 8.5
  The gameplay is very simple, all you do is for tennis-you swing the remote like a tennis racket, 
 all you have to do is swing on the right or left/ baseball- this one is my favorite, you hold the 
 remote like a bat and when the ball comes swing, when you pitch you need to hold it vetically then 
 you flick it to pitch/ bowling- another one of my favorites, you hold the wiimote vetically then 
 you swing it behind your back then swing it foward/ golf- I dont really like this one, you hold 
 it so the pointer faces down you also stand sideways from the screen then swing it back then foward, 
 the reason I dont like this one is because when you swing it back you might actually hit the ball 
 not meaning to/ boxing- this one is very hard, you hold bot the wiimote and nunchuck vertically 
 then you keep making puching motions toward the screen, or you can block by holding them by your 
 body
  Sound 9
  Good sound I especially like the sounds when you swing the wiimote and when you are at the title 
 screen
  Overall 9
  This game may be very simple but it is still very good almost anyone could pick up and play this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  A bundled software usually means the game is average or low quality. Nintendo didn't want players 
 to be too engaged playing a free game so they made Wii Sports just to hold your attention for around 
 3 days. This game goes simple to very basic in terms of the style, too much but somewhat still 
 unique. The best sport in Wii Sports is tennis, you will have the most play time out of the other 
 four games the bowling game is interesting too. The baseball game won't let you control the defense, 
 it will only let you pitch and bat, you're at the mercy of the computer AI which means you have 
 to hit well or pitch well in order to boost your experience points. Wii Sports can't live up to 
 SNES' Super Mario World; the best bundled game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlOwNiN1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  This Game was the best game they could have possibly paired with the Wii system. I think it is 
 the greatest game for parties or even just with a few friends... I was amazed that my Mom came 
 in town to visit and I had her playing it with my wife, brother and I. She NEVER plays games. Never 
 has up till now anyways... The only things I would change are that the Golf should have 18 holes 
 and the Baseball should have more innings. I am sure everyone feels the same way. More fun games 
 like this one should be released for the Wii system. Simply awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports was my very first game on the Wii as with me getting it with the Wii already. Wii Sports 
 is not bad i would of never bought the game if it was on it's own as i don't really like sports. 
 Even if you are a hater of sports the Wii makes the game fun and interesting with the Wii remote. 
 So let me get on to the games theres bowling which is one of my favorites on this pretty fun to 
 play and can be easy to times which is the bad side. Tennis all you need to do is swing your Wii 
 remote in the air you don't need to run for the ball this game was alright. Baseball i hate baseball 
 and watching it but playing it on the Wii makes this game fun and highly enjoyable. Boxing another 
 good game you use your nun chuck and Wii remote pretty good stuff. Golf i find golf rather boring 
 but another fun game with Wii.
  
  The bad on this game is there's no real challenge on this only at tennis or boxing. The game is 
 very easy to play and easy to get in to. The people do look simple you use your characters that 
 you make in your mii channel and they have no arms there invisible.
  Its a good job this game is free because it just couldn't keep me playing it for a long period 
 of time it does get boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper9-07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports has to be the easiest game ever. All you do is Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, Boxing, 
 Minigames, and Wii Fitness Age. Tennis is definetly the easiest. All you do is swing the racket 
 at the ball. The exersices are pretty easy, except the one where you have to get the ball in that 
 orange square. It gets easier over time. Baseball- You pitch by swinging the Wiimote and holding 
 a button or not. Batting is just swing and hit the ball, or miss and strike out. The exercises 
 are easy. Bowling is the best in my opinion. Especially the Power Throws. Aiming at 91 pins is 
 pure fun. Golf isn't as easy as the others, but it isn't hard either. The exercises are ok, I guess. 
 Boxing is tiring, but the exercise are still pretty fun. Finally, Wii Fitness Age tells you how 
 old you are from 20-80 in fitness (accurate more towards adults, kinda like Brain Age.) It can 
 be innacurate for kids, or if you're playing it for the first time etc. Overall, Wii Sports is 
 an ok game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  It's a good thing this game comes with the console, as i doubt many people would buy it if it didn't. 
 It's pretty cool how you can make a mii and play with him in sports. The best one is golf. It is 
 the most realistic and has the most detail. The best part of the game is the fitness test. Adults 
 and kids can enjoy this feature and get more fit while at it. Boxing is kinda fun, but it's hard 
 to control where your punches go. Tennis is the best multiplayer one especially on a team. Baseball 
 is good but is hard if your opponent does trick pitches. It's also weird how it can bounce and 
 be caught and it counts as out. Bowling is pretty average. Overall, it is and ok game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaLonakuka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a free game that comes with the Wii once you buy it, so yeah, everyone that has a 
 Wii has it. It has 5 sports in it, Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and Boxing. All of them use 
 the Wii's unique motion sensive controls. All the sports are simplified down, what makes'em funnier 
 and give'em a plug and play feeling. The graphics are cartoonish alike, but that's on purprose, 
 because it's to have the family felling. When you have more Wiimotes on the room, then it's hella 
 funny. The multiplayer on this game is awesome, because it's simple. It's not the best Wii game 
 out there, but it's truly the one that'll open the doors for the Wii world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  For example. A lot of the time in tennis you can swing one way and it swings the other. And in golf 
 a lot of the time it swings when you only move it like 1 inch. Dont get me wrong its a great game 
 with great replay value but it does have some minor flaws. I found bowling to be the best multiplayer... stayed 
 up to 1 in the morning on christmas playing with family! Boxing was the most realistic though. It 
 has you jabbing from side to side and you move the left or right arm depended on if you are left 
 handed and the nunchuck with the other. You can danse when fighting and this is the game where you 
 realy feel like you in there. It was funny watching my mom swinging realy fast against me and I 
 just move side to side (motion sensing) and dodge then and then shes like I quit lol. The golf is 
 a little choppy though and all you do in baseball in bat and pitch which is pretty boring and you 
 will force yourself to play it to get pro. Baseball is somewhat fun in multiplayer however.
  
  Here is a basic idea of how I rated it
  
  graphics:8 out of 10. The weakest aspect of the 
 game but the backround looks good. The miis make the game a little catoony though but dont like 
 act like 5 year olds which is good.
  
  gameplay:9 out of 10. The first day you get this 10 out of 10 but as time goes on it will lose some 
 of its appeal.
  
  controls:8.5 out of 10. Realy intuitive but some choppy controls keep it from being perfect.
  
 
  This is like mario party. Its one of those games with minigames that probably wont satisfy you as 
 much as halo or metroid but its free so no worries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  The Good: Free, Training, Wii Fitness
  
  The Bad: No replay Value at all
  
  Full Review: It's just as well this game comes free with the Wii because you wouldn't pay for it! 
 While it is initially fun, the lasting appeal is incredibly short. In fact, I can't recall the 
 last time I played a normal sports game on it! Training is really fun, as is the Wii Fitness Test 
 but you won't play it much after the lasting appeal is exhausted apart from a Test. so it's good, 
 but not good enough. There are WAAAAY better games to use your Wii for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giby101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Very fun to play and a good why to have fun with friends and family. I am very pleased with this 
 game and it surprised me on how much fun you will have . When i first started off i thought the 
 game would be lame but it has easy to learn how to play and get better at it.
  The boxing was a bit of a let down because it would do the wrong punch or lean the wrong way. The 
 game was fun and can be enjoyed by all ages (unless you are old old.
  The game was a very common problem with Wii games..... .... some time's you just want to sit down 
 and play and with most Wii game you can't. So if you are a lazy gamer like me don't get a Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  As one buys the Wii a short list of games go through many people's heads on which games to buy; 
 Zelda: TP, WarioWare, Metroid Prime 3 and many others, but many are forgetting that the Wii have 
 one game that is already included, Wii Sports. The game itself is simple you play either; bowling, 
 tennis, golf, baseball and boxing. Overall most of these games are pretty polished and even fun 
 to play multiple times, but each game has it's own flair that makes it special.
  
  In bowling this seems to be the game to play. When people ask to play a Wii bowling seems to be 
 on the top of their list. The game is simple hold down the B button and then release at the right 
 moment. Most people seem to have a hard time doing this, making this game have a high learning 
 curve, but once curving the ball and throwing it become second nature the game becomes a breeze 
 and a great way to show off to people. In my opinion this is the best game on Wii Sports.
  
  Tennis is another game that everyone wants to play. The controls work well enough but back 
 hands are hard to master. What a game like this can even read the way you swing a racket, why yes 
 it does. It doesn't always seem to work well, but on the whole scale it works fine. Some of the 
 mini-games are a little difficult as well.
  
  Boxing is another great party game for the wii. The first time a person plays it they normally 
 end up being sweaty. The controls are fun and very easy to learn, but not all of the punches are 
 read through the wii. The announcer tends to be annoying at imes but that can be ignored easily.
 
  
  Baseball was the biggest dissapointment as it is only 3 innings. But out of the three innings it 
 is very easy and everyone will know how to play it before playing it. The bat physics are a little 
 iffy, but overall it works fine. the pitches can be cheesy as a 90 hour fast ball can be down with 
 a flick of the wrist.
  
  And finally golf, which was the biggest surprise to me. this game has a steep learning curve as 
 well, but when mastered makes golfing finally fun. The controls are easily read except while putting 
 which can be a hassle at times. The game has mediocre graphics and a quirky and slightly annoying 
 soundtrack, but the game itself is solid. But if the game had to be purchased for the 50 dollar 
 regular it would be a total waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  i think that wii sports is a goood fun game, they could have done a little bit better job but really 
 they did a really good job. its not really that hard i dont really like the putting cuz of how 
 sensittive it is makes me kinda mad some times but other then that it is a good game although it 
 takes a long time to become a professional at things, i never reallly got that far on the fitness 
 test, but the training is kinda funn for the 1 golf 1 that you have to try to land on the 100 i 
 got good at that 1 to where it would always land on the 50 or on the 100, the 1 bowling 1 is fun 
 where you have to knock all of those pins down and they keep putting more and more bowling pins 
 that can be pretty fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxfall2pieces
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great way to get used to the Wii. It's games allow you to get more accustomed with 
 using the Wii controller. It is also a fun game to play. Even though this game doesn't have a lot 
 to it, it is definitely a bonus to receive this for free when you buy the Wii. Each game is fun 
 to play but you might get bored playing by yourself. The game has replay value because it is always 
 a fun game to play with your friends. The training areas in the game are fun also. My favorite 
 so far is big bowling . After playing each training area, it unlocks a new one. This game isn't 
 going to blow you away but it is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  The philosophy behind Wii Sports is to keep things simple. And by doing so, it makes a great and 
 addictive casual game to get the hang of the Wii or to bust out on a rainy day. It also is a fairly 
 good party game due to it's competitive nature and easy to learn controls. Considering that the 
 Wii comes bundled with Wii Sports, it's hard not to find something to like about it. However, as 
 for lasting stay power, that pretty much depends on the mileage you and your friends will get out 
 of it in multiplayer. A good game when played casually, but you'll soon be looking for something 
 new to satisfy your Wii appetite over time.
  
  Wii Sports comes with 5 mini games; Tennis, Baseball, Boxing, Golf, and Bowling. None of them are 
 full fledged sims of the sports they are representing, but rather a simplistic take on the sport 
 that makes great use of the Wii Remote. The greatest strength of Wii Sports lies in its pick up 
 and play approach, making it a game for everyone.
  
  In terms of enjoyment and lasting appeal, I found the games in Wii Sports to be ranked as follows:
 
  
  1. Tennis
  2. Bowling
  3. Boxing
  4. Golf
  5. Baseball
  
  Some may disagree, but that is just my personal take on which ones are the best.
  
  Wii Sports 
 also makes good use of the Nintendo's Mii feature, which allows you to make virtual people that 
 represent yourself or friends. That adds another layer to the enjoyment because it is easy to cusomize 
 your Mii to look similar to yourself.
  
  Overall Wii Sports is an entertaining game but ultimately is a little on the short side when it 
 comes to replay value. But, I don't think the game was ever meant to be a full-fledged title, but 
 rather a way to introduce you to the Wii and it's revolutionary concepts. To that end, it succeeds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are simple, not there to impress you. What impressed me was the responsiveness of 
 the Wiimote and how you actually feel like your swinging at a ball in games like Tennis &amp; Baseball.
 
  
  I especially owe a debt to Wii Sports in that it is one of two games that finally got my better 
 half interested in gaming with me. If you have a significant other you are trying to get into your 
 world of gaming; Wii Sports definitely won't hurt your chances of succeeding.
  
  Being so simple, anyone is able to just step up to the game, and have fun swinging and flailing. 
 The biggest challenge is letting the inexperienced win to keep the interest going, while not giving 
 away what you are doing...
  
  Tennis: A great game that is very responsive when swinging the Wiimote. You play 2 on 2 where you 
 can swing quickly to get your forward player to whack at the ball or wait until the ball reaches 
 the player at back court. There is not much in the way of prizes or customization, just a basic 
 game of hitting a ball back and forth. Baseball: Another fun game to play that doesn't go into 
 to much detail. You either pitch or hit; using the Wiimote to simulate both actions. You can make 
 different pitches to try and trick the hitter, but the hitter just basically whacks at the ball 
 until 3 outs.
  
  Golf: Another game that works well. Again, not too much detail here but it definitely gives you 
 a feeling of playing golf beyond just hitting a few buttons as with any other console.
  
  Bowling: Yet another fun game as well. As with the others, there isn't any career mode or anything, 
 it's just meant for quick fun thats easy to step up and play. You can set up spin on your ball 
 as well as adjust your line down the lane.
  
  Boxing: The only game in the bunch I didn't much care for. Don't get me wrong, it is neat to flail 
 your arms and watch your Mii slug it out, but in the end it just feels a bit like you are flailing 
 your arms aimlessly and scoring hits. In short, it just didn't feel as responsive as the other 
 games.
  
  All in all the games give you an idea of how awesome they would be if fully focused on and developed 
 as their own games. I for one look forward to full Tennis and Bowling titles coming out. This game 
 is a great package that anyone can step up to and play with no previous game knowledge. The only 
 reason I didn't score it higher is because I don't see much fun in the game playing as a single 
 player, but the multiplayer fun is restricted only by how much beer you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The graphics are over simplified. I know everyone complains about the graphics ruining the game. 
 But they don't ruin it. They just don't help it.
  
  The sound isn't really anything. Music that you will right away forget about. Nothing else except 
 voice acting which says Time out or something.
  
  The value is amazing. This game is free and I don't know about other people but it has held my 
 attention for about a month and a half.
  
  The tilt is sometimes crappy. When playing Baseball if you even try to move around you will swing 
 the bat or pitch the ball. Not a big deal ot just kind of sucks to have.
  
  And finally the gameplay. It has excellent use of the wii-remote.
  In tennis you get to swing 
 the remote and that's it. It's still fun but oversimplified.
  In baseball you swing the bat and that's it except for pitching. Pitching rocks but if there's 
 one flaw it's that you can't field.
  In bowling you can twist your wrist to throw the ball. And you can move your positioning and angles. 
 Bowling is the excellent one.
  In golf you get terrible gameplay. It looks good on paper but not in a game. Your swing doesn't 
 actually do anything sometimes and putting is down right impossible.
  In boxing you punch things. It looks fun but the nunchuck and wii-remmote don't respond well enoughh 
 to make it that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshotgunner
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  As a game coming with the Wii, I thought it was going to be like a toy that comes with a Happy 
 Meal. I was wrong. Wii Sports uses the Wii Remote with persist movement at ease. Making it fun 
 and easy at the same time, which is its downfall.
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 8/7 The game is fun for a while and the Daily Fitness is a fun way to exercise. 
 Sadly, the Wii Remote may not be as persist as I stated above . The Wiimote may go off screen, 
 making you miss the ball a few times. Nothing big, but it could be fixed.
  
  Sound: 6 The Music gets rather annoying when you play the game alot. Other than that, they capture 
 the sound of a ball hitting a bat well. Graphics : 8 The Wii can't handle that much Graphics but 
 this was good. About PS2 level, which is fine.
  
  Overall: The game can be fustrating at times but, it makes up with this by presenting fun Gameplay 
 and passable Graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaaze101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  When I first go my Wii, which took forever seeing as how everyone wanted one, this game (Wii Sports) 
 came with the console. The game is perfect for family parties, there is nothing like playing bowling 
 with you grandmother or grandfather and seeing these people play video games when you never thought 
 they would. That is what is so special about this game, it appeals to EVERYONE. Whether you are 
 8 years old to someone who is 88 years old. This game is for you. There are a variety of sports 
 that you can play on this game, these include Bowling, Tennis, Baseball, Golf, and Boxing. The 
 top two are definately Bowling and Tennis, followed by Golf, then baseball, and then finally Boxing. 
 Boxing is one of the reasons that this game didn't get a perfect score. When you play this, it 
 is very hard to make contact with the person you are playing with because the Wii Remote does have 
 problems responding quick enough. Overall, this game is excellent for players of all ages and it 
 provides a unique gaming experience with a moderate amount of replay value. The problem with replay 
 value in this game is that you can play all the sports many times but once you reach pro status 
 in every one the game doesn't seem as much fun because you have already accomplished you goal for 
 the game. I have given this game 9.5 which is well-deserved and if you are looking for a game that 
 is a lot fun and immersive, look no farther, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This isn't for hard-core gamers, but is still pretty fun if you play with family. Tennis is super 
 simple and the controls are easy. Tennis is okay, and Bowling is great. You have total controll 
 over where you rol the ball. Golf is the most detailed game and is one of my favorites. Boxing 
 is my least favorite becuase it doesn't have much to it and is kinda dumb. There isn't much skil 
 involved and is a little too chaotic. Baseball is my favorite becuase it is most like the real 
 sport. Playing as Miis makes the game very fun and more so than if you couldn't. Overall, this 
 is a game every gamer should at least play once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsmaster90
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is FREE, already making it somewhat good. Now, lets get to the reveiw:
  
  THis game is an awesome multiplayer! it was ment not only for a sports fan or an adverage gamer, 
 but it was ment for people who dont play video games or poeple that played games like pong back 
 in the day. THis game was ment for the Whole family, From your little 5 year old sibling to uncle 
 joey to your grandparents! everyone will enjoy this! using your miis makes this even more enjoyable! 
 THe only part of this that was MENT to be single player is the Wii fitness. Now, that doesnt make 
 this a bad thing, in fact, its just as good as multiplayer. this part of the game gave us a preview 
 of future games to come (Wii fit) , and is a good way to stay fit. every day i still go turn on my 
 wii in the morning, go to wii sports and do my wii fitness. its fun and only takes a few minutes. 
 Its a good way to see if your healthy or not. Now lets sum up this review!:
  
  Its a great multiplayer game and an ok single player game. Its a nice addition to the wii, making 
 you be able to play the wii right out of the box. So: BOTTOM LINE
  is it a good game?: yes
  Is it worth getting? as long as you get a new wii, you dont even need me to awnser that
  
  
 Recomended: YES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When I was eight I got my first Game Boy. Some younger people don't know that brick thing with 
 pixels as big as ... yeah well you can fill it in. Anyhow, I played Tetris for hours. It was the 
 most stupid game, but it kept anyone hooked to that little crappy screen. It was a big hit!
  After that I bought a SNES and still it has made an impact in my younger years.
  Then I got too 
 old for nintendo games and used my PC for cooler games like Doom and Wolfenstein 3D. Got myself 
 an Xbox and now ... I got myself a Wii...
  
  It was with mixed feelings I bought the console. I was afraid the games turned out to be too childish. 
 Those colorful graphics and those simplified game play. When I turned that thing on I really couldn't 
 believe how fun it was playing tennis with my girlfriend. She isn't really interested in games, 
 but now there was something special going on ...
  We played for hours and I must say it really surprised me and also my friends. One thing is for 
 sure ... If you like social gaming by inviting a lot of friends this is the console you have to 
 buy. It's just simple fun and very easy to get hooked to this mini-games.
  
  Disappointing? Well the graphics are not really next-gen, but hey, Nintendo never was right? It's 
 all about the game play and they really keep those expectations high! Just real plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports (Wii) Review
  
  A free game included with a console purchase? Impossible you say? Apparantly not since Nintendo 
 includes this game with every Wii, but is the game any good?
  
  Wii Sports is an ok game. It is pretty much a tech demo and can be used to help you get familiarized 
 with the Wiimote. The game has some pretty fun games as well.
  
  Pros:
  
  + Great use of the Wii-mote
  + Graphics grow on you
  + Very fun to play with friends
  + A 
 variety of fun sports games
  
  Cons:
  
  - Game lacks depth
  - Very boring to play alone
  - Graphics are weak
  
  This is a great game for the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfett199
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great time consumer and really takes advantage of the systems motion sensing controller. 
 The five sports in the game, tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing, are all somewhat easy 
 to learn since nearly everyone has either watched it or taken part in it. However, Wii sports could 
 have been built with a bit more care. For example, in Wii golf, its near impossible to get a low 
 powered stroke, even when putting, with the technique i use is lightly slapping the Wiimote against 
 my side with my arm only being 2 inches or so from my side, and it still takes 4 or 5 practice 
 strokes before I'm confident in my stroke power. For baseball, there at least should have been 
 a catching feature, where say the camera snaps to the player nearest to the ball in play, and you 
 guide their hand with the Wiimote to make the catch, but hey, you cant have everything
  The Fitness test is a real nice addition to the game, mainly because it keeps you coming back to 
 score that 20 year mark but if you start right away with the fitness test with no prior experience 
 to wii sports, expect an age of 40 or higher, since you need to be extremely familiar in the sports 
 in question because to the game, your ability is no different that your familiarity with the wii 
 sport (i. e. knowing when to swing to get a home run and not a foul in baseball (hint, when the shadow 
 of the ball passes over the line between the astro-turf and the dirt around home plate) )
  Overall the game is good, if not great, especially with friends over, since you can compare ratings 
 in each sport and its always nice to lord your vitory over someone else in a game, mainly because 
 in Wii sports, you need coordination and balance, not thumbs and a foul mouth
  I would say this game will sell the Wii, but its come free so not really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinal15
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This is a good game to see what the wiimote can do but this game gets borring after awhile and 
 its easy to get pro on the games. Tennis, bowling and boxing in my mind are the best in wii sports. 
 The others just got stupid after awhile. I dont think any one would buy this game if nintendo sold 
 it out side the system. The multi gets boring and baseball is lame. I hated baseball with a passion 
 and its dumb. Golf was to giltchy for my likeing. Boxing was fun but after awhile it gets boring. 
 Tennis gets you realy tired. Bowling gets you mad when you get a -100 points so it ruins the fun. 
 Now it is a good game to come with a system but I would not buy this if it did not come with a 
 system. The only good thing is you can see your mii play. So buy a game when you get the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtruegunner
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  probably the funniest game ever. you have so much fun while playing this game. the graphics are 
 not brilliant but at the end of the day ur useing caracters with no arms so the grapics dont need 
 to be that good. its made up of 5 games (boxing, bowling, golf, tennis and baseball) and also features 
 training and fitness tests. i would have paid &pound;30 for this game but it comes free with the 
 wii consol making it even better. this game is probably the main reason i bought the wii console. 
 great game and a game that never gets boaring. the only downside is that there is no online play 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I'm glad that this game free with the Wii, because it's awesome! My favourite would be tennis and 
 bowling out of the five games in Wii Sports. However, it's pretty simple, thats what makes it lag 
 back. Many games would last around 10 hours of gameplay on the Wii, but this game is more of a 
 20 minute game, and you've played the whole game. The only thing that really making the game stay 
 up is the point scoring, and the multiplayer.
  
  But besides that it's a great game! The motion detection works great with the game and knows when 
 your swinging the ball, hitting the racket, or hurting someone in boxing, the game is great.
  
  The thing that would have made the game a bit better though would have had more games in it 
 like Badminton, Soccor (you know, maybe like a goalie or something)
  
  The game was still awesome, and I think that the score that I gave it, resembles how great this 
 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanrang
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game where you use the wii mote to play different sports from tennis to bowling. 
 The controls feels very natural where you have to perform different gestures to play the game. 
 For example, while you are playing tennis, you use the wii mote to swing the racket in the game. 
 While playing bowling you use it to throw the bowling globe. In golf, you use it as a club and 
 so on. Like I said, all of this feels natural and not tacked on like some other Wii games. The 
 fun factor in this game gets even better when you play it with a group of friends.
  
  Wii Sport's graphics are also great. You play this game with your Mii character which you can customize 
 as you wish. The levels looks also great and colorful. Other than that, there isn't much more to 
 say about the graphics.
  
  The only downfall of this game is that it could be much more better if it had online play. It works 
 fine when you have your friends over at your house, but it would be much more better if you easily 
 could meet people just by going online. But being a launch title, this game is still great even 
 if it may feel as if the purpose of this game was to demonstrate the wii controls. Wii Sports comes 
 with the Wii console and is therefore a great game start out with when you purchased the console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When you first open your Wii box and find your free copy of Wii Sports you'll probably be thinking 
 All right! But as you become pro in at least one of the sports, the novelty wears off fast.
  
  The gameplay uses the Wii's Motion Sensor Capabilites good, but the movements get very repetetive 
 after a while. Why not use the nunchuck and wii remote in baseball to actually run around the bases? 
 Why not be able to do a motion in the air in the shape of a 4 to yell four or whatever to gain 
 extra points? Why not the ability to kick in boxing if you press buttons? The game could be much, 
 much better than it is.
  
  The graphics are average, they do use your Mii's, but the scenery is too blan and boring sometimes.
 
  
  The sound is good. In boxing, you can hear punches, you can hear the grass being pulled out of 
 the ground in golf, you can hear the sound of you hitting the ball or the ball going pass you in 
 baseball and all that, but there's little music and the sounds get very repetetive after a while.
 
  
  The Value is excellent though in North America and all those other places where you get it free. 
 But if I had to pay for this game, 15 dollars at most, and that's Canadia money which is like 12 
 dollars US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is the first title for Wii. It is a great way to get use to the life like controls of 
 the Wii remote. It includes: tennis, baseball, boxing, golf, and bowling. The controls are great, 
 simulating your movements to match with the movement of the game. The game does however leave out 
 somethings to make the game more pick up and play. You dont exactly have to swing at the right 
 level to hit a ball, just swing hard and youll do okay. The games are fun, and multiplayer is where 
 the replay value comes into play greatly. The characters you play with are virtual versions of 
 you, or a Mii that you create. The game is so fun youll overlook the dated graphics. I just hope 
 that this is a beginning to somthing that will last for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a collection of five sports formatted to work extremely well with the Wiis motion 
 controls which is packaged together with the Wii. Each game is fun for a while but then just dies 
 down. Even though there are only five sports, tennis, bowling, golf, boxing and baseball, the game 
 includes a collection of fifteen mini-games which are pretty fun. The single player isnt anything 
 special but the multi-player makes up for it. Each game is fun in multi-player and doesnt get 
 old too quickly like in single player. Another great part of Wii Sports is you can use your miis. 
 Before you play each game you get to choose, out of a list of all of your miis, one of your miis 
 to use. Even though Wii Sports isnt the most fun game its included with the Wii and will keep 
 you interested for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BdoggRAY
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  awsome game _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: discobreakdown
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a complimentary game disc that is packaged with the Nintendo Wii. The game disc contains: 
 Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, Boxing, along with other training mini-games of each sport. Tennis 
 is the most addictive, and, coincidentally, the easiest to pick up and play. Baseball is entertaining, 
 but in a zig-zag sort of way-batting is always fun, pitching is always not fun. Bowling is nothing 
 more than a mediocre single-player experience, but it's an amazing multiplayer. Boxing is probably 
 the most frustrating game for me because I love boxing so much. The controls just aren't responsive 
 as you wish they were. No matter how hard I try, I usually find myself hitting nothing but air. 
 Everything responds well in Golf, but I just didn't find it as entertaining as the others-especially 
 in a group scenario.
  Some of the training games are really fun, especially with a buddy or three, and the Wii Fitness 
 Test will probably keep you amused for a few weeks. All of the baseball, tennis, and bowling training 
 games were my favorites.
  Gathering a few friends, ordering a pizza, and hitting up some Wii Sports is an ideal Friday night 
 for me. Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a video game with baseball, tennis, bowling, boxing, and golf all rolled into one. 
 This game is not a perfect 10 just because the games graphics are not that great and you can see 
 through your character when boxing. But you have to understand that is Nintendo there are not about 
 hardcore games like the PS3 and 360. The game is so fun though the game mechanics are easy and 
 you can learn the controls quickly. There is not much bad things you could say about this game 
 acually there is a practice mode with a lot of options on how to train like to teach you how to 
 hit homeruns and how to get the golf ball on the green easier. There is also a Wii sports fitness 
 age test take you can take only once a day to see how good your balance, speed, and stamina. You 
 can also rack up experiance points and you can become a pro and play against harder A i opponents. 
 This game is fun and a good reason to buy a Wii it comes with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Especially a console that is differentiating itself from the others with the features its new remote 
 has.
  
  Honestly, I love this game for what it has done. My wife now plays it, my kids love to play and 
 my friends and family that are not into gaming have tried it and a majority are impressed with 
 what it does.
  
  As for me, I think its nicely designed and has some nice features. Tennis is easily the funnest 
 for me with Golf being a little to slow for my taste. My kids love golf though because its just 
 so easy to do for them. My wife loves boxing (she whooped me the first few times we played, but 
 since I have been practicing more than her now she kind of shy's away from a rematch.) As far as 
 design, I love the use of the Mii's. My kids are always pointing out the characters we have created 
 that get used in Baseball or are in the background in Bowling.
  
  I don't think this is a full title though since its not as robust as i would have liked it to be, 
 but it definitely gets my mind thinking on what possibilities are yet to come for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psyfon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  This is really just to give you a taste of what the Wii plays like. Once you've mastered these 
 games you're all set to play. The games are simple. The controls aren't hard at all; it just takes 
 some time to learn how the Wii-mote will react. The hardest thing about the games is the timing, 
 when to swing, to release the ball etc. All in all it's not hard. The replay value is high, assuming 
 you don't get annoyed with the unchanging repetitiveness of it. If this game didn't come with he 
 Wii, I'd suggest you rent it for a party or something to that effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAUTIONIMDANGER
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  this will be a short but sweet review, lets get down to it shall we? (not in a sexual way) gameplay+nice 
 collection of mini games including: boxing, tennis ,bowling, baseball and golf basicly you begin 
 the game, select what sport you will be playing, and begin, now this is the fun part, you play 
 as your very own mii, in whatever sport you have chosen, lets say.. golf, and you basicly play golf 
 with the wiimote as the gold club performing the exact same actions as you would with a golf club, 
 the same goes for each other mini sport game type thing.
  
  graphics+big mii heads nice backgrounds
  
  sound+meh the wiimotes speaker is pretty cool
 
  
  value+its free!
  
  overall+lovely little pack in with the wii, but dont expect to play it for long sessions this is 
 a game of short bursts, oh and make sure you get a game quickly with it because you do get bored 
 of playing this a lot, i did all i could think about was getting Zelda :D oh and one other thing, 
 THIS IS A GREAT PARTY/MULTIPLAYER GAME, ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC WITH FRIENDS!!!!, ahem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiMustDie
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  It's fun, in small doses. It's a win for a launch game, but it's play value is quickly diminished 
 after playing it about 5 minutes. The games limitations are somewhat mind boggling. It's fun with 
 others, kinda lame on your own.
  
  Best game on it: Boxing.
  Reason: The computer gets understandably harder each level. It's fun to actually punch them over 
 and over and see their pieces of life chip away.
  
  Worst game on it: Baseball
  Reason: It's easy to play and fun at times. Why cant you steal bases? I just cant get over that. 
 Whats with the computer always being in the right spot but your players have their non-existent 
 legs tied? The randomly generated computer players amuse me but the game is still one sided.
  
  Most masterful game: Bowling
  You really have to take some time out of your oh so busy day 
 to figure out how to curve the ball, roll it just right and what not.
  
  How they could have made this better:
  Make it online, it would be great to box with someone 
 across the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Even though it can get a little bit repettitive. It only gets repettetive because 
 their are only 5 sports. The sports are tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. I think the 
 best is golf then baseball then tennis then boling and finally boxing. Golf is great fun but sometimes 
 the wii remote stuffs up like if you try to do a little shot it sometimes goes big but that rarely 
 happens. Baseball is great fun as well. When you first start playing it it is very hard but once 
 you get use to it it seems easy. The annoying thing is is that you don't run to each base, instead 
 the bigger you hit it the more spaces you run. But it is really annoying when you do a really good 
 hit and it gets caught. Tennis is great as well. The onl problem is that you don't move your character. 
 It automatically moves. You swing the wii remote to hit the ball, just like real tennis. Bowling 
 is great as well. Its just that it is too easy. I almost get a spare or a strike every turn i have. 
 Boxing is the worst of the lot. It just gets too boring after a while. But it is easily the most 
 tiring. The good thing about this game is that it is like real boxing. You can even dodge uses 
 the nunchuk and the wii remote. Boxing is the only game you need the nunchuk for. Their are also 
 minigames in this game, they help you improve in each game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Good introduction to the Wii; Daily fitness training keeps you coming back; It's Frii 
 with the Wii! (in NA)
  
  The Bad: Too simplified
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  When you hear the word Wii, the first thing that will probably come to your mind is of it's new 
 controls. You use a motion sensing remote (or Wiimote) , and there is also a nunchuck attachment. 
 The controllers are very different, and are very new. They will obviously need some to get used 
 to. So Nintendo decided to make a small sports game and package it along with the Wii (except in 
 Japan) . The game is called Wii Sports. It's more of a demo game, and if it weren't frii with the 
 Wii, it would be worth nothing more then $20. There are 5 different sports, 3 different training 
 sessions for each sport (total 15) , and a daily fitness test. In this review, I'm going to split 
 it up into sections.
  
  TENNIS- I would say tennis is a rather underrated sport, especially here in NA. It's a very fun 
 sport, especially if you've actually played it. There's also the Mario Tennis series, which are 
 also very fun. My reactions to this game are very mixed. On the good side, swing that Wiimote like 
 a tennis racket is very fun and satisfying. Though on the bad side, you don't move. The cpu does 
 it for you. It might be a good thing since this is more of an intro game. Though it was a disappointment. 
 It would've been nice if you could just attack the nunchuck to more around. It would've made it 
 more challenging, and more fun. Also, what happens when the cpu moves for you is that it only moves 
 far enough so that you can reach the ball. This might not sound like a bad thing, but it is. What 
 ends up happening is that you'll often be returning the ball on your back hand. Not only is the 
 controls shaky when swinging a backhand, but backhands aren't good shots, especially when you could 
 go on your forehand. Overall, this game is satisfying, but is also disappointing.
  
  BASEBALL- Even though the Wiimote can't project the weight of an actual bat, you still need the 
 same techniques as if you're actually swinging a bat. It's very satisfying, and makes the game 
 fun (I'm personally not a baseball fan here, but I actually enjoyed this game) . The controls are 
 a touch shaky, but still work well. It really does feel like you're actually swinging the bat. 
 As for pitching, it's very easy. You just flick your wrist, and you press down either the A or 
 B button to change up your pitch. This game is also a bit too simplified, but it's still satisfying.
 
  
  BOWLING- Hanging out on the bowling lanes is a nice way to spend time with your friends. The same 
 holds true virtually, as this game proves. Throwing the bowling is rather easy. You could throw 
 it like an actual bowling ball, but a well timed flick of the wrist will do as well. You curve 
 the ball simply by twisting your wrists. This is a nice a simple game that actually isn't too simplified.
 
  
  GOLF- Again, this game makes you feel as if you're actually swinging the club. The more you pull 
 back, the stronger the shot. Though you also have to be careful so you don't mess your shot up. 
 This is just a nice simple game of golf that is also satisfying. Not much to say here.
  
  BOXING- Probably the funnest game. This is the only sport where you use the nunchuck attachment. 
 You block by holding your controllers high. You punch by simply jabbing (flicking works too) . You 
 dodge by tilting the controllers left or right. It's simple, but it is fun constantly throwing 
 power blows against your opponents. The only thing is that the controls don't feel like their always 
 responsive on this one when punching.
  
  TRAINING- There are 15 different training excersizes, 3 for each sport. They're designed for you 
 to simply get more skilled at the sports. They are a good thing to do when trying to go for high 
 scores, and are good to do before you do your daily fitness test.
  
  FITNESS TEST- If you've played Brain Age for the DS, then this is the same deal, except with sports. 
 You are required to do 3 training courses for the test, choosen at random. Once you've finished 
 them, your Fitness Age will then be calculated. 20 is the best, 90 is the worst. This test adds 
 replayability to game, since it's always nice to come back to it everyday to check your Fitness 
 Age.
  
  MECHANICS (all) - The controls are shaky at times, but overall, are very satisfying. The graphics 
 at times look nice, but at other times, not so nice. It'll often look like the Miis have no complete 
 arms or legs. The sound is okay.
  
  OVERALL- My only complaint of this game is that it does feel like it's too simplified. This may 
 be a demo game, but they could've easily made a few small changes to make this game feel better. 
 Like letting you move on tennis. Letting you actually see the players to run for the bases. It 
 wouldn't have taken much effort to make this small improvements. Though nonetheless, this is an 
 enjoyable game to play once a day. You'll probably won't be playing this game for over an hour 
 a day, but it's easy to come back to every day. This is a good demo game. It lets you get used 
 to the new Wiimote, and it shows you how satisfying it is to feel like you actually have the racket, 
 or bat, or ball, or club, or boxing glove on your hand. Plus, this game is frii with thee Wii! 
 So you can't miss it (unless if you're in Japan) . Though if it didn't come with the Wii, it wouldn't 
 be worth a dime more then $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefearishere07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games for the wii and its free. yes to me its a great game with 5 sports to play 
 like baseball, boxing, golf, tennis and bowling (shame theres no football) . when i got the wii i 
 could not put the wii ramote down for 2 weeks. i was on it non-stop (why o why do we need battarys) 
 its the best game to get u started and to beat your friends in to a puddle of water with his tears. 
 and 3rd on my frav wii games on relese. and it shows u how the wii functions with the wii ramote 
 and is so easy to learn even my grandad new how to play it.
  yours truely
  thefearishere07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game comes bundled with the Wii Console and it shows how the wii-mote can be used.
  There are five sports in this game as well as three training sessions of each one.
  The sports 
 are Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Boxing and Golf.
  
  
  Tennis is a simple game that allows you to swing your wii-mote gently as if it were
  a racket. 
 You can do this with 3 other bots, or up to 3 friends. Simple game which gets boring fast if you 
 play alone.
  
  Baseball allows you to either swing a bat or throw balls (It's lame to throw since all you need 
 to do is hold two buttons down and whip
  with your remote - and the opponent is easily beaten) . The batting is far more interesting since 
 you can aim the ball in a realistic way (at lieast a little realistic) .
  But this sport also get pretty boring if you don't play against someone.
  
  Bowling is very 
 well made. You first aim then you hold down the B button, swing your arm and release it at the 
 right time to throw away the bowling ball. This sport allows up to four players.
  Otherwise I can just say that the bowling is just like real bowling. Allows multiplaying with one 
 wiimote
  
  in Boxing you also use the nunchuk attachment to the wii-mote so that you can use the motion sensing 
 to
  mash your opponents head and body with punches. There are many champions to beat and when you gave 
 beaten the master Matt , you'll receive a nice price. This game allows two players to play at the 
 same time. and finally there are Golf. What can I say? Just aim, exercise some swings and then 
 swing the ball, but not to hard - it will go off the calculated charting if you do. For up to 4 
 players. Allows multiplaying with one wiimote.
  
  The graphics in this game ain't THAT good but they are good enough. The sound is decent but same 
 sound effects all the time make it all worse.
  
  since this game comes free I have no advice when it comes to money , just try to enjoy the game 
 as much as possible.
  
  
  
  PS: Wii Sports allow you to be either lefty or righty, so don't worry about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  for most this collection of sports is your first experience for the wii. so i think i'll review 
 the different sports indivuadualy
  
  Tennis: tennis isn't (in my opinion) not the best game in the collection. it's very simple. you 
 don't control where your mii moves. it's simplicity often leads to extremely long match where you 
 don't win. it's simple forehand backhand. no real strategy.
  
  Baseball: very fun with friends, but not alone. pitching get repetitive because it's so easy to 
 cheat. one of the biggest problems with baseball however is the out system. it will hit the ground 
 and it will still be out. you have no control over how fast your miis move. but over-all a fun 
 game.
  
  Bowling: well it's bowling a family favorite. not much wrong with bowling except the fact that real 
 bowling with real people is much more fun.
  
  Golf: a great adaption of hot shots for the wii. the putting system is a little of and the wind 
 wind confuses me. but a great selection of holes. and short-cuts
  
  Boxing: unfortently this is the only game that uses the numchuck. it's great against a computer 
 but flawed against an other human.
  
  all together this is a great collection of family fun. training mode is something to do. because 
 this game gets boring .. fast. this game has a little something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  If you are like me, and you always have a lot of people at your house then WII Sports is the perfect 
 game to put in, the games are not perfect but they are fun and they are easy to play, it is really 
 nice to have people over who dont game but can pick up WII sports and love it. I haven't been able 
 to play video games with my older sister since we were little kids playing Super Mario World on 
 the Super Nintendo, but she loves to play WII sports and she is good at it. The use of the MII's 
 is perfect and being able to make a pro level makes it a little more interesting. WII Sports is 
 perfect for anyone and everyone especially with a group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I am making a review... it's been a while. Anyway, Wii sports, sure it is not the best 
 game ever. But one thing some overlook, and that is... it comes with the wii. For free. So even 
 if you hate it (I didn't) , don't worry too much. Anyway...
  
  Gameplay: Nothing special. The only real goal is to become a pro . It isn't hard, although it can 
 take a little patience. Except golf. Golf is hard.
  
  Graphics: Despite the mii's, this came has pretty good graphics. Not super mario galaxy or metroid 
 prime 3 good, but nonetheless, good.
  
  Sound: Once again, it is good, but can become annoying, especially, to the person sleeping in the 
 next room. (And no, I am NOT joking.)
  
  Value: It is free. End of story.
  
  Tilt: I personally like it. It is the only game where me and my brother actually compete. If you 
 know me good, you should know that that is amazing. I'm not even a fan of sports, really... eh heh 
 heh...*runs away* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimRippah
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that comes bundled with your Wii. Let's analyze its different components, 
 shall we?
  Graphics - 7
  It's just a tech demo, so the graphics aren't very good.
  
  Sound - 8
  I like the song in the main menu. Otherwise, the sound effects are.. good.
  
  
 Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay is really nice, although the game doesn't really pick up in the proper way many gestures.
 
  I like the Wii Fitness Age and the Wii Training sections.
  
  Overall - a mediocre game. Someone will only play it because it comes with their Wii.
  Nevertheless, 
 try it when you buy your Wii :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports isn't really a game to put it simply. It's a packed-in game with the Wii that is perfect 
 for it's meant to do, showing what the Wii can do in a simple yet not too boring manner.
  
  For starters, the game revolves around the controller and gives you a choice of 5 different sports 
 in which you use the controller in the same way as you would in the real sport. The games you can 
 play are Tennis, Bowling, Golf, Baseball and Boxing.
  
  Tennis, being the best of the bunch, has you swinging the controller in either forehand or backhand 
 motions to hit the ball and any extra techniques you may want to use are in there, such as lobs, 
 spins, flat shots, smashes, etc. All you have to do is do the respective motion. For instance, 
 a lob will have you swinging from up to down.
  
  Bowling, second best there is, has you adjusting your position with the D-Pad and then holding 
 down B and swinging the controller like a bowling ball and releasing B to release the ball.
  
  Golf, well, it's golf, so I don't need to venture any further.
  
  Baseball, this is probably 
 the worst one there. The batting is done simply by batting which is good, but the pitching is downright 
 stupid. You simply swing the controller down like an axe to pitch and hold down A, B or A &amp; 
 B to change the style of the pitch.
  
  Boxing is very different from the others. Here, you have to attach the nunchuck and use the wiimote 
 and nunchuck as the respective fists you hold them in and deliver punches to the opponent. This 
 one gives you quite a workout as you will find it often unresponsive or just plain wrong. Holding 
 the controller near your head and punching from there punches the opponents face while holding 
 it at your stomach and jabbing punches the body of the opponent. Uppercuts and the like are all 
 there only it isn't as easy as you think to pull off. Often, the character simply doesn't punch 
 like you want him to or doesn't punch whatsoever, this can be very frustrating and it most always 
 is!
  
  All of those games have a single player mode which has you getting points so that you can reach 
 PRO level at 1000 points. Also all games feature sound from the Wiimote which is a very nice and 
 immersive feature and works very well, eventhough the quality of the wiimote speaker isn't all 
 that impressive. The reason why I gave sound such a low rating is because of how terrible the sound 
 track is. It sounds like something from a 70s family sitcom like full house, and is not all catchy, 
 it's just annoying. I wouldv'e given sound a 4 but the effects from the wiimote and the sounds 
 of the swishes and punches and stuff are all nice. The graphics, well, simple and clean, thats 
 the point of the game. In my opinion, this game really shines in the multi-player especially 4 
 players in Tennis is really, really fun. The game also uses Miis which is a good ting seeing as 
 not many games use them.
  
  It also has other things like a training mode which has 3 tests for each of the sports to help 
 training, like hitting tennis balls against a target on a wall, or a punching bag for boxing, etc. 
 Also, a Wii Fitness mode is there which is, for those of you who are familiar with the game, Brain 
 Age. It pitches you against 3 random tests from the training mode and depending on how well you 
 did they will give you an estimate of your age, the best being 20.
  
  Overall, the game is a tech demo at best and would still be worth buying even it had not been packed 
 in simply because of the multi-player and just to see what the Wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Well when you first get your wii this will probably be the first game you play. Don't judge the 
 wii from this one game. Its good fun but only with friends or family, on your own? no, never, don't 
 even try. This game has allot of variety of games from tennis to boxing. The games you probably 
 shouldn't even bother trying is the bowling or baseball. Why? well in bowling there is a way to 
 get a strike every time which is rather unfair on the newbie. Baseball? it just sucks batting is 
 so complicated unless you hit it at the right moment you will without a doubt miss. Even if you 
 do hit it just a bit of bad timing cause it to be a foul ball for no absolute reason. Other than 
 that the other games are well worth a look such as golf and tennis but even they have their flaws.
 
  
  Graphics: Nice and shiny makes good use of the Mii's nothing extraordinary don't forget its running 
 on last gen graphics so cut it some slack.
  
  Game play:
  like i said bowling and baseball suck but the other games are worth a look, they make extremely 
 good use of the wii mote. The game modes are good but by no means great. Overall: Nice way to show 
 what the wii is capable of but accomplishes that with a few fun games and a few poor ones. One 
 good thing its got a high replay value and as long as you got friends this is a real treat but 
 if not it just makes for an under average game. Then again its free so how can you possibly fault 
 that?
  
  Score:
  5/10 like you have a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skine99
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is much too short and boring. The only exception being when you're playing multiplayer 
 but even that will die out in you.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is quite well made. The controls are very responsive to your movements and 
 I never thought hitting a fake tennis ball could be fun. But eventually this thrill will die in 
 your heart and become an arm sore.
  
  Graphics- I must admit, I like the graphics. Simple is ussually bad but in the case of Wii sports 
 it looks amazing. The menu presentation is also very nice looking.
  
  Sound- From the Wii remote. The sounds are muffled and hideous like scratching a chalboard or something. 
 Other than that the sounds are mostly ok.
  
  Value- I barely got a month out of this game. It really is a game to introduce the remote but for 
 a master it is boring.
  
  Tilt- The game is an ok game that at first is rather fun. Some games are better than others.
 
  
  Tennis- 9/10
  Golf- 4/10
  Boxing- 7/10
  Baseball-8/10
  Bowling- 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports will the first game you will play on the wii, the game has 5 games in one CD, Bowling, 
 Baseball, Tennis, Boxing and Golf.
  
  Graphics: Graphics i have to say is tough enough for the wii already and i have to say that the 
 graphics are getting quite old like the gamecube graphics have too.
  
  Sound: Reflect to the sound you have to do in real life, hitting a baseball or a throwing a bowling 
 ball on the ground never felt great.
  
  Gameplay: Theres are just games you require to press buttons to swing a bat, but in this, you really 
 react so swing the bat. Gameplay never been more funner in your life. Games are just right when 
 playing it except for one game if you to be exact, golf is one of the hardest game to play on the 
 wii since i learn how to hit the ball just right for the hole, but you get used to it, it will 
 be good.
  
  Extras: Minigames are excellent like tennis balls to targets, free swings on baseball and punching 
 beanbags in Boxing.
  
  Rent or Buy: BUY its with a Wii already for god sakes!!!
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9
  I gave gameplay a 9 because it uses the Wiimote better than any other Wii game out right now. It 
 plays really well and doesn't freeze or anything like that. It is also incredibly easy to just 
 pick up and play and the controls are not at all hard to learn. All the games are fun to play and 
 my personal favorite is the baseball.
  
  Graphics- 8
  Nothing special here. The Miis look great and the places you play at look good aswell.
  
  Sound- 
 8
  The sound coming out of the TV is good. But, the sound coming out of the Wiimote is not. It sounds 
 like a dying cow. Value- 10
  Its free. What more can I say?
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is free. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adsds141
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  As you can easily tell, this game came with the console. However, Most console with developmental 
 concepts such as this aren't glitchy and the graphics are surprisingly nice. There are 5 games, 
 These include; Bowling, Tennis, Baseball. Gold and Boxing. The only real obvious glitch in Wii 
 Sports is the boxing as the gyro never is truely on spot. Its almost a educational as all tutorials 
 happen before you play. On the last note, It's still a free game so don't complain about it .
 
  
  It doesn't take a long time to understand the basic controls as they will show you in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This will be your Wii first game, i think so? SO to start with it is ok, because it use the wiimote 
 in various forms, like a Bat, boxing gloves, tennis racket... The game is very funny for reunions, 
 with your family and with friends, it's very intuitive than your parents and not gamers, will feel 
 immersed in the game, and they will think that they can do everything! until you bet em' hehe. 
 the use of your created miis in the game, add to it a more attractive reason to play it. But sometimes 
 the lack of sports, make you feel disappointed. But not worry about that buddy, they have a kind 
 of minigames based, in the sports that this game have.
  
  The sound and the graphics aren't very impressive by the way, i thin that they could be better, 
 but that doesn't affect the game play of the game, so it doesn't matter.
  
  Play it by your own, and you will have you're final verdict, :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great way to test out the wii and the use of the remote motions. This game helps 
 you get a handle on how to use the wii and the different features. Im glad it comes with the wii 
 because if you have no other games this one will hold you over for quite some time. I mean honestly 
 this game isnt great in any way with graphics or anything like that, but its a good game to play 
 if you and a couple of friends want to just fool around. So for me this game gets a good vote cause 
 its a party game and who doesnt like to party, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports comes bundeled with the Wii system, and, I've got to be honest when I say that even 
 if it wasn't bundeled I'd still love to get my hands on it. Truth be told, this game, upon first 
 glance doesn't look like much. However, when you fire up your wii and get some pals, the fun ensues. 
 The games to be played are simple sure, but not too simple in that they lack competition or similarity 
 to their more realistic counterparts, but simple enough so as to be accesible by all.
  
  Granted, some may scoff at the idea of "accessible to all"; of a game which is not composed of 
 blood and guts, nor bone crushing, jaw busting hits. However, although I love that kind of thing 
 as much as the next fellow, there's certainly something to be said for a game which gets my parents 
 (yes, even my mother) involved. It's a great sight that brings a smile to the room to see Non-gamer's 
 gaming, and enjoying themselves. Now, I know what some may be thinking... That they've had absolutely 
 enough of this whole casual gamers involved talk... They've had it up to here with nintendo's plan, 
 or various fanboy's touting Nintendo as the lords of the future. Well, I was skeptical, and although 
 I shall not make any outlandish claims as such, I surely can say that this game, Wii Sports, and 
 any other games on my newly purchased Wii, that allow and attract non-gamers to play games, are 
 winners by me. It's really just a lot of fun seeing new-to-games induviduals with broad smiles 
 on their faces as they swing the remote desperately to achieve a return serve.
  
  And man... Is it ever a good work out!
  
  From the enjoyable beggining tunes, or well polished 
 look, to the fun game selection and great motion detection, this game is a winner on all counts.
 
  
  All in all... The games are simple, the premise is simpler.... Fun. That's all this game boils down 
 to. Forget stats, Forget realism, forget high definition or frames per second. Forget all of that, 
 my gaming friend, If only for a while, and instead enjoy and remember Wii Sports, as a great gaming 
 expirience, plain and simple.
  
  Highly Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Samsung_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I mean, really its just to get you to adapt to the concepts of the Wii, for example getting use 
 to the Wii remote and of course getting more experience of using the Wii remote better. And yet 
 after all that you've got a highly fun game, yet simple and oddly satisfying.
  Whether you're trying to get a chip in from 16 yards on the fairway in golf or your playing the 
 fast serve in a tough match between Federer and Nadal in golf, its all great fun. Its great with 
 multiplayer, ecspecially tennis, as every little movement from your hand will reflect on the screen. 
 The people are great on it, such as for bowling there is The Dude, Tennis there's Nadal and Federer 
 and many more. Overall I reckon its a highly fun game however with not much depth and a challenge 
 but Nintendo has done a good job creating this, so for that I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingyotoX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game has blown my socks off. this game is one the best gaming experiences I've had in years. 
 this game offers amazing multilayer for some of my favorite sports. Golf: this is my favorite sport 
 to play in the game I've never been a fan of golf until now. this aspect is absolutely extremely 
 fun. Boxing: this is my least favorite sport the controls feel awkward and at times un responsive. 
 Tennis: this sport has offered me hours of fun. this game is awesome. it's tons of fun going against 
 others in an epic clash of tennis. bowling: I love to play this game with my sister who may I add 
 has never liked video games until we got our wii. Baseball: it's really a solid sport but they 
 could have made pitching have a little more substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The core of the gameplay of this game is just to get you used to your Wiimote for your newly purchased 
 Wii. All the sports in this game virtually run like they would if you were actually playing them. 
 There are 5 different sports on this game which are: bowling, tennis, baseball, golf, and boxing. 
 Only one of them requires the nunchuk and that is boxing. When playing tennis, you simply swing 
 your Wiimote like you would a tennis racket with precise timing. In bowling, you go through all 
 the motions of actually bowling, and you can even curve your ball like a professional. In golf, 
 you hold the Wiimote like a golf club and swing it, the harder the swing the further it goes. In 
 baseball, you pitch and bat. When pitching, you can throw a fastball, curveball, or splitter. To 
 throw, you use the throwing motion and the faster your throw the faster it goes. Finally, in boxing 
 you use both the Wiimote and nunchuk as your left and right hand as move them like you are boxing. 
 This may all seem amazing, but the Wiis motion sensing isnt always responsive like it should 
 be. Sometime, when playing golf you might be swinging and he will just be pulling back the golf 
 club. Also, the boxing is very unresponsive and just relies on moving your arms back and forth 
 really fast. Baseball, bowling, and tennis are all very responsive though and have very little 
 problems.
  
  A few things that werent taken very well for me was the fact that in baseball you couldnt control 
 the fielding when on defense. All you can do is pitch and the game takes care of the rest for you. 
 It would have been much more fun to do it all. Another thing is that on tennis, you cant play 
 singles matches. You always have to have a partner next to you, which sucks the fun out of one-on-one 
 matches. Some nice things though are that you dont always have to have four Wiimotes for four 
 people to play. In bowling you can use two Wiimotes and trade them back and forth with people (up 
 to 4 people at once) . This is a very good thing since it will probably be hard to find a Wiimote 
 to buy separate for most people. Theres also a fitness mode much like Brain Ages brain check 
 that tells you how old your brain is, where you complete a set of mini-games and it will tell you 
 your fitness age. All of the mini-games played in this can also be unlocked and played anytime 
 you want, and unlocking them is a breeze. Making a Mii is always fun to because you get to use 
 them in this game, giving it a little customization in the characters.
  
  The graphics in this game are undeniably bad, but considering this game is absolutely free with 
 you purchase of the Wii, I think it is pretty justified to a certain extent. I can see having lower 
 quality graphics to save some time, but not having body parts on the Miis is kind of dull. It 
 leaves a lot to the imagination and I would have liked to see the legs of my Mii when they are 
 running in baseball, or their hand when throwing a ball in bowling. The environments are actually 
 quite nice at spots, but other spots like the grass in golf just dont look good. I guess it was 
 a pick-n-choose circumstance. For the most part all the equipment and balls in the games do look 
 good though, which makes the graphics very bearable when playing the game. The music in this game 
 is very cheap sounding, especially when coming out of the Wiimote. The Wiimotes speakers are actually 
 very cheap sounding, but you cannot keep the fact away that it is innovative. The sound effects 
 in the game are ok, but arent the absolute greatest I have heard. If they find a way to make the 
 Wiimote sound less cheap, the experience in every game would be way better in terms of sound.
 
  
  Considering this game comes free with the Wii in North America, I dont have to recommend the game 
 to you, just the system. The Wii is very much worth the price tag, for this and Twilight Princess. 
 So dont hesitate if you find one and have the money. We can all only hope that Nintendo brings 
 a full-fledged version of this game with prettied up graphics and some more games, but until that 
 happens, enjoy your free game! The appeal of the game might wear off after awhile, but I find myself 
 going back to it every once in awhile, and it makes a great party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Okay, just to let everyone who will read this know (I think that's correct grammar) The scores 
 for gameplay will be posted in this review for all 5 games. Of course, they will be averaged together 
 for the final score.
  
  Let's start with one sport that I have never been in the mood to play too often. Well, not in real 
 life. Tennis is the name. Gameplay: 8 Someone pointed out that the game does all the moving for 
 you and that all you have to do is swing the racket. I thought that was a very good point. Though 
 the purpose of the overall game is to demonstrate the Wii's wireless interactiveness, we do have 
 a control pad, we know how to use it. It would up the challenge and make it seem like you're doing 
 more than just waiting for the ball to come to you.
  
  Okay, now time for sport that I adore, well the mini-version at least. I go mainly to the driving 
 ranges for this one. If you haven't guessed it by now, this is Golf. Gameplay: 8 Testing your swing 
 before actually hitting the ball is essential. But that's what would make this game probably the 
 best golfing game out there. I say would because there just isn't much to it. You've got a 9-hole 
 course and three short training exercises. That is not much compared to 1. A real 18-hole course. 
 2. Other classic golf games on Nintendo systems, like the Mario golf series (something is telling 
 me that's the only golf series on Nintendo systems. That is, unless one of those Tiger Woods games 
 or any other random golf games made it onto a Nintendo system) Looking at the map of the course 
 is also necessary, you will need that to know how powerful you need to swing in order to land the 
 ball in the right place. Challenge=good, shortness=bad.
  
  And now the sport that I enjoy watching but fail miserably at when it comes to playing it: baseball. 
 I suck at baseball in real life. Back in 5th grade, I walked out of a season with a .000 average. 
 I will not deny it. That was when I said, if practice makes perfect, then it's gonna take wayyyy 
 too long to make me perfect and I've got better things in life to do.
  
  Gameplay: 7 They kinda reverted back to Super Monkey Ball when it came to how the game was played, 
 though I'm really glad they didn't use those stupid slots or ramps to determine where you got as 
 far as bases went. Actually, the only thing that really resembles Monkey Baseball is the fact that 
 once the ball is in a fielders glove, the play is done. Once again, there is a control pad, maybe 
 that could've determined what base the fielders would throw to, or maybe it could've been to just 
 move, but once again, Nintendo decided to just accomplish the interaction goal and that was it. 
 Because they didn't go the extra mile, double plays, stealing, and other advanced baseball tactics 
 aren't possible. They accomplished the basics, but that's pretty much it. Oh, and like in Tennis, 
 why does it take no effort to swing the bat? A quick flick of the controller and you get a full 
 swing of the bat. Like in golf, shouldn't how hard you swing determine how far the ball is hit? 
 Also, I don't understand how all of my pitches are strikes except for splitters, which are always, 
 and I mean ALWAYS, balls. They tried making how hard you pitched dependent upon how fast the controller 
 moved. However, it doesn't take a full swing to pitch. In fact, most times I've tried fully swinging 
 the Wii Remote, the pitch is really slow. A fastball is pitched at 64 mph. 64! That's not a fastball! 
 That's slower than most change-ups. The simple way around this dilemma is to simply do a quick 
 flick with the remote, and any pitch will go above or near 80 in the case of the splitter. The 
 fast ball will go over 90 mph. There's a fastball.
  
  I think the first time I had ever heard of this sport was when I played Mike Tyson's Punchoout 
 on the NES. If Mike Tyson didn't give this one away, then I'll just say Boxing really loud to do 
 so....... BOXING!
  
  Gameplay: 7 This will probably be the most frustrating of them all mainly because half the punches 
 you throw MISS! Even when you try and move the two controllers so that your body is completely 
 in front of your opponent, you can't help but miss. Who knows? Maybe this is the one game that 
 Nintendo actually made the movements completely dependent upon the controllers. Change that, I 
 try to direct my punches, and it doesn't work. So it can be really frustrating. Even training is 
 stupid like that
  
  Now, for the final one. I call this one my excuse for being athletic . Others call it Bowling. 
 Sometimes I call it both.
  
  Gameplay: 10 I'm not being biased because bowling is the only sport from this game that I'm good 
 at in real life. This game deserved a 10 because there is nothing wrong with the controls. They're 
 simple, but still fun. The basics are self-explanatory You curve the ball by twisting the Remote 
 as you release the B button. If you want less of a curve, then lift the remote further up before 
 you release B. The controls are very realistic. Also, the pins are just as hard to knock down in 
 this game as they are in real life. This resembles real life so well. Why shouldn't it? This was 
 probably the easiest of the 5 games to make. The training games are also fun and challenging, especially 
 the one where you have to get a strike with more than 10 pins. That one is tough.
  
  Graphics, for the most part, are fine. Everything seems to move smoothly. Visually, it's not very 
 impressive. But in most cases, moving smoothly is more important than looking good. Sound is phenominal. 
 I've never heard more realistic bowling, baseball, tennis, and golf sounds. Boxing is close to 
 it, but I'm not going to take off a point because they make the punches sound explosive for entertainment 
 purposes. At least, that's my theory. Wii sports is fun as a single player game for awhile for 
 some people, but for others, friends or some kind of company will be necessary for real long-lasting 
 fun. This can get old fast. This game is pretty good, especially for a free one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is perfect.
  
  I can't think of a better pack-in for a system like the Wii. It's simple, it's fun, it's cute. 
 It's Wii Sports.
  
  The gameplay is very simple and pleasurable. Swing the remote like a tennis racket, a golf club, 
 baseball bat, whatever. The controlls work great, and make this game what it is. This game is very 
 very fun to play, in short bursts. I honestly don't play this game often by myself; I usually play 
 it with my siblings or friends to introduce them to the wonderful world of Wii. And for that purpose, 
 it's perfect. It's also fun to play around with if you're bored and need to be occupied for about 
 20 minutes. You don't have to like sports to enjoy this.
  
  The graphics, though unrealistic and rather last-gen, serve their purpose and add to the game's 
 casual, fun, and charming feel. You play with your Miis, which is a very nice touch. The game looks 
 very clean and crisp, certainly not graphically stunning by any means, but easy on the eyes as 
 far as most Wii games go. The soundtrack is again, cute, charming, fun. Where the sound really 
 impressed me is the Wii-mote's speaker. You can hear the smack of a bat, whoosh of a ball, ect. 
 It's pretty immersive, and cool to boot.
  
  I can't think of a game with better value. Heck, it's FREE. Buy a Wii, get a controller and game, 
 it's perfect.
  
  Overall, this is a very FUN game, and in the end, isn't that all that matters? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Wii sports, one of the best games for wii, comes free when u buy Nintendo Wii. Wii sports supposedly 
 came free with the Wii to show exactly what Nintendo Wii could do. This game is very fun for people 
 of every ages whether your playing baseball, bowling, tennis, golf, boxing, or a bunch of mini-games 
 its worth your time playing. One other great feature of this game is you get to make your own mii. 
 After you keep doing really good you will become a pro and it will unlock certain stuff for that 
 sport. (example: if u become pro on bowling your bowling bowl will be shiny and have stars on it) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenrard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports brings to the table innovative controls, a unique user interface and hours and hours 
 of fun. Wii Sports is a collection of simple sports games that use the unique Wii controller to 
 hit, throw, punch, and do just about everything else you would do in a normal real life sport. 
 This level of immersion of the game is entirely fresh, breaking down those stale gaming walls that 
 have developed over the past 15+ years of gaming. The compilation of sweat inducers are: Tennis, 
 Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Each sport has its strengths and weaknesses but ultimately 
 provide an engaging and severely addictive level of gameplay that has been missing from home console 
 games for quite some time. So what are the strengths and weaknesses of this unique gaming expedition? 
 Well, let's start with Tennis. Hitting the ball is as simple as whacking it with a real tennis 
 racket. You simply mimic the move of the tennis racket and the console registers it as a hit. It 
 may not map your movements perfectly, but does measure the angle and speed of each stroke. This 
 certainly works fine and can develop into a true tennis competition in the boundaries of your living 
 room or personal space. Tennis stands as one of the strongest titles of this compilation and does 
 not fail to impress despite the fact you cant control your character's footing (same goes for all 
 the other sports games here as well) Baseball is a welcomed addition as it is a great representation 
 of accurate baseball mechanics. The first thing to note is that the game feels wonderful for the 
 person batting. The bat on-screen follows every little twist, rattle, angle, shake, and sway that 
 you make with the bat. If you have a preferred swinging style, the game follows it to PERFECTION! 
 It's amazing! When the ball is thrown, the physics of life bear down and depending on how the bat 
 connects with the ball determines whether the hit is a home run, single, or foul. The spot that 
 isnt so well developed is in the pitching mechanic. When throwing the ball, all the player must 
 do is move the controller to make the ball fly. You can throw a spin or curvature if you press 
 a certain button while moving. It ultimately makes throwing less strategic and overly simplified. 
 Too bad, but it's definitely easy to ignore. Bowling is by far the best addition to this game as 
 it is a flawless representation of actual bowling. It feels very intuitive and natural. The aiming 
 mechanic is entirely based on the tilt and angle of the the actual throwing action to launch the 
 ball down the lane. Out of all the games in Wii Sports, this was the family favorite. Heck, even 
 my father who is wheel chair ridden and is only able to use his left arm was able to indulge himself 
 into this title. Needless to say, I was destroyed by him and his instinct to devastate his opponents 
 much like he used to when we played sports games years ago. Bowling is by far the fan favorite 
 right beside tennis and with all that said, it's the best example of what the Wii Remote can do.
 
  
  Golf- You have 4 modes, 3 difficulty ones in 3 hole games, and a 9 hole game. Overall its pretty 
 good driving, but putting is very hard, and too sensitive. I'd say this is one of my least liked 
 of the bunch, but I'm not really a golf guy.
  
  Boxing is alright. Not good not awful. It is simple, hit your opponent using a quick jab with the 
 Wii-mote or Nunchuk. You can dodge blows or punch people in the face. This game is fun for about 
 ten minutes and the it gets old which is why I dont love this game. Don't get me wrong, this game 
 is a lot of fun it just gets old quick. I would love it more if you could jump up on the outside 
 of the ring and tack your opponent. Punching them in the face is nice too. Lastly, I will touch 
 on the visual and audio lengths taken in this game and the truth be told... this game doesn't hold 
 any ground to titles on the next gen front. It barely holds ground on the current gen front for 
 that matter. The models are simplistic cone like shapes with colored balls for hands that float 
 about the body mass. These models are all part of the style which is centered around simplicity 
 in every way possible but wow... this is absolutely bare-bones in the visual department. As for 
 audio, again, it's all simple music tunes that would register perfectly in an elevator environment, 
 but it does work. There is nothing that will wow you here but there is plenty of substance in the 
 gameplay department. How long does this title last you? Well, first of all, if you've purchased 
 the Wii, you will be the proud owner of your new party past time to be. If you're trying to get 
 a decent single player experience out of this, tough luck. The game is tailored to be a social 
 experience and there fore doesn't present much depth for the solo individual. There are the regular 
 games which act as practice and an actual practice mode that works well enough. Lastly, there's 
 a Brain Age like addition that calculates your physical age (20 being the best possible age) each 
 day if you choose to try this task. Wii Sports is a welcomed addition to the Wii library and with 
 so much personality that it brings to the players new and old, one cant help but imagine the possibilities 
 of Wii. Ultimately, Wii Sports is an astounding attraction and a wonderfully fun party game built 
 for all. Best of all, you get it with the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteshadow_59
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Lovers and nonlovers alike i'm sure will enjoy wii sports. It is a very enjoyable game and introduces 
 what the Nintendo is all about - The motion sensor. There are 5 games including tennis which i 
 found the most addictive as i really like tennis. It hasn't got all the details you would expect 
 from the real thing but it's not about that. It's about bringing arcade-like fun which Nintendo 
 have done for so long. there's also baseball which is fun, but would prefer it to be cricket because 
 i'm Australian :)
  
  Bowling is the third game in the lineup which is a lot of fun and could almost compensate for real 
 bowling in my opinion :) . Next is golf which is my personal favourite, firstly because golf is 
 great to play, but the dynamics between the wiimote and the game are fantastic and i think it's 
 the most lastable game of the lot. Last but not least is boxing which you really need to be energized 
 to play, so i suggest you don't play it after a long day at school or the office :) I have found 
 it the most challenging of the sports so far. The extra training and fitness modes are a really 
 nice addition to the rest of the package. Even though the games arn't incredibly detailed when 
 you look at it, the graphics are still clean and crisp, (golf has the best graphical quality out 
 of the 5 games) . The sports are limited in their options you would expect from simulation sports 
 games, such as statistics, replays, modes etc but the sports are all very fun and there's enough 
 here for you to play for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mullga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports for the Nintendo Wii is a great game. And to make things even better, it comes free 
 with the Wii here in the States. Another plus for Wii Sports is that is gives you a great introducion 
 into how the Wii controls function. A big plus for this game is that you can use your Mii that 
 you create to play in these games. Now the games themselves deserve indivigual reviews, so here 
 Wii go. Tennis is a fun game. In this game you swing the Wii-mote like a tennis racquet. You cannot 
 control where your player moves, but you can contorl where the ball goes by the timing of you hit. 
 The game has a decent learning curve. Overall, this is a fun game and a fun Wii starter game. Next, 
 we move on to Baseball, the great American sport. In this game you can either play the pitcher 
 or the batter. As the pitcher you swing the Wii-mote over your head as hard as you can to make 
 the pitch go faster. Also, by holding down the buttons you can change up your pitches. As the batter, 
 you get into batting stance, or as I call it, Power Stance . Once in your Power Stance you swing 
 at the ball and hope you do not get out. Again you can hit the ball any direction be the timing 
 of the hit. Occasionally, the defense will make an error the spruse up the game and add a nice 
 twist. This game makes for a great one on one multiplayer game. Also, even in single player mode 
 other Miis that you have created will appear on your team. If I could issuse a complaint to this 
 game is that it doesn't keep track of your stats, batting average, homeruns, RBIs, through out 
 multipul games. Thirdly, we move on to Bowling. This is most likely the best canidate for the best 
 Wii Sports game. This bowling game is better than any other bowling game ever created. It even 
 rivals that of actually bowling. In this game you pertend that the Wii-mote is a bowling ball, 
 with the exception that you do not let the Wii-mote go strait through the TV. In this game you 
 can either bowl a single game or with up to four friends. This game is susperb. Next, we move on 
 to Golf, or as I call it the Devel's game. In this game you swing the Wii-mote like a golf club. 
 It is that simple. Golf on the Wii is a game that will be fun for people with patience and tallent 
 in golf, but for impatient people with no skill in golf it is just plain frustraiting. That being 
 my only complaint, this game has many different courses and offers quite a nice challenge. Finally, 
 we move on Boxing. This is the only Wii Sports game to utilize the Numchuck attachment. This is 
 the most dissappointing Wii Sports game. I mean don't get me wrong, this isn't a bad game, it just 
 doesn't live up to the standard that I set after playing the other four games. In this game you 
 punch with the Wii-mote and block with the Numchuck. You can play single player or against one 
 of your friends. I will say that this is a decent game.
  
  All in all this is the best game for the Wii and could be the killer App for it. Although I think 
 that Zelda has that covered. Some of the things that I left out are that in each game, depening 
 on how you do, you can gain rank. After you get to one thousand, you can turn Pro in that sport. 
 This will earn you respect with your friends. Next, there are three Minigames, per sport, to hone 
 your skills and practice up for the Fitness Test. A nice thing is that the game keeps track of 
 your high scores in each of the games. That makes you play the Minigames over and over trying to 
 better your self. Finally, once per day you are allowed to take the Wii Sports Fitness Test. This 
 Test will attempt to guess your fitness age by analyzing how you do in three randomly selected 
 Minigames. This is fun, susprising, and will give you and your friends a good laugh. I couldn't 
 recommend this game any more than I am currently doing. This game is so fun and playable that you 
 should buy a Wii just to play it. Listen to my advise, get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsduncan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  This is my first WII review. I have always admired Nintendo and their ability to make fun games. 
 I really liked the Gamecube, even with most gamers rejecting it. But with the WII, I really had 
 problems with it. With one sitting of WII sports, I am sold on its innovation and approachability. 
 The WII and its bundled game appeals mostly non-traditional gamers. This game is pure genius to 
 show off what the motion sensing can do. I have some avid video game hater friends who are actually 
 really got into the WII and this game. Anyone can play the five games included in WII Sports. Yes, 
 they are very simple and easy, but that's not the point. The fun is the simulation of the physical 
 actions and the interaction with the game. Overall, WII sports is a great bundled game, made to 
 really be played in groups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetroid8
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is just an introduction to new owners of the Wii to the unique motion sensing controls. It 
 does this perfectly and there are really no real flaws. The graphics arent amazing but thats about 
 it. Each game mode (tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, boxing) are perfect they play well and utilize 
 the the controls well. What little sound there is fits in the game perfectly to the anouncer to 
 the music Nintendo made a great game here. The physics for the different modes work well and there 
 are never any mistakes by the game so any time you lose it will be your own fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  i can undersand why the game comes with the wii. This games main goal is to appeal to non-gamers, 
 but manages to toggle that. Not one of the best games, but makes good use of the wiimote, allowing 
 for a much better gameplay experience. Although the graphics suck, and in some of the games players 
 have no legs, wii sports is very appealing. Whats even funner about the game is that you can play 
 with a mii which is basically a character that you create bsed on yourself or to be nturally wacky... 
 Although not the best raphics out there, the game makes ood sense of the wiimote, allows for a 
 ood multiplayer experience, provides a welcome to the gaming world exprience for non-gamers, and 
 allows you to create your own distinguishly ugly character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 5 sports: Baseball, Golf, Tennis, Bowling and Boxing. These games combined in one disc 
 is a packaged deal. 15 training excercises: 3 on each sport is fun, fun, fun. Theres also the Wii 
 Fitness testing your Balance, Stamina and Speed that you can take once a day (or at least per Mii 
 character) . The downside with this game is that none of them have any in-depth to them. Furthermore, 
 every sport (except maybe Tennis) relies on luck at some point. Graphics- Ive seen Gamecube games 
 that look better than this. They still look good with the Mii characters and the water, but nothing 
 that really stands out. Sound- The effects on the Wiimote speaker sound nice. The music is enjoyable. 
 I just wished there could have been a few more effects on cheering. Value- You'll find yourself 
 playing the Wii Fitness all the time and going on training mode to work your way up getting medals 
 on each event. There are 4 medals to get: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum. Each event is different 
 and youll be coming there often. Tilt- What can I say? It's free with the purchase of a Wii in 
 America. This game has great motion controls for beginners. Outside of America, I would still recommend 
 it, but maybe after a couple other games of choice out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I know that many people either throw Wii Sports out or just off tot he side and don't think much 
 about it, but I happen to love it. It was the first game I played on the Wii and I continue to 
 this day, competing against family in golf, bowling, and baseball. It's pretty much the reason 
 why I have 2 Wii-motes. I plan on buying Wii Fit, that little board thing you stand on, and having 
 a whole load of fun with that too. Is it safe to say: Nintendo FTW on being the first to get completely 
 virtual reality? All others will only be able to imitate. Gimme an online FPS like UNreal that's 
 VR. Hotness.
  
  P. S. If you screw up often with the Wii-mote you're prolly a spaz! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sutherlandc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Graphically, Wii Sports doesn't create any new ground, but as they say, the play is the thing and 
 Nintendo believes that more than any other company. Finally a game is here where you don't watch 
 endless movielike cut scenes, wondering when it's going to be time to press a button and start 
 playing. Most new games are more like movies than games, and that's not very fun if you like to 
 challenge yourself.
  
  The team that designed Wii Sports was very smart, indeed. By creating a game that gets people off 
 their butts, you create adreneline, build up a sweat, and get your heart pumping - something that's 
 been absent in the past but is fulfilling a growing need in everyone to want to be fit, eliminate 
 stress (good endorphines) . Playing other games doesn't do anything except create a sense of depression 
 and frustration (bad endorphines) . So you end up with a great sense of accomplishment even if you 
 lose the match in a game of tennis, because you're burning calories and building up your cardio 
 vascular system.
  
  Very smart, Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk-42121
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  most people look at the wii remote and say how do i play or this new contorler is gay and when 
 they play wii sports there lovin' it i've seen people agenst the wii fully and then they try wii 
 sports and there like wow this is atculy good and it's all because of wii sports the pack in game 
 with the wii the games ups highly addicting and just plain fun but its downs it downs are its to 
 easy at times like after you get up to the highest person on any game it just gets a little boring 
 but thats when you get friends over and that is fun the mulitplayer is great so all i say is wii 
 sports is a fun game that shouldn't be over look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is bundled with the Wii in the U. S., it's not a killer app, but you will enjoy it nonetheless. 
 For a week at most. This game is fun at first, but if any game is a novelty, this is it. Don't 
 get me wrong, you will enjoy it while you play it, but you will get bored after a while. But I 
 digress, let's get to the review!
  
  This game really shows off the motion sensing really well in all the games. I have never had any 
 moton sensing control problems and four of the five minigames are very good. The five games you 
 get are Boxing, Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, and Golf. Golf is horrible, leading a point to be taken 
 off of gameplay. My personal favorite was Tennis, and anybody can play this game. They could be 
 a fitness trainer or a Grandma and they would still have tons of fun.
  
  The graphics are passable, but when you compare them to Zelda, they feel they could heve been polished 
 a little more and it does look a little blurry in some places.
  
  Sound is passable as well, but none of the sound effects will blow you away.
  
  As for tilt 
 I really enjoyed this game and the Mii's are so likeable. There is just no way to hate this game.
 
  
  As for value it was fun at first, but as I got into Zelda and other Wii games, I usually only play 
 this once a month now.
  
  But it definately will be a blast to play when you open your Wii and a great addition to the Wii's 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is not too bad! In fact, I think it's pretty good, especially in multiplayer with friends 
 and family! Why? Find out in my review of Wii Sports!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  Fun gameplay, and it's so cool if you found out you broke your mom's record in bowling or something 
 like that! =) If you play with family and friends, that would be even better! Totally fun, but 
 can get repetetive and boring after a week or less of gameplay!
  
  Graphics (9/10) -
  Great graphics! I love Miis! The backgrounds don't look to bad either!
  
  Sound (9/10) -
  
 Great sound! It sounds kind of realistic!
  
  Value (10/10) -
  Great value! I'm gald it came for free with the Wii!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (8/10) -
  Like this 
 game lots!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.9/10)
  I like this game alot and play it everyday! I also play it with my best friends and my godfather! 
 Great multiplayer game! Get this game if you don't have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  It was obviously Nintendo's intentions to bundle Wii-Sports with their new revolutionary motion 
 sensitive console. Wii-Sports doesn't have a lot of meat to it, but it's still a lot of fun. There 
 are five sports in all in Wii-Sports. Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. All are very 
 simplistic, easy to pick up, fun little games that are nice for getting acquainted with your new 
 console. While the simplicity is what makes some of these games so fun to just pick up and play.... it 
 also makes a few of them suffer. Let's start off with Tennis. This is probably the deepest of the 
 games on here. Though not very deep. The computer does a lot for you. You first choose which customizable 
 Mii avatar you want to start out with. You will have a Mii at the front of the net and a Mii near 
 the back of your side of the tennis court. The games are two on two action. You will only use the 
 Wii-mote for every game in Wii-Sports except for boxing, which requires the nun-chuck attachment. 
 So how will I be able to move my Mii across the tennis court you ask? The computer does that for 
 you! The only thing you have to do is time your hits, aim your hits, and decide how much power 
 you need to swing with on your hits. Unfortunately some motion sensor issues keep you from hitting 
 the ball where you want to hit. Sometimes the game doesn't even register your swing and before 
 you know your oponents have the advantage. You can also play with a friend if you have an extra 
 wii-mote. Cooperatively or against each other. Be sure to have a ginormous amount of space though. 
 Flailing your arms around close to each other can be dangerous. :/
  
  I spent more time with Baseball than any other sport on this game. And let me tell ya, this game 
 is fun for a long time. I was able to ignore the awful pitching in the game when my AI oponents 
 were at a low skill level. However, as I got better and my skill level went up, so did my oponents. 
 You see, the better you get at a certain sport the tougher your competition becomes. The game measures 
 skill levels on a chart using numbers. Right now I have a skill level of 1228 [Pro skill level] 
 on baseball and have been stuck around that number quite some time now. The reason being the horrible 
 pitching that I mentioned earlier. All you do is flick the wii-mote and you have the perfect pitch 
 each time. Sounds wonderful right? Wrong. You're not able to switch up your pitches and throw them 
 into a certain zone to try and throw the batter off guard. Instead, you throw the same perfect 
 pitches over and over, and once your AI oponent gets tough they hit the perfect hits over and over 
 and there is nothing you can do about it. I've watched helplessly as the computer hit 8 homeruns 
 in a row and the game was ended due to the horrible mercy rule. If the computer decides that you're 
 losing by too many points, you automatically lose no matter what inning it is, giving you no chance 
 at staging a great comeback. When your oponent isn't busy hitting homeruns they'll it line drives 
 for base hits, and all you can do is helplessly watch your out fielders slowly scurry for the ball. 
 Simply put... you absolutely do or have any control over anything on defense whatsoever. The only 
 thing you have control of on offense is how well you hit the baseball. Hitting the baseball requires 
 good timing and a good swing, and hearing the crack of the bad when you hit a good one is ultimately 
 satisfying. However, you can not control how you run the bases. The computer also decides that 
 for you. If the computer thinks that your hit wouldv'e given your player to run two bases you will 
 get a double. Baseball is fun with the batting part, but the computer pretty much does everything 
 thing else for you. Good for that non-gaming crowd , but much too simplistic for us all.
  
  Everyone seems to love bowling the most in Wii-Sports. Personally I just don't like it. I guess 
 it's because I admittedly suck at the bowling in this game. Whatever, I'm a kick ass bowler in 
 real life. This is probably the best simulation of an actual sport out of all the sports games 
 on here. It really doesn't have to do much to be realsitic anyways. Just simply throwing your arm 
 in a bowling motion is all there is to it. Of course, you must aim your throws.
  
  Golf really could have been the best sports game on here easily. The big problem is that the motion 
 controls tend to screw up often. By pressing A you make your Mii step up to make his swing. You 
 then simulate the motion of swinging an actual golf club to hit the ball. You're able to choose 
 from several different types golf clubs by using the d-pad. It's easy enough to swing with all 
 your might when you are yards away from the hole, but when you get very close to the hole it becomes 
 extremely hard to putt the golf ball in. Why? Because when you're trying to putt in these baby 
 tap hits, the Wii-mote hardly ever registers your swing as soon as you swing, and how powerful 
 you intended your swing to be. If you're a person who has their sensor bar at the top of their 
 television and want to play golf.... then you may have a problem. Boxing is a fun little game. Seems 
 to be everyones least favorite of the bunch, including mine. The matches are too long and again, 
 there are some control sensitivity issues here as well. The game rarely recognizes where you are 
 trying to punch your oponent, or sometimes which hand you are using. The nun-chuck attachment is 
 used in this one by the way. One neat aspect of the game is being able to put the Wii-mote up to 
 your face and move back and forth to guard attacks. Still, the extremely long matches and constant 
 arm flailing will tire and bore you rather quickly. Wii sports is a very crisp looking game graphically. 
 The Miis aren't the most detialed character models in the world. No matter how you design them 
 they still look like a bunch of lego people. There isn't a whole lot of sound here. Just some nice 
 elevator type music every now and then. Still, what little sound is here is still very crisp. The 
 five sports games aren't the only features in this game. If you would like to improve your skills 
 on any of the five sports you may enter training mode to hone your skills. If you want to see how 
 fit you are you can enter Wii-fitness mode. A daily test to see how athletic you are by age. You 
 must complete several challenges to determine how old you are. Your performance is what matters. 
 Wii-Sports is a fun game to come back too, but it's simplicity, which is its strength in some areas, 
 is also its weakness in many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brand_3000lee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10 - The gameplay is great and you will keep coming back for more. It has Tennis, Bowling, 
 Baseball, Golf and Boxing plus fittness test and training courses. You will spend hours playing 
 it, it is very cool swining the wii-remote to hit a tennis ball or baseball, or bowling by swinging 
 the wii-remote.
  
  Graphics 7/10 - The graphics could be better, but they are very fun looking, and very clean. There 
 are no glitches or anything that i have seen with the graphics, which is good.
  
  Sound 9/10 - The sound is great, and fits perfectly with what you are doing. The sound effects 
 are really cool too.
  
  Value 10/10 - There is hours of fun to have with this game, and it's free, i have spent more then 
 25 hours on this game.
  
  Tilt 9/10 - This is a great game that you will own if you have a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  There are 5 games in Wii sports  and golf
  
  Gameplay- Well you do everything with the Wiimote (except for bowling you also use the nunchuck) . 
 Baseball- You swing the Wiimote to hit the base ball like you would use a real bat. Pitching is 
 just like the way you would pitch a ball. With all the games the more you do and the better you 
 do the higher your skill level of that Mii goes up thus if your facing the CPU the harder they 
 will be. Boxing-Is the most physical and tiering game of the 5. you use both the wiimote and nunchuck 
 to punch, duck, and dodge and its pretty accurate.
  Golf- probably the game you will have to make calculations on. Swing your club (like you would 
 a real Golf club) to see how far you can get it and how close you can get to the hole. Make sure 
 you don't hit it to hard or to soft though. Bowling- My personal favorite is also a game you have 
 to thing about before doing something. the game is all good until.. you get a split then you have 
 to praticly flick you wrist in the direction you want the ball to go so you can knock down the 
 other pin. Which in my opinion is kinda impossible but, hey some people can do it. Tennis- probably 
 one of the crowd favs but at the same time is kinda flawed because the way you have to swing your 
 racket to get it to go somewhere. Still the gameplay is awesome so its a 9.
  
  Graphics-Cute Miis running around everywhere whats not to like. 8
  
  Sound the quirky Soundtrack 
 is kinda soothing. Some people may call it elevator music but I say its good. also every sound 
 you would expect from that sport is there so 8
  
  Value- Awesome!
  
  Tilt- Will keep you busy for hours and even longer with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkz909
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Suprisingly it is a very good game to come free with the system it is a very good game period. 
 since there arent that many games out for the wii this game is really good and it will be really 
 good in a couple of months soo stick with this game until u want to get rid of the wii (NEVER!) 
 it has bad graphics like if you are playing baseball sometimes the bat will go through your body 
 and the people look ugly but still good but u needa practice a lil until u r used to the wii to 
 be good at it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports isn't that great of a game. It is fun the first week, when you have just bought the 
 wii, but eventually gets somewhat boring and repetitive. The game is only good as a bundle. Tennis: 
 Short, simple games that require nothing but hand eye coordination.
  
  Baseball: 3 inning game ,only pitching and batting (no infield or outfield play)
  
  Bowling: 
 Fun, but it is very easy to get strikes. (Ball always curves to left)
  
  Golf: Nothing special, regular golf.
  
  Boxing: Hard to control your fists.
  
  Theres nothing 
 much to else to say about this game but that it uses the wii controller to its potential. Not much 
 of a workout, More fun with friends. Real sports is more exciting, although it is novel to participate 
 in any action in sports video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  When I got my Wii I got Wii Sports the game is actually pretty good. The story is..... wait there 
 is no story. Gameplay is incredible and really shows what the wii can do. The graphics are pretty 
 good, but are weird sometimes like in the baseball game, the people in the field dont have legs 
 kinda creepy. It sounds pretty good too. It will keep you coming until you dont wanna play sports 
 anymore. My final thoughts are that this game is actually pretty fun and is a great start to anybody's 
 Wii collection. It's probably the best sports videogame out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The Number 1 Good : FREE!!! COMES WITH WII
  
  The Number 1 Bad : Needed some more or better music and games
  
  For the first wii game... this 
 is pretty damn good!
  
  So this is just a game with 5 sport games using your mii's
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  --- Ive rated each game out of 10 and explained about the game ---
  
  Tennis [ 7.6 = Good ]
  
  A fun game which you can actually choose the set and stuff before 
 the game. You can play doubles or singles match types, but the way of that the wii moves for you... loses 
 the games quality... but hey, it'd be to good if you could move.
  
  Baseball [ 9.3 Superb ]
  
  The second best game in my opinion... It's got great feel with the 
 wii-mote and even though there's really no teams and you play a street-style game with that when 
 your fielding you don't field at all... you only pitch, it's amazing.
  Especially when your up at bat... very enjoyable
  
  Bowling [ 9.5 Superb ]
  
  OMFG ... Better 
 than bowling games made for consoles !!! The feel with the wii-mote makes this game awesome. When 
 you get to be pro your ball becomes harder and shinier, a little more challenge for the wii-experts 
 out there. Plus when your playing someone else, taking turns is actually fun.
  
  Golf [ 6.9 Fair ]
  
  You can tell the creators put not too much effort in this one. Theres 
 like 9 courses with bee-u-tee-ful graphics .... but the actual gameplay can get overly stressful 
 as to that the only fun of the game is that you actually got the ball in. Maybe im a wimp for this 
 game, but i didn't like it as much as the others.
  
  Boxing [ 7.5 Good ]
  
  Ding-Ding !!! This game is lots of fun if you have the nunchuck... if not, then forget about this 
 one. But, it's only uno player... yes one player only, Which again will lower my score. It's still 
 a great game and has some difficult matches and at one point or another, you'll just never play 
 again. If this had 2-player i'd give it a 7.8... not a big change but hey, its a change.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall this game obviously you wont rent Fudgetards, free with the Wii makes this the game the 
 one that every wii owner has...
  
  Do you have a wii? 
  
  Yes? 
  
  You do! 
  
  That must mean you have wii sports, lets play! 
  
  Happiness in wii :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mylie1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a launch title that comes free with the Wii. (only if you live in England or North 
 America (I'm not sure where else) It's a game that was made to ease you into the Wii's controls 
 and does so amazingly well.
  
  In the Wii's main menu, you can create a Mii. If you don't own a Wii, then you don't know what 
 a Mii is. A Mii is a silly looking character that you can create with some not-so-deep options. 
 You use them for the Internet and such but you also use them as playable characters for Wii Sports, 
 so create yourself and your buddies.
  
  Wii Sports has 5 different sports to play. Tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. They all 
 lack depth, but you'll still enjoy yourself, even if you've never played a game before!! No lie-my 
 family who've never played one game have eased into it flawlessly! Tennis is a fun game and only 
 needs the Wiimote to play. It's simple-wait for the ball to get closed and swing. This was my first 
 time playing the Wii and the thrill of moving rather than pressing a button will hit you, yes. 
 It not perfect-it feels like the ball is on a track meaning that you don't have much control over 
 where it goes. You will swing the bat left where as the ball is on your right and your Mii will 
 swing right to hit the ball. So no matter where you swing the Wiimote, the ball will always go 
 in the same place. Plus, your Mii'll move toward the ball on their own so you won't have any control 
 over them. This game is AMAZING on multiplayer-you NEED another controller or two. This game gets 
 an 8/10 from me.
  
  Baseball is an average game. You play as the batter at first and the bat moves with the Wiimote 
 well, but it's hard to hit the ball at times as the pitcher will throw it too high making it impossible 
 to hit it. Then after a while you'll change sides and will have to throw the ball towards the batter. 
 This sucks as you can't change where the ball goes where as your enemy can when you're the batter. 
 This game is not so good on 2 player as P1 controls the batter at first and P2 controls the pitcher. 
 It's my least favourite game on there. It gets a 6/10.
  
  Bowling is, by far, the best game there. You don't need more than 1 controller to play multiplayer. 
 You use the d-pad to move your Mii left and right. You press A and then press left or right and 
 you'll turn left or right rather than moving left an -- look, you get it! Press up and you'll zoom 
 in toward the pins. Hold down the b-trigger and you'll be ready to roll/throw the ball-just swing 
 the Wiimote. It one of the only games to use buttons. Twist the Wiimote left or right before rolling 
 and the ball will shift to that side. It's perfect in multiplayer. 9/10.
  
  Golf is very underrated. It's a great game on multiplayer and you only need 1 controller. You choose 
 the difficulty of the game and you play in some limited, but still good, courses. Press up and 
 down to choose the club you use and left or right to turn. Hold down A and swing to, er, swing. 
 Not too hard or you may over-shoot it. It's not so good on the green when you're very close to 
 the hole as you may do a little tab with the Wiimote but won't hit it in the game. It's still awsome 
 thanks to multiplayer. 8/10.
  
  Boxing is the last game and is very underrated. This one makes you use the Nunchuck as well as 
 the Wiimote. This game needs no button presses making it easy. You thrust forward to hit your opponent. 
 This is great and is a great workout too, but you only get a big workout because sometimes, you'll 
 punch in real-life and your Mii won't even move. Twist the controllers left or right (you can just 
 lean left or right if you wanna be more active) to lean left or right outta the way of the enemy's 
 punches. Knockout your enemy and the countdown will begin and if you raise the controllers up high, 
 your Mii will making him look like he's shouting VICTORIOUS!!!!! You can block by raising the controllers, 
 but this doesn't work full-on. The 2 player is good, but that all you can say for it. 8/10.
  
  This game has RPG-like modes. The more you play, the more your ratings increase. When you hit 
 1000, you'll be a pro. This is hard as you'll always have to beat your previous game score to keep 
 on increasing. I found myself being a pro at bowling but lost that rank quickly. How can I beat 
 a 5 in a row strike-out game?? There are mini games that are OK but nothing more than that. There 
 is a fitness test mode which makes no sense to me as you'll sometimes have to play bowling or baseball 
 to check how fit you are. WTF? Bowling a ball or hitting a baseball with the bat isn't that much 
 of an exercise. Boxing is and tennis is if you jump all over the place, so how come you use them 
 only sometimes in the fitness game? I'm 15, and the game said I was 36 when I finished my fitness 
 test!! Well, the test was made for 20-year-olds and older so that's OK. This game is very fun on 
 multiplayer. It lacks depth, but who cares? If you play it on your own, you'll get bored after 
 an hour so get some pals. This game is so fun that tomorrow I'm gonna see my uncle and play this 
 with him again for the 10th time! If you don't get it for free, I don't recommend it. I haven't 
 talked about the graphics or sound but I don't have to. This a very fun game. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince360
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is an awesome game for everyone. Even if a person did not touch a game console before, 
 they will love the wii and Wii sports. I bought the wii with zelda, but i played wii sports first, 
 and i played it for some time. It is a great game that u will play for 1 to 2 hours. This game 
 is very easy but still very fun. Now the graphics suck, like really bad, but its cool that u can 
 create a mii (cartoon chracter of someone) and put it into wii sports. Wii sports is also a great 
 game to lose weight, especially boxing, if u play wii sports and all the 5  
 and boxing) for 1 hour u will surely lose around 150 to 300 calories, depends on how u play the 
 games. My dad was going for a walk to burn some fat, then i told him there is no need. He actually 
 lost 5 to 10 pounds! Wii sports is a awesome family and friends game, for all ages. The gameplay 
 is good, it actually feels like your holding a baseball bat or a bowling ball, and u have to hold 
 the bats/balls as u would in the real game, and move like in the real game too!!! so the gameplay 
 is good.... no actually the gameplay is great! The sound is ok not bad, but not good either, i mean 
 its fun to hear the crowd cheer for u when u make a home run or get a strike. But the wii remote 
 does alot of the sounds, with its speaker, but the sound gets realy wierd and all cracked up sometimes. 
 You can see, if u swing the bat repetitively, you will hear the sound from the wii remote, but 
 after a little while it will crack up and sound really weird, it kinda sounds like u just dipped 
 the wii-mote in water, but that doesn't always happen. Well thats all about wii sports, it may 
 not be the best game, but it is a great party and family game for all ages, and it is a great launch 
 tite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzcxcxxczxc
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I played lots of games on wii and this is the first to have good wii controls and it comes with 
 the wii. It may have some bad grafics and sound but it's the first game on wii. There are five differnt 
 sports 2 are dum like golf it really needs some work if you want a golf game get tiger woods 07, another 
 bad sport is baseball it the second worst one because you can just keep on doing one move and win 
 also you dont even run bases and the guys get the ball of the ground and your out. overall this 
 game is pretty good expect for 2 sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a collection of 5 simple and easy to learn games in one disk, and it comes with the 
 Wii console itself, which is great because if it didn't, it may not have been worth getting unless 
 it was a discount game or came with a Wii Remote like Wii Play. You get to use your own personal 
 Mii's to play as in this game, and depending on how good you do, you add or lose points that determine 
 your skill level.
  
  Boxing is just one of the many games on Wii Sports, and is the only game to use both the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk. You hold the Wii Remote in your dominant hand, and the Nunchuk in your other hand. 
 You do punches by holding the controllers vertically, or horizontally, to do head or body jabs, 
 and you can sometimes pull off powerful hook shots and such. At times, the game does not seem to 
 respond to your movements, but that may be because you can't punch while being punched. You don't 
 actually move your player around the ring, but you can dodge punches by tilting the Remote and 
 Nunchuk to the left or right, and block punches by pulling the Remote and Nunchuk towards you. 
 This game is extremely fun if you have an extra Remote and Nunchuk and are able to play a friend, 
 and you might actually start sweating if you play for a while.
  
  Baseball is one of the simplest games, and is very different from any baseball game you have probably 
 ever played because of how simple it is. Each game is only 3 innings long, and if you end up in 
 a draw, there are no extra innings. To hit you simply hold the Remote like a bat and swing. If 
 you want to you can actually move the bat over your shoulder as your waiting for a pitch to come 
 in, because the on screen character mimics your own movements almost exactly. To pitch you press 
 a combination of the A and B or no buttons to throw different pitches, and press directions on 
 the d pad to aim the pitch, then swing your arm forward to throw. To throw harder you swing your 
 arm harder, and slower to throw slower. When you hit the ball you don't actually run to the base, 
 and when the fielder gets the ball, he never actually throws it. Instead, it decides if you would 
 have been out or not had you actually ran or had the fielder actually thrown it, and if you would 
 have gotten a single, double or triple. If you hit it over the fence it is of course a home run. 
 The fielders do make some errors like balls bouncing out of their glove. You don't control the 
 fielders either. All you have to worry about is hitting and pitching.
  
  Golf is very fun game in Wii Sports, but there are only nine holes, and 3 holes in each of the 
 3 difficulty levels. You aim your shot and switch clubs by using the d pad, and you hit the ball 
 by pulling your arm back, and swinging the Remote like an actual golf club. You can take as many 
 practice swings as you wish, which is a good thing, because if you swing too hard so that the power 
 meter goes higher than the power bar, the ball curves either left or right of where you aimed. 
 After you think you got your shot aimed right, got how hard you need to swing, and have accounted 
 for the wind if there is any, all you have to do is hold down the A button and do the same swinging 
 motion. You only need one Remote to be able to play with friends in this game, because you can 
 pass it around to the person who is up next.
  
  Tennis is definitely one of the better games in Wii sports even though it is the simplest. To serve, 
 all you have to do is swing the remote up or press the A button to throw the ball up then do and 
 overhand swing with the Remote to hit it. If you hit the ball at the top of its arc (right before 
 it starts to come back down when you threw it up) you will do a power serve that will hit the ball 
 much harder than usual. This is a hard thing to do, but when you pull it off you usually score 
 because it is most of the time unexpected and hard to hit back. Depending on what side the ball 
 is coming from, you need to do a backhand or forehand swing. You don't control the movements of 
 your character, but this is not a problem because it puts you where you usually want to be, although 
 it would have been nice to have the option of plugging in the Nunchuk and controlling your player. 
 This is tennis with two people per side, and if it is just you, you control both the front and 
 back player (they both swing their rackets when you swing the remote) . The game has regular Tennis 
 scoring, and you can play a single game, best of 3 game, or best of 5 game. If you are with a friend 
 you can choose to be on the same or different team.
  
  Bowling is my favorite game out of all the games in Wii Sports. To move your position you push 
 left or right on the d pad, then you can press A and press left and right on the d pad to throw 
 the ball diagonally. Up on the d pad zooms in on the pins to get a better view. To put spin on 
 the ball you twist the remote left or right depending on which way you want it to curve. To start 
 your throw after you have adjusted how and where you want to throw it from, you hold the remote 
 up to your chest, and hold down the B button. This starts you character to move forward. As it 
 is moving forward, you should twist the Remote to get the spin you want then you swing your arm 
 back, then forward again and let go of the B button to throw the bowling ball. Let go of the B 
 button too late and it will loft in the air and come pounding down into the lane, and you wont 
 get much curve (this can be a good thing if you want the ball to go straight though) , but if you 
 let go too early you will get lots of curve. If you swing your arm forward faster the ball will 
 go faster, but swing it slower and it will go slower. This game is very addicting, and i have spent 
 most of my hours playing bowling. This is also a game that you only need one remote to play, and 
 all of my family loves bowling.
  
  To help get you used to the controls there is a training mode that has different mini games for 
 each game, and it actually works very well. There is also a Fitness mode which you can do each 
 day, and it gives you and age depending on how good you did on the mini games it tested you in, 
 and it makes a graph with all of your results.
  
  The graphics of this game are decent, but i dont think they were intended to look super realistic, 
 and the sound is good as well. You can hear the croud cheering, the thud of the bowling ball down 
 the lane, and the crack of the bat, and it is all pretty good.
  
  This is a game you will always come back to even if you have many other games to keep you entertained 
 because it is simple fun, and is great to introduce people to the Wii and let them get used to 
 the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runefox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Now, I am not a huge fan of sport. I trembled at the thought of touch footy, nagged to come off 
 during netball, and screamed during soccer.
  
  However, Wii Sports made me rethink my attitude. Boxing would have to be my favourite. Using the 
 Nunchuk and the Wiimote, I KO'd all of my opponents.
  
  Golf is extremely boring, and Tennis mediocre. Bowling was better than expected, and Baseball provided 
 a few hours of fun.
  
  The graphics are somewhat strange. A Mii has legs for Boxing, then loses them to field in Baseball. 
 Still, I would consider them decent.
  
  This game has extremely good value - it comes free with the Wii. If I had the choice to purchase 
 this game, I still would have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxmonkeygamerxX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Its basically a tech demo buta good one!
  
  Gameplay: Easy Real easy ANYONE can get into it course thats the idea. you esencially hold it like 
 a tennis racket, Baseball bat, Bowling ball, Golf club, Boxing gloves, and you make the motions 
 with the wiimote.
  Simple no?
  
  Graphics: Meh they arent great but they aren't Gundam Crossfire
  
  Sound: Not its best point 
 but still i do like when you hit tennisballs
  
  Value: You'll go back again and again its that fun and its a perfect Party game.
  
  Tilt: I 
 like it i do and they knew it was a good way to get people into gameing sooo Be happy it comes 
 with the Wii, Cause if you had to pay $50 people wouldnt buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegiNightmare
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect for someone who has a wii and needs to get some excersise. All different types 
 of games to play but they all have two things in common Fun and Exersise. It has all the form of 
 sports in it. Say your a major bowling fan you could chose that to play and play it without going 
 to a bowling alley. So it has all the fun of bowling inyour own home and you dont have to pay for 
 the bowling shoes and to bowl. It even has the same mechanics of a bowling game It even keeps the 
 score and you can face other people but unfortunately no Wi-fi. Thats probaly the only bad thing 
 about the game and the rest of the playable sports. All different types of games for all different 
 types of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  the good thing about wii sports is that it is absolutely free, yes you read that right, absolutely 
 free. it's a good thing too because it is an awesome game and one that will keep you entertained.
 
  
  as far as graphics go it's not really pushing the wii hardware to far, but their are some nice 
 effects too, the sound is fairly good as well and plays a big part in some of the games, but where 
 this game really shines is it's incredible gameplay. after you have played a game of tennis you 
 couldn't possibly imagine going back to a control pad style.
  
  the sports themselves are good in general and here are my scores for each one:
  tennis=10/10 
 (incredible)
  baseball= 7/10 (good)
  bowling=9/10 (fun)
  golf= 6/10 (okay)
  boxing=8/10 (good in multiplayer)
  
  unfortunately this game's downfall is in it's replay value, 
 it's great for about 2 months but then you will hardly ever pick it up again (unless you want to) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a sports game that comes packaged with the Wii. It consists of five sports: Baseball, Tennis (my 
 favorite) , Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Even though this game is free, it is surprisingly good. All your 
 Miis become sport stars and earn skill points as they win games. the higher the skill level, the 
 better you and your opponents get. THE GOOD: The funnest gameplay out of any game I played in my 
 entire life. Some of the funnest multi player I played in my entire life. Feels like your your 
 favorite all-star sport star. It comes bundled with the Wii so you don't have to pay for it.
  
  THE BAD: Poor graphics, Golf sucks.
  
  OVERALL: It's a great game, it's free, and it's just 
 another reason to buy a Nintendo Wii ( like you need another one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good starter for the Wii. It's more like a demo, but regardless, it's a wonderful 
 game. There are 5 mini-games to pick from; tennis, bowling, baseball, golf and boxing. There are 
 2 extra modes; training and exercise. All requires you to use the Wii remote in certain ways; swing, 
 punch, throw, bowl, etc.
  
  Training mode will allow you to train in each of the mini-games by playing sub mini-games. An example 
 is bowling, there are 3 sub mini-games within the training mode that will help you improve your 
 spins, power and accuracy.
  
  Exercise mode is what it is - exercise. You will be playing a couple different sub mini-games, 
 after all is done, you'll be given a grade of Age based on how you do in those sub mini-games. 
 Age 20 meaning you're in top shape. Wii Sport will get you acquainted with the Wii sensor system 
 nicely. It also makes good use of the Miis. It's addicted and fun for a whole family regardless 
 of age or sex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot only gave Wii Sports a bad rating because they were reviewing it based on if you would 
 pay $50 for it. In that case no, don't buy it. This game showcases what the wii can do in the simplest 
 ways. Such as swinging a bat, or a tennis racket. In tennis and baseball the running is simulated 
 so there'snot much to worry about there. Boxing is fun, though flawef, it is still extremly fun 
 to wail your arms around at the opponent. Golf has a longer learning curve than the others put 
 together, (about 15 min) but once you get used to it it is very fun. Bowling is the best game in 
 this package, its just plain fun. all the games are fun and for free who wouldn't take them. If 
 for some reason you have to pay for this game don't buy it, but its a nice start off game for the 
 wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maynardgilmour
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Without the Wii-Mote Nintendo would be gone, the system's graphics are way behind the PS3, the 
 PC, and the 360.
  
  Wii Sports is the perfect way to get an understanding of the innovative controller, and it's just 
 pure fun, especially if you've got a few friends hanging around.
  
  I threw a party a few days after I got the Wii and you just can't beat drunk people playing this 
 game. Just a blast.
  
  The graphics and sound are marginal, even for the Wii, but you'll let it go.
  
  Beating high 
 scores and climbing the charts is what keeps you coming back even if you've got nobody around to 
 join you.
  
  When I first saw what Nintendo was doing with their new system I was skeptical. Not anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotgamer03
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great game if you like using the wii remote as a actual tennis racket, baseball 
 bat and mitt, bowling ball, golf club, and boxing club.
  The controls actually plays like you are really playing that sport. Plus it has a fitness test 
 that shows your performance of that test. Finally a sport game you can actually play like you are 
 really playing the sport in real life! If you want to play a sport game that you actually want 
 to play using a real sport equipment, Wii Sports is the game for you! But has you play the game 
 it kinda of gets boring so this game may not be for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  There hasn't been a Nintendo console for a while that has been bundled with a game by default. 
 The last time that happened was when the Super Nintendo came out and was bundled with Super Mario 
 World. I think Wii Sports is a great game to get bundled with a console, but I wouldn't want to 
 buy it seperately.
  
  THE GOOD
  Brilliant use of the Wii Remote and fully shows off it's power, fun for everyone, it's bundled 
 with the Wii.
  
  THE BAD
  Graphics suck (come one, they need to show off the Wii's power) , gets boring eventually, not very 
 much of a challenge.
  
  Graphics
  Why do I care about these graphics? Well first off, it's a launch title. Launch titles need to 
 show off what the console can do. And some people (unfortunetly) care about graphics. So they may 
 think I might just avoid the Wii . But anyway, pretty lame graphics.
  5/10
  
  Sound
  Some good sound effects come out of the speaker on the Wii Remote, making it realistic.
  8/10
 
  
  Gameplay
  Now usually, I hate Sports games. They are usually very boring and complicated, and you can also 
 play them outside in reality. But Wii Sports has a variety of sports games that try and be as realistic 
 as possible. Because of the motion sensors on the Remote, you can play the sports like you're playing 
 in real life. Mind you, you all know this. Before playing Wii Sports, it's better if you create 
 a Mii first. A Mii is a character that you choose all the looks of and put him/her into Wii Sports 
 (and other games too) . You can increase the level of the Mii in Wii Sports and you can even record 
 your fitness level on that character so you can keep track fo your fitness. Pretty good sometimes 
 for fitness, although it's still better doing other kinds of exercise. Anyway, onto the sports. 
 i'll start with Tennis. Now I believe this is the most popular sport in the game, not my favourite 
 though. It's kinda hard and slightly unrealistic. You can't really control where the balls going. 
 Nevertheless it's still a fun game to play, especially multiplayer. Next up, Baseball. This is 
 probably one of my favourite sports in the game and one of my favourite sports in real life as 
 well. I wish it were more popular in NZ. Instead we have the overrated rugby! Anyway, i'm getting 
 carried away. All you really need to do to be a pro at Wii Baseball is get your timing right, then 
 you can get Out of the Park!! Wii Golf is probably my least favourite, but great for golf fans. 
 Bowling is pretty good, although a lot easier than in a real bowling alley. Finally, there's Boxing. 
 You require the Nunchuk Attachment for this mini-game (fortunetly, you get it with the Wii as well) 
 and you use it as your left hand when boxing. Wii Sports is a lot of fun and for everyone too.
 
  9/10
  
  Controls
  I kinda explained them earlier, and I love them!!
  10/10
  
  Overall
  Wii Sports is a great game, and thank god it's bundled with the Wii. Otherwise, I wouldn't 
 get it. And I don't think many people would. Nevertheless, it's still fun for everyone and it's 
 a sports game I like!
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disgaeamad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Pack-in games have been seen as a means for a company to show off their latest console's features, 
 and this time around, Nintendo was eager to show off just what the Wii was capable of, and Wii 
 Sports was the product of that eagerness. Wii Sports, as it states in the name, is a sports game, 
 and it features: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. Each sport uses the Wiimote's functions 
 in its own unique way and makes it feel as if you were actually playing that sport:
  
  In tennis, you serve by either pressing the A button or flicking the Wiimote, and then swinging 
 it forward. To return the ball to the other side of the court, you must swing the Wiimote in a 
 certain way depending on where it is coming at you from: if it comes at you from the right, you 
 must swing the Wiimote from left to right, and if comes at you from the left, you must swing at 
 from right to left. You can also add in effects like hitting the ball up in the air by swinging 
 the Wiimote upwards in the direction you want, or if you're aiming to make a fast shot towards 
 to the ground, you must swing the Wiimote downwards in the direction you want.
  
  Baseball comes down to batting and pitching, as fielding is handled by the game's AI. When batting, 
 you hold and swing the Wiimote as if it were a baseball bat. The only thing you need to worry about 
 is your timing and speed, so swing away. In pitching, you can either emulate the big-league overhand 
 pitch, or you can simply flick the Wiimote, as the speed of the ball seems to be rather random, 
 what with a simple flick being able to send the ball flying at 130 km/h in some occasions. You 
 can also add in effects such as a curveball by holding A, a screwball by holding B, or a splitter 
 by holding both A and B during a pitch. Bowling is the simplest and easiest to handle out of the 
 five sports. You start off with the Wiimote pointing upwards, and then you move it down, back and 
 forward again. You must hold the B button as you swing, and when you've brought the ball back up 
 to a certain height, releasing the B button will launch the ball down the alley. You can adjust 
 where you want to bowl using the D-pad to move left and right, and you can also adjust the angle 
 at which you bowl by pressing the A button and then using the D-pad. Unlike in baseball, the speed 
 and strength of your swing when you release the B button determines how fast the ball goes, although 
 overpowering your swing tends to have bad results, such as a broken TV.
  
  In golf, swinging the Wiimote like a golf club emulates the power bar that used to be in nearly 
 every golf game. The power bar is located on the left of the screen, and the harder you swing, 
 the higher it goes. On the power bar, you'll notice white dots; these dots correspond with the 
 dots on the ball's projected path that appear on the on screen minimap, which makes golf a simple 
 matter of deciding which dot you need to swing to. Of course, that's if you forget about judging 
 other things such as wind direction and power, the bounce and roll of the ball, the slope on the 
 terrain, etc. When you're making your way across the fairway, you'll probably be tempted to just 
 swing with all your might, although this is a bad idea because going over the top of the power 
 bar will cause your shot to hook or slice. Putting works rather similarly, but in a much more subtle 
 way. The controls can make golf frustrating at times because you can overpower your shot by lifting 
 the Wiimote higher, even after the ball has been sent through the air.
  
  Boxing is the only sport to feature the nunchuk. You control your fighter's stance, blocking and 
 punching while holding the nunchuk and Wiimote, whole moving them accordingly. Holding both up 
 close to your body makes you block your opponents punches, although most of the time blocking doesn't 
 work and your opponent can score quite a few hits on you. Punching requires you to swing your fists 
 as if you were actually punching, making boxing the most exhausting game of the five. You need 
 to aim your punches as well, as your opponent's AI is miraculously able to block, so aiming high 
 or low determines whether or not you can actually score a hit. Unfortunately, the controls can 
 be a pain, as it proves to be difficult to distract your opponent with a punch to one area, while 
 delivering a punch to another. Matches always end in a knockout, so make sure to deliver a powerful 
 final blow.
  
  Despite their simplicity, these 5 sports do have a learning curve. That's where the training mode 
 comes in, which helps you improve your skills as well as provide a fun experience for anyone who 
 likes breaking their own records. In training mode, there are three different activities for each 
 sport, all three focusing on different aspects of that sport.
  
  These training mode activities are also used in a feature that will keep you coming back to Wii 
 Sports: the daily fitness test. These daily tests consist of random training mode challenges, and 
 when you complete them, you are given a fitness age based on your performance.
  
  Visually, Wii Sports isn't very impressive. It's the first game that uses the Mii's you can create 
 through the Mii channel, and these virtual people populate the game as either onlookers or the 
 players themselves. The surrounding areas also have a rather simple design, but they manage to 
 replicate the real life versions rather well. The sound follows suit through simple effects and 
 barely tolerable music.
  
  As a pack-in game, Wii Sports does what it was created to do: show off just what the Wii's innovative 
 features can do. As a normal game, Wii Sports manages to provide an entertaining experience, but 
 unfortunately, that experience isn't everlasting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtycurtis
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Being that this game is a free pack-in with the Wii you can't be too judgmental with it. That being 
 said the game is merely a tech demo to show of the unique feature of the Wii which is, of course, 
 the Wii remote functionality.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  For Wii first timers it will be a blast to play as you try to get comfortable with the motion sensing 
 controls. This all will wear thin quickly and will leave you wanting more because the game is extremely 
 simple and straight forward. Granted Wii Sports gives you five sports games to try out, but after 
 playing them for an hour or so there isn't much left to do. Sure you can play them to get your 
 skills up to Professional level, but there is no reward or incentive to do this. The game lives 
 on with its multiplayer features allowing you to compete with friends and family in front of a 
 TV like never before since anyone from a five year old to your grandparents can easily pick it 
 up and start playing. I did have some issues where it seemed the Wii remote wasn't very responsive 
 and it hindered game play, but these moments didn't take away from the general fun of the game.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  This isn't the type of game you invite your Xbox 360 and PS3 friends over to show off the graphics 
 of your new Wii unless you want laughed at. The characters on screen look like video game school 
 101 concepts. The backgrounds are extremely simple and barely detailed as well. The graphics do 
 fit the overall theme for the game especially since it lets you use your user created Mii, but 
 it looks nothing more than high resolution Nintendo 64 graphics (or worse) at best.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound, while it does the job, is plain and not too exciting. The fact that the Wii 
 remote has a speaker in it is a fun aspect and gives the game some depth in its audio delivery. 
 Music is all but non existent except for menu screens and the like.
  
  VALUE:
  Wii sports is fun, don't get me wrong, but it's going to fade from your memory before too long. 
 The game wasn't built to last but does exactly what it is intended to do which is to introduce 
 players to the Wii. It doesn't even come close to being on the level of other great pack-in games 
 such as Super Mario Bros. for the NES because Wii Sports comes across as more like a demo disc 
 that you would find bundled with a magazine.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  Wii Sports pretty much sums up Nintendo's strategy for this generation of gaming right away which 
 is: We don't have the graphic and audio horse power, but what we do have is unique fun. It's simple. 
 It's free. It's fun. It's the type of game you'll dust off to show the Wii to people for the first 
 time and that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I am really amazed that this game was free. Not only is it fun, but it will suck hours and hours 
 of your time. Many people would have bought this on it's own, but Nintendo gave it on it's own 
 to show everyone what their little system can do. This game includes 5 sports, which are baseball, 
 tennis, boxing, bowling, and golf.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of this game is known all over the world. No, not because everyone has Wii Sports, 
 but because you actually do the moves like if it was not a videogame, but real life. Of course, 
 that is why you bought a Wii. The gameplay is not flawless though. Since this was a launch game 
 and it was free, of course it will not be perfect. One problem was the boxing controls were sometimes 
 unresponsive and broken. But, this is also the only problem I saw. Tennis is perfect and even records 
 the topspin, golf is great too, baseball is just fantastic, and bowling is exactly like real life. 
 I give the gameplay a 9.0 because it is nearly flawless. The Wii is all about the controls, and 
 Wii Sports shows that.
  
  Graphics:
  Not good. There is an excuse though, and that is the Mii. This game is all about the Miis, and 
 the Miis are not what I would call good graphics. But, there is no excuse for the crowds in baseball 
 being little colorful dots. Other than that major disappointment, the graphics are very colorful, 
 and super clean.
  
  I give the graphics a 6.0 because thay are not good, and we have seen the colorful and clean and 
 will continue to see them with the Wii. So, it is nothing new. The score would have been lower, 
 but it is using the Miis which is a good excuse.
  
  Sound:
  Even the Wii isn't about the graphics, it can do sound. This game has great sound. There really 
 is no music in the game, except when the game starts, so that is a disappointment. But, when the 
 crouds cheer, they sound real. When you hit the ball, it sound real. When you knock the guy out, 
 it sounds real. That is what makes the sound section so good. I give the sound an 8.0 because other 
 than it having no music at all, everything else is perfect.
  
  Value:
  I did not expect this to be such good in delivering the value. For one, I got this game for free, 
 so I really expected this to be a couple of hours and I get bored. Boy was I wrong. In each sport, 
 you need to get pro. You get pro when you reach 1000 points. That is 5 sports, to be pro you need 
 at least an hour each game. That is 5 hours there. Count all the times you will lose, because you 
 will, that is another 5. You are looking at a 10 hour game easy. You can get more than a 1000 points, 
 and even be better. The game is not easy, either. On top of that, there is training and Wii fitness. 
 Training is where you, well, train. Wii Fitness is kind of like a Brain Age for fitness. It gives 
 you a fitness age after you do some tasks. But, where the game really shines is the multiplayer. 
 The game was meant to be played in multiplayer. When you look at it, depending on how much you 
 like Wii Sports, you can really pick this up anytime and it can have infinite replay value.
  
  Tilt:
  I can really play this game forever. It many sports, many modes, great multiplayer, 
 and I don't think I will ever be bored with this game. I give the tilt a 9.0 because I know I will 
 get bored of it, but I also know I can always pick this up. Once you have the Wii remote in your 
 hard playing Wii Sports, you can't really put it down.
  
  Overall:
  Overall, I did not expect this much fun with Wii Sports. I mean come on, is this game really free? 
 How can a free game really be this fun? I keep asking myself that question to this day. Thank you 
 Nintendo for giving this for free. To tell you the truth, I would have never gotten this game if 
 it cost me cash because I thought it was stupid. Well, it wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have really enjoyed the realistic motion of the controls and the simplistic gameplay. Nintendo 
 accomplished what they set out to do with this: make this serve as a tutorial for the more challenging 
 games (see my review on SSX Blur) . This game won't stay fresh too long, but it is a great starter 
 game. Consider getting Wii Play too, which is almost like an expansion pack for this. Gameplay 
 is very fun while graphics and sound are pretty basic. The game is a good value given that it comes 
 with the system. My tilt: play this first before tackling tougher titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enslaved891
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best games on the Wii system. i just can't get enough of it. It just 
 too darn fun. I can't seem to pull myself from the game. As soo as you turn that game on, you just 
 keep going and going, and going, and going...
  The only drawback to the game is that there's no football, lacross, or soccer. I'm not a big fan 
 of football, but it would b e great if I were able to throw a perfect spiral ball.
  The best thing about the game is that you can create your own characters for the game. Like, I 
 have a ProLevel Rock Lee, I just can't stop laughing whenever the other guy falls to the ground. 
 It's SO FUNNY!!!
  Well all it adds up to, is that it's just a plain fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 5 games to keep players occupied, plus mini-games; Great wireless controls; Fun alone 
 or with friends.
  
  The Bad: Could use way more mini-games; Sometimes controls can get annoying; Great controls but 
 not great motion sensing; Where's the football? It is the motion sensing Wii! Football should have 
 been on this game.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The Wii wan't meant to have incredibly amazing graphics, but Wii Sports rivals even Zelda. What 
 I mean by that is that Zelda has amazing graphics but some errors and glitches, but Wii Sports 
 has pretty good graphics with no graphical glitchs or errors. Even if there is, it almost never 
 happens, which is rare in video games today.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  You CANNOT say that this game isn't fun, because even a D&amp; D nerd can have fun with this game. My 
 favorite game to play. Ever.
  
  Sound: 9
  Don't get me wrong, I'm all for great sound and stuff, but this isn't a strong point for the game. 
 I mean yes, the sports sounds are accurate and sound great, but the only music that isn't annoying 
 is at the starting screen.
  
  I can't review value or tilt, since it comes with the Wii. But anyway, if you need a big reason 
 to pick up the Wii, this should be that reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the best way I've evr experienced sports games! I mean, who would not like this game?!!
 
  
  OK. so everybody knows that Wii has a Motion-Sensor Controller. But since it does, it makes things 
 a lot more fun. In Wii Sports there are 5 sport mini-games, Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, Golf, and 
 Bowling. They're ALL fun!!
  
  In Baseball, there can only be 2 players. One player pitches, one player bats. First the pitcher 
 aims at the screen, the he/she's Mii throws a ball. Then the batter swings the Wii-Mote like it's 
 a real bat. Then you just wait to see what happens.
  
  In Tennis, there now can be up to 4 players. 2 players are on each of the 2 teams. If you're the 
 player that has to serve, you press A, then swing the Wii-Mote. Now from here you probably know 
 what to do now.
  
  I'm sorry to say, I haven't played Boxing. sad cuz i dont like that to much
  
  In Golf, you 
 can have 4 players. Fist you test out your swing with the Wii-Mote before taking a shot. Make sure 
 not to slice (the red bar will tell you that you sliced) . I don't acrually know why you shouldn't 
 slice. Then press and hold A to take your shot.
  
  In Bowling, there yet again, can be 4 players. Like in a regular game of Bowling, there are 10 
 frames. To bowl, aim towards the TV right, and hold the Wii-Mote behing your back, then hold B 
 and swing the remote at the right time. If you do it like I told you, you might make a strike.
 
  
  So what I think of this, IT ROCKS!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullboy1010
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  in the beginning its SUPER fun but after a while it is only fun with at least 3 people or someone 
 that doesn't really know how to play
  
  Boxing can really get on your nerve if you don't know how to do it correctly
  Baseball is kind 
 of wierd because it swings if you make any fast movements and you can't control the hieght of the 
 bat.
  Golf is REALLY wierd because all the clubs aren't very sensitive except for the putter thats really 
 pretty sensitive.
  Tennis is awsome but the racket swings exactly when you move a little and it goes really fast.
 
  Bowling is awsome with no exceptions what so ever. But other than that its really cool and fun 
 to play
  BUT ITS FREE!!!!!!!!
  so whos complaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameslayer3
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  First off this is not a real game. its WAY more like a demo. But don't get me wrong it doesn't 
 have to be a game to be fun! multiplayer is well... i never played it other than bowling. its still 
 cool. Theres some things that might seem SO hard like for me golf. Or some games for it can be 
 easy like again for me tenies. You will play this game a lot even if you get some other games. 
 its just that fun! The contrals are easy i mean for boxing you just pucnch and bend over. how easy 
 is that! And on a side note DO NOT SIT DOWN OR TWIST YOUR WRIST! if you do that it will seem stupied 
 (or i think so) i mean its so much funner to stand up and do it!. So back to the review.
  
  Gameplay: its just playing sports. fun but because theres like no story or anything and you can't 
 do all the things in sports as oppused to playing like a basebalol game. It also dosent have one 
 of the bigger sports, FOOTBALL WOOOOOOOO! okay so im not that big of a fan but still.
  
  Graphics: the people are....... not people... sure it doesnt have ps3 or 360 graphics but its alright. 
 you don't need it any better. you may want it better but you don't need it. Its gamecube and demo 
 but like i said alright: D
  
  Sound: pretty good. you can hear the ball in tennes. the pins in bowling etc
  
  Value: LOL 
 ITS FREE! it comes with wii sports. its so worth it: P
  
  Tilt: nothing to say realy
  If you have any questions about this game feel free to pm me: D
  
  PS im not fixing all the 
 spelling probs. sry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMR-Venom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the pack in game that comes with every Wii console, and it is a great one. It really 
 shows off the Wiis motion sensing controls while still being great fun for all ages. Wii Sports 
 includes 5 sports. Tennis, bowling, baseball, boxing and golf. These games are great fun especially 
 during multiplayer. You use Miis to play these sports, this is really fun because Miis can really 
 be made to look exactly like you. When you play these games during single player, your skill level 
 rises. When you get your skill level to 1,000 in each game , you are considered a pro. Multiplayer 
 is extremely fun. I definitely recommend getting another Wii-mote and Nunchuk with your Wii. There 
 are also great easy tutorials and a Fitness Test which guesses your fitness age by examining how 
 well you do in a variety of sports. You can take only one fitness test each day per Mii. That way 
 it monitors your activity over months. Some cons are that a some games are oversimplified, so you 
 might not get much of a challenge, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. The game lacks detail 
 but it is a pack in and it is free so what more do you want. Wii Sports is a great game that should 
 not be missed on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo512
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is just pure fun. all the level designs are simplistic but well made. the physics are 
 very accurate and in some cases very forgiving. controls in this game are great but very buggy 
 at times. sometimes the controls work and sometimes they don't. For example baseball controls feel 
 very natural and actually feel like you are batting. on the other hand boxing feels very clunky 
 and distracting. boxing is to fast pace for the game to register all the movements of the controller 
 so it doesn't work as well as it could. overall it is a great party game and an excellent pack-in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt7
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  The basic premise of Wii sports is simple...5 sports, (tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing) , 
 all simplified to make them accessible to all.
  
  The gameplay is what really highlights the appeal of Wii sports, it's so simple to use it converts 
 most people into Wii fans immediately. (Apart from the baseball being very tricky and the boxing 
 not quite matching your frantic air pummeling!) .
  
  The graphics are very simple... but do make use of whatever comical Miis you have stored on your 
 Wii.
  
  Sound is also simple, just functional really.
  
  As it comes free with the Wii, it has to have a perfect value score, something for nothing is always 
 nice.
  
  Wii sports is the ideal game to show off the innovative properties of the Wii and Wii-mote, easy 
 to play, (as most of the best Nintendo games are) , and will attract a number of the Wii doubters... I 
 know it's already converted at least 10 of my friends. In short, anything my wife will play is 
 alright by me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamsterkirby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so the graphics stink. Even for a Wii game. This just makes the gameplay all the better. Although 
 the commercials make the game ('s) all too good, they overreact. You can use simpler things. But 
 if you do it like in the commercials, it makes it just all more difficult. The sound is nice, not 
 perfect, but nice. Just be happy it doesen't sound like the seizure encouraging Pokemon screeches. 
 It is really easy on Tennis, and Baseball, but Bowling, Golf, and Boxing, you actually need to 
 put and effort into it. Boxing will get you a workout, and so will the Daily Fitness thing. For 
 some reason, Wii Sports will be played forever, unless you stink at it. Wii Sports, in my opinion, 
 gets a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen15
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok when you first pop in wii sports and start playing it could be some of most revolutionary moments 
 for you as a gamer. Useing a simple wii remote to simulate yourself or with friends actually playing 
 sports. At first it was so much fun. But because I only have 1 remote I can only face the computer. 
 In my case when I hit pro in all of the sports it got fricking hard and hard fast. One minute in 
 bowling i was hitting a little over 200. But once I hit pro for some reason it kept telling I was 
 doing worse when I was getting better, confusing much? So yes, wii sports is a fun game and its 
 a great eddition to a new console such as wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  so launch day (or christmas or a sagittarian birthday) comes, you franticly wrestle your wii out 
 of its box and set the thing up. Then you spend 5 minutes or so in awe of how perfect the controllers 
 feels, how small the console is and so on. Then you rummage about in the box and find wii sports 
 lying there, staring back at you and psychincaly imploring play me wii buyer . but the big question 
 is this: is wii sports a genuinely enthralling game with a healthy life span, or will you spend 
 an hour playing it and never bother picking it up again?
  the first of the five games you'll probably play (due to a combination of the hype that's surronded 
 it and the fact it's the top game on the list in the menu screen) is tennis, one of the easier 
 games to get to grips with. up to 4 players can play in any combination of doubles matches (either 
 one game one-game, three-game or five game matches) , and if there aren't enough people to make 
 up the numbers then either the wii will control the extra players or someone can control multiple 
 players. in fact, you can control all four players on your own if you fancy seeing how long you 
 can keep a rally going. (this is easier than it sounds as you only need to concentrate on swinging 
 the remote because the wii controls your mii's movment.)
  the graphicsare plesantly tidy and everytime you hit the ball you hear a satisfiying 'clunk' emanating 
 from your wii remote speaker, making you feel like your in the court yourself.
  the second game on the list is baseball which is no longer simply the home run contest it used 
 to be. it takes placeover three inings and you take turns batting then pitching. both work as you'd 
 expect, with pitching a case of simply making a throwing movment and holding a button to determine 
 the sort of throw you make. as for batting - well, if you can't guess how that works then you probably 
 need someone to remind you to breathe every now and then. whenever the batter makes contact , the 
 out filelders on the other team scamper around and try to catch you out. if it takes them ages your 
 mii will run forward a base, if it takes them longer you'll get a double and hitting it out the 
 park gets you a homerun.
  then we have bowling, which is equally enjoyable. using the d-pad to line up your player and the 
 direction they'll be aiming in, you simply hold the B button, make an underarm throwing motion 
 and relese the B button at the right time to send the ball hurling down the lane.
  when it comes to golf, what was originaly a demo letting you practice driving and putting has become 
 a proper 9-hole course with three difficulty levels (the harder you choose the the windier it gets) . 
 when driving i found slightly different to gauge how hard i was hitting the ball, but thankfully 
 the option to practice shots has been retained, meaning you can get some practice at it. rounding 
 off the package is boxing, the only sport to use the nunchuck aswell as the remote playing against 
 the wii controlled opponent is prety much a no-go as thicker than a six month old bottle of milk.
 
  
  maybe a month or two down the line youll put wii sports on the shelf it may get slightly boring 
 but its perfect to show off you wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bender-wii
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  this wii game is cool it gots differ spots in it like boxing, balssball you mack u mii it is fun 
 mi canhave a wii fitless and u got become in any of the wii spots ma in blowing ther aslo glof 
 i got a + 0 in it boxing is funy i like blaseball on bkowing best u cna tringed in it if u a PRO 
 U GET BETTER TING U A PRO IN IT IN BLOWING OYUR BLOWING HAVES SIRTS ON IT IF U HAD 2 WII REROTS 
 U FACE A FIREND IN WII SPOTS THIS TINHGS CA DI IT IN BOXING YOU PATH IN IN BLASSBALL YOU THE WII 
 REROMT IN LIKE BLASS BALLBAT ASLO OBXING NAMSICK U CAN ASLP A FIRNED TENINES U ASKO DO TRIN BOXING 
 HATS ARM AND BALSSBALL U YOUT SMR TENINES IS EASY IN BLOW IGOT 207 OYU LET GO OF B OYU IN OBXING 
 APTH HIM UMDERCUT U 3 ROUNDS OR IF U OT THET CNA NOT GET UP TO DAD OYU EXP POUTD IF IF GET 1000 
 U BEOCME PRO BUT LESS IT BE CARFELL NOT TO LOSS IT I LOST BLOWING ONE TIME BUT GET AM REMOST A 
 PRO IN BALSS BAL IGOT AM IN 900 0R THE 8OO S BE A PRO IN BASEBALL AVRY SOON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  For a long time in the videogame industry, companies have included pack-in games to be included 
 with their consoles. These games usually showed off certain aspects of the console which makes 
 it unique. One company in particular has had many pack-in games that have become very famous videogames, 
 including Super Mario Bros./Duckhunt, Tetris, Super Mario World, Super Mario 64, along with others. 
 Now Nintendo has added to their long list of pack-in games with the game Wii Sports. In Wii Sports, 
 there are five different sports that you can play using the Wii's remote. The sports that you can 
 choose from are tennis, golf, bowling, baseball, and boxing.
  
  In tennis, you use the remote like a tennis racket to hit the ball like you would in real tennis. 
 However, the actual movement of your character in the game is done automatically. Despite this, 
 tennis is really fun to play, and is my second favorite sport in the game. It is really fun when 
 you get into it and swing the remote like a tennis racket. However, if you're playing with friends, 
 just make sure that you have enough room between each person so that nobody accidentally hits anybody.
 
  
  In golf, you use the remote like a golf club. Before swinging, you can change the direction of 
 the swing to make up for the wind or avoid water or sand. You can also take practice shots to see 
 how hard to hit the ball, and then when you're ready to actually hit the ball, press the A button 
 on the remote. How hard you swing affects how hard it swings in the game. However, this is leads 
 to golf's biggest problem. It is very difficult to actually control how hard you hit the ball in 
 the game. The best thing to do is to practice the swing as many times as it takes until you get 
 the swing right. However, even after practicing the swing a lot of times, there were times when 
 I had made a swing that I thought was the same as the last practice swing, but then I hit it too 
 hard. Sometimes I compensate for a swing that was too hard by swinging the remote slightly softer, 
 but then it hardly even picks up my swing at all. This ends up ruining the experience in golf for 
 me.
  
  In Bowling, you use the remote like a bowling ball. Before bowling, you can move left and right 
 by using the arrows on the directional pad on the remote. You can also change the angle that you're 
 going to bowl by pressing the A button and using the arrows of the directional pad. When you're 
 ready to bowl, hold down the B button, and release it to release the bowling ball. To give the 
 ball a spin, twist the remote a little or a lot, depending on how big of a spin you want to give 
 it. How hard you bowl also affects how hard you bowl in the game. This is my favorite sport in 
 the game, because it gets the controls down the best that they could.
  
  In baseball, you use the Wii remote as a baseball bat and to throw a baseball. However, everything 
 else is completely done by the game. The other team might catch the ball, drop the ball causing 
 you to get a single run or double run, and everything else is pretty much random. Out of the sports 
 in this game, this is in the middle in terms of how fun it is. It's good to play, especially with 
 a friend, but it's not the best. It is too random to be great. Also, the pitching isn't that great. 
 But overall it isn't bad.
  
  Boxing is the only sport that uses both the remote and nunchuck attachment, using each one as one 
 of your hands. You can punch using both the remote and nunchuck, you can block punches by lifting 
 them up to your face, and you can dodge punches by tilting them left or right. Overall, this is 
 OK. However, sometimes it doesn't register the moves correctly, especially with the nunchuck. However, 
 you'll be able to get by most of the time with the moves that it does register.
  
  Playing these sports with the remote is the main thing that has attracted non-gamers and casuals. 
 Now, they can play these sports without having to actually go out and play them, and play them 
 despite what the weather is like. However, there are some things which are in the game that appeal 
 to the regular gamers. One thing that appeals to gamers is the fact that, with each sport, every 
 time you win (in tennis, baseball, and boxing) , or improve your score (in golf and bowling) , your 
 level increases. As your level increases, the challenge of improving your level goes up. On the 
 other hand, with every loss, or your score goes down, your level goes down, and so does the challenge 
 of improving your level. After a while, if you're good enough at a sport you become a pro.
  
  In addition to that, there is a training mode. There are a total of 15 different games, 3 for 
 each sport, that test different skills in each of the sports. For instance, bowling has one game 
 where you have to try to make different kinds of spares, with each one becoming more and more difficult 
 to make. Another bowling game is where you have to test out your spin of the ball by going around 
 different walls placed on the lane to knock down pins. The last bowling game tests out your strength 
 while throwing the ball, where you start off by having 10 pins to knock down, but then after each 
 time you bowl, the number increases, and eventually there are hundreds of pins to knock down. There 
 are similar kinds of games for each sport, although the bowling is the most fun out of all of them. 
 For each of the games in the training mode, you can earn medals if you become good enough.
  
  Finally, there is a fitness test to see how good you are. This is a mode which randomly takes 
 three of the training modes, and based on that it will give you your own fitness age. This is similar 
 to brain age, but with sports. It only allows you to do the fitness test once a day, so you'll 
 be able to train in the training mode between each time you take the fitness test.
  
  Nintendo decided to take the simple feel of the gameplay, and add to that feeling by adding simple 
 graphics and sound. The graphics are not realistic at all, using the Miis, and having a simple 
 look to pretty much everything. This doesn't necessarily mean that it has bad graphic though. Some 
 of the graphics in the game could be better without taking away from its simple feeling. However, 
 overall it does a really good job at both looking good and looking very simple. The sound also 
 has the same affect as the graphics, being good but really simple. There are cheers from the crowd, 
 and some other noises that help to give it some atmosphere, and the music is good, but it's nothing 
 that takes away from the feeling of simplicity that the game has.
  
  Considering the fact that this game comes free with the Wii, it is a really good game that shows 
 off the controller, and uses the Mii feature really well. This is not a game that will be great 
 for spending several hours playing, but if you have some time to kill and want to play something 
 fun, then this is a really good game. It might not be as great as some of Nintendo's past pack-in 
 games, but it's definitely a fun game and will probably be one game that a lot of people come back 
 to many times throughout the Wii's lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  wii sports came free with my wii console i played it off and on but theres really no point in playing 
 it. if u get a pro setting at some sports u get nothing at all for it. the only pro prise that 
 is given is bowling is a diamond bowling ball which does nothing and looks like wacko pretty boys 
 should have. sure its fun but i rather not play for the rest of my life unless they did not have 
 the miis as characters then it would improve in my eyes.
  
  for those people that are into pyshical work this is the game to have to work on ur punching skills.
 
  
  but its just a kiddy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the best deal on the market, because it's free. Well, not really, because you must 
 buy the Wii as well, but let's pretend that Wii Sports did not increase the cost of the package, 
 alright?
  
  Graphics-wise, this is just the Gamecube, and at times it is on par with N64 graphics. The sound 
 and music effects are also no better than last- (last-) gen systems. But that isn't why you play 
 this, is it?
  
  Controls and gameplay are the big issues, right? Well, regarding the former, Wii Sports is great. 
 I am amazed at the sensitivity. The boxing game takes some time to become familiar, but all the 
 others were immediately understood and used properly. As far as gameplay is concerned, most of 
 the games provide a good challenge despite being shallow. Had I paid for this game separately, 
 I would complain that the games are a little too simple. The tennis game comes to mind due to the 
 fact that all you do is swing back or forth. If there had been a way to move the characters as 
 well as hit the balls, that would have been great. However, I love the golf and bowling games. 
 Both have the best synch with the wiimote, and can offer a lasting challenge.
  
  The fitness challenges works in a similar manner to Brain Age in that your fitness level is inversely 
 proportional to your fitness age. I'm assuming late teens to early 20's is ideal. My fat butt came 
 in at 36, only about 12 years too many. SO on that note I return to lowering my age . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Arki-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  In Wii Sports you get to play 5 different sports: Baseball, Bowling, Golf, Tennis and Boxing.
 
  
  Baseball is a pretty good game. I found it hard at times to get the hitting part going but that 
 could be due to my lack of skill. This sport is, though, a great 2-player sport.
  
  I found Bowling to be a great game. It only took a couple tries before my whole family got the 
 hang of it. We all play this sport the most due to its level of fun and simplicity.
  
  I didn't find Golf to be very fun. The controls are really hard (especially at first) . When I was 
 putting it was extremely difficult for me to get the ball in if I was right near the hole. Maybe 
 if I was better at golf in real life, I would be better at this.
  
  Tennis is great fun. The controls work perfectly and it feels like you are really playing the sport. 
 It is really fun to have 4 people playing this game against each other.
  
  I found Boxing to be a lot of fun... for two people. Obviously you can't have more than two people 
 play Boxing at the same time which is too bad because all the other sports at least allow more. 
 This is a great game anyway with good controls and a lot of fun.
  
  This is a very good game that I would pay for, but it comes with the Wii (at least in US) which 
 just makes it better. I hoped you enjoyed reading my review as I enjoyed writing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin3085
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Regardless of personal tastes or preferences, there's one game that everyone who picks up the Nintendo 
 Wii at launch in the US will get, and that's Wii Sports. This is the game that Nintendo has chosen 
 to include with the wii , and it makes for a pretty smart package. It's a collection of simple 
 games based of the sports of tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. It can admittedly be 
 a little short on depth at times, so those looking for stunningly realistic renditions of these 
 sports will need to look elsewhere. Wii Sports uses common, relatable activities to provide an 
 example of how to create a tactile experience on the Wii. To this end, it's quite successful. The 
 simplicity of Wii Sports makes it a great introduction to the uniqueness of Nintendo's new console. 
 It really helps you get used to that type of control when you move on to other wii games. What immediately 
 makes Wii Sports attractive is its ease of use. Each of the games shaves its respective sport down 
 to a few essential elements and then has you pantomiming these basic activities with the Wii Remote -- and 
 in the case of boxing, the Nunchuk as well. For tennis, all you'll be doing is swinging the Remote 
 as though it were a tennis racket, simple, no? At the start of the match you'll flick the remote 
 up to toss the ball in the air, and then with a quick swing you'll serve the ball. Depending on 
 your handedness, swinging to the right or to the left will produce a forehand or backhand swing, 
 while the game itself will move your player about the court. It does a satisfactory job of putting 
 you in front of the ball, allowing you to focus entirely on your return, something that's determined 
 by the shape and speed of your swing. You won't have pro-level, laserlike accuracy, and your timing 
 governs most of your directional control. It's ideally either a two- or four-player game, though 
 the artificial intelligence can facilitate a decent doubles game if you're on your own. You can 
 choose from a one-off game, best of three, or best of five, and that's about it for tennis. Baseball 
 is reduced to batting and pitching, with all of the fielding handled on your behalf by the game. 
 The motions are pretty simular to the real thing, so you'll hold and swing the remote as though 
 it were a baseball bat. You'll see your batter waving the bat over his shoulder as you do the same 
 with the remote, but you don't need to worry about your strike zone, just the timing and speed 
 at which you swing. There's a little more to pitching, which relies on an over-the-shoulder, down-and-forward 
 motion to emulate your standard big-league overhand pitch, and the speed of this gesture will determine 
 the speed of your pitch. You can add a little spice to it by holding the A button to produce a 
 curveball, the B button for a screwball, or both for a splitter. You can affect the direction of 
 the ball using the D pad before your pitch, though the game doesn't give great feedback as to how 
 high, low, inside, or out the pitch will be. Again, it's a better experience with two players, 
 but it's still pretty good against the AI. It's most fun in short bursts, so the fact that the 
 games are limited to three innings seems like a good thing. Bowling is perhaps the most nuanced 
 of the games included in Wii Sports and generally comes across as the most intact sport of the 
 five, with just the right amount of technicality. You'll start off holding the remote in front 
 of you pointing straight up, then you'll move it down, back, and forward again. Just like real 
 bowling. You'll hold the B button as you swing, and when you let go, your player will release the 
 ball. And, like with a real bowling ball, you can counteract spin by moving your player's starting 
 position to the left or right, as well as your angle of attack, before you throw. Up to four players 
 can play a full 10 frames here, and the fact that your success isn't governed by interacting directly 
 with others somehow makes bowling especially accessible. That same simplicity, though, can hurt 
 the different games' lasting value to some extent. The actual sport of golf is one of restraint, 
 which is definitely the focus of Wii Sports' take on it. Swinging the remote as though it were 
 a golf club basically emulates the old rising power meter that was once standard in all golf video 
 games. You'll see an onscreen power meter that goes higher the harder you swing. There are dots 
 at regular intervals on the power meter that correspond with the dots on your ball's projected 
 path in an onscreen minimap so that figuring out how hard you need to swing is mostly a simple 
 matter of determining which dot you need to swing to. Of course, you'll have the winds to contend 
 with, and there's the ball's bounce and roll to be considered as well. While it can be tempting 
 to just grip it and rip it when you're making your way up the fairway, if you swing so hard that 
 you go past the top of your power meter, you'll slice or hook the shot. Putting works similarly, 
 though with a much more subdued motion. As natural as the swing can feel, it's a little contrived, 
 and you'll see that you can continue to give the power of an underpowered shot a little bump by 
 continuing to raise the controller up and forward after the ball has already left the ground. There 
 are only nine different holes of golf, which start off as straight shots and dog-legs and end with 
 an interesting hole that spans a small archipelago. I found the swing to be a little annoying at 
 times, but not so much that we didn't wish there were more holes to play through. The next game 
 is boxing. You'll control your fighter's stance, blocking, and punches by holding the remote and 
 the Nunchuk and moving them accordingly . Holding them right in front of you will block, and you 
 can also dodge punches by swaying forward, back, and side-to-side. Boxing can be the most physically 
 exhausting game of the five, since swinging your fists causes your fighter to do the same. You'll 
 need to aim high and low with your actual swings if you want to hit your opponent specifically 
 in the head or body. Since only the Wii Remote interacts directly with the movements onscreen, 
 the position of your off hand is at least loosely tied to it, making it difficult to distract your 
 opponent with an uppercut with one hand while you try to sneak in a body blow with the other. The 
 game goes split-screen when you're up against a live opponent, and matches seem to always end in 
 a knockout, so you don't need to sweat the judges. Despite their relative simplicity, there's still 
 a learning curve to the games in Wii Sports, and a training mode is included that not only serves 
 to help you hone your skills, but can be a fun challenge for those who've already got a handle 
 on the games. There are three different activities for each sport, and they focus further on specific 
 aspects of the game. For example, in tennis you'll be challenged to return as many consecutive, 
 relentless serves as you can without missing. Baseball has you competing in a home run derby. Bowling 
 has you working on using spin to your advantage by placing barriers strategically in the lane. 
 Golf will challenge you to make it to the green in a single shot from a variety of positions. Boxing 
 tests your power against a series of punching bags that you need to knock clean off their chains. 
 It's in the training mode, though, that you'll probably discover that you don't need to perform 
 big, sweeping motions in a few of the games to play well, which is too bad, since it seems a little 
 counter to the notion of the package. Another way Wii Sports keeps you coming back is with a daily 
 fitness test. Here you'll participate in a random series of training mode challenges, and based 
 on your performance you'll be assigned a fitness age, a none-too-subtle nod to the Brain Age test 
 in Nintendo's DS puzzle game of the same name. It worked in Brain Age, and it seems to work well 
 in Wii Sports, too. Wii Sports backs up its gameplay with a look that's just as clean and simple. 
 Wii Sports is the first Wii game that uses the Mii, a digital avatar that you can create and customize 
 from the console's Wii Channel interface. These figures, which look a bit like further simplified 
 versions of Playmobil people, populate Wii Sports, and they set the tone for the look of the game. 
 The environments aren't as overtly abstracted, but their look is simple and clean, something that 
 comes across on both standard and progressive scan displays. The sound follows suit with simple, 
 crisp effects, and though it's perhaps not as striking, it does make nice, mostly underplayed use 
 of the Wii Remote's speaker. Pretty good. The first time the games included in Wii Sports were 
 shown to the public, it was simply as tech demos to prove that Nintendo wasn't totally whako for 
 building a whole console around motion-sensitive controls. Though there's still kind of a tech-demo 
 feel to Wii Sports, it's a fun, unique package you'll enjoy so long as you don't expect too much 
 detail from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports came out with the Nintendo Wii on December 8th 2006. THANK GOD FOR THAT!!! Wii Sports 
 is an excellent game with easy controls, good graphics, and it's basically just fun to play! The 
 5 games are brilliant, with my favourite being the tennis or boxing. All the games are fun and 
 enjoyable to play yourself and especially with your mates! I was glad that Wii Sports came with 
 the Wii, but even if it didn't, I would still have bought it because it definetly would have been 
 worth the money!
  
  Wii Sports made excellent use of the Mii's in all 5 games, and the controls for all the games were 
 easy to understand and use. I don't know about you but, getting beat by your best mate's 5-year-old 
 brother at bowling... it was actually kinda fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: The Nintendo Wii is the new system to be placed on the market from the long time 
 gaming giant Nintendo. In the United States, Nintendo decided to include an interesting package 
 containing five of some of the worlds more popular sports into a piece of software that utilizes 
 Nintendo's new 'Wii Remote' in various ways. A combination of Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, Golf, 
 and Tennis, are implemented into the game all providing a fresh, immersing experience for gamers 
 of all kinds. But how well do they work? Do they actually give a sense of immersion with Nintendo's 
 new 'Wii Remote'? For the most part, I think you can answer, 'Yes'.
  
  Presentation: Wii Sports shows a slick presentation with Nintendo, and (more of these) upcoming 
 Nintendo Mii implementation-esque' franchises written all over it. The use of Mii's throughout 
 Wii Sports is great, and it's really a key feature that sets it apart from other sports games on 
 the market. With a casual game style, and a few modes that add areas of replay value and depth 
 for a more hardcore gamer, Wii Sports is game that easily can appeal to everybody. But most of 
 all, it is the Wii Remote itself that sets it apart from other sports games, and keeps the presentation 
 at a unique, smooth level. Without it, Wii Sports simply wouldn't exist!
  
  Graphics: The easiest way to describe the graphical style in Wii Sports is 'simple'. Your Mii Character 
 is represented in sporting environments that well resemble your character, and artistically place 
 them in a world that fits them perfectly. The games models (or Miis) are simple, and the arenas, 
 (courts, rings, whatever you call them) are simple enough to get the main idea across the screen. 
 There isn't much detail being used and it's easy to say that Wii Sports wasn't produced for technical 
 achievement. However, everything in the game sports a crisp, clean feeling (the game also runs 
 in Widescreen and 480p) that really sets aside the need for complex textures and polygons. With 
 that, Wii Sports while not beautiful, gets the job done in a simple and fresh manner. Sound: A 
 long with the graphical aspects of Wii Sports, there is a similarity in terms of the sound department. 
 Wii Sports, wasn't developed to sport fantastic sound either There are a few memorable tunes being 
 used on screen, as well as general sounds being heard in other sports games. However, the real 
 level of sound comes in the form of immersion - right in the palm of your hand. The Wii Remotes 
 internal speaker, while not of the highest quality, helps give the gamer a greater feel as he plays 
 the game. Listening to swoosh of a baseball releasing from his grip, or the ever famous cry in 
 a boxing match in the form of 'Knock Out! , the speaker helps translate some of the on-screen sound 
 right into your own hand. While not a complete necessity, it's an interesting feature that nevertheless 
 helps improve and set the experience apart from the rest.
  
  Gameplay: The game play in Wii Sports, is probably one of the stronger, and more interesting aspects 
 of the game. Because of Nintendo's unique controller, we get an experience that no gamer has ever 
 played before... and for the most part, it works! To break it down simply, all five of Nintendo's 
 sports games (Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, Golf, and Tennis) are played using the Wii Remote in various 
 position, while performing various gestures and actions. You'll pitch in baseball by moving your 
 arm or wrist, and you'll hit a tennis ball - either from the left or right depending on the way 
 the ball is coming toward you - with a flick of the wrist or a full arm movement. Most notably, 
 attaching Nintendo's Nunchuk attachment to the Wii remote to perform quick jab, dodge, and uppercut 
 in boxing. All of these are performed in ways that you can imagine - ways that you would (generally) 
 translate in real life. Of course, a few tidbits are included to help make the game more controllable 
 (such as having to hold the A Button when hitting a ball in golf, you don't want to accidentally 
 hit the ball unplanned!) and, these small features are accompanied by tutorials that can easily 
 appeal to someone who's never played a video game before. This system works well and provides a 
 new and entertaining experience for all gamers. Although, sometimes a few gestures may go unrecognized, 
 though rarely ever, it's easy enough to assume that every movement won't be translated on screen 
 in a game such as boxing. Simplicity was one of the key components in Wii Sports, and with that 
 thought in mind - how are you to expect a full fledged game in each of the five sports games provided? 
 As simple as it is... sometimes Wii Sports may feel a little too simple. For example, playing a 
 game of tennis is a great experience, but soon gamers may realize that only a flick of wrist is 
 needed to swing your Mii's tennis racket, now a fully fledged arm movement. In other aspects, some 
 games are not as fully fledged out as they could be. Wii Baseball for example, only requires you 
 to hit the ball, and pitch the ball (pitching, requires a simple gesture, as well as the press 
 of a button for various styles of pitching) . Your other Mii's, will play outfield, and run the 
 bases all on their own free will - sometimes at points that their rather clumsy AI (while although 
 funny, would never translate into a professional baseball game) can tend to annoy you. Added to 
 that, the game doesn't completely stretch to as long as traditional sports games. You can only 
 play up to nine holes in golf, three innings in baseball, and five games in tennis. Even so, Wii 
 Sports wasn't meant to give gamers fully fledged sports games all in one package, it was meant 
 to show the various qualities of the Wii Remote. As such, I find it much easier to get through 
 a three inning game of baseball rather than nine whole innings... Wii Sports is in many ways, too 
 simple that lengthening the games such as these, would make the overall game feel a tad too far 
 fetched. While some of you may be a tad disappointed by what feels as the lack of depth in some 
 of the games, Wii Sports also includes modes not usually found in other titles. Firstly, a training 
 mode which allows the user to practice their various skills which they will use in the five sports, 
 earning medals and high scores for different Miis. Secondly, is the Wii Fitness mode which scores 
 (or ages) gamers to how well they perform three simple challenges, which of course, was inspired 
 by Nintendo's Brain Age series. Both of these features provide gamers a different, though entertaining 
 view of different aspects of five sport titles. While it's easy to assume that some games are more 
 fun than others (my personal favorite is Bowling and Boxing, with Golf being rather bland after 
 awhile) , you will soon play the game enough to realize a few strengths and weaknesses that are 
 offered in this package. Regardless, all five of the sports each give insight to gamers and developers 
 of what the Wii can do at the tip of the iceberg, and it will be exciting to see what we can expect 
 for gamers in the future in not just sports titles, but of all types of games for Nintendo's new 
 system.
  
  Multiplayer: Probably the aspect that lengthens the value of Wii Sports is the game's multilpayer, 
 which is probably one of the games strongest points. Gamers can easily sit down (or stand) to enjoy 
 five sports games with their friends in a fresh and entertaining manner, both with bragging rights 
 and laughing rights as they challenge their friends in five of Wii Sports, sporting offerings. 
 Gamers can create their own Miis and use them... and it is even nice to go to a friends house and 
 take a fitness test with a Mii unique to their own Wii system. Gamers can even transfer their Miis 
 from system to system using internal storage on the Wii Remote to be used in the actual game. Players 
 will spend hours playing Wii Sports with their friends, which is one of the greatest offerings 
 that this game has. There may be nothing better, than gaming at home in your living room with your 
 friends and family, whether they play video games as their own hobby, or that they may be playing 
 a game for their first time.
  
  Value: The value of Wii Sports is an interesting thing to discuss... mostly by the fact that this 
 game is included with every Wii system in the United States . As such, while the games in Wii Sports 
 don't have enough depth that will keep you glued to your television for five hours straight for 
 many weeks, there is enough offerings for you to easily pick up this game and play it.... once 
 a day, twice a day, or maybe twice a week. The Wii Fitness tests will keep you coming back, and 
 the training results are great mini-games that appeal in keeping casual and hardcore gamers interested. 
 But most of all, the unique gameplay aspects provided by Nintendo's Wii Remote will keep gamers 
 interested in Wii Sports, even in a year or two. Nintendo has shown with Wii Sports that you don't 
 need technical achievement to keep a game fun. Simplicity, wide appeal, and just a little pizazz 
 will make Wii Sports a game that gamers will remember - as (likely) the first time they experienced 
 immersion on the Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  yeah................. so i pop this in my wii as soon as i bring it home and im all like OMG!!! 
 TeZ AWESomeZZ then after about a an hour and a half im like, cool, cool then the next day im like 
 k, alright, buuuuut..... so graphics are good, the gameplay is good, for a short period of time, 
 the sounds are cool, and considering you get it for free its a pretty friggin good value.
  
  unfortunately, its only purpose is to waste time until you have enough money to buy a game 
 because the D-Bag at futureshop convinced you to buy the expensive hardware protection warranty 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game came with my Wii so I didn't go out and buy it but I would tell others to ... it's just 
 fun, bowling ,boxing, tennis, golf ... all of the games are well done and training is a blast ... 
 my son and I were rolling on the floor laughing when we were trying to dodge balls in boxing training. 
 It's so much fun that it even made my wife want to give it a try ... this is the secret behind 
 the Wii's popularity it's so much fun and so easy to use that even non-games want to have a try 
 at it, if you purchase one of the early consoles that did not come with the game then add this 
 one to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  What was the last pack in game? Super Mario Bros. on teh SNES? It's great to see that pack-ins 
 have made a return, and it's even better that they don't totally suck.
  
  Wii sports is a collection of 5 games that take advantage of the Wii Remote. You have bowling, 
 boxing, tennis, golf, and baseball. They are all generally all simplified to go along with the 
 remote. Character movement is automatic in baseball and tennis. All you have to focus on is swinging 
 the remote in time to hit the ball.
  
  Bowling stands out as the best game onthe disc, as it is challenging simply alot of fun to play.
 
  
  There are also some training activites for each sport. These can be played on their own, or as 
 part of a Wii fitness test. The fitness tests give you 3 activities to complete, and grade you 
 based on how well you completed them. 20 is the best possible age, and 80 is the worst.
  
  The character you play as in al these games is your user created MiI, that you probably made when 
 you first started up your console. The opponents in Wii Sports are Miis stored on the disc.
  
  Though Wii Sports is fun, its presentation is very simple. The graphics aren't state of the 
 art, nor is the sound. Still, they get their jobs done.
  
  Wii Sports is great as a pack in. You will probably have some fun with this, even if only in a 
 couple of the sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is one of the best games on the Wii, with Baseball, Tennis, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing, 
 what could be any funner than beating you sibling in Baseball.
  
  My most favorite is a tie between Tennis and Baseball, this game is so much fun, and so easy to 
 play that someone could pick it up and just play it, also even if you don't know how to pplay one 
 sport it walks you though it.
  
  This is just my opinon, but boxing to me is the hardest to play, because you need alot of room 
 and this and Baesball and Tennis are the only ones where you are going up against someone else.
 
  
  Another part of Wii Sports is the skill training where you do these skills for each sport, like 
 in Bowling you are actully knocking down more and more pins as you get into the round, I think 
 the highest number of pins is like 94 pins, oh and if you knock down all the pins you get that 
 many pins X2, another skill training is in Baesball where the object is to hit as many homeruns 
 as possibile.
  
  All in all this is a really good pick up and play kind of game, I think Nintendo knew what they 
 where doing when they made the Wii, and I think what Nintendo has do is so great, just to make 
 such a good system with such a good game is so amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Back at E3 in 2006, Nintendo held a press conference at the Kodak Theatre displaying Wii Sports. 
 It was simply a demo and only a basic version of the game tennis on the released version of the 
 game. On the 14th of September 2006 the Wii release date was announced, the fact it would be included 
 'free' in the Wii package (excluding Japan) and two new games - Bowling and Boxing - were announced.
 
  
  Wii Sports features five sports - Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing. Tennis is the most 
 well known and because four players can play all at once, is the most multi-player friendly. You 
 do not have to move your Mii but simply swing at the correct time in order to hit your ball over 
 the net in hope that the other player will mess up their shot or simply not reach it it in time. 
 Normal tennis rules apply, of course (deuce, out, etc) . Sadly though, you don't really get the 
 feel you are in control of where the ball goes.
  
  Baseball lets you and a friend take turns in batting and bowling, batting being the most fun. Bowlers 
 simply hold down either A, B or AB to determine what kind of throw they do. They then swing their 
 controller down (how fast they do this also affects the ball) which makes the ball leave their 
 hand on-screen and fly towards the batter. The batter then has to swing at the correct time in 
 order to run round. How far they run round depends on how good their swing was (the ball will go 
 further) . This is basically all you have to do as the game will automatically run you round and 
 make your characters run for the ball once it has been hit which is a downside as you feel it would 
 be quite fun to do this yourself.
  
  In Bowling you use the same actions as you would in real life. Swing back, forward and then release 
 (not the remote, obviously) . This works very well and the physichs are very good. The only downside 
 here is once you've mastered the technique it really isn't very hard to get strikes nearly all 
 the time.
  
  In Golf you choose the strength of your swing by how fast you swing the remote in a golfing action. 
 You can adjust the direction of your shot using the D-Pad, which you will need to do due to the 
 wind which will affect the course of the ball. Swinging the controller too fast will make your 
 strength meter go into the red which will make the ball go of course (much like the wind does) . 
 Golf is a good game but can be hard to master.
  
  Boxing is the only sport to use the Nunchuk attachment. You hold the Remote and Nunchuk in separate 
 hands and then punch in the air which is supposed to be copied precisely on screen. In reality 
 this isn't true and you'll find yourself getting really annoyed as you are swinging wildly but 
 your character isn't doing what you tell it too. Apart from this boxing is good and very tiring.
 
  
  Wii Sports makes heavy use of the Miis and not just your own. In Tennis and Boxing Miis from the 
 Mii Plaza will appear in the crowd and also as bowlers in Bowling. In Baseball other Miis on your 
 console will appear on both teams. All the computer characters are also generated Miis. This is 
 fun as it is always nice to have familiar faces around.
  
  Graphically Wii Sports isn't exactly revolutionary and the sound is mediocre. A downside of the 
 game is that after a while you will get a bit bored of it and you may only use it when newbies 
 to the Wii come round your house. Having saying this, the use of the Wii remote is put into fantastic 
 use and this is a great introduction to the Wii for you, family and friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bamdude89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I don't have a Wii. I played it at a friend's house and i bought about reviewing games, he has on 
 his system. Wii Sports is one of them. It's pretty good for my first Wii Game played and reviewed.
 
  
  There are 5 games to choose from in this game. My favorites are Tennis, Boxing and Bowling. I don't 
 like Golf and Baseball, because the controls are not that easy to get used to the first time you 
 try either one of those sports. The A. I for boxing is not really that smart and, I think nintendo 
 forgot to add a Football one.
  
  The graphics look great with a werid look to it and strange Miis, because of odd faces and most 
 of them don't have feet, other than your Mii. The sound is also weird, but nice. The whole speaker 
 on the Remote is cool, whenever you finish bowling and you hear the guy saying a through on the 
 speaker. That's mind-blowing.
  
  Wii Sports is a fantastic game that anyone should really check this game out, the minute you set 
 up your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  If you happen to get a wii most likly you have this little gift with it.. The free game entitled 
 Wii Sports. In this game you play dumbed down verisons of 5 different sports..  
 So let me breakdown each one of them starting with Baseball.....
  
  Baseball: is a very simplistic view of Baseball.. You hold the wii remote like a baseball bat then 
 swing it to make the hitting motion.. then if you are pitching you swing like your hitting something. 
 The buttons you press and how fast you move it tells you how fast the ball will go.. There is no 
 fielding or running its all computered.. sometimes its unfair because the computer will make an 
 error in the field not you. So if you like Hitting and Pitching but being so dumb down is its ultimate 
 down fall.
  
  Tennis: Also you can't run in this game it auto matically does that.. You swing the Wii mote like 
 a tennis racket if you want a backhand or a forehand depending on what you want.. To serve you 
 swing the remote up in the air. Each is very accurate and very well made.. You can't do single 
 matches and that kinda stinks.. You can pair up with a computer a friend or yourself! you can play 
 both front and back of the tennis court. Overall its very good but with some minor problems..
 
  
  Golf: This game takes the longest to get the hang of. You swing the wii mote up like a a normal 
 golf club but the amount of power you have can get kinda hard to figure out. Same with putting. 
 Don't be surprised if the first time you try it you find your golf ball getting everywhere but 
 in the hole.. the game takes paticience and time but once you get it its damn good. If you like 
 real golf then this game is the most realistic. Boxing: This is the only game you need to Numchuck 
 for... when you play this game it feels a lot like Punch out!! for the Nintendo Entertainment system. 
 you use the numbchuck in your weakhand and the remote in your dominate hand. You punch it if you 
 have it to your face you will smack the guy in the face when you have it to you hips you give him 
 some shots in the kindney. This game really gets your blood pumping! Punching and dodging.. its 
 very fun one of my personal favorites because of the happiness of KOing your oppent.
  
  Bowling: Is the best game on the disc.. you use the mote like a bowling ball. You hold down the 
 B button on the back of the remote until you want to realse it. Its very persice and very very 
 addicting.. Its also very relaistic because this game like golf has no real moving.. you play all 
 10 frames like real Bowling unlike Baseball you play 3 innings not 9.. Its also very competitive 
 and fun.. You are not directly impacted by the other bowlers who are playing with you.. it all 
 about you scoring the highest. so it can bet very rewarding when you score your highest score.. 
 Overall da best on the disc and its jsut as fun as real bowling!
  
  So here is the best to worse
  Bowling
  Boxing
  Tennis
  Golf
  Baseball
  
  Breakdown
 
  Gameplay: Simple yet addictivly fun!
  Graphics: Simple very simple but the Miis you play as make it worth while
  Sound: Simple Music 
 with realistic sound effects
  Value: Its for free with your wii so its a great value
  Overall: One of the most addictive mini game games i have ever played plus its a bonus with the 
 wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, I still play it and probably will for awhile because it is fun and gets you 
 used to the wii. The fact that you see your miis all the way though is also great like when you 
 make up a team for baseball it will use the miis you have made, which is a nice little thing. The 
 only bad game in the package is golf I would say, as it gets boring real fast and isn't easy to 
 play. The best game in the package for me would have to be tenis when playing with mates and boxing 
 when on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daraghp
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a game that comes boxed in with a every WII sold. Know it's hard to complain about 
 a free game, but the sheer fact is that i'm going to go right ahead and complain about WII sports.
 
  
  The first time you play WII sports you'll one hundred percent love it. After about half an hours 
 play, you'll still be enjoying your self, but not as much as you were when you first picked up 
 the WII mote. Two hours in? Well, it's unlikely you'll play this for two hours strait, but if you 
 do, you'll be bored out of your skull. The novelty starts to where off and WII sports obvious flaws 
 start to jump out at you and catch you by the throat. The five games sports available are Tennis, 
 Golf, Bowling, Baseball and Boxing. All enjoyable at the start, but when you've gotten in to them 
 you begin to see why they came free with you brand new WII. It's kind of like this: Say you just 
 bought an apple. First thing you do is nipple it, and it's the tastiest apple you've ever eaten. 
 You then decide to bite into it and you discover that the core is rotten. Each game has there flaws. 
 You cant control your player in the Tennis, and it's virtually impossible to direct your shot accurately. 
 The Golf (which is by far the best game) is just frustrating when not playing on easy. The Bowling 
 feels a bit to random at times. The Baseball is down right boring, and the Boxing requires absolutely 
 no skill, just random waving of arms.
  
  If Wii sport does to anything well, it shows off what the WII mote can do. And Wii sports is a 
 blast with friends no matter how long you play it. You should not just buy your Wii and go home, 
 because you'll only really have a good game for an hour or so. Buy Zelda for yourself and keep 
 this and play when your friends pop around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Now most people complain that Wii Sports is not a real game, as more of a demo to show the power 
 of the Wii. This is not true. Sure, it only consists of 5 short games, but it has tons of replay 
 value.
  
  The best of the 5 sports has to be Bowling, since its the most realistic of the group. Tennis comes 
 close, but you don't actually move your Mii. Baseball is too short for a real game, since you only 
 play 3 innings and you only control the batter/pitcher. Golf is close to realistic, but the constant 
 unrealistic wind speeds (ex. 30 MPH) keep it down. And Boxing, well the only game to use the Nunchuck, 
 and the controls are hard to keep your opponent from hitting you hard.
  
  Wii Sports, just like Wii Play, is a demo of the Wii's hardware, but it has more then that. The 
 Training portion lets you get better and better at each game, and the Fitness Test gives you a 
 chance to do 3 quick paced training games and see how in fit you are (20 yrs being the lowest) .
 
  
  Final Word: Since it doesn't cost you anything extra to pick up Wii Sports, go ahead and play it. 
 It's a great addition to the Wii lineup and is truly a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belowski
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  With the launch of the Wii, (And the launch of my review, six months late) what better game to 
 kick it off than a game that truly tests and demonstrates the unique ability of the next-generation 
 gaming system. There are a few downsides, such as the difficulty level (a little to easy for its 
 own good) , and the graphics, but who cares about graphics if you are playing a truly great game.
 
  
  The game utilizes the controllers in seven different sections of the game, which are as follows:
 
  
  Tennis: Single-Player Mode - Basically, you take turns scoring against each other to eventually 
 beat the other team. The game can be played in three different formats: 1-out-of-2, 2-out-of-3, 
 and 3-out-of-5.
  
  Multi-Player Mode - A nice game that is great for parties. (Heck, this whole game is great for 
 parties) . Up to four people can play at the same time.
  
  Baseball: Single-Player Mode - basically a home run derby between players with fielding and running 
 computer controlled.
  
  Multi-Player Mode - Same as single player, with another player playing. Unlike Tennis, only two 
 players can play at the same time.
  
  Bowling: Single-Player Mode - You are not playing against anybody, just your high score, don't 
 panic, even if you are knocked out of pro status for a score of 170. One of the hardest games to 
 grasp with the second-longest learning curve; Golf is the first.
  
  Multi-Player Mode - A fun game for four players with each player trying to knock down ten pins 
 on each frame. Competetive, and extremely easy to get angry at.
  
  Golf: Single-Player Mode - The longest game to master and the game with the longest lurning curve. 
 Basically, you swing the remote like a golf club and measure the power with the power bar. Difficult, 
 but not impossible to grasp. Pay attention to wind.
  
  Multi-Player Mode - Not a great game for more than one player, because each player takes practice 
 swings and takes a while to cycle through each players turns. Can allow up to four players.
  
  Boxing: Single-Player Mode - Probably the most innovative of the five games, boxing is also 
 the one with the most stiff controls. You have to move your arms slowly so the sensor bar can sense 
 your movements; sometimes it dosen't work and instead of your Mii's right hand moving, his left 
 hand does and vice-versa.
  
  Multi-Player Mode - A two player game where you try to knock out the other player with a collection 
 of uppercuts, jabs, and undercuts; the game can get tiring after a while. You spend your time wildly 
 jabbing the Wii Remote and Nunchuk* to knock out your opponent.
  
  Now to the scoring:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10; If Boxing hadn't had stiff controls, then it would be a ten.
  
  Graphics: 
 8/10; What you would expect from Wii, dumbed down a bit.
  
  Sound: 9/10; Excellent music, but could have used more sound on the Golf game.
  
  Value: **/10; 
 Since the game's free, then it's pretty much worth every imaginary dollar you put into it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10; Not the greatest game out there, but certainly one of the most innovative 
 and new. My favorite game happens to be Tennis; the reason? It's the most fun of the five.
  
  Overall Score: 9/10; Better than Mario Party 8, but still imperfect.
  
  Thank you for reading 
 my review, curse those who couldn't read. Even if this game is sitting on the highest, dustiest 
 shelf in the house, it definitly deserves a second look. * - You must have two Nunchuks to play 
 Multi-Player Boxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is very good with friends on the couch with you. The gameplay is great and the graphics 
 although simple work. It comes with your Wii so why not play it? The sound that comes from the 
 wiimote speaker when you are swinging your remote around gives you a feel that you are really in 
 the game. It will last you forever. You will play this game 100 months after you are thinking you 
 will get bored with it. It will last you even longer than you think it might last if you are just 
 having fun and not thinking about it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger_Devil
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  A free little package which I got with the Wii including five sports, Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, 
 Golf &amp; Boxing. Game play (8) -So you've put the Wii on, you've got the sensitivity done on the 
 control &amp; you boot up Wii sports, you pick a sport, or tutorial, or the fitness age checker. 
 there all there for you. The tutorials are surprisingly the best part of the game, because each 
 sport has two tutorials &amp; one to unlock &amp; there all like mini games &amp; there top fun, 
 you can do them multi player to, which gives an extra life to the package. the Wii fitness is a 
 laugh as each day it calculates your 'Wii age', the best age you can have is 20, I think i'm on 
 55....
  
  Then you come to actually playing each sport &amp; so I will break down each one.
  
  Tennis-Really 
 good fun, but being doubles &amp; having say two controllers makes this a very confusing state 
 of affairs, the least frustrating game though but the most bizarre to play down to the fact that 
 the controller just never works how you want it to
  
  Baseball-This is the sport with most depth, due to having both batting &amp; fielding &amp; multiple 
 rounds, but this hole game is just weird, when you hit a home run, you try the same shot next hit 
 &amp; yet you get a crap result &amp; then this shows just how frustrating this package can be 
 down to a controller that works never how you want it to. Bowling-BLOODY AWESOME! this is just 
 brilliant &amp; its well just like real bowling, but like Baseball there no system to it you get 
 a strike with one shot, you do the same shot again &amp; no bacon &amp; then its so FRUSTRATING
 
  
  Golf-I played this for a bit &amp; found it super boring, basically one shot predicament to get 
 the ball in the hole... just so thin its boring. Boxing-I would pay for the boxing alone, it's in 
 a different league to other games its fun, challenging &amp; my arms still hurt after playing it, 
 it's just great!
  
  Graphics (8) -there simple &amp; rough, but it gives the game a certain charm there good, but not 
 crisp perfection like say if this was on 360, but the Mii's are just brilliant, I look like George 
 Micheal.... Titl (7) -This review was way to long.... so I will keep this short, this game is great 
 for a free package, but the motion sensitive controls put forwards a lot of faults, the games hardly 
 sexy on the visual parts of things either, its frustrating, but if you perceiver through physical 
 pain, literally &amp; you'll have a brilliant title on your hands with many a great experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmalex
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, of all the wii games that I've played, this is the most multiplayer fun.... and 
 its FREE!
  
  This game is great fun to play, and is a great intorduction to the wii console. Gameplaywise its 
 what you'd expect, a simple addictive intro to the wii. This is ever more true if its multiplayer.
 
  
  The graphics are bright and colourful and play their part well. As does the sound. And value wise... Well 
 this game is free of course it gets a 10!
  
  Personally this game truely represents what NEXT GEN is all about! Next gen doesn't mean better 
 graphics (as the 360 and Ps3 have) but a revolutionary way of playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pzco
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that comes bundled when you buy a Nintendo Wii console. It's basically a 
 sports minigame compilation, with such games as baseball, tennis, and bowling. The appeal here 
 is that the games have intuitive controls based on the motion-sensitive Wii controller and are 
 easy to pick up and play, no matter how much gaming experience you have. The games are relatively 
 fun by themselves, and are supplemented by a score system in which you get points and ranks for 
 playing. This game is the most fun with a crowd of people, however. The AI is predictable and dumb, 
 don't expect to have much fun playing single player. Don't expect realism, either. the graphics 
 have a cartoony art style and are subpar at best. The games are also pretty shallow, don't expect 
 any depth here. Every single minigame, with the possible exception of the boxing one, is extremely 
 easy to pick up and play, and you'll get the most enjoyment out of this package if you are a very 
 casual gamer, or are playing with a large group of casual gamers. Don't get me wrong, the game 
 can be quite enjoyable for a quick round of play, but it can get boring after hours on end, and 
 is not the game for realistic sports fans. So hardcore sports fanatics, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is free. So don't expect it to be the next zelda.
  Tennis- Tennis is a fun pick up and play game but it get's boring after 15 minutes.
  Golf- Sucks
 
  Boxing- I think that boxing is the most fun. Fun to play in multiplayer.
  Bowling- i can bowl better in real life.
  Baseball- Baseball is ok.
  Gameplay- Overall the 
 gameplay is average. The controls are kind of clumsy. Not a whole lot of depth, there should be 
 online multiplayer.
  Graphics- The graphics are horrible.
  Sound- the music doesn't get annoying so i guess it's acceptable
  Value- it's free 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miracledirt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fun and exciting game that you can spend hours playing, and it showcases the true 
 potential of what the Wii Remote is capable of doing. You will try your hand at Baseball, Bowling, 
 Boxing, Golf, and Tennis and the Wii Remote will serve as your equipment (Bat, Bowling Ball, Boxing 
 Gloves, Golf Clubs, and Tennis Racquet) . Using your Mii (a cartoonish version of yourself that 
 you can create and customize) , you will compete in the various sporting events, either against 
 your friends or against the computer competition. Wii Baseball, Bowling, and Tennis are the easiest 
 of the sports to learn. Boxing and Golf are more challenging, and take awhile longer to get the 
 hang of. With each game you play in a specific event, your Mii will earn points. Once you reach 
 1,000 points, your Mii will attain Pro Status, though there's not really any significance to reaching 
 Pro Status other than the fact that the competition will continue to get increasingly harder.
 
  
  In addition to the sporting events, there are also training events and challenges that you can 
 compete in. In the challenges there are Gold, Silver, and Bronze medals up for grabs, so do your 
 best.
  
  Overall, this is a great first game for the Wii. It really gives the player a feel for what is 
 in store for the Wii in the not so distant future. You will spend hours of enjoyment playing this 
 game. It is a great game for all ages. Just make sure you tighten the wrist strap, keep the control 
 in your hand at all times, and try not to hit anyone in the head with your follow through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engroth_Tsuga
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Wii sports, the first game that has come with a system since the NES. The Wii is the first motion 
 sensing game system out there and Wii Sports takes full advantage of that. Once you pick up the 
 controller, you'll never set it down. (unless you through or it flies out of your hands ) Another 
 cute and somewhat funny thing is that the characters that are used in Wii sports are characters 
 you made! On your Wii you can go to the Mii channel and create profiles that look just like you. 
 These Miis will be used as the characters for the games you play.
  
  Gameplay: This game uses the Wii remote perfectly! With the Wii remote you can play tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf, and boxing. Every motion you make on with your body happens on the game. My favorite 
 game has been bowling. You swing your arm like your bowling and then you can twist it to put spin 
 on it. Even though this is a great game though there are still some things that they could have 
 done a little better. Baseball is fun, I mean come on, who doesn't like hitting homeruns and shoving 
 it in your friends face. But the fielding part is really lacking. You hit the ball, and someone 
 it the field gets it and its over. You should at least have some control over what your fielders 
 do. The only thing you can really do while your in the outfield is manipulate your picthes. Also, 
 boxing is a little bit on the wierd side. And it seems sometimes you can't get it to do what you 
 want. Other than those two sports it is an excellent game. If you ever get tired of playing the 
 computers, and you don't have your friends with you, or if you don't have any friends, just do 
 the training mode. It has three training courses for each sport in which you practice different 
 techniques for the sport. Depending on how good you do you can get a bronze, silver, gold, or platinum 
 medal. These medals don't do anything for you Mii, they just give you something to brag about to 
 your friends. The last option you have is to test your Wii sports fitness age. In this activiy 
 you do three training activities from the training mode, depending how good you preform you get 
 your fitness age. 20 is the best.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are okay, its not PS3 graphics but its a more cartoony graphic set. Yeah 
 the characters don't have arms, but that didn't stop Rayman from being sucessful.
  
  Sound: Sound is delivered perfectly in this game. The Wii remote has a built in speaker, so when 
 your opponent hits a tennis ball you here it on the TV, but when you hit the tennis ball you here 
 it on the Wii remote.
  
  Replay Value: The replay value of this game is great. Who doesn't want to become pro in all the 
 sports and get special rackets, bowling ball, and boxing gloves. If you have friends over, the 
 fun will never end.
  
  Overall this a great game to have with your Wii, it has some challenging aspects but mostly is 
 an innoavative, new, masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Like i said before this game comes with the console whether you like it or not. This was the first 
 game i popped in my WIi when I first got my console. So the game uses your own characters your 
 created in the system also known as MIIs. MII's are yourself but in a virtual version. This is 
 one of my favorite features of the WII console. Gameplay: This game goes perfectly with the WII 
 remote. The WIi remote is your baseball bat, boxing gloves, your hand in a bowling bowl, a tennis 
 racket, or your golf stick. Yes i know you think this game is perfect... not quite... some of the 
 games like boxing are a bit weird. All games besides the boxing doesn't require the nunchuk which 
 is the analog part of the controller. (All you WII owners should know that) Theres also these things 
 called WII skill points. What is a WIi skill point? Well its skills that your MII gets as you play 
 one sport. like for example you start out with 0 skill points but as you play more your skill points 
 get higher and your opponents get harder. But the best part of the game is playing with your freinds. 
 So make sure you got those extra wii remotes so your freinds could come over sometime and play 
 some WII sports with you.
  
  Story: Well... to be honest with ya.. there isnt no story... Graphics: okay yea sure your character 
 don't have arms... but hey atleast they come with a hand? The graphics are a bit tacky but they 
 are not that bad. The game's graphics are pretty awesome. Sound: The sound is alright. Like the 
 sound when a tennis ball hits your racket or when the people cheer when you knock someone's lights 
 out in boxing. The sound is pretty decent. Replay Value: This game has a pretty decent replay value. 
 Like you get that urge to reach 1000 skill points in the game and reach pro level. So you keep 
 playing that one specific sport so just you can reach pro level. Even though the game comes with 
 your WII this is still a great game to put in your game collection. TIme to time your may want 
 to play it.... it may not be today or tomorrow but you will still play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWSOME and one of the very first nintendo Wii games!
  This game is good because it really give you good excerise!
  And it's a multiplayer so you can 
 get fit with your friends and have fun at the same time! Lol!!
  The Wii sports fitness test also comes in handy!
  with this you can take a fitness test once 
 daliy and the Wii will tell you your fitness age!
  It also has fun training excercises!
  To me this game is really fun!
  And kind of realistic!
  And you don't need to buy it it comes 
 with every Nintendo Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermuk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  All the games on this disc are very nice to play, especially when playing with friends! Much fun 
 for everybody even when you haven&acute; t touched a computer in your life before. Plain and simple 
 but really awesome. Although some games are quit simple, the skill level keeps you on the move 
 for even better scores. When you advance your opponent will be a level better each time.
  
  TENNIS -
  The good: Responsive controls, does spin balls like you do when playing real tennis, 
 slices, forhands etc. The bad: your player (s) will move automaticly, you don't have to run, the 
 computer controls your position, you only have to hit the ball.
  Short game only best of 5 sets, though each time you move a skill level higher when you win.
 
  
  Overall : Although not used the full controls potential it is really nice to play
  
  BASEBALL - The good: when you feel the need to let go and need to ventilate your energy this is 
 the right game. The only thing you have to do is hit the ball right. Computer skill level will 
 advance and hitting the ball will be more troublesome. Once had a ball out of the park and homeruns 
 are common and not impossible when you concentrate.
  
  The bad: When you're in the field you can control what your fieldplayers do, the computer controls 
 movement. No nunchuck. Overall ; awaiting a baseball game in wich you can control fieldplayers.\
 
  
  BOWLING -
  The good: One of my favorites together with golf. Quit easy but intuitive and realistic. Just trow 
 the ball and use the effect you want to make, it will do as you throw. Everytime you play you'll 
 have fun especially when competeting against friends and beat higscores.
  
  The bad: I can't come up with anything negative. There aren't. Maybe it does look a bit cartoonlike 
 but that's how Wii sports is and Mii's are. I do not have any problems with it but i can imagine 
 people would like to have a realistic looking. Watch out for Brunswick Bowling, coming this year!
 
  
  Overall : GOOD!!!
  
  Boxing -
  The good: Personally i feel the controls do not respond as i want and expected. Maybe this is because 
 i have a beamer and my sensorbar is located almost as high as the ceiling (on top of the screen) 
 and this makes the centrepoint is located much higher .... Don't know. Although it does not always 
 respond to your actual moves it still can be much fun !! Golf - The good: plain and simple but 
 realistic play! Really good relaxed fun game to play. This makes golf go into a new gaming future. 
 A golf game with a convcentional controller golf instantly becomes history. You don't want that 
 anymore. Responsive, does what you do and conditions like wind always change. Much fun when playing 
 friends!
  
  The bad: Not really except there are only 9 holes but how cares..... this game came for free and 
 9 holes are enough for a while!
  
  Overall : just great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian1993
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This is a very addicting game especially the bowling. My Dad that plays a video game like one or 
 two time a year played. I didnt even buy a game when i got my wii because i figured it would be 
 good enough of a game to wait for Resident Evil 4 and it was. On golfing the puttng doesnt wrk 
 very well, but it might just be me. To me the bowling is is the best because it works so well and 
 flows. the tennis on the other hand to me wasnt that great because for some reason the ball usually 
 went out of bounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Swing the wii-mote swing your bat or racket. Let go of B let go of bowling ball. Knock 
 em' out with your wiimote and nunchuck. Easy simple and fun!!! Only problem is golf. Sometimes 
 the club doesn't go the way you want it but for the most part FUN!!! 9 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: Graphics are hard to rate. Miis are supposed to be cartooney and not realistic but the 
 ball park and boxing ring could have been a lot better. Probably a 7 out of 10.
  SOUND: Sound is good and makes sense. Hit a ball the sound comes out of the wii mote and t. v. Some 
 sounds on the wii-mote however get a bit muffled (is muffled even a word?) but besides that it 
 is great. 8 out of 10.
  VALUE: Its freakin free whats a better value then that!!! 10 out of 10.
  TILT: This is my favorite 
 sports game ever! But not my favorite game ever so prob. just an 8 out of 10.
  OVERALL: It is a great game and im happy nintendo made it free with wii. all together an 8.5 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a good game for these reasons. This game takes full advantage of the usage of miis, 
 you use your miis (or pre-made miis) on every sport. Another good thing about this game is that 
 the sport choices are really good because i would never think they would put boxing in there. The 
 wii mote controls are very good, the only thing that is bad about the controls is in boxing, sometimes 
 when you punch with the wii remote, it doesn't punch on the game itself. The wii fitness is a very 
 great thing they added to the game, its a really good thing to show how well or bad you're doing 
 in the training modes. The training modes are really great especially with the bowling that goes 
 all the way up to 91 pins, and the spin control in bowling. Also, that you can play up to 4 people 
 with 1 wii mote, so that saves you a lot of money just buying a few wii motes. The bad parts of 
 the game is that in tennis, you cant play singles, or play a longer game of tennis. Another bad 
 thing is that in baseball, if you have faced the championship team, their out fielders run about 
 doubled the speed than what your outfielders, and your outfielders cant catch a baseball very well. 
 In bowling, if you get up to pro, they expect you to be getting in the mid 200's (point totals) 
 whenever you might've barely got up to 200 points just trying to get to pro. In golf, the only 
 thing i don't like about it is that you can't play a full 18 holes of golf. In boxing, if you try 
 to punch on the wii mote, sometimes it wont punch on the game. But, this game is really good for 
 a game that came with the Nintendo wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishzone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is serious fun. The best experience is with a bunch of friends or with your family. I 
 have gotten my parents hooked on it, when before I bought the Wii, said that it would be stupid, 
 and that they wouldn't like or play it. Tennis is probably my favorite game to play on Wii Sports, 
 followed by Bowling and Baseball. Haven't had much practice with boxing, so I'm still getting the 
 hang of it. Also, I am still getting used to golfing as well. Nonetheless, this is the perfect 
 game to be packed in with the Wii, it helps you to get used to the wii controls, and used to using 
 the wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very fun game that anyone can pick up and play. It also has great multiplayer as 
 well. Plus, it's free
  
  Gameplay: 8. A very simple game. All the games are very easy to play. Anyone can play it so if 
 you've got friends over it's great. Games like boxing and tennis require two Wiimotes but the rest 
 you can share one wiimote which means multiplayer is good but not as great as games like Warioware.
 
  
  Graphics: 7. Nothing much I can say about the graphics in this game. The graphics are very simple 
 but also quite clean. It doesn't have great graphics but it's nice to look at.
  
  Sound: 7. Sound's nothing special. It's simple music and sounds are easy on the ears. Not too bad 
 but not great
  
  Value: 10. It's FREE unless you live in Japan but I really don't think so
  
  Tilt: I liked 
 the game, it was quite fun. I play it all the time with friends and relatives but If I've got no 
 one to play with then I don't play it. It's not bad for a free game, it's like a demo so you get 
 used to the Wii.
  
  I'm pretty sure everyone with a wii has this game so I'm not going to bother recommending this 
 game to you but if you're in Japan and you would like to get a sports game, this game ain't bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean2339
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Good game just don't use the case it came with. It scratched my cd like you wont believe. A web 
 site or something. I think a little sand got in the case. That case broke my friends legend of 
 zelda too. So I had to give him re4, F zero gx, and some racing game. So that has given me nothing 
 but hell. Please help me. I tried the Internet and I cant find it. Help I need 100 words.
  
  Wii sports is a good game the controlls are fun. It's the best with 2 wii motes and num-chucks. 
 If you have this game you have no idea how good it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWEKane1515
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  I've finally got the wii today and, yes, the system is amazing, considering that Walmart only had 
 two left, but anyway I sat down to play wii sports. The first thing I would like to say about it 
 is that the graphics are good, in comparison to ps2 graphics. The sound quality is somewhat thrown 
 together but in a good way. The learning curve took me a while, considering the fact that I just 
 played it for the first time today. The game value is considerly reliable knowing that it comes 
 with the wii itself. Gameplay is fun, but its not like any kind of Gears of War fun happy when it 
 comes to wii sports. Gameplay is also intuitive, for example, using the wii-remote and nunchuck for 
 boxing was really clever. But the only bad thing that I saw with w. s. is that they could have had 
 more games on it instead of paying another 49.99 for wii play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is the game that comes bundled with the Wii for the game that you get with the console 
 it's not that good when looked at from at critic's view. The game consists of sports to play with 
 your Wii-mote and all but boxing and bowling has broken controls. With Tennis the controls are 
 non-existent you just swing and you have no control over where your Mii is going to shoot it which 
 means getting alot of unesscary "Outs" which sucks. Baseball is completely random you just swing 
 with good timing and hope for the best as it's random where the ball goes so this is a game of 
 luck rather than skill. Golf is over sensitive to the point where the slightest twitch on putting 
 will send the ball flying. Golf is supposed to be a game where you punt the ball as far as you 
 can but if you punt if too hard to ball curves and this game's detection of how hard you're hitting 
 it is terrible it ALWAYS thinks you're hitting it too hard it's Tiger Woods 07 all over again. 
 Boxing and Bowling are the only games with good controls they control fine. The practice games 
 are the same, Boxing and Bowling good but all the rest are broken. All in all this game sucks becuase 
 alot of it is complete luck and where's the fun in that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes packed in with the Wii. The game comes with five sports games to play using your 
 own Miis. You can play tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. Each game has it's own way 
 of playing. Boxing has you use the Wii Remote and Nunchuck, you hold them and thrust them forward 
 as if you were punching. Baseball has you swing the remote like a bat or thrust it forward like 
 a ball. With Tennis, you swing the remote like a racket when the ball gets close enough. Golf has 
 you press the A button and swing like a club. And finally, in bowling you press the B trigger and 
 move the remote. The graphics aren't that great, but thats to be expected. Mostly everything is 
 very shiny looking and good enough for being a tech-demo. The sound quality is actually pretty 
 good. You can hear swooshing sounds from the remote speaker when performing certain things on-screen. 
 Overall, Wii Sports is a great game and is probably one of the best free, pack-in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind_Knight
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I think that Nintendo has made a great decision by giving Wii Sports with the Wii. It's a great 
 introduction to what the Wii will be able to do. Wii Sports is first of all a great multiplayer 
 game, and second, a game for the whole family. The different games are easy to play, even tough 
 I think that the boxing game is a little more difficult than the others, but it's more fun because 
 it is the only of the 5 sports to make use of the Nunchuck. Sure the graphics could be better, 
 but as I said before, it's serves more as an introduction do the Wii, it's the first game released 
 and it's perfectly normal that the graphics are not top notch. I don't think I would have bought 
 it if it was not coming with the Wii, but it's still an enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyTSJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  I picked up my Wii yesterday after waiting a while since launch and the only title I own at this 
 stage is Wii Sports. I already knew that I was getting a fun, addictive game with the console and 
 didn't bother buying another game to bring home with it. I wasn't disappointed. Wii Sports is a 
 nice title, a fun packed set of sports games which can be played by everyone in the family and 
 that is definitely when it's at its best. For a free game, Wii Sports is a great introductory title 
 to what the Wii can offer with its remote and is a great pick up and play title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great package and one that I would quite happily pay &pound;40 for. The use of 
 Miis is fantastic, as is the whole idea of Miis. You get to play the game as a cartoon version 
 of yourself and for some reason i get a kick out of this.
  
  Tennis - Lots of fun, especially multiplayer. Initially difficult to comprehend game mechanics, 
 players are moved around court automatically, but very enjoyable.
  
  Golf - My least favourite. Hard to determine strength of shots.
  
  Baseball - Fun, but difficult 
 against the computer.
  
  Bowling - Pick of the litter. Fantastic fun, great for mulitplayer.
  
  Boxing - Good fun, great 
 training modes.
  
  Overall it is a very ood collection, with only golf letting the side down. All games are good for 
 multiplayer, yet tennis and bowling stand out as my favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: All paragraphs are separated by --- to prevent paragraph merging.
  
  The Good: free for North American consumers, easy and accessible play can appeal to anyone, great 
 group multiplayer, daily fitness age adds replay value
  
  The Bad: some sports are oversimplified, controls can be erratic
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Regardless of your age or personal tastes all North American wii owners will get their hands on 
 wii sports. It serves as an ideal pack in for nintendos newest console and is an overall good 
 title to bundle with the system. Wii sports is a simple compilitation of the games of tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf, and boxing. These games are not meant to provide a stunning sense of realism, but 
 really go to show what the wii is capable of, and how much fun it can be to get off the couch and 
 play. It can be a bit superficial at times, so gamers looking for a more realistic version of these 
 sports must look elsewhere. The best thing about wii sports is its accessibility. Although the 
 games do have a bit of a learning curve, each rendition narrows its respective sport down to a 
 few simple movements with the wii remote (and in the case of boxing, the nunchuck) .
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In Tennis, the remote serves as a racket and you simply swing to hit the ball. When the match 
 begins, a flick of the wrist sends the ball into the air, and an overhand strike will serve the 
 ball. Your swing is the only thing you have to focus on while playing wii sports, and the game 
 usually does a good job of moving you into an ideal position to return the ball. While returning, 
 you must adjust to either a forehand swing or a backhand swing. There is a small bit of accuracy 
 and directional control of the ball, but most of it is based on timing. Tennis is one of the most 
 fun games available for wii sports, and one of my personal favorites.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Baseball is compressed into batting and pitching. To bat, the remote is held exactly like a baseball 
 bat would be held in real life. Hitting the ball is all about timing, and works surprisingly well 
 once you get used to it. Pitching is rather simple, the standard down and forward motion emulates 
 the big league pitch, and the faster the remote goes the aster your pitch does. However there are 
 more ways to pitch than your standard fastball. For example holding A produces a curveball, holding 
 B throws a screwball, and holding both buttons at once executes a splitter. Again, its more fun 
 with two players, but playing against the AI is still entertaining. Baseball is really only fun 
 in small doses, and its good that the entire game is only three innings long.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Bowling is the most well preserved sport in the game. Bowling feels very lifelike with just the 
 right amount of technicality, and decent physics to go along with the package. Bowling is simply 
 done by holding the B button and then swinging the remote in an upwards motion. Release time is 
 essential, as it is in real bowling, and any direction you twist your wrist will curve the ball 
 in that direction. Up to four players can participate in the madness, but it is more enjoyable 
 than the rest because only your personal skill determines your success because other players cannot 
 intervene.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Another sport that is cleverly imitated is golf. Swinging the ball in golf is very natural, and 
 the remote acts as if you were hitting the golf ball from its side. The power of the speed is determined 
 by the power meter that was once commonplace in sports games. There are dots on the map that correspond 
 with the dots on the power meter, so it is very easy to determine how where your shot will land. 
 It is very tempting at first to just smack the ball and watch it fly up the fairway, but hitting 
 too hard will slice or hook the shot. There are different clubs to choose from depending on your 
 shot, and other elements such as wind, and the bouncing of the ball.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Boxing is the only game that uses the nunchuck attachment. The fighters stance, blocking, and 
 punches are controlled by holding up the nunchcuk and remote, and moving them accordingly. You 
 can also move from side to side, and back to dodge incoming punches. The controls are often too 
 sensitive though, and misjudge when you want to uppercut and instead go for a body hit. Combos 
 are difficult to execute, and most of the time you will just barrage your opponent until he eventually 
 is downed. Boxing is the most physically exhausting of the five because punching with both hands, 
 blocking, and dodging all at once is quite a challenge. Almost every match ends in a knockout, 
 so worrying about what the judges will say isnt an issue.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In addition to the sports games, there is also a training mode and fitness test. Training mode 
 can help you hone your skills, and is also a fun challenge to players already familiar with the 
 sport. These challenges consist of things like hitting targets in tennis, participating in a home 
 run derby in baseball, evading barriers in bowling, making golf shots from difficult positions, 
 and knocking some punching bags around for boxing. Its in these training modes that you realize 
 that giant motions arent needed to play some of the sports, and that spoils the fun a bit.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The fitness age is a clear nod to the brain age in nintendos successful DS title of the same 
 name. Your fitness age is determined by your overall balance, stamina, and speed while participating 
 in the various sports that the game has to offer. Its a very rewarding and fun challenge but it 
 doesnt really make you more physically fit.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The production values on wii sports are sub par and many of them sound like rejected sounds from 
 a bad gamecube game. The sound is rather simple and boring and the sound generated from the remote 
 is low quality. Wii sports is the first game to utilize the mii channel, and these playmobil-like 
 inhabitants populate the world of wii sports. All of the graphics are rather low quality, and most 
 things look -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In conclusion, wii sports is great fun, and an ideal choice to show what the Nintendo wii is capable 
 of. Although a lack of depth in certain areas, and the poor graphics and sound leave wii sports 
 with a tech demo feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports
  
  Pros: +Great controls for a launch game. +You'll have lots of fun for months on end with this game.
 
  Cons: -The graphics overall aren't that great. -Even though the controls are great ... they can 
 sometimes be a little off.
  
  The Plot: N/A
  
  Graphics: Over all the graphics arent great there ok but not great. But thats besides the point, 
 the Wii isnt about graphics anyways.
  
  Controls:: The controls for the first few launch titles arent perfect at first since their will. 
 THE FIRST GAMES OUT FOR IT. But over all the controls for Wii sports are very will done with only 
 a few problems. The only problems that I could find about the controls were that they and sometimes 
 not be exact but Ill let it pass for now since there the first launch titles.
  
  Sound: For one of the very first Wii game. The sound is very will done. Allowing you to hear every 
 punch, bow, thump and so on.
  
  Fun: Even though I personally dont like sports games but the Wii changed all that with its ability 
 to give u sooooo much fun from just this one game. The controls although not perfect still give 
 you a realistic effect of actually playing the real game. This means that all the geeks that dont 
 get out enough can get some exercise for once in there lives.
  
  Replay: The replay for Wii sports is awesome. Especially since u can go against a friend or team 
 up if you want. It also allows you to see how your physics abilities are and showing u what age 
 strength you are.
  
  Over all: Over all Wii sports is an incredible launch game especially since it comes with the Wii 
 its self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  What you get with wii sports is what you expect from a free game that comes bundled with the wii. 
 It shows off what the wii can do and offers plenty of fun. However don't expect deep gameplay or 
 a twisting story. If your looking for that go look elsewhere. Wii sports contains five main game 
 modes a wii training section and a wii fitness section. The five main game modes are bowling, golf, 
 baseball, tennis and boxing. All of which make use of the wii's motion sensing capabilities. Each 
 game has you moving the wii remote in the way you would if you where actually playing that sport 
 in real life. For example in wii baseball when batting you swing the wii remote like a bat and 
 when bowling you swing your arm in a bowling motion. The only game that uses the nunchuck is wii 
 boxing because it acts as your other hand. Wii training is basically three different activities 
 built into each sport so you can practice at different aspects. In each sport there is a type of 
 training for stamina, power and accuracy. Wii fitness takes advantage of these by giving you one 
 power, one stamina and one accuracy drill to do and then gives you a fitness age based on how well 
 you do. Graphically the game is nothing special but holds up well and the sounds are accurate but 
 again nothing special. Some may think of wii sports as just a tech demo but really it's more than 
 that. It's highly addictive, great fun and shows what the wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: This is the perfect introduction for the Wii controller and system; the game is for free; 
 even your parents will enjoy playing this game; very fun on multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: No tournament mode; boxing controls are a bit off; graphics look like an N64 game.
  
 
  During the release for the Wii, this game was a free game that was included in the package. Since 
 this game is free, you should have a lower expectation for the game, like me. This game is a very 
 simple game, but it's surprisingly fun. Although this game is only an introduction for the Wii 
 system and controller, this game is a very fun game. Sure, you can get better games for the Wii 
 system, but if you only bought the system, this game should entertain you for a while.
  
  First off, I just want to say that you must ALWAYS put your wrist strap on. Although this will 
 be a nuisance, and it will take a long time to play a simple game on multiplayer with one controller, 
 it's worth it. If you do not put your wrist strap on, you may risk breaking some furniture, or 
 even worse, your controller. Just remember, better safe than sorry.
  
  As soon as you start this game, you will immediately notice that is this meant to be played by 
 non-gamers. The game is just very simple, and it's meant to be, because the point of this was to 
 get non-gamers into the Wii. The game consists of 5 sports for you to play. They are tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf, and boxing. Each of these games are just very simple, and not involved at all. This 
 may be fun, even for hardcore gamers like me, but, only for a while. Later on, you will get kind 
 of bored.
  
  With tennis, it's very simple. You basically just move your remote to do a forehand, or a backhand. 
 Of course, they didn't want to make the game that simple, so they add a couple of things. Like, 
 you can spin the ball, and if you time your serve right, you will do a really fast serve. With 
 golf, it is slightly more involved, but still very simple. You move your remote like a golf club, 
 and the power depends on how quickly and how much you move the ball. They also have factors such 
 as wind and elevation on the courses, just to make the game a bit more difficult. With bowling, 
 you simple hold the b button, move your remote back, and then go forward and letting go of the 
 button and the same. You are also able to move your character, and do some spins as well by turning 
 your wrist. With baseball, you simple use the remote like a bat. Power is not needed when batting, 
 it's simply just the right timing to hit the ball. With pitching, you are able to not only do a 
 regular straight shot, but also throw splitters, screwballs, and curveballs. Also, I always pitch 
 by pitching with all my strenght, so it hurts my arm after while. With boxing, it's the only sport 
 here when you use both the remote and the nunchuck. You basically punch high to do punches on the 
 face, and punch low to do torso punches. With boxing, the controls are a bit off though, so you 
 may have a bit of trouble with it.
  
  Even if you're a hardcore gamer, you will be amazed by this game when you first play it. This is 
 because of the motion sensing controls. But, unless you always play this to own your non-gamer 
 friends, you will get bored of this eventually. Fortunately, they do have some other things in 
 the game that are not only different, but actually challenging. There is a fitness test mode. With 
 this mode, once a day you play 3 training modes, and then after it will calculate your fitness 
 age. This will show how well are you doing. It goes into three factors: speed, stamina, and balance. 
 With these three factors, it will help you see what you need to improve. There is also training 
 mode. In training mode, there are three minigames per sport. Some examples are deeking out balls 
 that the manager throws at you for boxing, and hitting targets at a wall for tennis. Each of these 
 games will look easy at first, but then you play it for your first time, you will practically get 
 owned. This will help you keep going with the game, and keep practicing until you get platinum. 
 There is no reward for getting one, but it gives you better self-esteem, this is because you have 
 practice and worked hard, and did something well.
  
  The characters you use in this game is your Mii characters. To create a Mii, you go to the Wii 
 menu and go to the Mii section. Here, you can create your own character, and other characters, 
 and basically just have fun. When you play the games in Wii sports, your character will receive 
 points if you win. When you receive 1000 points, you will enter pro mode. This means that the characters 
 will be a hard difficulty, and you will also have some bonus for the sport.
  
  The graphics for the game are kind of N64. Some environments are good, like with golf, there is 
 a lot of environments, and with bowling, there are other people bowling on the other lanes. But, 
 with other sports, such as tennis, all there is is a court, some walls, and a few other Miis watching 
 the game. The worst part about the graphics are the Miis, they are all so blocky. The sound is 
 good, and especially the music. It sounds like those 80s work out music, but there is nothing breathtaking 
 about it. This concludes my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tH3_cH3a7_027
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great way to learn how the Wii works.
  
  The Bad: Obviously not meant to be a huge blockbuster game/series. Based often on luck.
  
  
 Generally the words Free and Game point towards disaster. Wii Sports is an easy exception to this. 
 It comes with five multiplayer or single player games, some of which are actually four player. 
 Suited for all ages, my six-year-old brother can actually play this. Can generally last you about 
 3-4 days worth of solid gameplay until you get a real game. Which are the two most obvious downfalls. 
 Doesn't last long, not a real game. But it's free! If Nintendo really wanted to they could do away 
 with Mario Party and just have Wii Sports! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  ***GAMEPLAY***
  
  I'm sure you know the gist already. Wii Sports is the complilation of 5 sports which you play by 
 swinging the Wii-mote in various ways.
  
  Tennis is pretty good.
  
  Baseball is alright. I hardly ever play it though.
  
  Bowling is downright Amazing, and by 
 far the best sport in the package. I play this almost everyday.
  
  Golf is pretty fun. I like this one a lot as well.
  
  Boxing just sucks. I never touch this 
 one.
  
  Wii Sports must be played with friends/family in order to be enjoyed to the fullest.
  
  ***GRAPHICS***
 
  
  On a purely technical level, these graphics are terrible. But thanks to the extremely polished 
 look and the use of personalized Miis, the graphics really contain a ton of charm.
  
  SImple, yet amazingly charming graphics overall.
  
  ***AUDIO***
  
  Very, very minimal. 
 You have your typical sound effects and relaxing music.
  
  Overall, the audio does it's job.
  
  ***VALUE***
  
  For a free pack-in title, this game 
 is a great value, and the game you will want to show friends and family the most.
  
  ***TILT***
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a good, solid sports game which successfully demonstrates 
 the capabilities of the Wii-mote while being a fun title in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimB1707
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  I was sceptical that a free bundled set of applications that came with a console would be any good 
 what so ever... We how wrong could I be.
  
  This is such a great introduction to the features (playability) of the Wii. Reminds me of Windows 
 3.0 bundling Solitaire to teach people to use a mouse.
  
  Although the graphics a basic, there is so much involvement in the physical use of the controllers 
 that you tend not to notice...
  
  My wife hates consoles... but after 1 attempt at tennis (beating me) , she's now hooked... This 
 is going to cost a fortune in high spec games when they come out.
  
  There are however some flaws in the bundle, and they revolve around the boxing... The nunchak controller 
 cable is too short to get a full range of shots in, and the reaction time of the shots fired do 
 not keep up with the physical punching ...
  
  In summary... Thanks Nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a great game for new wii owners. i play almost every day. The game is fun, but the 
 game still feels free and cheaply made. Every portion of the game is fun and worth playing, but 
 i personally have stoped playing baseball and golf.
  
  The game really shines in its boxing game. The boxing games controlls are a little unresponsive, 
 but fun as hell. The game is fun and addictive.
  
  Bowling is great mainly because im a new wii owner, so i have no extra wii remotes yet, and it 
 has up to 4 players on one remote. The game playes exactly how i expected it to.
  
  Golf is fun, but the game really lacks many of golfs real rules and many of the standard golf clubs 
 arnt in the actual game.
  
  Baseball is by far the hardest of the games, expecially if you have never played much real baseball.
 
  
  Tennis is my favorit game on wii sports. It has a few round settings. you can then choose if you 
 have controll of one or both of your players (both swing at the same time)
  
  overall, it really helped me get used to the wii remote and has provided some easy and fun games. 
 everyone i know likes the wii sports game and like it alot, and so do i. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 30, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports has 5 games: Baseball, Golf, Boxing, Tennis and Bowling. As well as training mini-games 
 for each and daily tests of your overall skill in these games. The quality of each of these parts 
 differs greatly but as a package it an be said that the game is fun (especially in multiplayer) 
 if not a bit simplistic. Thats the goal though, the graphics and control is simple but the latter 
 has a surprising amount of depth despite its ease of use. Baseball is fun for a while but gets 
 old faster than I'd like. One-player its a home run derby event but in single player it really 
 has some strategy and skill involved when anticipating pitches and choosing whether or not to swing. 
 Theres no fielding which would have been nice and it limits the quality of this part of the game. 
 Tennis is good multiplayer as well though. There is a surprising amount of skill needed to control 
 the ball and thats your only concern as controlling the individual players is a non-issue. Bowling 
 is by far the best part of the package with superb control over spin and placement and realistic 
 enough physics on the pins and ball to really allow a players skill to show through. Its one of 
 the better multiplayer experiences there is, despite its simplicity and you'll find yourself playing 
 this one more than any other. Golf is touchy, the swing doesn't always work like it should and 
 control is very limited, theres 18 holes to play which is nice but a little more time spent on 
 making it control well would have greatly helped. Boxing is a disaster though which is too bad 
 because it seems like it would be the coolest game at first glance. However its next to impossible 
 to place your shots and the game usually comes down to arm-flailing. You'll probably give this 
 only a couple tries and never touch it again. The Wii Fitness Test is good for practice and single 
 player, as are the mini-games which test different aspects of your skill in all the 5 games. Some 
 aren't so great but overall the minigames work well even in the worst events. Overall Wii Sports 
 is a fun multiplayer experience and more often than not a good showcase for the wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aza1810
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  wii sports is a fun socialy active game. it comes in with 5 fun sports to get you started with 
 the gameplay of the wii. it is apealing to all ages and is great fun for all the family. the sports 
 that come with are: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. all realy good fun. i would recomend 
 you try it. it comes pack in with every nintendo wii. you use your miis from your mii plaza in 
 the sports and you get a skill level for every sport when you reach 1000, you become a pro. i would 
 recomend you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Many people complain about the childishness of Nintendo games. Sure, Wii Sports is no looker in 
 terms of graphics, and the charcters (Miis, including the ones you make.) look very cutesy, this 
 game is still for everyone. Just because this game doesn't look as good as the newest addition 
 to the MLB series, doesn't mean it doesn't provide a full experience in terms of Gameplay. The 
 point of the Wii is to be innovative, yet simple, and they accomplish this, especially in Wii Sports. 
 The game can very well be realistic, or unrealistic, depending on the type of gamer you are. If 
 you really get up and act like you're playing Golf, Tennis, Bowling, etc., then you'll get a much 
 more fulfilling experience in gameplay and simulation. However, if you'd rather sit on the couch 
 and swing the controller with your wrist in a baseball game, then you won't enjoy this game any 
 more than any others. This is a great game, and if you get a Wii, you'll always have a chance to 
 know why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FE_Ike
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Baseball: This game is way over simplified. Just a basic pitch the baseball and hit the baseball. 
 Also the baseball games are only 3 innings long. Its fun for a while, but ultimately it is somewhat 
 disapointing.
  Bowling: The rules are good, nothing left out, works great with the wii remote and fun in multiplayer, 
 what else could you ask for?
  Tennis: One of my favorites, basic tennis with choice of one, three or 5 matches. Fun to play, 
 especially with four people.
  Golf: Simple, innovative, it couldve been better, but still a fun basic game.
  Boxing: This is 
 my favorite. Uses nunchuck and wii remote, realistic, and fun in 2 player mode.
  Graphics: good graphics for 480i. Sound: Realistic sound during the game when you hit the ball, 
 or pitch etc.
  Value: Can play again and again. The wii fitness alone makes value a 10. This sports pack is great, 
 some of the games like baseball have been simplified, but with 4 people time will fly with this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I think that Wii Sports is a great game. And I would have bought it even if it didn't come with 
 the counsel. Plus it's a deal since it has five different sports on it: Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, 
 Golf, and Bowling. I think Baseball is a great one, because it uses as many of your own players 
 as it can. Also I like the angles it shows for both hitting and pitching.
  
  Out of all five I think that Tennis is the best one because you can control anywhere from one to 
 all four players. Also it's fun because it's so fast paced and a game can last for minutes.
  
  Boxing is also a fun one. And I like how you can do all the different punch combinations.
 
  
  I don't like Golf at all. It is very hard and very boring.
  
  And at last is Bowling which is very fun, especially if you do it with more than one person. The 
 highest I ever got was a six pack, which is six strikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii, then you have Wii Sports. It comes free with every console, so it's great to 
 know that you don't have to rush to Blockbuster in order to play a game with your new console. 
 Wii Sports is a collection of five sports game that all use the Wii mote, and some are very fun 
 to play while some are not as fun. But they are all creative and they are good practice for using 
 the Wii mote.
  
  The first game in the list is Tennis. Normally you would be doing alot of moving around in a game 
 of Tennis to line your racket up with the ball. But in Wii Sports, your character moves automatically 
 so all you have to do is hit the ball when it comes to you. Swinging the Wii mote to the left will 
 case the racket to swing to the left, same for right. It is said that 100 different shots are possibe 
 in Tennis depending on how you swing your Wii mote. Without realising, you can hit the ball and 
 cause it to go out, all depending on how you swing. The scoring is the same like all tennis games, 
 0-15, 15-30, 30-40, and then win if you don't tie. Tennis has support for up to 4 players. So, 
 Tennis is a fun game to play and can also be good exercise.
  
  Next we have baseball, a simple pitch and hit baseball game. When you start, you will be batting 
 first if playing as one player. Simply swing the bat when the CPU pitches the ball to you. Depending 
 on your timing and power, you can hit the ball at a great distance and cause it flying into the 
 stadium hitting some unlucky person, causing a Home Run. You can also do a Out of the park , but 
 it's the same thing as a Home Run. Pitching is simple as well. Simply throw the Wii mote for a 
 fast ball, or hold down a button or two to pitch either a curveball, screwball, or a splitter. 
 At times the game can seem unfair. If a CPU player throws a splitter and it bounces off the field, 
 its ok. If you do the same, it counts as a ball. Also, some of the balls that the CPU players throw 
 are nearly impossible to hit, causing easy strikeouts. This being said, the game is still fun to 
 play. It has support for up to 2 players, one pitching and the other hitting.
  
  Next is bowling. Here, you swing the Wii mote like it's an actual bowling ball. You hold down B, 
 swing down, then release B while swinging back up. At first, it'll probably take several tries 
 to do it correctly. The ball also seems to have a tendency to curve to the left alot, no matter 
 what direction you swing the Wii mote. Tilting the Wii mote while it's rolling may impact the curve 
 slightly, not nothing to really help at all. However, if you throw the ball real hard and fast, 
 your chances of getting a strike increase. Bowling is another fun game to play, and has support 
 for 4 players, so get Grandma going.
  
  Next in line is Golf. Hold the Wii mote like it's a real golf club and swing. It's that easy. If 
 you swing hard, the ball may curve and go to someplace you don't want it to go. It's usually best 
 to swing lightly, but the games has a problem registering very brief swings if you're very close 
 to the hole. You can practice before each shot you take, but then you have to press and hold A 
 to actually hit the ball, which you will probably let go of a few times and then you'll wonder 
 why the ball didn't go anywhere. Get all these rules down, and Golf can be a good quiet game to 
 play, although there's not much action. It has support for up to 4 players as well.
  
  Finally is Boxing. It's the most tiring game in Wii Sports, and it's the most complicated. This 
 one needs the Nunchuk too. Basically, the two devices are your hands in the game. You can punch 
 with either device depending on what hand you want to use to punch, and you can also swing upwards 
 to send a violent slam into your opponent that'll make Jack Thompson sue. You have a health meter 
 that flashes as you fight, and it gets eaten away at as you get hit by your opponent. Boxing has 
 support for 2 players so that two friends can show their true friendship. I'll admit it, I actually 
 feel sorry for the person I'm punching.
  
  If you use your Mii to play a game, you get skill points. The more you play and win, the higher 
 your skill will go. The higher your skill, the A. I. players you play with will also have higher 
 skill, making the game harder.
  
  The graphics for all the games are pretty simple, and you'll notice jaggies if you're using component 
 cables. The audio is also simple, with sound effects coming out of the Wii mote's speaker to make 
 seem more real. It's a nice touch, although sometimes the speaker doesn't work or the sound may 
 by scratchy. These games are fun to play, but as you get other games you probably won't come back 
 to Wii Sports, at least not for a while. The games are pretty basic and simple, so you have to 
 buy seperate games for each sport to get the real sport action. But it's still fun to play these 
 games to pass time, and because it's free, it's a perfect value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Included with Nintendos new system, the Wii, is a sports game simply named, Wii Sports. Although 
 the ultimate goal of this pack-in is to demonstrate the Wii remotes abilities, it provides a surprisingly 
 enjoyable experience that people of all ages can pick up and play and have a great time.
  
  Wii Sports offers various game modes centered around five main sports: tennis, baseball, bowling, 
 golf, and boxing. On the main menu screen, you can choose from a regular game of either one of 
 these sports, or you can select training mode, or complete a fitness test. The game includes heavy 
 use of Miis, allowing you to use any of the virtual people you have created in the Mii Channel.
 
  
  In tennis, you will hold and swing the Wii remote just as if it were a real tennis racquet. However, 
 you dont have any control over where your Mii character moves; it just runs up near the ball, 
 and your only job is to swing. Although the Wii remote wont know how fast you swing, it will recognize 
 whether you are swinging backhand or forehand. Tennis does an excellent job of demonstrating how 
 such simple games on the Wii can be so entertaining.
  
  Baseball only consists of two of the sports positions: batting and pitching. Batting can be a 
 blast, due to the use of the Wii remotes technology in which on-screen movement is matched one-to-one 
 with your movement. In this case, the bat on screen mimics your exact movement of the Wii remote. 
 On the other hand, pitching is rather weak due to its ineffective use of the controls. You merely 
 swing the Wii remote downward while holding the A or B button to determine whether you want to 
 throw a fast ball or curve ball. Furthermore, the Wii remote attempts to distinguish the quickness 
 at which you swing to formulate a real life speed at which the ball is thrown, but it fails to 
 adjust accordingly.
  
  Bowling is easily the most precise and rewarding sport of all. There are no changes to the real 
 sport and it combines all the Wii remotes technology used in all the other games in Wii Sports. 
 It does a great job of replicating the true feeling of bowling, but without the weight of the bowling 
 ball. One-to-one motion sensing is used as you swing your arm back and the simple motion movement, 
 like in tennis, is used when you release the ball. Before you bowl, the directional pad on the 
 Wii remote allows you to change the angle and spot from which you bowl. In addition, to add spin 
 to the ball, causing the ball to curve right or left, depends on how you follow through when releasing 
 the ball. Flick your wrist to the right on your follow-through and the ball will spin the right, 
 flick it to the left and the ball will curve off the left. This technique is essential for strikes. 
 The Wii remote can also judge how fast you are swinging. The more power you put into your swing, 
 the more pins you are likely to knock over. However, if you have only one or two pins standing, 
 you will need to swing softly for more control.
  
  Golf also includes all of the Wii remotes capabilities, but not nearly as effectively as bowling. 
 To play, you grasp the Wii remote just as if it were a golf club. The swinging mechanics are one-to-one 
 for your upward and downward movements of the club; nothing will happen if you attempt to move 
 the club sideways, which is good because it would make hitting the ball incredibly problematic. 
 A power meter off to the side of the screen shows how much power you are swinging with. In truth, 
 it simply is detecting the speed. It isnt a dramatic change, but it certainly takes away from 
 the true feeling of playing golf. Underneath the power meter, you can look at an aerial view 
 of the course, also showing how far the club you are using will allow you to hit. For the sake 
 of simplicity, there are only three clubs to choose from: driver, iron, and putter. In addition 
 to the power meter and course map, there is a wind indicator. This will specify the direction and 
 speed of the wind. Depending on how fast the wind is blowing, it can considerably alter the path 
 of the ball. In order to adjust with the wind, you can change the direction you are aiming using 
 the d-pad on the Wii remote. This is also needed when putting. If made into a full fledged game 
 with many more courses and clubs and fine tuned swinging mechanics, Wii Sports Golf would be outstanding.
 
  
  Last but not least of all the Wii Sports is boxing. Unlike the other four sports, boxing requires 
 the attachment of the Nunchuk controller into the bottom of the Wii remote. The remote in your 
 right hand acts as your right boxing glove and the Nunchuk in your left hand acts as your left 
 boxing glove. You wont need to press a single button when boxing; just firmly grasp the controllers 
 and punch! If you lean your body in a ducking motion, so will your Mii. There is one-to-one control 
 of the movement of the fists before a punch, but is very spastic and barely noticeable that it 
 is in fact, one-to-one movement. Using the more simple motion movement, the Wii remote will recognize 
 an uppercut, side hit, or just a direct punch, however it will not distinguish the force of your 
 thrusts of the controllers. Due to the weak sensing issues and fast pace movement of the game, 
 you will be flailing your arms about in an effort to knock out your opponent. When you do get a 
 nice hit, or even dodge what would have been a forceful hit, it can be quite satisfying. Despite 
 the satisfaction you can receive from playing Wii Sports boxing, it can get boring and tedious 
 just after three rounds.
  
  Aside from the main sport selections, Wii Sports also offers two other modes: training and fitness 
 test. The training mode consists of three mini-games for each of the five sports. For example, 
 the first bowling mini-game is meant to help with picking up spares, second is control and accuracy, 
 and the third is power. Not only do these mini-games help you improve at each sport, but they are 
 also just really fun additional ways to play the sports. The fitness test is a daily test you can 
 take in which you are assessed in three randomly chosen mini-games from the training mode. When 
 you are done, it will give you an age based on your performance, very similarly to the popular 
 Nintendo DS game Brain Age.
  
  As a stand-alone game, Wii Sports leaves a bit to be desired; however, Nintendo could not have 
 possibly chosen a better game to pack in with their newest game system. Wii Sports is a superb 
 demonstration of the Wii remotes capabilities and the inviting and realistic game play that Nintendo 
 is striving for with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy playing this game alot. My favorite is Boxing. Baseball is very fun, Tennis is very cool. 
 I don't like golfing at all, the controls just don't feel right. The graphics are not very good 
 at all but hey it is a great innovative way to play. The replay value is pretty high for most of 
 the sports but not all of the sports. Bowling is decent. I gave gameplay such a high grade because 
 it is great fun. This is a great way to get used to the nintendo wii's controler. I think it is 
 a worth title to own, I know it comes with the wii! Try this out if you own a wii. Very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  The genius of Nintendo is back it seems, and Wii Sports (bundled with the Wii system) proves it.
 
  
  Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing: boiled down to the basic elements, these quick diversions 
 don't require a teen's share of freetime to get a handle on - you simply pick up a remote and play.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The Wii remote is pure genius. You simply cannot get this same experience playing any other console 
 or PC. It is a simple and very enjoyable way to game, and it shines in Wii Sports. Bowling feels 
 like you're at the lanes with a beer in your hand. I practically threw my arm out playing baseball, 
 and I nearly broke a sweat boxing.
  
  The gameplay is something you must try. Outstanding.
  
  Graphics
  
  They are clean and 
 simple, and the graphical style is charming. My wife noted the obvious Asian roots to the graphical 
 design being pleasant and light.
  
  I've played PC games for several years, and to be honest, the graphics on the Wii titles I've played 
 (which is certainly true for Wii Sports) cannot even compare to modern PC hardware (or XBox 360 
 / PSIII) .
  
  Sound
  
  The audio is cheery and light. It is well composed and gives a nice compliment to the gameplay. 
 The sound quality is good.
  
  Value
  
  The sports of Wii sports are not full on representations of the actual games. Baseball is pitch 
 n' hit, Golf is 4 clubs, Boxing is a flurry of fists with very little strategy... The true value 
 is the immediate fun-factor. After playing for awhile, I developed a thirst for more in depth play. 
 This may have been Nintendo's intention - who knows.
  
  Nevertheless, I see replay value in this title for years to come. It is based on simple competition 
 between players, and that never seems to get too old. If my brother and I had one of these 20 years 
 ago, I'd wager he'd still be up for a match today.
  
  Tilt
  
  I'm calling this an instant classic because it changes the way I think about video games. When 
 I want to be alone with a gorgeous alternate reality, I'll hide out in the basement with my PC, 
 but when I want to laugh with some friends and family, it's Wii Sports all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilstuffs
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  Wii sports is a good game allround, and this is because it has good gameplay. You control te game 
 by swinging the remote the same way you would if you were playing the sport in real life. for the 
 most part, this works. but sometimes the wii doesnt read your movement (ie. boxing) or it doesnt 
 recognize different amounts of force you put into your swing (golf) . in total there are 5 games 
 (tennis, baseball, bowling, boxing, golf) and theyre all pretty good. sadly, the controls in some 
 of them are occasionally unresponsive, but theyll do. for the most part the game is really fun 
 and filled with variet, but when you get to higher levels it is VERY difficult to win. it would 
 be better if you could choose your difficulty or something, but whatever.
  
  GRAPHICS
  the game has some nice graphics. nothing bad about them, so what can i say?
  
  SOUND
  it 
 would have been nice if the game hadf some background music, but otherwise the sound is good and 
 clear. the only other thing that bothered me was that swinging the bat/club/fists/racket sounded 
 the same. FISTS MAKE DIFFERENT SOUNDS THAN TENNIS RACKETS! wooo, glad i got that off my chest, lol.
 
  
  VALUE
  comes free with your wii and has a design made for replay. id say a perfect value ;D
  
  TILT
 
  allround it was good, but there were some very minor flaws that just bugged the hell out of me. 
 if only those flaws were changed i might have given this game a 9. something. but its still good, 
 so dont hate me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendragon613
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  For starters I'd like to thank Nintendo for including a game with the Wii. At one time this was 
 standard procedure for many video game consoles and now Nintendo has brought the idea back into 
 use. Now for the game's review. There are five sport games included in Wii Sports, baseball, golf, 
 tennis, bowling and boxing. These games are all played with your Miis (personal Wii chracter) . 
 Each game has single-player and multi-player functions.
  Let's start with baseball. In this game you have to swing the Wii remote through the air to hit 
 the balls that the pitcher throws at your Mii. The Wii remote is very accurate when it comes to 
 this game. You will almost feel like you are swinging a real bat. Once you swing at the ball you 
 will either get a strike, foul, ball, out, single, double, triple, home run, or out of the park. 
 That last one is basically the same as a home run, you can just brag to all your friends who actually 
 care that you got one. When you first play baseball you'll get out almost every time, which can 
 be quite frustrating, but after a little while you'll be hitting balls like a pro. Although you 
 control the batting, the distance your Mii runs after he/she hits the ball is determined by how 
 long it takes for the opposing team to get the ball. When your team is in the field you get to 
 pitch to the opposing team by swinging the Wii remote down. You can also do some fancy pitches 
 if hold a button while you pitch. This game is my personal favorite of all the Wii Sports games 
 because its realistic and fun.
  The second game is golf. In this game you have to swing the Wii remote like you would a golf club 
 in order to hit the golf ball into the hole. This game might just be the most realistic of the 
 bunch, but its also the most boring. Now, I'm not a huge golf fan but even so I'd have to say this 
 game is pretty bad. The game tells you what golf club to use as well as start your character at 
 a near-perfect angle for the shot that he/she is about to make. There is a wind element (which 
 will blow your ball slightly off-target) but it barely adds any strategy to the game. However, 
 swinging the golf club does feel pretty realistic (except when you're putting) . You'll probably 
 only like this game if you are a major golf fan.
  The third game in Wii Sports is tennis. In this game you swing the Wii Remote like a tennis racket 
 in order to hit the tennis ball. Its pretty easy to control how much power you swing with, however, 
 many times your Mii won't swing the racket in the direction you want. One disappointment I had 
 was that you only control when your character swings not where he/she moves on the court. Overall 
 the tennis game is good but can get frustrating when the Wii remote doesn't cooperate.
  The fourth game included in Wii Sports is bowling. This game is the hardest to get the hang of, 
 but once you do its actually almost sadly easy. You swing the Wii Remote in a rolling motion while 
 pressing the b button to roll the ball and release the button to release the ball. The physics 
 of the pins in this game is a little strange but it doesn't compromise gameplay. Overall, bowling 
 is a nice, fun, easy game that will give you a break when you are stuck on one of the harder ones. 
 The last game is boxing. This game definitely gives you a work out. You'll probably be sweating 
 when you are done. For this game you use the nunchuck attachment and push it forward to punch with 
 one hand and push the Wii Remote forward to punch with the other. You can also guard your face 
 and body by putting the Wii Remote and nunchuck in the proper positions. You can dodge punches 
 by moving the Wii Remote and nunchuck to the far right or left. Boxing game is realistic, fun, 
 and fairly challenging, as well as my second favorite Wii Sports game. Wii Sports also has a few 
 training mini-games which are fun as well as good ways to improve your skill level.
  Wii Sports' graphics are not eye-popping, especially for a next-gen game but they don't look too 
 bad either.
  Overall Wii Sports is a nice little collection of sports games that give a good sense of what the 
 Wii Remote can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecube_Gold
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a really great game for the Wii, and also, you get it with the Wii, so anybody can 
 get it. Part of the fun of the game is where you use a character, personnalised by you, to play 
 some of the fun sports you might play: Bowling, Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, and Golf. But, this both 
 lets you play Videogames, and keeps you active and healthy!
  
  One of the good features is the FItness Age. They have 3 training excercises for you to do, and 
 based on your performance, they determine what your Fitness Age is, which the best is 20.
  
  Also, this game is a good way to stay inside, but play sports too! And, normally, you have 
 to pay to get the things to play the sports, but on the wii, you don't have to!
  
  And, if you can't seem to do it very well with the Wii Controler, you can use some of the special 
 add-ons, by buying the Wii Sports pack, which makes you actually use a plastic Tennis Racket, Boxing 
 Gloves, Baseball, etc.
  
  Plus, this adds a new type of feature, because this is the first type of game where you actually 
 use a controller to actually move the people on the screen!
  
  So, I think this is a good game, and you should probably try it. All in the fun of sports and games! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rd1858
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports does exactly what it is intended to do; educate one on the possibilities of the new 
 Wii technology. Wii fitness is very fun and keeps me coming back almost every day to play Wii Sports. 
 The multiplayer on it is also very nice. It was also the first time in like 10 years I played video 
 games with my dad so that's saying something. My two favorite games are Wii bowling and baseball. 
 Golf plain sucks. Tennis is fun and boxing is good but some of the movements dont work exactly 
 as they should. It is also very hard to become pro in everything besides bowling. The computer 
 gets way too hard right before pro status is achieved. But for a free game that comes with the 
 system, it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 18, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Great multi-player fun! Shows off some of the Wii's basics an eases players into the motion sensoring. 
 
  
  Wii Sports is a great game for kids and adults, and although it sports some rather below par graphics, 
 it doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad game. The game uses your Mii characters as players in a 
 variety of different sports, such as Boxing, Baseball and Tennis. Each one plays differently and 
 there is also a Wii Fitness Test and a series of Mini-games to try afterwards.
  
  Tennis: This one is a good 4 person multi-player. The characters move towards the ball themselves, 
 and you must swing the Wiimote like a tennis racket.
  
  Bowling: Simple bowling, just swing your arm and hope for a strike. Twisting the remote adds spin.
 
  
  Baseball: All about timing and accelleration. Not the best, but it can still be fun.
  
  Golf: This is one of my favourites.
  
  Boxing: The best of the lot! Although it gets a 
 little unresponsive later into it.
  
  Sadly there is no online, but Wii Sports is still a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandemicRcks502
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is just about the greatest Wii game ever. 5 sports, a training station, the ability 
 to use Miis, and the realistic gameplay movements are just freaking awesome. The graphics are incredible 
 with smooth and clean surfaces and realistic moving from the characters. In the Mii creator you 
 get just enough hairstyles, face parts, colors, miscellaneous stuff, and people shaping to create 
 just about anybody, even Sub-Zero! (I saw his Mii on Mii Plaza. net) It's so easy that you can teach 
 people of any age to play... which I'll admit is a little too easy. Tennis is a relaxing experience, 
 baseball is kind of funny (have you SEEN the way the people run when they go into their legless 
 form?) , golf pisses me the hell off, bowling is 3x as easy as in the real world (which is good 
 and bad at the same time) , and boxing is quite an unusual way to need a bottle of water. I like 
 the way the computers are Miis of the creators. Miis by the way are really fun to create. My stepbrother 
 even made Miis of me, himself, Dad, HIS Mom, his friends, TV stars, Michael Jackson, and imaginary 
 people with random-letter names like yu... something (who is a surprisingly good outfielder!) . I 
 guess what I'm trying to say here is that Wii Sports is so awesome, it's hard to believe that you 
 get it free with the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I awoke at 4:00 am and sat outside of Toys-r-us in the freezing cold for 7 hours to buy a Nintendo 
 Wii. I bought no games, just the console, and an extra Wii-mote. I had never played it before, 
 but was going to base my entire review of the Wii on this one game - Wii Sports. If I could do 
 it all over again - I WOULD IN A HEARTBEAT! I would have waited 17 hours if I knew what was in 
 store.
  
  Wii sports is the most fantastic thing I have ever played. It is groundbreaking, innovative, easy 
 to pick up, and just plain fun! When I go to parties on the weekend, I bring it with me, and that 
 becomes the highlight of the night. All 5 games - Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing - 
 are a joy to play, and easy to pick up. In fact, my whole family - even my 87 year old grandmother 
 - plays on a weekly basis. We have tournaments, and it has brought my family closer together. The 
 graphics are not comparable to the PS3 or Xbox360, but they are part of Nintendo's tried and true 
 blocky graphic scheme that we have come to expect from them. The sound is remarkably accurate, 
 from the active, lively sound of the balls hitting pins and people celebrating in the bowling alley 
 to the quite hush and wind of the golf course. If Nintendo continues to release games such as this, 
 they will hands down win the console war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is a great introduction to the Wii that everybody can play and enjoy, even my nan. These are 
 a great selection of simple but addictive sport games, including baseball, tennis, boxing, golf 
 and bowling. An added bonus is that you can play with your Mii's, another bonus is that Its totally 
 free with the Wii console. Each of your Mii's gets points every time they play a sport and when 
 you get 1000 points you become pro and a PRO sign appears next to your name. The more points you 
 get the harder the opponents get. This is one of the best multi-player games on the Wii because 
 of the pick up add play ability. Overall a great multi-player game and great fun. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Overall, it's hard to complain about this game when it comes bundled for free. Importing Mii's 
 is a great feature. This game includes 5 Sports: Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, Baseball, and Golf.
 
  
  Bowling
  This one is probably the most fun of all of the games included. It's very accurate to real-life 
 (I bowl just as bad in the game as I do at a bowling alley) . Tennis
  This one is also pretty fun. The players automatically move, all you have to do is swing.
  
 
  Boxing
  The controls could be a bit more responsive but still fun overall. Just lacks a little something.
 
  
  Baseball
  Can be hard to hit the ball well. Control scheme needs some fine-tuning. Not very fun as a baseball 
 game since you can't run.
  
  Golf
  Driving the ball is great. Putting is maddening. You'll try for a 5 yd putt and it will go 50 yds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  You get to choose from five different categories: Bowling, Tennis, Golf, Boxing and Baseball, all 
 entertaining in their own rights. This is popular at every party, there is no disliking this game. 
 Heck, even my mom, who has never as much as touched a video-game controller before, loves this 
 game, and that is saying something. If you do not have any friends over at the time, you can still 
 enjoy this game by trying to unlock medals in the 15 different training modes. The controls are 
 excellent, BUT there are some issues, usually minor, in certain places (especially golf) . Also, I 
 find it strange that your rating is not affected by multiplayer matches in Tennis, Baseball and 
 Boxing.
  
  Graphics:
  Not impressive at all, but hey, you get to use your Miis, which is a huge plus. The fact that yourself 
 is moving out there on the field makes this game even more thrilling.
  
  Sound:
  There is pretty much one track in the entire game, but the sound effects are pretty decent. Sometimes, 
 you can notice that sound effects are a tad late, but it's nothing severe. The controllers make 
 sounds as well, which is pretty neat. But then again, it would be really disappointing if they 
 didn't.
  
  Value:
  Well, you're not going to be playing this for hours at a time, but at least you're going to be 
 playing this for years, and your friends will beg you to play this!
  
  Tilt:
  My God, this is FREE! I would seriously pay the full price for this game (I'd even suggest others 
 to do the same) but it comes bundled with the Wii! This is certainly the best free game I've ever 
 played, that's for damn sure. If you want to get someone you know into video games (which you SHOULD, 
 it is your duty as a gamer) , this is a great introduction into the amazing world of video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbake
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the very first game i played on the wii. And it's so far one of my favorites. This game is 
 just so fun in many ways. You can get alot of exercise from this. Especially on boxing and tennis. I 
 started to sweat when i played boxing. The graphics are very smooth. Pretty normal to say the least. But 
 god it's just a spectacular game. If your ever going to buy i wii, buy this game first. My favorite 
 games are tennis and boxing. It like a good adrenaline rush for you. It's just totally plain fun. I'm 
 pretty sure everyone will enjoy it. Well exept for fat people (lol) just kidding! I don't have a wii 
 yet but i sure am getting one soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogermao
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  not a bad game at all, if you just got a wii, this is the gmae for you
  
  as it comes ocmpletely free in north america with the wii, it is the perfect demo. You can do anything 
 from throwing punches, to putting a golf baal with the wiimote.
  
  for all the games on it, (tennis, boxing, bowling, golfing, baseball) you use the wiimote. A demo 
 that becomes a great game by itself. Absolutely enjoyable from a 5 year old, to a full grown adult. 
 The game lets you get more involved with the game, as you swing a tennis racket or a baseball bat, 
 like you WOuld normally do. Except that it's replaced by a wiimote.
  
  The natural feeling that the wiimote gives you in this game, makes it far more enjoyable than button 
 mashing
  
  Though the gmaeplay is spetacular, the graphics arent the best, Yes, it is a demo, but the characters 
 aren't very realistic. The sound also could be better. Though the gameplay makes up for alot of 
 this, it still does bring down its rating a little
  
  A great game for a great system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Nintendo is careful in the selection of the games they bundle with a new system. With the first 
 Nintendo the bundled Super Mario Bros/Duck Hunt combo hooked a generation of gamers. Wii Sports 
 uses completely different subject matter to accomplish a similar goal.
  
  Wii Sports replicates five games using the Wii Remote to emulate movements within the respective 
 sport: Tennis, Golf, Baseball, Bowling, and Boxing. Gameplay: The games make a few concessions 
 in accuracy in order to speed the game along and make it accessible to anyone that might pick up 
 the controller. My mother handily outpaced me in her first bowling match. For gaming purists, the 
 difficulty of mastering the game might be frustrating. However, I found the ability of my friends 
 and family to join me in something I truly love - video games - to be a rare delight. The games 
 themselves are cartoon versions of the real-life games. However, the controller is highly responsive, 
 requiring careful concentration when putting in Golf or some twisting of the wrist when bowling.
 
  Additional layers of the game appear beyond the top five games as you explore. The training games 
 have their own appeal. There is a bowling training seminar where you need to knock down dozens 
 of pins at a time to score points. A golfing trainer simulates a dart game, only you land the golf 
 ball inside the bullseye rather than a dart. The additional trainers help keep the game interesting 
 and varied. Overall, the gameplay is nothing short of excellent and a prime example of how sports 
 games can be translated in a fun and accessible way to the living room.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are cartoonish, but this is only half-intentional. The limited hardware 
 of the Wii limits its ability to render realistic graphics. This is a shame in some of the games, 
 such as Golf and Tennis, but less of a concern in Bowling and Tennis. The use of Wii avatars (called 
 Miis) makes up for some of the poor graphics. However, the impressive imagery of The Legend of 
 Zelda: The Twilight Princess is evidence that Nintendo could have upped the graphics ante with 
 Wii Sports.
  
  Sound: There are two components to sound: effects and music. The effects, such as crowd cheering 
 and the thock of the tennis ball against the racket are good without being intrusive. The Wiimote 
 notifies you that it is your turn with a gentle chime, and the effects generally represent their 
 on-screen actions with accuracy. The music is okay, generally giving the impression that it just 
 wants to stay out of the way. This was a great decision on the part of developers, as the generally 
 calming music gives way to the ambiance of the games. The soundtrack to golf is the sound of the 
 breeze, boxing has a crowd, etc.
  
  Wii Sports is an excellent game with tremendous replay value. It loses some of its appeal in single 
 player over time, but the excitement of multiplayer more than makes up for the single-player game. 
 Single players will also be surprised to find that there is surprising depth to a game that initially 
 appears to be just a pick-up and put-down sports game. Nintendo hit a home run with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Why should I review this game? Since everybody that is going to purchase a brand new Wii is going 
 to get this game packed in for free, reviewing it is pretty much an un-needed effort. But there 
 are some portions of this game that just aren't worth your time and that is the only reason to 
 review it. Wii Sports finally breaks the all too familiar feeling that video game companies basically 
 want to steal our money by being packed in with the system. It's a great feeling knowing that you'll 
 have a game right out of the box to play without having to dish out the extra 50 bucks or so for 
 a different game. But seeing as how it is a free pack in game, it definitely won't hold your attention 
 for too long. The only purpose it serves is to introduce you to the controller and show off the 
 capabilities off it. The game only has 5 sports -- boxing, bowling, tennis, golf, and baseball 
 -- all of which play like simple mini-games.
  
  The first and easiest game to pick up and play is bowling. To bowl, you simply shift your bowler 
 to the left or right depending on your dexterity, hold B, and make a motion like a bowler while 
 letting go of the B button. If you twist your wrist, the ball spins just like in real bowling. 
 Bowling works exactly like it's real life counterpart which makes it the best game in the package. 
 The only problem is that once you find a pattern that works, there isn't any reason you shouldn't 
 be able to bowl well over 200 every time. However, bowling is also the best game to play with your 
 friends or family and it's a blast at a party.
  
  Golf is probably the next best game in the package because it's the one that requires the most 
 skill and concentration. It's rather simple, but for a game that is essentially nothing more than 
 a beefed up mini-game, it is surprisingly complex. Just like in bowling, you have to mimic the 
 motions of actually playing the sport. There are a few things you need to look at such as which 
 direction the wind is blowing and what the speed of it is. There is a meter on the left of the 
 screen that shows how hard you are hitting the ball and on the right a map that shows which direction 
 you are aiming. The swing meter has 3 marks that measure 25%, 50%, and 75% power, but swinging 
 too hard causes you to hook or slice it. Once you get on the green, you'll be able to see the level 
 of it by pressing the 1 button. It will show you which angle it is curving and whether you are 
 going uphill or downhill. Like bowling, it works mostly like it's real life counterpart most of 
 the time. The problem is that sometimes your swing won't register and you'll completely mess up 
 your whole score. Most of the time though, it works great.
  
  Next up is tennis. This is probably the simplest game of them all. All you have to do is flick 
 your wrist for a forehand or backhand when the ball comes to you. If you are serving, you simply 
 raise the Wii remote up and then down quickly. The only thing that you'll have to perfect in this 
 game is aiming and spin. To put spin on the ball, you'll have to swing at an angle instead of head 
 on and to aim, you simply have to swing early or late. It's not too hard and I doubt too many people 
 will have trouble nailing it.
  
  The next sport is boxing. This is the only game in the package that you must use the nunchuk peripheral 
 with. This is also the least responsive game out of the five. To block, you simply hold the controllers 
 in front of your face. To punch, you make a punching motion in front of you, the Wii remote for 
 a right swing and the nunchuk for a left swing. Depending on where you swing, you can upper cut, 
 hook, or go for the body or head. You can also dodge by moving your body side to side and counter 
 punch after your opponent misses. The problem is that most of it hardly ever works. Upper cutting 
 is way too hard to pull off and you have to raise your arms way too high in the air to go for the 
 head and way too low for the body. It's still a fun little diversion in between the other better 
 games and it certainly gives you a work out if you play the way it's meant to be played, but it's 
 not nearly as good as the aforementioned games.
  
  The last game is baseball. This is easily the worst game out of all of them. To hit the ball, you 
 have to mimic swinging a bat and time it to hit it in the left field, right field, or center field. 
 Here's the lame thing though. When the fielders are going for the ball, you don't actually run. 
 Getting a single, double, or triple is based solely on how long it takes the fielders to reach 
 the ball so there is no thrill of racing to the base to beat the throw and when on offense no thrill 
 of quickly throwing out a runner. Pitching is just as boring as batting. All you do is flick your 
 wrist in a throwing motion. You can throw a fastball, curve ball, screwball, or splitter depending 
 on which combination of buttons you use. You can also shift where the pitch will go: inside, outside, 
 high, or low. It works fine I guess, but after they hit it, you do nothing but sit there and watch 
 your fielders run painfully slow to field it. You have no control over anything defensive except 
 pitching and it is ridiculously boring.
  
  While playing these sports, you'll be able to raise your skill level for each game you play really 
 well. Once you reach 1000, you're considered a pro at that particular sport. What do you get once 
 you reach 1000? Nothing. It's really only there to give you something to shoot for, but at least 
 it's something.
  
  If you want to learn how to play these games to get that elusive 1000 point score, there is a practice 
 mode that gives you various little things to do to help you increase your skill. Each sport has 
 3 training levels that give you a certain task to do. Most are no brainers and very easy, but they 
 all do give you an idea of what you'll need to do to become successful at that sport.
  
  The last thing you can do in this game is figure out what your Wii Fitness Age is. This is something 
 that you can only do once a day and each one consists of three events. Each day has a different 
 combination of events from all 5 different sports. Depending on how well you do, you'll get an 
 age, the younger the better. The lowest age you can get is 20 and the oldest I believe is 80. The 
 problem is that this area is highly inconsistent. The very first day I got my Wii, I did the fitness 
 test not knowing how to play any of these games and got a 20 on my very first try. When I played 
 again later after I got the feel for the game and how to do well in it, I did about as well as 
 I think you could and my age was a 46. This portion of the game is fun to do and it gives you something 
 to shoot for, but it's just too unbalanced to be worth anything.
  
  The graphics obviously aren't quite up to par with what the Wii can handle. You can create a Mii 
 and use it for all 5 of these games and although there isn't a lot of detail you can put onto them, 
 they look fine. There isn't much detail put into any of the environments either, but honestly there 
 isn't much more you could do with them than what is already there.
  
  The sound is also something that you just can't do much with. There is no story in this game so 
 therefore there is no dialogue outside of the occasional OK! or Excellent! from the commentator. 
 The various different sounds for each sport such as the bowling ball hitting the pins or the bat 
 making contact with the baseball sound fine as well. Everything that was there sounded like it 
 should, but there is no depth to this game which makes the sound pretty unimpressive.
  
  Nintendo has claimed that this system will bring families together. I was pretty apprehensive about 
 that claim because nobody in my family is an avid gamer besides me. My sister plays a few games 
 such as Guitar Hero every now and then, but she's 23 and married which doesn't give her much time. 
 As for my parents, my mom and dad haven't played games since I was very young growing up with the 
 Atari and the original Nintendo. However, even with my growing apprehension, Nintendo proved me 
 wrong, at least when Wii Sports is involved. My father asks me almost every day to play a game 
 or two of bowling or golf with him and he has a blast playing tennis by himself. Even my mother, 
 the busiest and most devoted person in my family, loves bowling. I woke up one day only for my 
 mom to immediately ask me to set up the Wii and let her play. After setting it up for her, I ate 
 and hopped in the shower and she was still playing when I was done. That is how simple and fun 
 this game can be. It truly is amazing and very satisfying to have something that I can do with 
 my mother that we both enjoy.
  
  When all is said and done though, this game isn't anything special. It's nothing more than a novelty 
 game that doesn't last very long, but when it comes free packaged in with a brand new system you 
 can't complain too much. It's definitely fun for a few hours and it's a blast to play with friends 
 and family, but don't be surprised when this game is quickly replaced by other better games. Out 
 of the five games, two are really fun, one is decent, one is barely average, and one is terrible, 
 but none are amazing enough to hold your attention for more than a few days. Wii Sports is a great 
 game to come packaged with the system, but as a stand alone game it fails in most respects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster272
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is good if you don't like to go outside to play sports and you can even do it right in 
 your family room!!!! You can do Baseball, Boxing, Golf, Tennis, and even Bowling. I think it is 
 an awesome game for the wii. You also get with the wii that is a very good thing because this game 
 is awesome!!! This is a must have even though it comes with the wii it is a must have. AWESOME 
 GAME!!! MUST HAVE!!! AWESOME!!! MUST HAVE!!!
  You can even use your mii you make (customized players you make) can actuallty be your player in 
 any sport, Like I said already Baseball, Boxing, Golf, Tennis, and even Bowling. Thanks and you 
 must have this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports will likely be everyone's first experience with a Nintendo Wii, and it is not disappointing. 
 The game with plain designs and an astonishingly fun gameplay, quickly makes the gamer or non-gamer 
 realize what the Wii is all about.
  
  First of all, the game presents the simple yet sympathetic Miis which are virtual customizable 
 versions of the players. This may look like a simple addition to the system and the game, but it 
 actually adds a lot to the whole experience when playing.
  
  Wii Sports is consisted of five different and entertaining sports. Baseball, Golf, Tennis, Bowling 
 and Boxing, all of them will use the Wiimote in a singular way. At first it will feel strange since 
 we've playing games sitting on our couches for more than 20 years, but once you stand up and start 
 swinging the Wiimote around you won't be able to stop until your arm starts to hurt.
  
  Baseball is great. You may be a little disappointed since the outfielders and runners can't be 
 controlled, it is all about pitching and batting and each game has 3 entries. Whe pitching you 
 can throw curve balls, screw balls and fast balls. You can also decide whether you want then inside 
 or outside the strike zone. Unfortunately it is not made by moving the Wiimote, but just by pressing 
 some buttons. Batting is awesome, and the controls are really responsive.
  
  Bowling is the most simple among all Sports. All you need to do is press the B button and release 
 it when you are about to roll the ball. Although it doesn't have many options it is great when 
 played multiplayer, especially because you don't need two controls to play it with a friend.
  
  Boxing is the most exciting. You will use both the Nunchuck and the Wiimote to defend and punch 
 the opponent during the battles you will jump through your living room and may end up breaking 
 somethings but you will be quite happy one you KO your foe. While boxing you can perform lots of 
 different punches and try many different battle strategies.
  
  Tennis is kind of boring. Hitting the ball may be fun at first but once you get into the game the 
 other sports will be more compelling than it. You don't have many different moves to perform, just 
 hitting the ball up, right or left will do it.
  
  Golf is the most amazing. Unsurprisingly Golf has the best scenarios of the whole game, the golf 
 course is really well designed and all holes are beautiful. Performing the strokes is really fun 
 as you can practice your swing before actually hitting the ball. Approaching will be tough at first 
 but once you get in the groove everything will be nice. i think this is the only Sports where playing 
 with friends may be more boring than doing it by yourself.
  
  Wii Sports doesn't present nice graphics, the main characters, the Miis, are simple, and you had 
 better not expect a moving crowd full of animations and different people since you will not see 
 any of it, the crowds look like the ones from 2 gens ago and the point of this game never was to 
 display how far the Wii hardware can go.
  
  Sound effects are great, unfortunately the game lacks some background theme, another great problem 
 is that the sound coming from the Wiimote isn't loud enough to be herd, however the sound effects 
 that come from it sound really real.
  
  In a nutshell Wii Sports is a perfect pack-in game for the Wii, It kind of presents Nintendo's 
 philosophy for this gen. Whether it is by playing with friends or all alone you won't be able to 
 stop for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHBlast
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 5, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a EXCELLENT multiplayer game. If you're playing by yourself the game is NOT that 
 fun, but when playing with others, this game is a blast. The graphics could be better. Here is 
 my review of the 5 sports in Wii Sports.
  
  Baseball: Probably the worst of the 5, baseball really only allows you to hit and pitch.
  
 
  Bowling: Probably the best for multiplayer, bowling is best adapted for the Wii remote. It's really 
 fun to compete for the best score.
  
  Tennis: Wii Tennis is amzing. Swing the racket to hit the ball. It's really that simple.
  
 
  Boxing: A little too complex, and a little bit difficult at times. Golf: Golf is HARD. This game 
 really depends on your luck and how hard you swing the Wii remote.
  
  P. S. - My favorite out of the 5 is probably tennis or bowling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juicy-Fart
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 5, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is fun for the whole family and for all ages. With the built in motion sensitivity it 
 allows you to get yourself into the game. Wii Sport is free with the Nintendo Wii console and has 
 five sports: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and boxing. Wii Sports has multi-player capabilities 
 which allows you to play up to four players on some sports. If you are planning on getting a Sony 
 PS3, then you should change your mind and get a Nintendo Wii to play Wii Sports. I think this is 
 a great game. I truly recommend it. It is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  wii sports offers good daily fun and excercise
  play with a friend or alone either way your gonna have
  a blast come free with the wii hey it 
 rhymes!!!!!!
  theres 5 games on wii sports theres tennis bowling baseball
  boxing and golf tennis you can use your mii that you made on
  mii channel and use it to play 
 these games which is a great feature
  you can gain points from winning games the points vary on
  how well you do in them sometimes 
 even if you win but did badly
  your points will go down sometimes but if you lose but lost
  with style or put up a good fight you might earn points
  once you get to 1,000 points you become 
 a pro in that sport
  some games when you get to a certain point you will face the champion
  like in boxing once you reach 1,500 you have a chance at the champion
  winning will unlock a 
 cool feature nothing special just like different color
  boxing gloves anyway wii sports overrall is a good game that demonstrates the wii motes capabilities 
 and shows what the wii can do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 2, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  You get to choose from five different categories: Bowling, Tennis, Golf, Boxing and Baseball, all 
 entertaining in their own rights. This is popular at every party, there is no disliking this game. 
 Heck, even my mom, who has never as much as touched a video-game controller before, loves this 
 game, and that is saying something. If you do not have any friends over at the time, you can still 
 enjoy this game by trying to unlock medals in the 15 different training modes. The controls are 
 excellent, BUT there are some issues, usually minor, in certain places (especially golf) . Also, I 
 find it strange that your rating is not affected by multiplayer matches in Tennis, Baseball and 
 Boxing.
  
  Graphics:
  Not impressive at all, but hey, you get to use your Miis, which is a huge plus. The fact that yourself 
 is moving out there on the field makes this game even more thrilling.
  
  Sound:
  There is pretty much one track in the entire game, but the sound effects are pretty decent. Sometimes, 
 you can notice that sound effects are a tad late, but it's nothing severe. The controllers make 
 sounds as well, which is pretty neat. But then again, it would be really disappointing if they 
 didn't.
  
  Value:
  Well, you're not going to be playing this for hours at a time, but at least you're going to be 
 playing this for years, and your friends will beg you to play this!
  
  Tilt:
  My God, this is FREE! I would seriously pay the full price for this game (I'd even suggest others 
 to do the same) but it comes bundled with the Wii! This is certainly the best free game I've ever 
 played, that's for damn sure. If you want to get someone you know into video games (which you SHOULD, 
 it is your duty as a gamer) , this is a great introduction into the amazing world of video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gabmaster
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  When we first got our wii, I heard some bad things about the game. I heard it got boring quickly 
 and that there was no originality in it. But after a little while of playing, here are my thoughts:
 
  
  Bowling: Very fun game and accesible to everyone. This is my personal favorite and I think its 
 the best game to start with for beginners. Sure, getting to the professional level will not take 
 a long time but for the time you play it, its the best and its accessible to anyone.
  
  Tennis: This would have been the best game but I think it was deteriorated by the fact that you 
 do not move your caracter with the nunchuck. Apart from that, its about the best game to showcase 
 what the wii can do. It is also what I would say the best multiplayer game because you can actually 
 play 4 on the same court in real life and also in the game.
  
  Baseball: Another good show-off of the motion sensing but this time, the game seems harder to me 
 then the Tennis. Also, the fact that the bat moves in the air before you swing really gives a sense 
 of personality to your swing just like every player in the Major League Baseball
  
  Boxing: The only game using the nunchuk and probably the game that sucks up the most energy. Its 
 pretty good and to my point of view, its the only game were I dont like the multiplayer option. 
 I feel that its the hardest game of all that wii sports offers.
  
  Golf: My least favorite game. I do not like the controls and I feel that it does not really take 
 advantage of the wiis motion controls. I also think that your ball does not go wild when you hit 
 too hard in real life! It does not hold out against the other games in my point of view.
  
  The graphics in the game are very poor and in some games, I felt like if I was playing Nintendo 
 64. Even in baseball, your mii does not have legs! The sound is great and I totally love the idea 
 of putting a stereo in the wii controller.
  
  In conclusion, I think that the game is great to show off the motion controls and its a great game 
 to get used to the controller but it really does not give you any other impressions. While the 
 gameplay is innovative, it really does not show you waht the wiis processor can do. Its a great 
 demonstration but you wont be able to get many hours out of this game like you would get out of 
 a game like Splinter Cell or Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii4Lifex1000
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  It truly is a great game. It's one of the most innovative games for the wii. I like the sports 
 in this order.
  
  1. Bowling- 1365
  2. Golf- 975
  3. Tennis- 1113
  4. Baseball- 845
  5. Boxing.- 797
  
  
  I do like playing all of the sports. And for those 
 of u who dont know the numbers there are the levels u can get up to with your mii. That is also 
 another amazing feature. Being able to use your miis in Wii Sports is great. Oh a spoiler. If you 
 get past 1000 (which is pro) in bowling u get a starred ball!!!!! That's awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 So have fun with one of the best games for the wii Wii Sports!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiggymaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a good game, especially as a first game to play to get used to the controls. It has 
 five sports, baseball, tennis, bowling, golf and boxing. Each one is a different challenge and 
 makes the most out of the wiimote and, in boxing, the nunchuck as well.
  In each sport you are trying to get 1000 points to get to pro. The better you do, the more points 
 you achieve. There a some unlockables when you get there, including a starry ball and gold gloves.
 
  As well as this, there is a training mode where you can earn medals for minigames in each sport. 
 There is also a wii fitness mode where you can calculate your fitness age. Wii Sports should help 
 improve your fitness.
  The game is good and, as you get it with the console, will be played by every wii owner. If you 
 like sport then it won't be much fun, but it will help you with using the wiimote and is a good 
 starting point for all wii players.
  Definitely worth playing.
  
  8.8 / 10 GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-wii
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 1, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is my first wii game (duhh) it's alot different than most other wii games.
  
  Gameplay: This game has a bunch of small sports games. There's tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, 
 and boxing. My favorite's are tennis, boxing, and baseball. Each one of the sports has simple easy 
 game play (except for bowling) . Golf and bowling take some time to master, but after you do it's 
 just plain fun. There are also two extra modes that kind of add some replay value. there's Training, 
 and my favorite Wii Fittness. Training is basically just teaching you how to play each of the sports, 
 and Wii fitness is alot like Brain age. Wii Fitness lets you take one test per day and it finds 
 out your fittnes age. The bes is 20 and the worst is 80.
  
  Graphics: Definently not as good as Sonic and the Secret rings or legend of Zelda, but they're 
 good enough.
  
  Sound: Perfect!! The places sound incredibly real and makes great use of the Wii remote's speaker
 
  
  Value: The value would be bad if you had to pay $50 but it's free so I give the value a 10.
  
 
  Reviewer's tilt: I only play this game alot because it's the only wii game I have yet.
  
  Overall this game has good and simple gameplay so almost anyone can pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kile22
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is by far one of the most fun games I have ever played. It is very simple and intuitive 
 game. My parents and grandparents who haven't played a video game in years or ever, picked up the 
 controller and started playing. If a game allows non-gamers to pick it up and start have fun, then 
 that alone makes it a great game. Not only is a great game, but technically it is free. It is just 
 a game that Nintendo through in. Granted it is not the most beautiful games of all time, it makes 
 up for that, tenfold, by being fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is truly one of the best and i mean best games ever. Wii sports is game where you use 
 the wii mote as a baseball bat, tennis racket, boxing gloves, golf club, and a bowling ball. It 
 really gives you a feel at what its like to play that sport but without leaving your house. Wii 
 sports is one of the best games i have played. Tennis is really fun but kinda does'nt give the 
 feel of a real tennis racket. To me tennis seems too easy like not as hard and thats why i think 
 its not the best sport of them all. Tennis is fun to use the wii mote as a tennis racket. I would 
 tennis as the 3rd best sport to play in the game. Boxing is the my least favorite one because it 
 just does'nt have the feel as real boxing and its kinda hard to beat the opponent. Boxing is kinda 
 of a let down. Boxing would be in 5th best sport in other words last. Bowling is the best sport 
 in the game! Bowling gives you the best feel of playing real bowling. Bowling is like the real 
 thing because when twist your wrist its curves like in real bowling. Bowling is the best sport 
 of them all. Golf a would say is fun. In golf everything is almost like real golf. What i don't 
 like is when your barely tap but it makes it go really fast and miss the hole. Golf i would say 
 is the 2nd best game of them all. Now the last sport baseball now this game is pretty fun but it 
 is a kinda of a let down like. I think baseball is the 4th best sport. Overall wii sports is one 
 of the greatest games for the wii and the best part is it comes with the wii so wii sports rocks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsj0806
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the perfect multi-player game. It can be replayed over, and over, and over again. It uses 
 all of the wii controls while maintaining a fun game. Tennis is the most accurate game with forehand, 
 back hand and lob hits. Bowling is also very realistic and a little too easy because you dont need 
 to put any power into it to get a strike. Golf and baseball are ok. Golf doesnt require any aiming 
 because it hits the ball whether you swing the remote like a golf club or a baseball bat. Baseball 
 is just hitting and pitching, no running, which makes the game less fun. Boxing uses both the remote 
 and the nunchuck and is the hardest to get used to. You have to punch at a certain hight or your 
 person will be punching air. I think, overall, this game is the best multi-player game (with the 
 possible exception of Wario Ware) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eponique
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Thank god it was bundled with the Wii, or I would've seen right through this 
 game, this actually got me in to Sport Games.
  
  I just LOVE the opening theme song, it's music to my ears xD. Tennis is easy, and is beyond awesome 
 when playing with multiplayers, this gave me a lot of good laughs. Baseball was addictive, though 
 knocked me off the wagon when I started playing the Pros (they're impossible and god controlled) . 
 Bowling is awesome if you want to break your hand, and not attend your next gym lesson, that way 
 you're fit AND you don't do Gym! Everybody Wins! I haven't been much into Golf and Boxing...
  
  The graphics are the awesome Mii style (I just love it! I hope MySims has it too) .
  
  The 
 Baseball song is awesome! Dururet Derruritunn Derruritun, well yeah, you get what I mean.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who already loves sport games, or is trying to get into it! 
 Or anyone for that matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandeep1295
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  this game is fantastic. the controls work extrrrrrrreeeeeeeeeeeeeeemly well and i love them. theyre 
 just so simple and un gimmicky. the graphics are not amazing but they do do do do do dod od odo 
 do do dod odo (yes i rote that for extra words) do the job well. theyre very bubbly and cartoony.
 
  
  the game has plenty of depth with unlockable rackets, boxing gloves, courts etc etc. the sound 
 is great aswell. when you hit the tennis ball, you hear the ball hitting your racket on the wiimote 
 and then you here the ball bounce on the tv. its realy realy cool.
  
  the value is the best thing about this game. ITS FREE.
  i dont believe its free, its fantastic, 
 i love this game to bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Love it so just go buy a wii and have some fun.......... ......... .................... ............................. 
 ........... .............. ............... ........... ............... ................ ............ 
 .............. ....... ................... ............. ............. ............. .................... 
 ..................... ................ .................... ............... ............... ............... 
 ............ ............. ............. ................... xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 
 xxxx xxx xxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxx iiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiii 
 iiiiii ii iiii iiii i iiii iiii iiiii iiiiii iiiii iiiii iiiiii olollolololl l olololol olololol 
 olo lolol ol ol o lo l olololol ol ol o lo lo l o lolol olo l ol ol o lo l o l ol ol oll o l o 
 l ol o lo l ol o l ol o l o lo l ol o l o lo l o l o l ol o l ol ol o lo l o l o l o lo l o lo 
 lo l o lo lo lol ol o l ol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukieuk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for you to play with your friends and family.
  
  Tennis
  My favourite game and i'm the best in our home, and even my young daughters love the tennis, we 
 have tennis tournments and people who don't usually play on consoles will play this with you.
 
  
  PICK UP AND PLAY This is ninentdo idea and they said they would like the wii to be the main entainment 
 in the house and the wii is in my home.
  
  There is also training modes and a another great add on is how old are you and you have to play 
 little games and try and lower your age.
  
  Hopefully Ninentdo will offer online gaming in Wii Sports 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this game... One word can describe it.
  Fun
  This game has a great range of sports and the wiimote interacts almost perfectly with every game 
 (have had problems with golf) .
  
  Out of all of them i think that boxing and tennis is the best. Well tennis is certainly the most 
 active! I was sweating so badly i went and had a shower!
  Plus if you had 2 controllers this game would be twice as good with another person.
  
  Once 
 i played it alot of times when i see it in my pile of wii games i think that i wont have much fun 
 playing it. But every time its as fun as the first game. Overall i think this is a great game especially 
 considering it comes free with the wii!
  
  P. s Value is 10 because.. Well its free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've just recently played this game and i found it to be one of those game that you can't just 
 play once. This game comes with the Wii, but don't think it's just another lame game that their 
 trying to make you have, it's really entertaining and fun to play with you friends of siblings! 
 If nothing, buy a Wii because of this game, (and The Legend of Zelda) , and i know you won't regret 
 it. I mean come on, you get to make your own character, then you can play all types of sports with 
 said character. In my opion, the only thing this game is missing is basket ball, but i really don't 
 even like to play said sport, so this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olie440
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  its free so its good for the price it sucks as a single player cos it makes you do unnessary exacse 
 and its boring
  mutiplayer is great fun great revenge ploter so u can hit your friends when they anooy you and 
 blame it on the game
  great lasy alterive to playing out side with friends (out side you use legs and hands and brain 
 with wii sports just your wrists)
  do not play like on adverts hat is dumb and ake you sweat when you can just move your wrist to 
 do the same thing its ba becose it breacks reotes liuke the one i got on lanch day i had to get 
 a replacement witch took ages to come becose they had none 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is absolutely a fun game that appeals to the beginners of the Wii generation and the 
 martial artists of the console itself. It was a great idea for Nintendo to ship out the Wii included 
 with Wii Sports because it gives one a chance to harbor certain skills that one needs to play other 
 Wii titles. Certain aspects of the Wii such as swinging, hitting, juking, shaking, jumping, and 
 etc are all included in Wii Sports, therefore, giving a person who has no idea how to play Wii 
 a perfect opportunity to boost their skills enough to be able to play other great Wii titles. It 
 is an all-around great experience that allows for 1-4 players to get involved in the action and 
 get to know the Nintendo Wii and realize what it is really all about. If you think Wii Sports is 
 great, wait until it goes online and you can duke it out with your buddies and family members. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunner404
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  It's been 4 months now since I've had my Wii, owning a range of games, and I still think Wii Sports 
 is the best al round game. Now some may think thats stupid, especially after playing Zelda, but 
 as I've now completed Zelda it's not going to be played in a long while. And even though I've 'completed' 
 Wii sport, i. e. got pro levels in all sports, age 20 on Wii fitness, Gold's in most training games 
 (1 area to keep going) it is still the game I will continually go back to.
  
  Granted Nintendo have put back an array of what should be quality titles, Mario, Smash Bros. , 
 Mario Party, all great Nintendo titles that should thrive on the Wii, but at the moment Wii Sports 
 has to be the best for playability, both as a single player and multi-player. And the fact that 
 it was free, thats just the icing on the already tasty cake.
  
  It's also the ideal game to start your Wii experience on, as you get all the elements that makes 
 the Wii so good, the sensor control, multiplayer, simplicity and uniqueness of the games, and just 
 having fun moving around like a madman! Wii Sports definitely gets the thumbs up, and it will never 
 build up dust on the shelf! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtrazo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  For the first time since the SNES, Nintendo has seen fit to pack in a game with a new system, Wii 
 Sports. Although it's basically an upgraded tech demo for the Wii's motion sensoring capabilities, 
 it's still a fun game and a heck of a good value, what with it being free and all.
  
  You have your choice of Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, Bowling, and Golf, each with a quick tutorial 
 on the movements you need to master. It all becomes second nature pretty quickly, so you'll be 
 in the thick of things right away.
  
  You also get a Fitness Test, a series of tests you can take daily to determine your Fitness Age 
 , as well as a Training Mode, where you are placed in several special scenarios with a specific 
 goal to reach.
  
  As for graphics, it's fairly simplistic, as you're represented by your created Mii . The backgrounds 
 aren't picture-perfect detailed, but they get the job done, and honestly, this isn't a game where 
 you'll have the time to critique things like that, you be too busy a-swingin'.
  
  The music falls under the same category. It's generic, but fitting and unobtrusive, and again, 
 this isn't the type of game you play for a sweeping score.
  
  For a free game, it's tough to find fault in Wii Sports, as it's a pretty good introduction to 
 what the Wii is capable of, and a fun little party game to boot. However, it is more than a bit 
 lacking in depth and will probably fade out of your game rotation in time, so enjoy it while it 
 lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Every Wii comes with a copy of Wii Sports. And it can be a fun variety pack of games. But if this 
 is really what the Wii is all about I think I will pass for quite some time.
  
  First of all I don't like the Wii controls. They play just like the sport games you can have a better 
 time with outside playing. O, and here is something even worse, if you suck at sports in real life, you 
 are going to suck just as hard here. But Wii Sports makes the sports harder by making the controller 
 sometimes lose its response.
  
  The graphics are boring and bland. The Miis look like something out of a Fisher Price Toybox. And 
 there is no arena selection, so you have to compete in the same area with each sport every single 
 time.
  
  Sounds are annoying. Even the sound effects are way off key. And you will probably just want to set 
 you're TV to mute.
  
  This game can be quite good for families and its easy to pop in for a while and just play a little 
 before work or something. But the single player is just really boring, so if you have no friends 
 to play this game with you, I would just toss this aside and get Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: VERY easy to pick up and play; strangely addicting simple gameplay; clean presentation; 
 it's free.
  
  The Bad: Overly simple gameplay in a lot of ways; presentation is underwhelming; isn't going to 
 please those looking for something with more meat.
  
  There are open-minded reviewers and there are snooty "hardcore" reviewers. The open-minded reviewers 
 see Wii Sports for what it is: a simple way to show off what the Wii can do, and a way to pull 
 non-gamers and casual gamers into it. Though it may seem extremely simple, there's one thing that 
 can be said about Wii Sports: it's dang fun!
  
  There's five games in Wii Sports: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. They each work well... to 
 varying degrees. The golfing game seems overly sensitive and hard to control, and boxing is a little 
 tiring. Overall, though, they're all a bunch of fun to play, especially with a bunch of friends 
 or family who have created their own Miis. There's a lot of simple crazy fun to be had here, and 
 it will certainly tide people over to Super Smash Bros., or whatever.
  
  The simplest way to put it is this: it's free, it's simple, and it's a good bit of fun. Hard to 
 complain about that, unless you want to get hung up on the fact that it's not deep and hardcore 
 like Halo or Gears of War. Whatever. It's still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoffmabo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  This is quite a nice little game for the starting game of the Wii. It lets you check out how the 
 remote works, as well as play a few of you favorite sports. It's nice that you can customize your 
 little Mii character and use that in these games. Some of them are very basic, but they are still 
 very fun to play. I enjoyed them when I bought my wii. and I still even play it now. Whenever I 
 get bored and want a good boxing match, or a simple game of bowling. It's quite fun as abasic as 
 it is, I am certainly glad that they included this into the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7thRonin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I did feel the revolutionary.
  
  I felt it was addicting. Its not such a pretentious game in terms of gameplay though even with 
 the use of the wiimote.
  I though the wiimote wasnt that accurate. You dont need to do strong or fast moves to reproduce 
 something efficent in the games.
  
  Its simple and cool, not very deep. Still very fun when played with friends.
  
  It would have 
 been nice if they would have put on some better environements, characters and animations. The visuals 
 is a bit torturing at times, but is forgiven since its much of a style rather than technical limitations.
 
  
  The sounds, music could have been a bit better.
  
  Finally, its really cool, fun, but maybe too simple. Can be easely improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oekelion
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game game with the Wii. Although it is free, it has five good games such as Baseball, Bowling, 
 Boxing (why am I starting this alphabetically?) Golf, and most mentioned, Tennis. You play this 
 game first so you are warmed up to play the other games, like WarioWare: Smooth Moves. You also 
 should play because of the control. Okay, so it is good on gameplay, but what about the value. 
 If you were paying lots of attention then, you would know that this game was absolutely free. So 
 it is worthless if you already mastered it, but it is good for people who are beginning to learn 
 how to play Wii. Anyway, this game is good for first playing the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a game that is good if you want to kill some time. Got some friends with wiis? Invite 
 them over for a fun-fill day in 5 different sports against friends or a. i. The game itself gets 
 pretty boring after a while once you hit PRO status, the challenge is minimal. Tennis can be quite 
 fun but once you beat Elisa and Sarah, you wish there was more. To play baseball up to 3 innings 
 is somewhat short, and there are some technical problems. When i want to throw a splitter, sometimes 
 it reads a fast ball. It's not just me, all my friends have the same problem, which leads to a 
 lovely home run for the opposition. Boxing, golf and bowling have its up and downs, but there is 
 good practice when there are sets of practice tests that helps develop your skills in each sport. 
 Cant say its a horrible game because its free, so take it for what its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnrcrazy19
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game obviously isnt going to have great graphics, and you can tell that by looking at the 
 cover. I am glad that this game with the system because it really shows you how to use the wii 
 remote. All of these games are fun to play, but i would have to say that the bowling one is my 
 favorite. I usually set up tournaments with my friends in bowling which you can probably do on 
 any of the games. The others one are fun but i dont especially enjoy the golfing one. I am very 
 grateful that nintendo gave this game for free with the system because then i would have no games 
 at all for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Personally I don't enjoy this game a whole lot but I still believe it's a good game. People love 
 playing this game, and I have to admit it's a lot more fun when you have other people playing with 
 you. As a single player game though it is not very fun. If you do wish to play it single player 
 you can still work to getting your skill points higher which makes you have an objective and makes 
 the game slightly more satisfying. This game gives you five sports to play. You have boxing, bowling, 
 golfing, tennis, and baseball. There is also a training and fitness game. All the games are somewhat 
 fun. You won't be amazed but they're ok. The training mode gives you different mini games within 
 the 5 sports to increase your skill. like dodging tennis balls for boxing, returning tennis balls, 
 or practicing hitting home runs. The fitness gives you a 5 test one from each sport and picks a 
 training game. It then decides your wii fitness age based on your overall performance. I reccommend 
 playing this game with freinds and/or family. It is a lot more fun that way and everyone seems 
 to enjoy it. Overall the game did an ok job. I found some issues with controls but there weren't 
 as many as I thought there would be. The multiplayer is probably the best part about this game. 
 So yeah it's a pretty good game. And it's free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyHeyMyMy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying wii sports is a simple game. But that is the game's strength, as it is easy 
 to pick up and great fun to play. Wii Sports consists of 5 games, Tennis, Golf, Baseball Bowling, 
 and Boxing. Tennis, baseball, and boxing are all great, and bowling is excellent, but golf is really 
 lacking due to bad controls. Still, overall, the package has very good controls, with you actually 
 swinging the wiimote to hit a ball, get a strike, roll a spare, and beat someone elses head in. 
 With mii support, the game looks adequate, with a nice simple style that is about what you'd expect 
 from a pack in. Unfortunately, the sound is lacking, as though there are some good effects sound, 
 the music isn't great. It's a pack-in and it's got 5 games with multiple modes of play, including 
 training modes and incredible multiplayer, so it's a great value. Overall, Wii Sports is a great 
 pack-in for the wii that's fun for pretty much anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zac41
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Here is my long overdue review...
  
  Although I've had Wii since launch, Wii sports is the one game you will keep going back to. It 
 could be 20 minutes, could be for an hour. You will for sure keep putting this game back into your 
 system.
  
  Wii sports will have you, your friends, your girlfriend, and even your grandma waving their arms 
 around bowling strikes and hitting home runs. Each game is designed to keep things simple, to draw 
 in non-gamers as well as gamers. Tennis: Tennis works very well with the remote, complete with 
 rumble and noises coming from the remote to enhance the experience. You cant control your characters 
 movement, but you will barley notice it, since your too busy having fun with the game. This game 
 is the best on the disk.
  
  Baseball: This game is my least favourite on the disk. It was made simple, but when playing baseball, 
 I would like to be able to control my bases, and catchers. Sometimes the computer controlled characters 
 just wont do what you would want them to.
  
  Bowling: This sport works perfect for wii sports and is only second to tennis. Bowling is a simple 
 sport, and therefore well done on the game. There are no complaints with this game (except I can't 
 always bowl straight dam it) .
  
  Golf: Golf works pretty well, and has enough variation to keep you busy. The golf in wii sports 
 is the deepest game of them all. It has 9 holes, different clubs, etc. Boxing: If you want to really 
 work up a sweat, plug in your nun chuck and have a few rounds of this game. This one will burn 
 calories as the difficulty ramps up fast on you.
  
  Although the games graphics are very simple, they are vary smooth/clean and well polished. For 
 example in bowling there is full reflection on the floor. Wii sports is perfect when playing with 
 friends, and it's a shame that there was no online mode. Online would have made this title even 
 more of a complete package.
  
  Each game has a experience point set up. Win games, get experience, and you can become pro. The 
 sad this is, becoming pro doesnt really do anything, or unlock anything. The good part though 
 is the build up of experience will make the game harder and harder, keeping the game challenging 
 as you get better.
  
  Overall Wii sports has more going for it than against. It's an all around simple fun game. It's 
 kind of refreshing to see a game thats so simple yet able to be such a great experience. There 
 is definite room for improvement, but the game is free and thats worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devoo55
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm not going to say much on this because personally I don't own this game. My brother has 
 a Wii and he came over and I played the game for a few days. It is a very fun game and highly addictive. 
 You can play golf, box, bowl, play baseball and play tennis. You can also make characters that 
 you invent. My brother made one of me and I can't say I think it looks like me, but that guy sure 
 is grumpy.
  
  Basicly what you do is make a character and go around playing these games as options. The more 
 you win, the harder the opponents will be to go against. Each time you finish playing a game, it 
 tells you your score and gives you a rating for a plus or minus rank.
  
  My favorite game on there is probably bowling. I do have to say that golf is a great game aswell. 
 The worst game? Well, I gotta say that would be baseball. I am a baseball player, and that game 
 is just terrible. This baseball is just like what you would do on one of those pup-up games to 
 win an ipod. You pretty much click when the ball gets close. :P
  
  That's about it for my review. Great game right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  When i got my wii with Wii sports on the 8th i was playing it non-stop hours, it is a great family 
 game! and when you invite guests or family members over you feel proud to show them a tour on wii 
 sports, and give them a game of tennis.
  
  First of all, The gameplay in 4 words! Out Of This World! i have never played a console like the 
 wii! with the motion censored remote to throw a punch in boxing or bowl a ball in bowling ^^ The 
 fun never stops with Wii Sports.
  There is also 2 for features, Training and Fitness! in training you take on a series of mini games 
 to make you better at Wii Sports, and Fitness basically tests you on how well you are doing, its 
 a bit like brain age! you take on 3 challenges at random from the training sessions and it determines 
 your fitness age &gt; &lt; , pretty cool eh?
  
  Graphics, there not all that : ( but that doesn't matter because you don't really care when your 
 playing! i mean i personally think that Wii golfs graphics are pretty good! But overall, there 
 good graphics but not great!
  
  Sounds, i love the sounds, they so suit the game, some sounds are pretty realistic! there are some 
 cool sound effects too!
  
  This game is definitely value for money and i have to say I always turn this game on everyday to 
 have a game on tennis, for me it never goes old! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is not one of the greatest games of all time, and we can all realize that. But, it was 
 a good start to give everyone an idea of how the Nintendo Wii and it's fluent controls worked. 
 While it comes with 5 sports, those being Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing, the game 
 also includes a training facility, and a fitness program. The sports are easy to master, but it's 
 always good to learn some new hidden skills you thought you never had. That's where the training 
 facility comes into use. Now for a lot of people, fitness is important. Whether you're you're built 
 or not, this facility can give you a test of your approximate age. Although it's directed more 
 to adults, it can still be enjoyed by younger gamers.
  
  The game's graphics aren't as good as the games that we see today, but they're good enough for 
 us to enjoy, afterall, it's not so much that we should care about the graphics, but the connection 
 between us and the game. The ability to play as your personally made Miis from the Wii Console 
 or Wii Remote gives us a better sense of connection to the game, and gives it an interesting feature, 
 like other games. All in all, Wii Sports was an excellent game at the Nintendo Wii launch. It's 
 both revolutionary, and a great introduction for the Nintendo Wii. It should be played and enjoyed 
 by all Wii owners from all over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game has really impressed me, since it was the one which came with the console I wasn't expecting 
 much, but it revealed itself to be a very fun game.
  The wiimote gameplay is highly explored in this game in several ways. It is also a very simple 
 game, but not stupid. Making it a perfect game to come the console, because it is a great example 
 of the Wii gameplay power and it is suitable for all family members. Everyone will have a complete 
 Wii experience and enjoy it.
  The graphics are good and you use your Mii (a Wii version of yourself) which is really fun!
  
 The game consist on 5 Sports: tennis, baseball, golf, bowling and boxing, where you can fight NPCs 
 to gain experience, your friends on multiplayer mode or you can play the training mode, where which 
 sport has 3 minigames and you win medals depending on how you do on them. You can also try the 
 Wii Fitness once a day to see your Wii Fitness age. It will randomly choose 3 of the minigames 
 from the training mode, and after you've played them all it will give you your age, with 20 being 
 the best one.
  This game really was a great choice to come with the console, the wiimote is much more sensitive 
 then I've imagined, making it easier and very realistic to play. The movements and its response 
 are awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Here's the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: this is the highest scoring category in my review because it is the only category it 
 really does good at. it is just plain fun, although the gameplay isn't completly realistic, it 
 still gives players the feeling they are actually bowling, playing baseball, etc. there are control 
 issues with the golf though, it just doesn't really work at all unless you are just some guru at 
 that.
  
  Graphics: let me just say they get the job done. they could easily be achieved on the gamecube 
 but nintendo was able to make it look okay, where there isn't slowdown, no apparent jaggies (unless 
 you search for them) , and bright colors.
  
  Sound: meh.... okay, the sound effects work well with the controller speaker, I'll give them that, 
 but everything from the music, the on-screen sound effects, and the jingles kinda aren't that good.
 
  
  Value: this isn't really a category as you're getting this game no matter what (as it's a pack-in) 
 but you better hope you have frequent visits from your friends to play this because after just 
 a few hours, you WILL GET BORED. that being said, it's an okay game, the tennis was addicting for 
 me (I'm pro at level 1859) but there just really isn't anything to come back to after you beat 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Since the first day I got my Wii, this game never gets old. It has many modes to play, and the 
 games are fun, bu simple, so anyone could play and have a chance of winning. Tennis is awesome, 
 but it is very sensitive, and doesn't always respond to the right hand movements. Bowling is the 
 most close to reality game on Wii Sports because even a backhand spin is possible with the correct 
 wrist action. Baseball is an all around fun game, but it is basically going to be that one game 
 where you first break your wrist strap, but thegameplay is cool, and the different pitching variations 
 work well, but when hitting, it kills your arm, and you remain sore for like the next 3 or 4 days. 
 Golf is also a very sensitive game, and probably thee most sensitive on the disc. The controls 
 are somewhat hard, and the ball doesn't always respond well to the strike or the club. Boxing is 
 also very fun, and most fun in two player mode, which of course, requires yet another nun chuk 
 controller, which is another 20 dollars out of the pocket, but you might find it worth buying as 
 the boxing game is very addicting. Overall simple, I do think Wii Sports was a good decision made 
 by Nintendo for the equipped game included in the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardazu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Although, this game makes you feel like its number one purpose is to get you acquainted with Nintendo 
 Wii, it goes beyond and becomes a decent fun party game. I don't think I would like to consider 
 Wii sports as a sports game, because games are so simple and short but this is one of the best 
 party games that you can play with your friends. Wii sports also makes a great presentation to 
 show what Wii is capable of. It is so much fun that it takes hours to realize there are some other 
 sports that you didn't play yet. On the other hand, there are definitely somethings need improvement. 
 For example, if you are playing alone, the game doesn't offer you any accomplishments. It feels 
 like you don't gain much and you desperately look for a friend to play with. Overall this is fun 
 game and a nice presentation for Wii but you definitely need people to share it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  This is the best multiplayer game for the Wii as we speak. Rayman and Warioware are complete crap 
 for me, but Wii sports is really cool.
  
  Gameplay : works well, some could be improved but overall it works well
  
  Graphics : oh well, 
 doesn't really matter
  
  Sound : ZzZ
  
  The skill you earn through the time you play makes a good replay value because you always get to 
 fight harder opponents which is really nice.
  
  A very good game considering it came free, shows what the wii is really about. Good to play with 
 friends to compete and makes a good use of the Miis.
  
  It's plenty of fun to hit Michael Jackson in the boxe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Good Party game. This game was free with the consol and equiped with 5 sports.
  
  Golf- Pretty fun, but a little buggy. 9/10
  
  Bowling- Great single player/multiplayer fun 
 10/10
  
  Baseball- fun to swing but piching is horrible 5/10
  
  Boxing- fun but unresponsive at times 6/10
  
  Tennis- boring as hell 5/10
  
  The game was 
 free, so it gets major points. Untill the next version of Wii Sports comes out, this will hold 
 you off. Also its a good time waster if you feel like wasting time.
  
  Hopefully we can see some hockey or basket ball soon, but this will hold me off untill I get Super 
 Paper mario sometime in the near future.
  
  Thats all I got to say about that, play some multiplayer tennis and try not to get wacked in the 
 face with a controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles931
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Well the game that came in the wii box really put the wii`s freemotion controls to the test. I 
 thought this was a nice sample game for the wii. i mean it isnt like an adventure but it has extroadinary 
 multiplayer and is has the best replay value next to madden 07 wii. You get five action packed 
 games that you can use your special mii in. If you go pro in the games you ein shiny new equipment 
 like bowling balls and bats. This is great game and it deserves to be sold by itself. You can play 
 this game with family and friends or sit down on the couch and play it by yourself. this game is 
 really worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Wii is probably the greatest system ever invented up until now, and the Wii Sports is probably 
 the best game that ever came with a Nintendo system. It has five sports games all equally great. 
 It really shows the full potential of the Wii. The tennis game is great. Its very simple to play 
 and loads of fun! Baseball is also awesome. Its fun to be the batter and the pitcher. Its very 
 realistic when you play, especially since you can throw the ball at different speeds and different 
 ways (i. e. curveball) . Also when batting you have to swing at the right moment or else you don't 
 hit the ball. The Bowling game is fun. You have to bowl just like in real life, arm back then throw 
 the ball forward. The ball's speed depends on how hard you swing the ball. Next is the Golf game. 
 This is good for relaxing, i love to play it and relax. Finally is boxing. I think this is the 
 best because it uses both the remote and the nunchuke and is loads of fun. You actually get to 
 box with the computer and its a great workout. All in all I think Wii Sports is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespot813
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game, you definetly want to play it when your friends are around. I'd recommend playing 
 it on a widescreen TV with your friends, because Wii Tennis is a bit hard to see when it's on split 
 screen on a small TV. It's not something you'd want to play alone, and the gamestory isn't that 
 deep either. Those are the only 2 draw backs that I see. If you want to get off the couch and burn 
 those calories this game definetly makes you sweat. There are 5 different minigames in the whole 
 game package. Wii Tennis, Wii Golf, Wii Baseball, Wii Boxing, and Wii Bowling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Probably the reason Wii was made. Game like this are always fun, and last forever. Wii sports in 
 10 years will be what space invaders is today. Graphics didnt really matter, but the shiny, polished, 
 ultra smooth appearance of the game with its staggeringly obvious lighting effects and ideal. Sound 
 in a sports game is basically slip into two. The actually ball, hitting sounds and the backbround 
 referee and crowd. Wii sports balances these quite well. Certainly the gameplay and controls is 
 the basis of this game which could be considered a high tech novelty. As a result you never get 
 bored of this- its always great-for short break, for a long rest. Thanks to the variety between 
 training, actual game and wii fitness the tilt of this game is similar to space invaders and the 
 value is ideal. Its free! The moment you buy Wii this game is yours to play. What could be greater 
 than that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  I've only had a Wii for two weeks. Mostly, I've been playing Wii Sports and I gotta say that I'm 
 loving it. Wii Sports consist of five different sports, which are Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf 
 and Boxing. This review will just be me ranking these sports starting with the one I like the most.
 
  
  1. Tennis. I love this. It actually reminds me more of playing real-life table-tennis than playing 
 real tennis and that's because you don't have to run all the time and you don't have to hit the 
 ball as hard as you would in actual tennis. This is something positive for me, because I played 
 a lot of table-tennis when I was a kid and I loved it. The Wii-mote works really well for tennis, 
 the controls are responsive and intuitive.
  
  2. Bowling. I love this one too. Bowling is also something that I enjoy in real life. The controls 
 work fine with the bowling and it's always a fantastic feeling to get as many strikes in a row 
 as possible.
  
  3. Golf. Alongside with tennis, I think that Golf has the best use of the Wii-mote out of all the 
 sports. It's just too bad that I don't like golf that much.
  
  4. Boxing. This is definately the best sport if you wan't some excercise. When you box, you'll 
 be jabbing a lot with the Wii-mote and the Nunchuk which quite soon will cause you to start sweating.
 
  
  5. Baseball. I don't like this. Maybe it's just because I'm European, we have no tradition of playing 
 baseball what-so-ever. Americans and Japanese will probably like more than I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepps2007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I dont actually own a wii, the only reason i have played this game is because i went up my friends 
 house, he owns a wii, and him, his two brothers and i stayed up until around2 am taking it in turns, 
 to play on wii sports.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 Soooo much fun, boxing can get a bit out of controll but all the games will provide 
 countless hours of sporting goodness, tenniswith two players is my personall favourite.
  
  Graphics 7/10 Wont blow you away, but thats not what the wii was designed for, it was made for 
 pure fun games!
  
  Sound 9/10, All the sporty sounds youd expect and it comes out of the Wiimote which adds to effect 
 when you swing and you hear the thwack of you golf club hitting the ball.
  
  Value 10/10 Wil provide, many many many many hours of gaming goodness, and will be fun no matte 
 if you like sports or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I got the Wii not too long ago, and was anxious to play. I have to say the console is very innovative, 
 but at the same time easy to pick up and play.
  The game itself is pretty good.
  The graphics are not pretty, but are not supposed to be.
  The gameplay is just plain fun for 
 the whole family, and is just great for parties. My personal favorite was Wii Bowling. The Wii 
 Fitness feature was pretty creative.
  I love the way the controller makes sounds while you're playing. The guy that talks on that game 
 is very annoying.
  It would have been cool if they added more sports, but for free you can't complain. All in all, 
 if for some reason your Wii didn't come with Wii Sports... steal it from your friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nascarulz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I really want the Wii so I can play this. Ive played it alot at my friends, and I sure know what 
 Im missing. Although some of the games are a blah affair, most are verii fun to play, especiallii 
 if a friend is there to play with you. My personal favorite was bowliing. Although I got my butt 
 kicked by my friend and his five-yiir old brother, it was an awesome expiirience. The motion sensiing 
 was almost spot on and amaziing. It just blew my mind, I was litterealii sayiing Oh my god, im swiinging 
 a bat! or I just got a hole iin one! Baseball, Bowliing, and Golf were the thrii that were good, 
 but boxing and tennis were kinda meh. But then again when I do get the Wii, ill get this for frii 
 so i wont complain anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mort_Rouge
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Good games have been a rare thing for the Wii. Let's face it, even tough many of the other system's 
 games are mostly awkward, Wii is the one with the least top games. There's Zelda and Wario Ware, 
 and after them comes games like Rayman Raving Rabbids and Madden. Almost every other game has gotten 
 low scores on every gaming sites.
  Thank god for Wii Sports i say!
  Since everyone gets Wii Sports with the console, it must be one of the most extensively played 
 wii games there is, and there's nothing wrong with that! Altough wii sports might not be what you 
 would call a full game , it's pure quality, and it always helps at those gaming get togethers. 
 Training your Mii so that you can brag with it infront of your friends never stops amusing (or 
 at least my friend who train his Mii daily) .
  Wii sports is one of the few games that hold up the honour of the Wii with it's fun, and addactive 
 gameplay. For Multiplayer, it might just be the best game for the Wii right now!
  It's largest weakness is that it's not very inspiring to play singleplayer, but as said before, 
 the multiplayer more than makes up for that!
  So the final words: Not a masterpiece, but always entertaining! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatLostKid
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the first game I played and most people have played. I found it to be a very good 
 game, It's really a lot of fun. I really enjoy Tennis. It's fun and easy to get used to. The boxing 
 is probably my favourite. I'm now a pro and on 1200 points. It's good because it gets harder as you 
 go. I found the bowling and baseball quite boring and they brought down the score for me. I liked 
 the golf too. It was quite realistic and is a challenge. Overall it's a great and really fun game. It's 
 the type of game you want to play with lots of people. It's great because any age can play. Really 
 enjoyed it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is about as pick up and play as you are going to find. On it's own I probably wouldnt 
 have bought it, but since it comes free with a Wii, I cant complain. the bowling game is the best 
 by far. Wii Sports is also a good way to show your friends how the Wii's cool controller works.
 
  
  Gameplay 8- this game will teach you how to get used to the motion sensing abilities of the controller 
 more than anything else. But the mini games are still fun to play occasionally.
  Graphics 8- Nothing too fancy here, but the visuals do look nice. If this is the first game you 
 see for the Wii's graphics, you will be impressed at what the little white box is capable of.
 
  Sound 7- Sounds that you expect to hear while playing any of the sports on this disc. Nothing 
 more, nothing less.
  Value 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultralink12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is not your 10-30 hour adventure game, but simply a good time. You can create your own mii's 
 and use them to play this incredibly fun collection of mini games. This game is for up to 4 players 
 and is included with the purchase of a wii console.
  
  First off, there is Tennis a simple doubles game that can be played by just simply swinging the 
 wii remote. This is a great party game and can be appreciated by anyone.
  
  Baseball and boxing are 2 player games and as you can imagine you play baseball by swinging the 
 wii remote to hit the ball, the other player can choose from a variety of pitches but cannot play 
 the outfield. In boxing you use the nunchuck attachment and can jab, punch uppercut and other boxing 
 moves.
  
  Bowling and Golf are like the cherry on top of the sundae, bowling uses a simply fluid motion with 
 the wii remote to bowl the ball and you can add curve also. Golf is straight forward and you can 
 golf with a variety of different clubs on 9 different classic NES holes.
  
  Finally there is wii training and wii fitness, wii training is a series of activites that you can 
 earn a medal in on each sport. Wii fitness is a system which you can only use once daily and measures 
 your fitness level based on your performance in minigames.
  
  Wii Sports is a great multiplayer game and can be learned by anyone with ease. Like I said before 
 it comes with the system and fun for anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunshyn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great example of more realistic game play and much more fun than the trend toward 
 realistic graphics. Just about everyone I've shown it to absolutely loves it. It's the perfect 
 entertainment even for non-game-playing visitors. The games are long enough to be enjoyable but 
 short enough to keep everyone's interest.
  
  In addition to the regular games, the daily fitness and training programs are great for single 
 person play and have some interesting variations. In one bowling training game the number of pins 
 keeps increasing each time until they number almost 100. After the first wave of downed pins there's 
 a domino-like effect which often drops the last one or two comically late. One of the tennis games 
 has you aiming at targets on the wall, and baseball batting practice has you swinging for homeruns 
 until spare balls start rolling back onto the field.
  
  Wii Sports was even enthusiastically recommended by my physical therapist for recovery of muscle 
 function.
  
  It's really amazing how accurate the motion control is, but there's also a great deal of perfection 
 put into the details such as the physics of how each pin would fall. Bowling is just like the real 
 thing without the heavy ball, and my father said he only started doing well at golf after he started 
 swinging as if he were actually on a real course. Overall, this is a fantastic game. They couldn't 
 have picked a better one to show off the potential of the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  it's a small game that doesn't just show how the Wii motion sense can work but it's the only game 
 that i really felt like it want's to show me what the wii controller can do unlike WarioWare SM 
 that the controller is just here so you can do those minigames. i'm going to divide my review for 
 five parts on each sport.
  Baseball: the controller works, batting and pithcing feels good, the only problem that it's just 
 too hard to even get a single. it's so hard to know really when the ball is close enough that you 
 can hit and most of the times that you hit it for a long distence it's a foul ball. i say that 
 this is one of the games that you shoulden't play.
  Golf: very fun but it's the game that's going to be the fastest to get board. the problem is that 
 even that playing golf on the wii is fun you don't feel like playing it again like bowling.
  Boxing: it feels good to punch that Mii in the face and in the stomoch and i think it's one of 
 the better games on the game.
  Tennis: once again this game is really fun and the only thing that's not so good about this game 
 is that sometimes the ball goes too much to the side when you hit it and it doesn't the ground.
 
  Bowling: this is the best game in the pack because it's exacly like the real thing and bowling 
 is really fun and it has good minigames with it. as a small game it's perfect.
  beside the games the game has good minigames and training like trying to take down a noumber of 
 the pins in a specific way and trying not to miss tennis balls. and the game has great sound, it 
 has a very catchy main music and the small sounds in every game fit each game. this game isn't 
 going tp last forever in your Wii system but it's a good game to realx bettween Zelda and WarioWare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  First time I heard of this I was not sure about it but it is fun and you can play it with friends. 
 This game uses the Wii mote very well for it's sports like tennis, golf, Bowling, Boxing and Baseball. 
 It's a fun title and the game seems to be something fresh and new from nintendo and it has proved 
 to be a very good title. If there was a critcism about this game it is the lack of sports on it. 
 I am sure people would have wanted more sports for the game. The Gameplay is new and simple and 
 it's a new game from Nintendo which proves why Nintendo are the best video games designers in the 
 world. Solid title and fun to play with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenszulu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that is just fantastic fun and a great way to show what a new console 
 can do, by no means a masterpiece, but great fun anyway and its not like you really have much 
 choice in having it anyway. So its a good thing that its actually good fun to play and very easy 
 to pick up, there are five games in all and each one is unique in how they control each mimicking 
 the sport which they are based on, three out of the five really do this better than the other two 
 in my opinion, I find both Tennis and Boxing to feel quite erratic, and not as accurate as the 
 others, not that they still arent quite fun to play, they are, the controls just arent as good 
 as they could have been. Now as long as you dont expect the most challenging games here you really 
 should enjoy it, and trying to master each one of the different events will take some time, and 
 with friends its a great game, if you have the controllers and enough space to play them, mainly 
 for tennis since it can have up to four of you swinging away . A lot has also been said about the 
 way people over do the movements as they play these games and have ended up hurting them selves, 
 although I can see it is possible to do so, as long as you have the wrist strap on it really shouldnt 
 be a problem, unless you go over board and start acting like an idiot and start throwing the Wii-mote. 
 You also dont really have to do the motions like it says to as there are ways to do it that make 
 it less physical, but really the whole point of this game is to feel like you are playing the sport, 
 and it is much more fun if you try and get into it, plus its the first game I can honestly say 
 I have worked up a sweat playing that wasnt a dancing game, so that really cant be a bad thing 
 in that respect, unless you are the sort of gamer who sits about drinking fizzy drinks and eating 
 chocolate bars and have no desire to stand up as you play a game as it may mean the intent in your 
 seat left by your buttocks has time to cool down. Harsh I know, but I actually know some one like 
 that.
  
  Not much more I can really say bout this game, it really is just great fun and always good to pick 
 up for a quick go, just dont expect to be challenged all that much once you master each event 
 but you can always compete for scores and against friends which adds quite a lot of replay value, 
 more games like this from Nintendo would be great, the Mario sports games may never be the same 
 if this is anything to go by, and here is hoping they make a new Punch Out game based on the Boxing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffy2525
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes already packaged with the Wii and is an excellent demonstration of how the Wii 
 and Wii remote work together. It comes with 5 sports - Bowling, Tennis, Golf, Baseball and Boxing. 
 It is easy to pick up and young and old alike can enjoy it together.
  
  Players use the Wii remote to imitate the action used in the real sports, such as, swinging a tennis 
 racket or a golf club. Boxing is the only sport to utilize both the remote and the nunchuck (holding 
 one is each hand to throw punches) .
  
  There is also a training mode (with different variations of each sport) and a fitness mode (to 
 test your body age ) .
  
  This game is alot of fun to play alone or with friends and has great replay value. So go ahead 
 and invite some people over and play sports right in your own living room! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is the perfect example of what a company who comes out with revolutionary game play needs 
 to do when trying to sell such an abstract idea to a very small minded environment of consumers. 
 Nintendo included a glorified demo disc that demonstrated the full scope of what the Wii can do!
 
  
  It's a nice cross-section with baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, and boxing. You actually feel as 
 though you are playing these sports. You have the baseball stance for baseball; you throw the bowling 
 ball in the bowling stance, ECT. You benefit from taking the proper stance.
  
  Boxing throws in the nunchuk so you have both fists controlling both fists on screen.
  
  But 
 it's more then a demo. There is lasting playability here to! The fitness test is a blast, especially 
 when you have more than one person playing daily. Competing with my room-mate on who is younger 
 is always fun! The extra challenge for each sport makes the game even more enjoyable. I've spent 
 hours playing the Strike game where each frame another line of pins is added behind the existing 
 setup. Trying to knock down the 10th frame has both given me a headache from consistent failure, 
 to the enjoyment of the challenge trying to succeed.
  
  Not that you have to decide to purchase this, since it comes with the system, but it's great having 
 a great system demonstration come along for the ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is great it has an new aproach at gaming and in a good way. A perfect way to start off 
 your Wii experience but not enough to keep you occupied for long. But if you have friends over 
 it is one of the games you gotta play and one of the games you just gotta test out for yourself 
 to understand.
  
  Graphics, well... not good is one way to say it. But it is atleast 3d and not repulsive.
  
 
  Sound, meh... all that I can say for it. It's got a catchy tone but you'll get sick of it and 
 want nobody to mention it again.
  
  Value, a Wii essential and worth buying. If it diddn't come with the Wii in the first place?... 
 buy it?... hmm I don't think that I whould enless it came with it or if it was 20 bucks or less. 
 But if you want to enjoy a great sensitivity game where you really feel like your in the action 
 and family fun then.. jump in!
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, great sensitivity revolutionay gameplay.
  
  The Bad, graphics and sound are fit for 
 preshoolers.
  
  but hey i love nintendo and the customization of ur character is fun. the gameplay is absolutely 
 revolutionary and it was so fun when i first got my wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paparazzi00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is one of the most interesting games of all time. It really uses every aspect of the 
 unique motion sensory of the wii. It also is very interesting due to the choice of characters. 
 You can pick any of your own mii's! In addition, each game is highly addictive and never gets boring. 
 To add to all of this, it is a game for old or young. Finally, this game has something so unique 
 that it may be the greatest idea of all. The idea is wii fitness, this is meant to show you how 
 fit you are. In it you play three mini games to test your speed, balance, and endurance. To top 
 this all off, you may practice these games in practice mode. The only flaw with this mode is that 
 it is meant for only adults to test their fitness age which only goes down to 20, but this isn't 
 all bad because kids can have fun with it too. Now i will explain all of the addicting sub-games 
 in this game. There is baseball, golf, tennis, boxing, and bowling. These games are all fun, but 
 the greatest ones in my opinion are boxing, bowling, and tennis. Although golf and baseball are 
 fun, they just do not have the competition of bowling, the intensity of boxing, and the fast pace 
 of tennis. As you can see i highly reccomend this game for ALL ages. It is a must have along with 
 the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  The graphics are ridiculous, so is the sound, so is basically everything about it. But my family 
 can't keep their hands off it and that may be the biggest accomplishment Wii Sports has made. My 
 dad, who has repeatedly referred to video games as the devil (not in the same way as Jack Thompson, 
 but still) was seriously playing as I was bowling, a shock that I still haven't recovered from. 
 And random people are always playing this game in the dorm because it's just fun . No other game 
 has done this type of thing, and to tell the truth no game's really tried. The fact that it's free 
 doesn't hurt, because it's not a real game that I'm going to get excited about based on its artistic 
 merit, but come on, it got my dad to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceK17
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is basically 5 simplified sports in 1 for the price ofnothing. (Can't go wrong there) . 
 As a game that comes with the Wii, theres no complaning here, instead, its a great fun game that 
 can appeal to all sorts of gamers and even non-gamers. The motion sensing controls work fairly 
 well for each of the sports, giving you a pretty realistic and fun experience all around. From 
 swinging the bat in baseball to throwing the ball in bowling, and even punching with the both hands 
 using the nunchuck attachment in boxing, Wii sports gives you a fairly authentic feel and actually 
 makes it feel like you are playing that particular sport. Unfortunatly, some one the sports in 
 some parts can be oversimplified to keep the core-gamers interested long enough. Besides playing 
 full games in each of the sports, theres also Training mode and Wii fitness. Training mode lets 
 you practice in 3 seperate training games for each of the sports as well as trying to get the highest 
 score. Wii fitness is the thing in this that keeps you coming back and without it, this game would 
 feel a little shallow. Wii fitness lets you try once a day basically a fitness test composing of 
 the games from the training mode. Once a day, a Mii can take the test containing 3 of those training 
 mode games in random, and based on your performance to accomplish the goals or tasks that must 
 be performed in those games, at the end you''ll get a age. 80 being the highest and 20 being the 
 lowest age or score. (the lowest I had was 21, so it's fairly challenging since you have to be skilled 
 in all of the sports) . So thats basically the game. After trying to become a pro by earning 1000 
 points, by doing well in all of the sports, getting a plantinum medal in all the training games (very 
 hard, I only got one) , and getting the lowest possible age of 20 (which I still have not gotten) 
 thats all there is to Wii sports. Although, theres no denying the fun and addictiveness of this 
 game even when you have fully completed the game giving the it some value, but compared to most 
 of the fully fleshed out, in-depth games out there, its hard to spend a lot of time here. All being 
 said, Wii Sports is a great game for everyone to get introduced to the Wii. FTWii !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wangamanga
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, just got it and it rocks the Wii! In different angles it's better than Zelda: 
 TP, but also in different angles TP is better.
  
  Tennis: This is my fav sport in the game, i'm level. 767 ... man Silke is hard. So addictive, and 
 your Mii follows your every move to a pixel! Well, nearly. The trick is to flick your wrist instead 
 moving your whole body, thus tiring yourself out. My mum lost 4kg and I lost 4kg too! All the games 
 are SO addictive except Golf, it's... frustrating, reccommended to ONLY Golf-lovers.
  The soundtrack is SO catchy. #Hmmm... hmm, hmm, hmm# sorry, I was getting carried away there. Non-gamers, 
 maybe 40mins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A good introduction to the Wii's technology, a couple of the included games are very 
 addictive...
  
  The Bad: Yucky visuals; lackluster sound; simplified games; Golf &amp; Bowling...
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the Wii has impressed me like no other. Zelda is awesome, and I'm hearing great 
 things about the upcoming lineup. Wii Sports is a huge disappointment. The visuals are crap, the 
 sound is like Yoko Ono singing, and certain games just suck. Let me list each game, from best to 
 worst. 1. Boxing; it's a great, immersive, workout that involves knocking the opponent's block 
 off. I've spend the most time with this game out of any of them, and I'm very pleased. The Old 
 One-Two tactic is extremely useful, but plays second fiddle to dodging and looking for a chance 
 to strike as the opponents get tough. My arms hurt like no tomorrow, but I was hardly sweating. 
 Those people must be severely obese. 2. Baseball; swinging the bat is great, and pitching has some 
 slight depth. They ruined baseball, though; how is someone 'Out' when the outfielder hasn't tagged 
 base? How is a double/triple determined just by how long it takes for the outfielder to grab the 
 ball?
  
  3. Tennis; great hitting action, but you can't control your player's running around the court. 
 This hurts worse than it sounds.
  
  4. Bowling; it would work perfectly if the ball didn't curve no matter how you let go of it. 5. 
 Golf; the suckiest sport in the bunch. The Wii-mote cannot read how far you want to hit the ball, 
 and putting is complete garbge. The remote works, but gamers can't control how far their ball goes 
 like in Mario Golf, or the direction, for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports consists of 5 games: Boxing, Bowling, Golf, Tennis, and Baseball. Wii Sports has a GREAT 
 multiplayer mode and is really innovative in gameplay and how it really DOES bring the family back 
 together to have fun! You cannot get this game alone without buying a Wii unless you live in Japan. 
 This is probably one of the best demos I've ever seen in my life. Boxing is great, bowling is fun, 
 tennis is easy, baseball is unpredictable and fun, and golfing is relaxing but it needs a bit of 
 work. Putting is very hard if your trying to get it in perfectly. All in all this is a great game 
 packaged in with a great console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santanablu3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  this game for the wii is the game that maps every thing out for futer games. i teaches you the point 
 on how to hold a wii mote and also hows you what the wii is capable of doing. the onlthing bad about 
 the game is that there are very few mini-games and has limited game of sports. i think the should 
 of added basketball or racing but thats just my oppinion. also it would of been neat if they would 
 have online game play. what make this game a hit is because you can play with the avatar that creat 
 in the mii and play with it in the game. other then that this game is very impressive and shows 
 alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is great fun, if you see it as a simple, limited sports game meant for multiplayer. 
 It's more like a demo rather than an entire game: its shows you a little bit of what each sport 
 will be like on a real game (eg: Tiger Woods, Ready 2 Rumble...)
  
  Gameplay: easy and fun. some soprts can be played up to 4 players. Simple and never frustrating.
 
  
  Graphics: simple to look at, nice, round characters. Nothing amazing but its very cute to look 
 at all your Miis run about!
  
  Sound: No music in-game, which gives a realistic feel. Nothing good or bad here.
  
  Lenght: 
 You play though each sport every now and then with your friends, and that's about it. Its a good 
 game to take out when your friends are there.
  
  Overall: Fun, simple sports game. Shows what the Wiimote is capable off, and leaves you wanting 
 more sports games on the Wii in the near future. I never really liked sports games on consoles, 
 but the Wii sports games are real fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloZeldaman199
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Now sports doesn't involve going outside!
  Wii sports is a great game for both noobs and pros of the gaming industry, anyone can play it from 
 the 3 year old to the 83 year old.
  With simple and superior controls, Wii sports will take about 10 minutes to get used to and when 
 you and your mates get good, you can play for hours.
  laugh at the nerd when he hits the baseball right into your hands, get laughed by the nerd when 
 he smashes your face in without even having to actually punch you.
  Its worth full shop price, yet its absolutely free!
  This game really shows off how accurate 
 the handset is at being whatever its being, although it doesn't push the Wii for graphics, it still 
 has a nice cartoony feel to it, and it makes it even better when you have a tennis team of your 
 mii's.
  I give it 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeh_515
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Ever been in one of those situations where your playing a game alone and all your friends are busy? 
 If so fear no longer dudes, the Wii comes with a parent lure so now you will be able to lure your 
 mum and dad in to play with you, give them a quick demonstration of how simple and easy it works 
 and your off 2 new friends and you know what two extra players means multi player fun and parent 
 ownage woohooo!
  
  All this fun packet in a box
  
  Wii Sports is the best pack-in title ever, usually you get the latest and greatest games with a 
 console hopefully with quite a good deal but this game is THEE exception, is a brilliant game and 
 its FREEEEEEEEE with the console. This game is basically a compilation of mini games and most 
 of the fun comes from the multiplayer side of the mini games. When playing together each game is 
 so much better and brings even more realism and immersion to the game, rather than playing a BOT 
 your playing with another person and makes for a more fun and different game, because people arent 
 as easy to predict and dont always hit the ball in the same general direction. Each individual 
 game has its own immersive feel to it, and the sounds coming from the Wii mote just make each 
 game perfect.
  
  Tim Henman winYEAH Riiiiight!
  
  This is a really easy to pick up and do a game, when you swing that Wii-Mote you will know that 
 its perfect controls for it, and after that its like a drug you just want more and more. The 
 feeling you get when you win is unreal because you feel like your actually doing it so when you 
 win you end up pulling up your shirt and throwing your Wii-Mote just like a racket, you get in 
 the (Wii) Zone. The sounds that come from the Wii-Mote also are cool because it sounds like a ball 
 is hitting a racket coming straight from the Wii-Mote, and this is what helps bring so much immersion 
 to the game. Wii Mii on tour The Golf on this isnt that great to be honest the sensitivity is 
 a little to sensitive especially when your trying to put the ball in the hole, even if you tap 
 it sometimes its like you really went to town when you swung the Wii-Mote the ball goes like 100 
 yards in the other direction. But there are 9 courses and each is a new challenge, and life expectancy 
 of this game is really short because there isnt to much to this game and its not really that 
 fun to play again. The Pins are RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU!?!?!?
  
  Like the tennis the bowling is really easy to play, just pull back hold B swing forward and let 
 go on B and hey presto you have a moving ball. Also if you want to be fancy you can put spin in 
 the ball by doing the same thing but putting an angle on the Wii-Mote as you swing it. Foul Ball 
  What Again!?!?!?
  
  Get used to those words Foul Ball because when you first start playing baseball thats all you 
 seem to hear, and if not that then you swing to early. This particular game demands a lot of 
 accuracy to get a shot right and real concentration for a home run. You have to swing the Wii-Mote 
 at just the right time. But once you have it cracked down this game is great for multiplayer, player 
 1 starts off swings the bat and player 2 throws the ball, there are 3 innings and on each one the 
 players take turns in swinging the bat and throwing the ball. One bit of advise though, the person 
 swinging should maybe.. Go on the right side so he/she doesnt hit the bowler. (I havent done 
 it I swear and you cant prove it)
  
  Time to show your Dad who the real man of the house is
  
  The boxing on this game is very realistic 
 you got jabs and all sorts of uppercuts and power strikes. There is 2 ways you can play this game 
 and the first is actually try swing your arms in the proper motions to get accurate moves out of 
 your Mii. OR! you could fight like my brother does, a sissy, just swing your arms around aimlessly 
 and hope that by the end of the round at least one punch actually makes contact. Although this 
 technique does have its advantages because if one of your punches actually make contact where your 
 swinging your arms you will do a whole flurry of attacks and open up and can of whop ass. Overall
 
  
  Although more could have possibly been done to the characters their simple design does really look 
 great. Just playing with a mini you on a baseball field or bowling alley it really does look like 
 your doing it. (If you created your own Mii)
  Although there's not much depth to the game the immersive game play is enough to keep your friends 
 and family entertained for a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Never again will you have to tap a sequence of buttons to swing a bat. Wii Sports has without a 
 doubt put an end to that. There is no way I could go back to playing baseball on say a PS3 and 
 not want to swing the controller. Wii Sports is simply genius. And you dont have to be a genius 
 to figure it out.
  
  Wii Sports as you will know consists of five sports games. None of them have any real depth to 
 them, the most probably being golf. To control all of these games you do what you would normally 
 do in real life. To swing a bat or golf club, swing your remote. To rally with a tennis raquet, 
 hit it like a tennis raquet. And to bowl, bowl etc. The game is really accesible for anyone and 
 is still huge amounts of fun.
  
  Graphically, its ok. You use your in-game Mii's which adds a deeper sense of involvment. The courses 
 on the golf game look ok, but could be better. Overall the graphics are fine, but you wont really 
 notice them anyway.
  
  The gameplay in Wii Sports cannot be beaten by any sports game on any other console. Wii Sports 
 is simply the best sports experience you will ever play, until Wii Sports 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that no one who buys a Wii new will have to pay for so writing a review will be 
 harder and easier since you won't have to purchase it, but the game can stand on it's own if it 
 did cost. I'll tackle this game by just doing the individual games and then do the activities and 
 talk about the graphics and sound and all that other stuff. I've bolded and capitalized the sports 
 so if you just want to see how one plays. In each when you play single player and in tennis, bowling, 
 and golf in multiplayer will give or take away points based on how good you did. Whenever you reach 
 1000 you'll become a pro and in bowling for example have a ball with stars on it, but once you 
 become a pro you must do well everytime because it'll get much more stricter on taking points away.
 
  
  We'll start out with TENNIS. Tennis is great in single or multiplayer. You have four characters 
 on screen and if playing alone you can be everyone on one side, everyone on both, or just be one 
 and have a CPU controlled player as your teammate. The Wii-mote registers the swings good enough, 
 every now and then you'll have a weird mess up but it's usually due to player error or the location 
 of the sensor bar. The game actually picks up if you lobbed it or if you rocket it over. Just swing 
 with an upwards motion to lob or a fast downward to send her the ball barely over. You can hit 
 it to low, especially if you're hitting it as the back person, causing it to hit the net or not 
 even go over. Aiming was implemented greatly. To hit on different sides of the court there are 
 a few factors, which side your facing and your timing. If you wait longer to hit it, it will go 
 the opposite side of the way your facing. It's hard to explain but if you play it you'll get it.
 
  
  BASEBALL is the next and just so you know it's my least favorite of the sports. Just as timing 
 was important in tennis, it's almost everything here. when you're the batter you have to time your 
 swing and power to hit a homer. While as a pitcher you have four different pitches that you can 
 throw depending on the button you hold while throwing, either A, B, A+B, or no buttons for a fastball. 
 You can't control the runners or the outfielders, you can only control the batter and the pitcher. 
 Now this isn't to big of a complaint but having the ability to tell the men on base to steal with 
 the d-pad would've been great. I don't know if it's just me but it seems that the only way to score 
 is to hit homers. If you hit a ground ball you pretty much out, if you hit a pop fly and it's in 
 the park you're pretty much out and the exception to these two is if the infielder or outfielder 
 has an error and drops it. Multiplayer doesn't bring the game out of its rut either but it's more 
 fun with two people. No four player for baseball.
  
  BOWLING is my favorite. I think this is the greatest example of the Wii-motes use so far. My friend 
 has a terrible curve when he bowls in real life and I throw fairly straight. Well guess what? It's 
 the same in the Wii version of bowling. You can move your bowler left or right and if you hit the 
 A button you can move the angle at which you throw. To bowl you just simply hold the Wii-mote like 
 a bowling ball and hold the B button all through the movement and let go as it reaches the end 
 of your swing. The ball can pick up slight curves of your wrist to add spin to the ball very easy. 
 It's not easy to a strike either, just like in real life you actually have to think about you curve 
 and where you're throwing. The multiplayer is amazing and best yet you really only need one Wii-mote 
 to bowl, just pass it on when someone else is up. It supports up to four players and is very addictive.
 
  
  GOLF has a ton of content in it. There are a few different difficulties of courses ranging from 
 beginner, intermediate, and hard. The are options to play either a three hole game or a nine hole 
 game. Sorry no full eighteen hole games here. If I'm not mistaken I do believe the course is from 
 the NES and Game Boy game Golf. But anyways this is just like every golf game you've ever played. 
 There is a ton of things to take into account, the club type, wind speed, distance. To gauge how 
 hard you're swinging there is a swing meter on the left hand side of the screen consisting of three 
 dots. On the top right hand side of the screen is a map showing how far away you are and how hard 
 ( how many dots you should hit) to get to the hole. I don't know if I'm not taking wind into factor 
 when I swing bit it might overshoot your swing suggestions, landing you farther from the hole. 
 Of course this could just be me not taking the wind into account. The game chooses the right club 
 for the situation but you can also choose although I've never had to choose different from what 
 the game suggests. The holes are well designed and get more difficult in the later ones. The game 
 supports up to four people in multiplayer but nothing special about it.
  
  Last but not least is the great BOXING. Boxing is the funnest to play with friends. This is the 
 only game that requires a Nunchuk attachment so multiplayer will be a little harder to achieve. 
 You use the Nunchuk and Wii-mote as your boxing gloves and just throw punches to get your Mii to 
 do the same. You have to time your punches correctly for the game to pick them up for a lot of 
 the time but once you get the hang of it you wont even notice. To dodge all you have to do is move 
 both of them to the left or right and you'll dodge. Guarding is a little bit harder to tell. To 
 guard your face you move them both up to cover your face or down to cover your stomach. Combos 
 are hard to achieve and if you dodge at the right time and avoid your opponents swing it will go 
 into a slo-mo Matrix-like scene where you can easily hit your opponent. Multiplayer is the reason 
 to play this game. The smack talk you'll hear is great, you will definitely begin to sweat playing 
 this game. It's very easy to get into.
  
  Whenever you get bored just playing against the CPU and friends there are also mini games in the 
 form of WII TRAINING. There are three for each sport and they help you get better in their respective 
 sports. So for tennis for example there's one to help you hit the ball and one where you hit the 
 ball into a moving goal. You are scored and given a medal based on how well you do. It doesn't 
 effect your Mii's stats or anything but they're a nice distraction. There is also a WII FITNESS 
 mode. It's basically Brain Age with the training minigames. You can only do it once a day and are 
 given an age based on you skills in the games. You only play three random games each time you take 
 it.
  
  The game's graphics good. It uses the Mii's you've created so it's not like you should be expecting 
 much plus it's on the Wii. The backgrounds in the sports and pixelated and the crowd in baseball 
 are just different colored dots. However the crowds in the other sports are actually Miis from 
 your console. Everything in the game is shiny so if you have the HD cables it should look very 
 good. The music is very basic and un-interesting and forgettable but you'll mostly be talking to 
 your friends and making fun of how they look. The game uses the speaker in the Wii-mote very well. 
 Hearing the announcer in boxing doing the KO count and other stuff. The sound quality from the 
 speaker is the best I've heard of any Wii game yet, it's very crisp and clear. The announcer doesn't 
 ever get annoying which is huge plus but he's also hardly there.
  
  The reason to own this game is for the multiplayer. If you know someone else with a Wii this game 
 will last you a long time. Trying to achieve the pro status on all the sports will also keep you 
 busy for a while but other than that there isn't a lot else in the game. A very annoying complaint 
 with the game is that Miis that are sent over and already have the pro status wont have it it on 
 yours. I guess that's more of a problem with the Mii memory though huh? Another big complaint is 
 the lack of online. I know it's Nintendo and there wont be online until Pokemon Battle Revolution 
 comes out but man, this game would've been even better with online. Maybe they can release an update 
 later to add online functionality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcxps3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is gonna be the best selling Wii game in the U. S. because you get with purchase of the 
 console. But even if you didn't you'd still want to pick this one up because of it's unbelievable 
 charm. Visually the game is simplistic but clean and neat, this is the perfect fit for Nintendo's 
 strategy to make the wii a system for everyone. The audio is the weakest part of the game, but 
 the built in speakers in the wii remote enhance the experience. The gameplay is where this game 
 earns it place in gaming history. You use the Wii remote in ways you would expect to and the system 
 does a pretty fair job at detecting your movements. There are five mini and simplified sports games 
 in the package that are all a good fit, with bowling being the most enjoyable and best controlling. 
 While Single player is enjoyable it is the multiplayer that will make you the popular man in town, 
 youll spend hours on it.
  
  While you wont be spending more time on this game than Twilight Princess, It will definitely spend 
 a lot of time in your shiny new Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  **Spoiler warning** ( If you haven't Yet played this game and want it as a surprise don't read 
 the Below text)
  
  Wii Sports is fun, Exhilarating, not to mention tiring (If you play it to the fullest that is!) 
 Packed with Tennis Golf Baseball boxing and bowling this game you cannot get bored off! Especially 
 with the training option e. g Boxing - Working the Bag! or Baseball - Hitting home runs! You can 
 also find out your wii Fitness age! Lowest being 20 you have to do training regimes and the more 
 Speed Stamina, and balance you have the younger the Wii says you are! This Game is Brilliant The 
 Game play is fun. The Graphics and Brilliant and really add colour to the game. The sounds really 
 make you feel like your ''in the game'' coming from the TV and your remote! A 2007 MUST BUY game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killeryoda85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  For those of you who proclaim 'I want games in 1080p High Definition', look away now because Wii 
 Sports is not about pushing graphical boundaries, its about pushing the nature of gaming into a 
 new generation.
  
  To play Wii Sports is like learning to ride a bike all over again. To start out, you look like 
 a berk and fall over a lot, but once you have the hang of it, it will keep you entertained for 
 hours. Yes the graphics are sub-standard in comparison to the giddy heights of the Playstation 
 3's and Xbox 360's of this world, but frankly... who cares when the gameplay is this addictive.
 
  
  Each sport has a distinct and authentic feel to its presentation. Golf is spread over nine lushious 
 green courses, whilst Baseball is set in a grand stadium. But its not the presentation here that 
 wins the day, its the gameplay. In each sport, the player holds the Wii remote (with or without 
 the Nunchuck depending on the sport) in a position familiar to the natural stance adopted as if 
 you were actually playing. For example, in Golf, you hold the Wii remote like a golf club, with 
 the sensor facing down. Its not until you take that first swing or bowl your first ball and see 
 your Mii perform the action you have on screen that it really hits you, WOW!
  
  Its true that this is not 'Next Generation' in a graphical sense, but it is certainly an innovation 
 in gaming that deserves to be applauded. Standing up in your lounge with a group of friends playing 
 bowling together, encouraging people who have never played games before to get involved. This is 
 what gaming should be about, inter-action. Getting people out of their dark, dingy bedrooms into 
 a spacious area where you can move and literally, be part of your gaming experiance and Wii Sports 
 achievs this with style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_7991
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Its a fun game and i enjoy it and so do my friends who play it with me.
  The best part by far is getting three of your mates to come over and have boxing matches with them 
 or tennis-tournaments.
  But the problem is the single-player part.
  Sure it can be fun and being pro gives you bragging rights but what do you really get out of reaching 
 pro ? i shiney new ball in bowling and thats about it!
  This game lacks meat!
  Theres no story or fill or anything! a little something would be nice to give that speck of inspiration 
 and motivation.
  
  Good game,
  should be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raedyn12
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports may be the best game to ever come packed with a system on launch day. While this game 
 boasts graphics that are only that of a sub par game cube game and the game play is limited in 
 most of the sports it still seems to offer what may be the best multi player gaming on the Wii 
 so far. Some games are better than others in terms of how it uses the Wii Remote or just plain 
 ease of play. Tennis is a very simple game, but when you fill the room with 3 other friends the 
 simplicity translates to arguably the most fun you'll have with this game followed very closely 
 by bowling which may make the best use of the Remote in this package.
  
  Boxing is quite a workout. I would almost recommend making it a part of an exercise routine. There 
 are not a lot of gamers that can disagree that their first time playing Boxing was almost exhausting.
 
  
  Baseball uses the Wii Remote very well in terms of swinging a bat and throwing the ball. The overall 
 game play is just too limited for this game to be fun for very long. Golf is entertaining, however 
 putting is not very forgiving and often times you will end up being frustrated because it doesnt 
 respond as accurate as you need it to be while playing. Overall you get a great package of games 
 that will last a long time and will always be on hand for a quick game against some of your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scout10101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have played to date. It is innovative, and just plain fun! I'll dive into 
 the controls soon, but I'll get into it's value n' stuff first.
  Graphics: If I had only one sentence to discribe the graphics on this game I would say, Simple, 
 Yet Sweet . Because thats what they are, simple yet sweet. The people you control are your Mii's, 
 the little avatars you create in the Mii Channel. The graphics are a little last gen, but will 
 pass.
  Value: This game is one that is perfect for a pack-in. It brings the family together playing tennis, 
 baseball, and other sports.
  Enough of that bibble babble, Lets see what is in the game! First is the fitness part. This takes 
 you through a series of exercies that help you get fit. ( I think) Then there is the training part. 
 This is a menu that has a series of training things that you can do to get you better at the sports. 
 Then there are the sports themselves. There is tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing.
  For playing tennis, you serve like you normaly would, swing the Wiimote upwards and do a swing. 
 And to return a swing you swing the wiimote left or right to hit the ball.
  For baseball, the is no explantion, just play like your normaly would.
  Bowling is just pressing 
 the B button and swinging like you would in real life.
  Golf there is no button pressing, just swing! But I will say it is hard to get the hang of.
  
 Boxing, This is one of those, easy to learn, hard to master games ,just punch!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Simple but colorfull and some nice textures, the Mii's are an awsome idea.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Its all about the gameplay says Nintendo, and in Wii sports this is 100% true, 
 with the Wii remote all your family will love to play Wii sports, not because of the graphics or 
 sound or anything else but because of the controls, it feels like you are really doing what your 
 Mii is doing.
  But it is not perfect... the gameplay its way to simple and never offers a deeper exprience.
 
  Wii sports its great for ocasional players, but for hardcore players it will only have a life 
 time of a few hours.
  
  Sound:
  
  Nothing special... but you will have some fun.
  
  Life time:
  
  This will depend on you, you will play this game many times if your an ocasional 
 player, and only a few hours if you are an hardcore player.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Wii sports its an awsome game to come with the Wii console, you can get used to Wii remote and 
 nunchuck with Wii sports and its a great way to show other people what Wii is about.
  Its a game for the whole family, you can have a real good time playing with your friends or with 
 your family, but alone, you wont have that much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjmthomas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical of what this game would be like when I first purchased my wii. I thought 
 that this would be a game that would quench my Wii thirst for an hour or two until I moved on to 
 Zelda: TP. Boy was I wrong. I still play this game regularly over 3 months later. The five sports 
 involved are baseball, bowling, boxing, golf, and tennis. In baseball on offense the only thing 
 that you control is actually timing the swing of the bat. Those looking for an actual hitting tutor 
 will be disappointed. The only thing needed is timing your swing with the pitch. The base running 
 is controlled by the Wii. On defense the only aspect of the game that is controlled is the pitching. 
 Baseball is my favorite sport and I have to admit that was a little disappointed with the simplicity 
 of this game. I love sim baseball games and this is far from being that. I would have to say that 
 baseball is 4 out of 5 on my rankings of Wii sport games.
  
  Next up is bowling. I do like to go 10 pin bowling and I was actually surprised how realistic Wii 
 bowling is. In real life I have a natural right to left hook when I release the ball. In Wii bowling 
 it is exactly the same so I have to compensate for this with my player just as I have to compensate 
 for this in real life. The bowling is challenging and I have finally begun to regularly bowl over 
 200 with a high score of 265. It is my favorite of the Wii sports titles.
  
  The next title is boxing. This is the game that probably took me the longest to get the hang of. 
 I think it gives a little too much freedom towards those that just swing wildly with no defense. 
 After practicing for a while I am starting to get better at defending myself against the free swingers 
 however. It is my second favorite of the Wii sport games.
  
  It is time for golf. This game was surprisingly difficult. I still have trouble with the strength 
 of my swing. I often under hit or over hit the ball. Maybe I am just frustrated but this is my 
 least favorite of all of the Wii games. I'm a fan of the Tiger Woods series (which tends to be 
 way too easy) . Maybe I just need to practice more at this one.
  
  Last but not least is Wii tennis. I have seen many people refer to this as their favorite of the 
 Wii sports games. For me it is right in the middle as my third favorite. It took me a bit to get 
 the timing of my swings down but once you do it is a fun game. Especially playing against another 
 player. The fitness age test is fantastic. I always like to come back to test my skills at each 
 game. The purpose of this mini-game is to compete in all five sports and your skill at the games 
 gives you a wii fitness age that is supposed to correspond with your actual fitness age.
  
  The value of this game is a 10 for sure because it is free. The graphics and sound are not the 
 greatest and would probably compare to a mediocre X-box or PS2 title. Which will disappoint a lot 
 of people because of the Wii being next-gen. However everyone should realize that the Wii is not 
 about being graphically superior. If it were it wouldn't sell any units. Overall Wii sports is 
 a fun game with tons of replay value, especially when you have friends over or want to see what 
 your Wii fitness age is. It is a truly revolutionary game and a great game to see what the Wii 
 is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Chad-127
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes with your Wii so you dont have to fork out another $55 for a game. Its funny and 
 cute. You can play with your Mii's [Personal Created People] and have a group of 4 people. The 
 Wii is just SOOOOO amazing! I think Sports is ment to get people active and jump around the lounge 
 room. My faves are Bowling and Tennis. Sometimes you can get TOO into that game and jump to hit 
 the tennis ball or even run to your TV while playing bowling. Trust me, this game rocks! You also 
 can do your fitness test's. So you play 3 Mini Sports Games and checks to see how well you are. 
 Its a 10 outta 10 for me!
  
  Thanks for reading my brain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberman72
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  What's that in the sky? It's a bat, it's a racket, it's a golf club, it's a bowling ball, it's a 
 pair of boxing glove. NO STUPIDS! It's the wii-mote and it's heading for the TV. Watch Out! KaBoom! 
 And that's how my TV broke. Warning if you plan to play this game please wear you wrist strap. 
 Now lets get back to the review. Wii Sports is a pack in game for the Wii. It's a compilation game 
 consisting of Boxing, Bowling, Tennis, Golf and Baseball. The main point of the game is to show 
 gamers the many way the wii-mote can be used. All the games requirer you to use the wii-mote in 
 different ways. Over all the game is fun but, gets old quickly. The game makes perfect use of the 
 Mii function which is cool. It's so awesome beating up mii you hate in boxing. Take that Ms. Watkins 
 (my old 2nd grade teacher) that's what you get for saying I'll never grow up to be Super Mario. 
 Overall the game is ok and is great pack in because it shows the potential of the wii-mote and 
 is appealing to non-gamers. Smart move Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  i usually rate by subject, but for this game im rateing by sport
  
  wii sports showed off early what the wii is made of. innavative game play and a new type of party 
 game
  
  BASEBALL: the baseball portion i give a 6.9......... the batting is solid and fun. but on the other 
 side of the feild... well its real dissapointing. pithcing is horrid. i dont even move the remote 
 half the time and it pitches. now heres the real problem. why the heck cant you throw the guy out 
 at the bag. its so dissapointing. its not like they half to add motion control. u can just press A. and 
 you should be able to move the fielder in the out field. but overall its alright. if you like to 
 bate , do the training mode.
  
  TENNIS: pretty fun i give this portion a 7.6........ the swinging is great but sometimes it does 
 not go were you want it to go. the power to it is right on as far as swinging hard. at first i was 
 like'why cant u move your guy 'but then i saw why. it would be a pain in the butt [and/or other body 
 parts] but overall the game play and tilt is solid.
  
  BOXING: it really does grow on you. i give this portion a 7.9.... at first i thought it was a failure. real 
 bad. and my freinds dont like it either. but i started to play it, slowly learning how it works. and 
 it is satisfying. the cool part is i do break a sweat if i play it long enough! annoying at some 
 parts ,but like i stated it grows on you P. S, EA make fight night for the wii!!!.
  
  GOLF: the mechanics are great! i give this portion a 8.2....... golfing is fun cause you almost 
 forget your playing on the wii and it knows what your doing in truth. it is frustrating. but thats 
 good cuz golf is frustrating!. the only question mark is putting. sometimes to get it right i have 
 to just move my wrist.... plus the water and mountains and or hills look great! definatly dont leave 
 this game untried!
  
  BOWLING: in my opinion i saved the best for last! i give this portion a 9.8...... its nearly flawless. 
 every time i introduce someone to the the wii i say'bowling first!'and you can't not play it. i 
 play this the most out of all and it senses every thing your doing. it knows how you curve your 
 hand if its straight, back spin, whatever. and it simulates real life bowling better than any game 
 i played. best party game ever made!
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are child like but thats ok cuz its supposed to be simple. the surroundings 
 are flawless as far as nature and bowling and the ring goes.
  
  well there it is .any body who owns a wii should try........ o thats right every one has it. lol. 
 by the way my score is all the seperate scores averaged together. im reidwii1! till next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antthetitch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I finally got to play this as the wii's were very popular and hard to 
 get. Anyway I tried out all the games on the wii ands found the game very easy to master and fun 
 to play too. You also get to create your own mii on the console too which can be used as characters 
 in the game :P
  
  There are 5 main games, boxing, bowling, baseball, tennis and golf...
  
  Bowling- one of the best on their I reckon, easy to play and getting a strike is much easier 
 there than it is in real life, It's just a case of holding the B button with the remote in front 
 then swinging it back, then swinging the remote forward and releasing the B button, fun, simple 
 and easy. Plus you can play this multiplayer with the same remote instead of using two. Boxing- 
 I didn't like this one much, it can be quite tireing compared to the othersm this one requires 
 the nunchuck and the remote and hitting them forwards. I didn't really get the hang of this one 
 and didn't like it much.
  
  Tennis- I didn't like this when I first tried it but now it's pretty fun, no buttons to press, 
 just use the remote like a tennis racket. Easy enough to understand and fairly easy to beat your 
 opponents and the mii's move by themselves so all you have to do is make sure you hit the ball. 
 The only problem is that to play it multiplayer you have to have a second remote, which most people 
 wouldn't have, but it is an awesome multiplayer for those who do have the remote.
  
  Baseball- This one takes some getting used to, it's pretty hard to get the hang of, it is all about 
 timing but once you play it enough and get the hang of it's okay, it's not a great game but it's 
 not bad either. It just takes some practice. Multiplayer-wise you need a second remote and then 
 it's exactly the same as the main game, except that whoever has the second remote plays the second 
 team rather than it being computer-controlled
  
  Golf- This is okay if you know how hard to swing the club, it took me a while to get the hang of 
 as I tended to either hit it too hard or too soft but once you
  get the hang of it it's alright, plus theres a variety of courses from beginner to expert so it's 
 suitable for anyone. It's just a case of holding the A button, swinging the remore backwards and 
 then judging how hoard to hit it forwards. Plus as well as these fun games there is the training 
 option which has 15 minigames, 3 for each of the main sports. These just give you a little challenge 
 like hitting as many targets as possible in a tennis minigame or hitting as many punchbags in a 
 boxing minigame or see how many hole-in-ones you can get in a golf minigames. These give you either 
 a bronze, silver, gold or platinum medal based on your performance. I have a fair few gold, mostly 
 silver and one or two bronze, the games are pretty easy once you get enough practice in. Plus as 
 well as the 5 main games and the training mini-games there is also the fitness option, which picks 
 3 training mini-games to play and then gives you a fitness age, with 20 being the best possible 
 score. This is okay but can be annoying when they pick games that are hard or games you are unfamiliar 
 with, plus they only let you do the fitness test once a day which is fairly unfair, plus once you 
 start the fitness you can't stop it (well you could but you would not get a fitness age and would 
 have to wait till the next day to play it again)
  
  The sound effects and graphics are brilliant in this game, the scenery in golf, the atmosphere 
 in bowling, the punching sound effects, they are all so real and really cool. So yeah, the wii 
 sports is a great game to get you started on the many capabilities of the wii and it was well worth 
 the wait when I finally got it. An ideal game for sports fans and alll general gaming fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Even though you recieve Wii Sports through you're Wii console it's still good to know what you're 
 getting. Or you could stuff the review and go ahead and buy one... thats what i did! Anyway like 
 i said on my Review Deck, i got my nanna to play Wii Sports and she is thinking of buying the console 
 solely on this game! Wii sports is more for people like me who have just got a Wii (14/03/07) to 
 learn on and pick up the controls, to help us as we play harder games (Nintendo are like parents, 
 lol) . It's the same with Wii Play but Wii Sports is much better! The best thing about Wii Sports 
 is the Novelty value, it could be the sole provider of a party. This is honestly a 100% true, you'll 
 be suprised how many drunk people at a party are just crazing to swing a Wii remote round like 
 crazy. You have to remember what Nintendo do, make games fun again. This was one of the reasons 
 i bourght a Wii for some old fasioned, not to difficult gaming fun. Yeah games like Gears of War 
 and Hitman Blood Money are good but are sometimes to demanding. People need a break from shaking 
 hands at the end of a level to jumping up and down waving you're Wii controller about shouting 
 Strike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  For those of us in the U. K and North America (and probably a few other continents too) Wii Sports 
 came free with the Wii console, which was a marvellous idea. Does it show off the capabilities 
 of the Wii though?
  
  Gameplay
  
  The entire point of the Wii is focused on gameplay over anything else, but unfortunately Wii Sports 
 doesn't exactly back up this claim. The Wiimote does work extremely well with the games included 
 (golf, baseball, tennis, boxing and bowling) , but sometimes you'll get extremely frustrated with 
 the response of said Wiimote. For example, if you're playing tennis and you don't swing your 'racket' 
 hard enough the Wii sensor fails to pick up your movement, and you're character will simply stand 
 there while the ball slowly passes him or her. Another similar problem is with boxing - a lot of 
 your swings simply aren't picked up by the sensor, and when playing golf sometimes you'll find 
 your character swinging wildly when you barely move the Wiimote, and other times you'll attempt 
 a drive and nothing will happen. Bowling seems to be the only sport without any real problems, 
 and even then I personally find it impossible to bowl in a straight line. For a game that puts 
 gameplay before anything else it's not the best of starts for the Wii in the early stages of its 
 life.
  
  Graphics
  
  It needs to be stated that Wii Sports is essentially a tech demo. Obviously the Wii will never 
 win a 'graphics beauty contest' if it were up against a PS3 or a 360, but even so the graphics 
 in this game doesn't exactly push the console to it's limits. Overall things are pretty enough 
 and graphics do the job nicely, but the characters you play as look silly - for one thing they 
 have no arms, legs or a neck. Think Cluedo pieces with a head, hands and feet and you'll have a 
 rough idea what each character looks like.
  
  Sound
  
  The music when starting the game is literally ear shattering - a high pitched note that lasts for 
 a good few seconds. During the various sports you'll play you encounter different background tunes 
 as you go, but these are nothing memorable but do add a little atmosphere to the proceedings. Effects 
 are good though, from the noise of skittles falling down to the wallop of a golf ball being hit. 
 Overall sounds are solid but nothing ground-breaking.
  
  Value
  
  As mentioned at the top of this review Wii Sports comes free with Wii consoles sold depending on 
 where you live. Knock off a couple of points if you paid a fair bit of money for it though, as 
 although this game is a fun time killer there are better things to spend your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This set of games is the perfect intro to anybody's new Wii. Lots of fun training. Lots of fun 
 competitive play. You find yourself just wanting to go back and have some fun on almost any of 
 the games in this pack.
  
  Nintendo did a great job with this set OTHER than with the graphics. I think they could have done 
 a much better job considering nearly every other game has better graphics than this one. I mean 
 come on, at least your Miis could have arms connected to their bodies. I feel like Nintendo spent 
 all their time making sure the controls worked great and in the end said, Oops, we forgot to put 
 in graphics! Just seems like graphics were an after thought. I'm not looking for everything that 
 the PS3 might be able to deliver as I don't care about that but they could have done better there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Good not really anything specal just ok graphics.
  
  Sounds: I dont know about you but i like the little crapy wiimote sounds.
  
  Gameplay: Awsome 
 good solid gameplay all games are very fun and last best use of wii mote.
  
  Value: Much value and its free man thats awsome bowling is the most solid game and is allot of 
 fun I went pro in that and tennis witch is good but a little glitchy. it has fun training minigames 
 really good. One of my complants is the boxing its fun at low levels but the hard one just get 
 too hard and impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, no dout you have heard of this game before. And one that is very important, this game 
 comes with all Wii consoles and will give gamers their first impression of what the Wii can do. 
 And first impressions are everything, so a lot was riding on this. This is a full game, but at 
 the same time a tech demo of what the Wii can do.
  
  Now, at its core it is simply a selection of sports games put together. Play on your own or great 
 for a gathering of friends. But what sets this out from your average party game/sports game is 
 how you will be playing this.
  
  You get five sports to choose from. Tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. You also get some 
 training games for the sports and a Wii fitness test also.
  
  Each game is very simple and quick to get into, I had no idea of the rules of baseball but that 
 did not stop me from enjoying the game at Wii sports and learning the rules while I played. Everything 
 is simple, which also means there is not much depth to the game. Now how do they play? Usually 
 by just swinging the remote, a couple of buttons will do a few things but are not really needed 
 usually. For tennis you just swing, for baseball you just swing, for bowling you swing, for golf 
 you just swing. The only time you don't swing is in boxing which is where you just thrust the remote 
 forward, boxing is the only game to use the nunchuck attatchment also.
  
  A problem with the game has to be that sometimes, the remote can be so sensitive that it works 
 against you, you might accidently throw a jab or swing your racket when you least want to.
  
  When it comes to sound, its simple, clear and gets the job done. But what stands out is the 
 sound effects that come out your wii remote. Its nice to play tennis, hit a ball and hear the sound 
 effect come from the palm of your hand, almost like you actually have a racket in your hand.
  
  Now when it comes to graphics its very simple also. They very clear, sharp and colourful but 
 there is nothing special, and nothing that makes you think wow although they do look good.
  
  At the end of the day, the value for this game is excellent since it is free with your console 
 and perfectly demonstrates what you can expect from your Wii console. Its simple though, with not 
 a whole lot of depth but should provide hours of entertainment and you should find a lot of enjoyment 
 from atleast one of the games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes free with any Wii system. And you'll be glad it did. Wii Sports wouldn't be very 
 popular if it didn't come free. The game is next gen but the transition from buttons to motion 
 sensitivity could have waited for better controls. The game contains 5 different sports and 3 modes. 
 You'll mostly spend your time playing bowling and tennis since the other sports have problems that 
 may piss you off. Tennis: Tennis is one of best sports, due to its simplicity and no lack of options. 
 You swing the remote back and forth to hit the ball. Moving is handled for you and is accurately 
 pulled off. The game is fun.
  
  Baseball: This game could have used some work. It's great multi-player for sure but playing by 
 yourself against the harder computers can result in some broken wii remotes. The computer AI is 
 just ruthless and will do whatever they can to get you out. Which will make you never want to play 
 it anymore. The only thing you do in baseball is hit and pitch. Base running is done for you which 
 is kind of a letdown. Especially since techniques like a pickle or stealing a base is one of the 
 best things to do in baseball it doesn't add up to being a whole lot of fun.
  
  Bowling: By far the best sport on this game. The controls are simple and it feels like a full game 
 not just some teaser demo for games that might come.
  The multi-player is delightfully fun and can result in many hours away from the day.
  
  Golf: 
 golf is fun but the motion sensitivity is horrible. You get ready to putt, and when you pull your 
 hand back to get more power... it swings. Which will make wii haters a excuse to say it sucks.
 
  
  Boxing: Boxing is my personal favorite but I wouldn't recommend it due to the controls not being 
 as responsive as they should. The multiplayer is great fun but finding a extra remote and nunchuck 
 is just like searching for a needle in a haystack.
  
  Overall, wii sports is great fun, but if didn't come free I'd say stay away from it.
  
  -Poe 
 Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  It's all about t e c h n o l o g y of a new generation gaming console.
  That very cool because i never see anything like this ??!!
  You ever see the control like this 
 on PS Noooooo! PS is so boring.
  It's just hold the joy put the key but the Nintendo Wii made it !!
  It's very fun when playing 
 this game i TOLD YOU IT's AUSOME. You shold try to play  I LOVE 
 NINTENDO WII Wii is the KING of console!!!!
  
  Sorry^^ that i crazy about this because i bought this console today . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  When i first heard of Wii sports i did'nt think it was more than a few good sports bundled with 
 the Wii as a tech demo . Then when i first played it i was surprised by how much more there was 
 to the game. Not only did each sport have some depth in it in terms of gameplay but also in the 
 controls as well. Not only that but there are 15 different training modes and a fitness test. There 
 are also prizes you get, secrets to uncover, and unlockables to.... unlock. Plus the Mii integration 
 is a nice touch. While each game seems polished the worst is probably boxing. I don't know what 
 happened here but it won't always detect your punches and it can be Really frustrating. It's hard 
 to level up your skills over the 800ish level unless you don't mind becoming really out of breath 
 . Graphics on the other hand actually look pretty good. It may be that it's a simple art direction 
 but everything looks nice and crisp and clean. There are also little details i noticed like the 
 flag on the pole in golf sways in the direction of the wind and more furiously depending on the 
 wind speed. I also noticed the trees moving well and there are some nice water effects. While this 
 may seem like nothing special in games nowadays but it showed the attention to detail. While the 
 games are mostly simple they are still fun to play. The sound is nice and i love how you hear your 
 racket/bat hit the ball and the sound realistically comes from the Wii-mote. They sound really 
 nice and immerse you in the game more. You can also have fun in multi-player matches and you can 
 literally spend hours playing this simple tech demo . Overall this is a great game and if you bought 
 a Wii give Wii sports a try and don't push it aside as a useless demo disc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uilleam
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a fun game sure to please, but it will be nothing more than a game to break out when 
 there is nothing else to play on your wii. I played this game for two weeks and felt like I wanted 
 something more from my wii. Wii sports was solid but had obvious errors for me. It required you 
 to make multiple wide movements constantly which sometimes made you move in an akward way. Because 
 of this, the wii didn't register every movement correctly and failed to respond in the way you 
 wanted it to. For example on tennis, it required you to calculate both the strength of your swing 
 and the way which the ball would go. It did a good job registering the way the ball went but was 
 sensitive to how hard you swung your remote. In baseball, pitching didn't seem to be an accurate 
 way to position your pitch. Mainly because the wii registered your pitching movement much too early 
 and determined where it was gonna go before you finished your full movement. But, golf I thought 
 was an excellent achievement for the game. It considered the type of club you were using and effectively 
 used that to calculate your swing strength making for a very realistic golf game. Now the graphics 
 were overall solid except for boxing, your character was faded making it a very blurry image many 
 times confusing you. I found myself not knowing what my opponent was doing and swung randomly. 
 The sound was not stand out but did meet expectations. Wii sports comes with the wii which makes 
 for a nice addition. Overall the game is not bad but not great. It's a perfect game for multiplayer 
 but unfortunately lacks single play gameplay. Wii sports is a nice addition when you get your wii 
 but you'll without a doubt feel that a new game could bring out the wii quality much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: die_hard_halo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game, which i am sure almost isn't a game, didn't quite jump out at me, although i don't own 
 a Wii, i have played all of the wii sports, and the one that wins the medal would probably be bowling, 
 it does it like your acutally at the alleys, i think the creators just made it to easy, becuase 
 it's almost impossible to get like 5 pins down, you'll most likley always get a spare or a strike. 
 I'm not even going to go near golf, boxing was kind of confusing and in the beginning they treat 
 you like a baby, baseball was pretty good, and enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Here we are at the fringe of a new console cycle. I haven't been this excited about gaming since..... well 
 I haven't been this excited about gaming in a long time. Mostly because I am a huge Nintendo fan 
 and I have been impatiently waiting to get my hands on a Wii. Finally I have one and I can write 
 as many reviews as I want about it..... heh heh heh.
  
  Wii sports comes included with the Wii. It's basically supposed to be a demo to show you the different 
 ways you can use the Wiimote and Nunchuk. But I feel that it is far more then that. It includes 
 5 different dumbed down sports games. Tennis, bowling, baseball, boxing, and golf. The graphics 
 as a whole aren't really that awsome on this game, as I stated earlier it's meant more as a demo, 
 but some of the areas, particularly in the golf game are pretty peaseful and serine in their own 
 way. The music is nothing to write home about and the sounds and music, although I wouldn't get 
 a sound track for it if release, seem in place part of the game. You basically use the Miis you've 
 created or virtual Miis to play as the characters in the games. This is a fun game by yourself, 
 but even more fun if you get a couple of buddies to play.
  
  The Tennis game (which is the bane of my existance on this game) is well rounded. The controls 
 for the most part are spot on, and it's only when you mess up do you actually lose. The reason 
 I say it's the bane of my existance is because I am no good at tennis. It's a fun game and if you 
 play long enough you can work up a sweat. Or if you're a lazy person you can sit and play this 
 game too. All of the movements mimic tennis games.
  
  Baseball I was the most disapointed with. It's fun to swing the bat, but not to pitch the ball. 
 Plus the computer does all the fielding for you. I think the priciple is sound, but I look forward 
 to a full baseball game to be released on Wii. This one is difficult to play sitting down. All 
 of the movements mimic baseball while playing.
  
  The bowling game is one of the best on it. It's simple to use and fun to play. I'm not the biggest 
 bowling fan in the world, but out of all the games on this demo disc it is the most fun and feels 
 the most complete. Although it's not quite as fun, you can sit down to play this game. Much like 
 tennis nd baseball, all the Wiimote movements mimic real bowling. I like the golf sim on this demo 
 as well. Once again I'm not the biggest golf fan, but I am looking forward to a completed golf 
 game that I can play. I hope that they retain the completeness of range of motion like the golf 
 game does. Like the three preceeding games, golf is meant to mimic the movements. This is a difficult 
 game to play while sitting.
  
  Finally boxing, which I feel is one of the strongest and most interesting games on here. It's practical 
 and fun, although the control movements are a little off and don't mimic exactly the way your hands 
 are punching. This is a great game to work up a sweat and is difficult to play sitting down. The 
 coolest feature (like brainage for DS) is the fittness mode, where you can track the modes you've 
 played and witness yourself getting better. I done right you could lose some serious weight playing 
 this game. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes bundled with Nintendo's new Wii console. While it may seem more like a demo, to 
 show off the new controls of the Wii, it has surprisingly more content, then you would expect from 
 the first glance.
  
  In Wii Sports, you are free to use pre-made characters, which wouldn't save any records, or create 
 a 'Mii'. The Mii is a cute little character that you can customize in a lot of ways. You can create 
 one that looks like yourself, your friends, celebrities or simply a Mii that looks amazingly funny 
 in his or her own way. Once you've created a Mii, you are free to use it in Wii Sports. It will 
 then save all of your records and keep track of how good you are, in a points system. The better 
 you do, the more points you gain after each game. For example, if you bowl extremely well, and 
 take down 250 pins, you'd probably gain a lot more then if you took down 150. These points are 
 easy to gain at first, but once you've got a lot of them, it'll get a lot harder, and if you don't 
 play too well, you might as well loose some points instead of gaining some.
  If you're good enough to gain 1.000 points, then you will achieve Pro status. It doesn't change 
 much, except for the fact that you can call yourself a Pro at that game. (And the ball in bowling 
 will start glittering a bit.)
  
  The graphics are very simple, yet they seem quite colorful and actually decent, for a Next-Gen 
 console. However, Nintendo did not wish to focus on HD and superior graphics with the Wii, and 
 therefor it doesn't look as good detail-wise as other consoles, but it certainly looks brilliant 
 for a Wii game. (And you simply cannot resist those cute Mii's playings sports, huh?)
  
  Sadly, the sound doesn't hold up as well as the graphics. Sure, you've got some nice, relaxing 
 and good music, but hardly any varerity in the music. The Mii's says absolutely nothing, and the 
 only voices you'll hear is when you win or loose.
  Nintendo thought of a nice detail, by adding a speaker to the controller itself, but sadly it simply 
 sounds horrible, and you'll most likely end up muting the speaker on the controller. You'll miss 
 a few sounds that won't come out of the speakers of the TV, but you'll be able to live with that, 
 as long as you won't hear those poor quality sounds from the speaker of the controller. Good idea, 
 but poor result.
  
  Wii Sports contains five different sports, that all requires you to use the new controller in a 
 different way. They all vary in how fun they are, how difficult they are and how much replay value 
 they have.
  
  The most popular of them all would have to be Bowling. It's quite easy to get into, although it 
 will take you some time to understand and truly master spin control and speed, as well as to learn 
 where you need to hit, if you wish to knock down all of the pins. You hold up your Wii Remote to 
 prepare, then you hold down your B button and swing back the Wii Remote, then swing it forward 
 and release the B button to let the ball fly down the lane. The controls are amazingly easy to 
 understand, even for people who have never really touched games before will easily know what to 
 do, and enjoy playing Wii Sports. (I know this from my own experience by letting friends, not being 
 gamers, try playing Wii Sports.)
  
  The controls hardly need any explanation on 'How to do it'. If you know how to swing a bat, how 
 to play Tennis, how to get a hole-in-one, how to punch and how to play bowling, then you'll easily 
 understand Wii Sports, and the controls would be absolutely no problem for you.
  
  Baseball is, in my very own opinion, the hardest game. I never seem to be able to hit those home 
 runs, and I'm not the best pitcher out there at all.
  You need to give Tennis some time though. I was hardly able to hit it correctly at first, but after 
 a while, then it became easier for me. But, after a while, then it also became my favorite sport 
 in Wii Sports, and I absolutely love Tennis, although it can be bit frustrating sometimes, if you're 
 having a hard time against two tough opponents.
  
  Boxing is more like 'Hit as much as you can, as fast as you can'. It'll help you take down your 
 opponents first, but the difficulty increases along with your points, and you'll have to dodge 
 their hits, as they dodge yours, and counterattack them at every given opportunity.
  
  Golf is the last of the Sports, and it seems somewhat unpolished. While it is fun and entertaining 
 to play, it still seems very difficult to know how much you need to swing the controller, in order 
 to hit the right spot. You'll only know how much power you gave your shot after you've sent the 
 ball flying. None the less, it's entertaining for some people, especially once you get the hang 
 of it, and begin to understand how much power would be enough, and how much would be a bit too 
 much.
  
  But, there are more to Wii Sports then simply this. There are three minigames for each sport, which 
 proves to be far more challenging then you'd think. In bowling, you can try to master spin control. 
 In boxing, you can try to dodge, as your trainer will throw balls at you. In golf, you can try 
 to hit the target as good as you can. In Tennis, you'll find out how many balls you can return, 
 before you send one over the line. And last but not least, in baseball you may want to find out, 
 how many Homeruns you can hit. These are just one for each sport, but there are two more for each 
 sport.
  
  You can play 2-4 players in each of the games, and in Bowling and Golf, you can even play multiplayer 
 with simply one controller. Sadly, there are no online available for Wii Sports, which would've 
 added a lot to the replay value. While the game does have a lot of more depth then you'd expect, 
 then the fun slowly wears off, but Wii Sports will always be a funny game to pick up and play at 
 any given time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about the Nintendo Wii is once you purchase the console you already have a game 
 to play, free of charge. This game is Wii Sports, a game Nintendo bundles in with every console.
 
  
  Wii Sports is a simple sports game which consists of five sports which are: baseball, bowling, 
 boxing, golf, and tennis. All five of these games use the wiimote in a unique and fun way. Instead 
 of just hitting buttons on a controller to play these sports you actually get taken into the game. 
 For example, with bowling you hold down the b button, take your approach, throw the ball, and you 
 wish you can twist the controller to throw a hook.
  
  The controls are for the most part excellent, with a few flaws in tennis and golf. When playing 
 tennis the controller at times fails to distinguish between your forehand and backhand strokes, 
 however after enough gameplay time you learn how you have to swing to hit it in the direction you 
 are aiming for. With golf it is very hard to judge the power for your swing, so I can pretty much 
 guarantee you won't be spending much time hitting the links.
  
  Wii Sports is fun for the whole family (literally) , considering the similarity of the controls 
 to the real life sports. My parents have never attempted to play video games with me before I bought 
 my Wii, but now that I have one they've played a few games of bowling with me. I never thought 
 I'd see the day that my mom would beat me in video games, however she has beaten me in bowling 
 on a few separate occasions.
  
  With Wii Sports you will experience video games in a whole new way. If you buy a Wii I guarantee 
 that you will have a fun and unique experience with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one fun sports game containing  and each extreamly fun. 
 I got family members into it that don't even like video games so nintendo's goal on getting non-gamers 
 to play the Wii is working. The game's functionality for each game works great theres some little 
 glitchs here and there but they are no big deal. Theres not like any unlockables like stages or 
 anything but just the fun gameplay experience single and multiplayer fills in for it. You can probably 
 have a family tournament with these games. The Mii characters a really funny looked while playing 
 these sports. This game would keep you having family fun for hours and hours for awhile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeedleGlavin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Definitely the high point of the game. Tennis and bowling are the best games available, IMO - but 
 the other games are decent in their own right. The only game that falls short is boxing. The controls 
 are unresponsive and glitchy. Golf also suffers from some glitchiness - but is still alot of fun.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Obviously, this game can't be compared to some of the other current-gen titles being released on 
 the 360 and PS3. However, the incredibly fun gameplay will cause the visuals to be the last thing 
 on your mind. That's not to say that the game isn't pretty to some extent - especially golf.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is upbeat and cheerful - and the sound effects are accurate. Another 
 high point of the game.
  
  Value:
  
  This game has a ridiculously high amount of replay value, considering that it's free. I've had 
 the Wii for roughly 4 months - and still get a huge kick out of playing my friends and family in 
 the various sports, namely tennis and bowling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I played this at a friends house and instantly fell in love with the Wii. The replay value is great 
 because of all extra mini training games. Each game shows different ways that the wii remote may 
 be used in the future. Wii Sports is also fun to play by yourself because of the ability to become 
 pro in the games. I wont spoil the prizes to be earned by becoming pro but they are there. Wii 
 Sports is a great pack in that leaves you wanting more and is a huge hit at a parties! All of the 
 games included have great physics and have a real feel/sense to them. My personal favorite game 
 is bowling, it feels like it should and is very fun to play with some buddies. Tennis is also very 
 fun but I was dissapointed at first that you don't control anything but your swing. After playing 
 it for about a half hour that was all behind because this game is great! Boxing and Golf, two games 
 that didn't feel right. Boxing didn't seem to match up with your actual movements. Golf on the 
 other hand matched up to well. A hard swing will ruin the game and the ball goes out of control. 
 Baseball is right in between and is great addition to wii sports. I encourage you to play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ants007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  it, s great start off playing for you to get use to playing and getting use too the wii remote and 
 nunchuck for the first time and then when playing for a while you will just want to get in to better 
 gaming like zelda and red steel it is good and fun my pairent like it alot as it not verty complicated 
 on wii sports some time adults can be KIDS for once in their lives when playin zelda for the first 
 time it is difficult (well i thort it was) and in a few trys like running climbing using the bow 
 and fighting it gets easyer and you wont think about it you just do it with out thinking also redsteel 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  The Wii sports game is absolutely amazing, it can make anyone just pick up one of the remotes and 
 join in!
  I took my Wii around my friends house and we played Wii Boxing for over 3 hours, it really is 
 that good!
  I am looking forward to a Wii sports 2 where they could have games such as Fencing, Badmintion 
 maybe even a javelin game!! Maybe they could make a Wii Olympics!! That would be special. Anyway 
 back to Wii Sports! It is fun to play and will entertain you for hours and hours and hours!! If 
 for some reason you didnt get it with your Nintendo then buy it anyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  So i got a Wii from amazon, the Wii arrives on release day.... Zelda doesn't! What can i do without 
 the best launch title in the history of console gaming? I know lets try this free controller demo 
 that comes with it.
  
  At first it seems quite cute, the style is very simple and accessible and the gameplay is easy 
 as hell to pick up. What comes easier than swinging a Wiimote in the way you would swing a tennis 
 racket in order to.... swing a tennis racket? So easy to pick up yet hard to get fully to grips 
 with.
  
  However soon the novelty wears off and all i want is Zelda. There's only so much handing the computer 
 tennis players ass to them in a 5 game match thats fun before it gets dull.
  
  But wait, i have 2 controllers.... I have a flatmate.... Multiplayer time!
  
  This is where this 
 game comes into its own. Two competitive people, one game of skill and timing. I'm sure any gamer 
 knows how to do that bit of maths. For those that have stumbled across this website by accident 
 let me spell it out:
  
  Wii Sports + 2 or more People + Your Front Room = One Shed Load Of Fun
  
  Is it perfect? No. 
 Are there gameplay issues? Yes. Is there hours of entertainment for you and your mates? Yes and 
 most of all IT'S FREE.
  
  Best value entertainment you can get, ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is just that, five different sports games that involve the motion sensing power of the 
 wii-mote. The five different sports in this game are: baseball, bowling, boxing, gold and finally 
 tennis. Only one of these games needs the nunchuck addition to the wii-mote (which is boxing) and 
 all the games are very easy to pick up and play.
  
  Gameplay: Good. It will really keep you going for a while, so if you are like me and didnt have 
 enough cash to buy another game with your wii, you will not be dissapointed. This game also keeps 
 your skill level at each sport. This means that depending on the results of the sport, your skill 
 can go up, or down. Also in this game it allows you to see your fitness age. While nintendo states 
 this would be more accurate for adults, its still fun for younger people. In the fitness you do 
 3 tests each day, depending how you do determines your fitness age (20 being the best) .
  
  Graphics: Impressive, but with room for improvement. The colours and stuff are great and of course 
 your mii (character which you make and play as in wii sports) looks good.
  
  Sound: The sound is nothing fantastic, but it doesnt mean its annoying. There is normally music 
 playing and sounds from hitting balls etc is always there making it more real. You can choose to 
 have sound coming from the wii-mote, but i found that a bit annoying...
  
  Value: Well it comes with the wii, so it doesnt really matter, but if i was forced to bbuy it seperately 
 i would definately say its worth it. The game allows you many hours of fun by yourself, or with 
 groups of family/friends.
  
  All in all: a good game thats well worth playing! Definately alot different than other games on 
 the market 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkHyruleLord
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that comes with your brand new Wii System. This sport video game is one 
 of the very few sports games that I will play. The game makes you really want to get into it and 
 really try to win. Tennis is very life like and can be a blast with a second player. Baseball on 
 the other hand could have been better I will say but is still fun smacking that home run. Golf 
 is probably the most boring one (in my opinion) but can still be kind of relaxing. Then we have 
 bowling which is very very well done and can be fun with two players or just one. Then there is 
 boxing. It is my personal favorite. What could be better than K. O. ing your best friend??? The whole 
 Mii system just makes it 10x better. Seeing yourself in the sport is just plain awesome. Overall 
 this is an excellent game and is super fun with friends, or by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I've never played baseball or a golf game before because I think it can't be entertaining. I want 
 to... I mean... pressing buttons or using analog stick is not really real but with Wii Sports, 
 you swing, you hit, you throw, you dodge. You do lots of things.
  
  Wii Sports includes five games: Tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. There are also two modes: Training 
 and Fitness. Now let's begin with tennis. As you thought, you swing the Wii Remote for playing 
 it. Simple but superb. And a note: When you win, you earn skill points and as you earn skill points, 
 your rival will be harder and harder. You become a PRO when you reach 1000.
  
  There are two modes for baseball. You swing the remote and you throw the ball. It is really tiring!
 
  
  The third game is Bowling. You press B and throw the bowling ball while you drag the Wii Remote. 
 It isn't really funny.
  
  There are 4 modes in Golf: Beginner, Intermediate, Expert and 9-Hole Game. You swing the Wii Remote 
 to make a nice in :D
  
  And boxing. You need the Nunchuk adapter to play that. One of them is your right hand and the other 
 one is the left one. You throw punches in the air. It is extremely tiring but multiplayer is superb!
 
  
  Don't expect superb graphics. They are okay. And it uses the Wii Remote's speaker but there isn't 
 any memorable music. As I told you before, the gameplay is fantastic.
  
  Training mode includes 15 minigames for 5 sports. You can earn medals. These minigames are used 
 in Wii Fitness mode. In this mode you play three of the minigames and it calculates your Wii Fitness 
 age. (The best one is 20.)
  
  The game's life is long but after being a pro, multiplayer won't last too long. And minigames won't 
 keep you busy but it is superb and it is free. Thanks Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Anyone with a wii will know this game obviously.
  
  Wii sports comes free with the wii system, when brought and is a great way to demostrate the capabilties 
 of the nintendo wii.
  
  It is a fun and interseting game that is short but easily playable again and again, is great fun 
 and fantastic multiplayer game, with you bein able to face off to your friends in a various amount 
 of games.
  
  The game includes the following sports, Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, Golf and bowling. Each one of 
 these because of the wii remote feels like your actually playing the sport and is amazing. Although 
 the sports are short with not really anything to do except play a simple game of each sport. The 
 best sport i think is the golf as it is the most detailed and realistic one of the 5.
  
  Although it has sports, it does have trainning modes where you can train and become better at the 
 game. There is also a wii fitness where you can find your fitness age out. A great way to demonstrate 
 of what the wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman93
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a pack in with the Nintendo Wii system, so basically, its free. But this game has 
 the power to draw you in to a world of fun like video games never before have. In this review I 
 will describe every sport and its pros and cons, then finish off with overall pros and cons.
  
  -Tennis: Wii Sports Tennis is very fun, and very simple, actually its too simple, I would have 
 liked to be able to move the character, but I dont mind, its fun. One thing I dislike is that its 
 kinda cheap where you can just shoot the ball to the edge and score. Tennis is my 2nd favorite 
 Wii Sports game. -Baseball: Wii Sports Baseball is also fun, but one thing I dislike is that you 
 can actually play better sitting down, I dont really like baseball, I think its kinda cheesy.
 
  
  -Bowling: Wii Sports Bowling, now were talking, this is my favorite, it feels just like a virtal 
 bowling alley, its great! This is the one game I have no cons.
  
  -Golf: Wii Sports Golf is also very fun, this is the game my grandparents spent hours on, its just 
 plain fun. My complaint on this game is that the controlls dont seem very responsive. -Boxing: 
 Wii Sports Boxing is great, it gets you into it and is tons of fun, it can actually give you a 
 workout if you do it like me and my friends do it. This game is also not that responsive, but its 
 good fun. Wii sports is a great game funwise, its severly lacking in graphics and other tidbits, 
 but is a free game, what do you expect. Its great fun for all ages and is clearly one of the Wiis 
 flagship games, not just because its a packing game, but its also probably the funnest Wii game 
 and thats saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Now when most people think of wii sports they think, wow this game has horrible looking characters, 
 bad graphics and is only a few games. But when i see wii sports, i think of something different. 
 I see a great game that is fun and extreamly enjoyable. When you see the game, a person would probably 
 not notice it. But when you look through the eyes of my homedogs Nintendo. They see a great enjoyable 
 game that makes great use of the wiimote and is easy and enjoyable to people of all ages. and even 
 better it comes with your wii. It makes great use of what Nintendo wanted to do with the wii. Get 
 people together and get at least a little active. It is extreamly fun. I'm sure everyone loves 
 this game, and if you don't, it's free so who cares. Overall a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The Wii is one of the greatest innovations in gaming history. The motion control is absolutely 
 fun and addicting. A lot of people, specificly non-gamers, might have trouble getting used to the 
 new way to play. To get people into the Wii, Nintendo needed to pack a simple game with the Wii. 
 The pack-in game, Wii Sports, is an awesome game for being as simple as it is. The gameplay is 
 great and it works very effectively. Swinging the bat in baseball is flawless. Bowling works great. 
 Swinging your tennis racket works well. Playing golf works most of the time. And boxing has its 
 flaws, but works pretty good overall. Playing these games in multiplayer is a blast. Your family, 
 girlfriend/boyfriend, and even your grandparents will have an awesome time with Wii Sports. The 
 simple gameplay isn't deep, but it isn't a flawed experience either.
  
  The graphics aren't anything special, but they really weren't ment to be. The framrate is solid 
 and the environments themselves look pretty good. The music is pretty solid throughout. Catchy 
 tunes in each of the sports fits the game perfectly.
  
  Wii Sports is easily the best free game since Zelda: Collector's Edition for Gamecube. This is 
 a game that will get you to love the Wii and how it controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerclaud
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  i think if you play it you will get addicted to it like i did and you will play it all day. my 
 prediction will be that if you play it long enough you will get really, really good at it. im getting 
 pretty good at it and i think that you will too! so take a while to think about it then take a 
 vote. it is a very fun game so i think you should keep on trying to get better and you canbe as 
 good as me, my dad, brother, and sister. thats all i have to say for right now. peace out dudes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirius_metlhed
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  What more can be said? It's just a fun game and a great bundled game. If you're looking for a realistic 
 sports sim, you had better wait for full version games of your favorite sports. This is one of 
 those few rare times that you might actually be playing the packaged game months after you've been 
 playing other Wii titles. If you think you have to buy another game when you finally get your hands 
 on a Wii, think again. You might not get to that shiny new game for a couple of days.
  
  Best game in the package: Boxing
  Worst game: Baseball
  Most addictive: Bowling
  Relax with: 
 Golf
  Biggest joke: Wii Fitness 
  Best surprise: Training modes actually fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonick54
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a free game ( if you live in North America anyways) packaged with the wii when you 
 buy it. Now, nintendo already said It's mostly used to show case the wii motes capabilities. How 
 i disagree with them. In a way, it feels the like a tech demo yet at times it feels like a complete 
 game. It presents the wii mote's powers very well and is fun to boot. Here is my review on wii 
 sports.
  
  Graphics: As you can see from screen shots, wii sports is basic at best. No detail at all to anything 
 really. But, it has a unique style because of the miis. They fit the game well and it sets it apart 
 from other games. They look kooky and quirky. From they're positions in the boxing game, to their 
 handless baseball games, to their crazy swinging with a racket. It gives the game a feel that makes 
 it feel original in a sense. It's like a whole new world with strange little creatures. The game 
 has no slow downs and plays smoothly. The graphics are colorful and clean.
  
  Gameplay: Now, onto gameplay. Since it has five different modes, i'll split this review up.
  
 
  Tennis: In this game, you try to get the ball to the other side of court and hope that the other 
 team misses. What makes this game different than other tennis titles in the fact you must really 
 swing the wii mote like a racket. The response time is excellent and you'll feel a little like 
 you're playing in a real life match. However, the miis move by themselves and our not entirely 
 in your control which is a little of a let down.
  
  BaseBall: In this game, you basically must hit the ball our of the park or at least far enough 
 so like that the other miis don't get it. You hold the remote like a bat and you swing away! It's 
 that simple. When playing with a friend, the friend must pitch the ball to you. The downside to 
 this game is that if you hit the ball, the miis move by themselves and go to bases by themselves.
 
  
  Bowling: Bowling is pretty simple, yet hard to master. Yet fun to play. You hold the wii mote up 
 to your face. Once you are ready, you hold the b button, run up, and let go! You can also use the 
 directional pad to direct the ball more accurately .
  
  Golf: Golf is probably the hardest one of the 5 games. I find it pretty sensitive to the wii mote 
 but still nice. You have to hold the remote like a club and swing. But, here's the catch. If it's 
 too strong, you'll screw up the shot! Once you've practiced enough, you can get the hand of it.
 
  
  Boxing: Now for the final game. Boxing. Boxing uses the nunchuck. You basically punch like a real 
 boxer with both controls. You hold the controls up to your face to block and such. At the beginning, 
 it; s easy to win matches by just randomly punching. But, once you go up in levels, it requires 
 a little more skills.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good. The wii speaker emulates the sounds really well. They do not sound 
 scratchy or anything.
  
  Features: There is a wii fitness test that you can do daily to test your fitness age. There are 
 also little challenges you can do to get medals. Another feature of the game is that you an use 
 the miis you created in the mii channel with the game.
  
  Overall: This game is really fun and grows on you. To me, it's a full game and a great one at that. 
 It's even better when you play with some friends. I'ts easy to pick up and anyone can play. Overall, 
 wii sports is a game that does it's job. Which is to make the player have an enjoyable time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the only game sold with a console at launch the generation, and it is a perfect way 
 to introduce the new control mechanics. Anyone can pickup and play this game, and though mastering 
 it is not easy it is not required to have fun.
  
  There are five sports to play, and though they are not as involved as a game made solely for one 
 of them that was not the intention with Wii Sports. The games are designed to help you get used 
 to playing games a new way, and the selection of sports offered is well rounded to give you a wide 
 variety control methods to experience. Wii Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling, and Boxing are each 
 setup differently, though all use the motion sensing abilities of the controller instead for the 
 infrared pointer; though that is used for menu navigation.
  
  One of the best aspects of Wii sports is its combination of being easy to pickup, and its multiplayer 
 support. The game uses the Mii Channel that comes with the Wii for a personal in game character 
 (be it a likeness of yourself or your best attempt at your Aunt Gertrude) . This character tracks 
 how you have done at any particular game in the past and gives you an overall rating for each. 
 This can be done with a number of Miis, though you can only view the stats by actively using 
 one. Everyone having their own character is nice, and the selection list goes by the most recently 
 selected, a nice feature when you have a group over. You can set the controller for lefties though 
 it defaults for righties, this is changeable every time you select a Mii that was not used the 
 previous game.
  
  Tennis is played with just the Wiimote, held like the handle of a tennis racket. Though you dont 
 use your free hand to toss the ball up (you use the Wiimote) , like in real tennis timing is everything 
 if you want a fast serve (though accuracy is done for you) . After that most of the challenge is 
 timing your swing to not only connect with the ball but to determine where it goes. The later your 
 swing the more to the outside the ball will go, and of course the earlier you swing the more to 
 the inside. You can both forehand and backhand swing, meaning you need a bit of room between folks 
 if you play, particularly if you really get into it. Larger motions are not required, but with 
 tennis it can make control a bit easier, as the angle of the front face of the Wiimote does have 
 some effect on spin and the ball trajectory. You can play a single set at a time, or up to five. 
 This sport is one that begs for a tournament option, but unfortunately one was not included.
  
  Bowling is my favorite if the sports, partly because it is the most involved. You hold the 
 Wiimote like you would a normal remote control, but of course you use it very differently. The 
 motions are what you would expect for bowling, you bring the Wiimote in front of you vertically, 
 swing it down and back like you are holding a bowling ball while holding the trigger, and then 
 bring the Wiimote back forward, releasing the trigger as close to straight down as you can. If 
 you release it early the game lets you know you dropped the ball but it does not count against 
 you, and if you release it late you loft the ball. Twisting the Wiimote to either side while 
 swinging it forward produces spin in that direction. You use the D-pad to move you Mii back and 
 forth on the lane and you can press A to use the D-pad to change the angle you throw the ball at. 
 This also seems to be the easiest game to pick up and play reasonably well, and you can have 4 
 people play at a time taking turns.
  
  Baseball is deceptively simple at first, and you dont get to do any of the field work yourself. 
 That is all handled by the system, usually very well. Your team can drop the ball on occasion, 
 and of course there are areas that can be hit to for fairly easy singles and doubles, but we will 
 get to that in a second. Pitching is pretty straight forward. You hold the Wiimote like a normal 
 remote, bring it up like you were going to throw it, and then make a throwing motion (NOT releasing 
 the Wiimote!) The faster you throw, the faster your Mii throws. You can use the D-pad to decide 
 where in the batters box to try to put the pitch, and the A and B buttons are used to determines 
 pitch type: neither for a fastball, A for a screwball, B for a curveball, and both for a slider. 
 Batting is a lot of fun as you hold the Wiimote like you would (shock) a bat, though at times a 
 bit frustrating. You need good timing, and how hard you hit depends on how fast you swing. Not 
 all pitches are strikes of course, but you can hit just about anything. You dont have to worry 
 about where the ball is for how you swing, just use good timing (not always easy with curveballs) . 
 Only two people can play this sport at once, and there are only three innings per game. The length 
 of games is about right for the fun factor.
  
  Golf is a bit different, though you do hold the Wiimote just like you would a golf club. It is 
 the only game where waving the Wiimote around too hard will have large negative consequences. The 
 power of your swing reflects how far the ball will go, but if you swing too have for the type of 
 club or the surface you are hitting from (think sand trap) you end up with a hook or slice that 
 gets worse the more you have overpowered the swing. What one it is is random, so you cant really 
 use it to take that dogleg like a pro. There are dots on your power meter for every quarter of 
 the power bar, these dots are also shown on the mini map for how far the ball will fly. One thing 
 to remember is that the ball and will bounce and roll after that point, and the wind of course 
 effects how and where the ball flies. Its a good thing you get to practice the swing before pressing 
 A to address the ball, you can try to get the right feel before you go for it. Putting is the same, 
 but you have to swing even softer, this is a problem for short puts, but as long as you hit the 
 hole with under a quarter of the power bar it will go in. There are nine holes to play, and you 
 can play with up to four people at a time. This is not a perfect round of golf, but it is good 
 enough so that you want more courses to play than just the one.
  
  Boxing is the only sport where you use the Nunchuck as well as the Wiimote. You hold one in each 
 hand like you would a bunch of pencils. Fighting seems pretty simple, punch and lean back and forth 
 to try to dodge your opponents punches. If you lean with the right timing in relation to you opponents 
 swing time slows down as the miss and you have a few seconds to pummel them. Of course, the same 
 is true if you miss, so just swinging wildly wont help you a lot. This is really the only sport 
 that cant be done with minimal motion, so you will get a work out if you are trying at all. Swing 
 high for head shots, low for body shots. Roundhouses and uppercuts tend to be hard to pull off 
 at first, and I still cant do it with any regularity. Combinations of hits mean a lot, as they 
 take more of your opponents stamina away. Once you connect, try to keep connecting. I have yet 
 to have a match go to the judges for a decision, it always ends in a knockout. In addition to the 
 main sports, there are also training modes you can do to improve you skills. There are three for 
 each sport and they all focus on one area: accuracy, power, or consistency. You can get medals 
 in each, with Platinum being the best. These are fun and can be fairly useful to work on something 
 you have been having trouble with.
  
  There is also a fitness test, based on your skill at a randomly selected batch of training events. 
 The game keeps track of your score when you play, so it can be a good way to judge your overall 
 improvement over time.
  
  Wii sports is a game that I would recommend to anyone, not just people new to the Wii. Dont ignore 
 it just because it came with the system to show off the Wiimote, it is a solid game all on its 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hq3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  This was sort of a surprise when I was bought my WII. I assume that I could take WII Sports for 
 a few hours and just forget about it. This game is the whole reason I have fun playing games with 
 other people again. I was very much a sing player kind of gamer. I don't even touch this game unless 
 I'm playing with others. That's not meant as an insult, but I'm only pointing out the fact that 
 its just so much fun to play along with others. Bowling is my personal favorite and its just plain 
 fun seeing people come over and have theyre variations on throwing the bowl. Boxing is hilarious 
 but a bit unresponsive. Tennis happens to be a favorite for playing along with my buddies the most. 
 I hope that Nintendo can improve upon this formula that has become quite an enjoyable experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is your first Wii game and if you saw the game at E3 then you know what sports you are 
 playing. Let's see which sports are better for the gamer. Tennis: You swing the Wii Remote like 
 a racket and sometimes you have to swing left as well as right. Most of the time, you end up swinging 
 the remote and the ball ends up landing out of bounds. I give this sport a 7.2
  
  Baseball: Probably my worst sport but my brother's preferred sport. You will swing or throw the 
 Wii Remote but when it comes to batting, most of the time, you end up hitting foul balls and/or 
 strikes. When you hit, if it's in the field and and bounces once and the opposing Mii catches it, 
 you're out. not so accurate gameplay, but this is not a baseball sim like Triple Play or MLB 2K 
 sports. I give this sport a 5.3
  
  Bowling: Probably one of the best sports to play on this game because the physics on the pins are 
 very realistic and so is the ball. Mostly the reason to play Wii Sports, in my opinion. I give 
 this a 10.0
  
  Golf: You're NOT exactly playing golf if you want to swing your hardest. You have to swing away 
 from the yellow bar on the top. Sometimes this can be VERY frustrating if you are at a tough spot 
 like in the bunker or in the rough grass. Putting can be easy if you are soft on the way you swing 
 the remote. I used to play golf as a kid so I know the physics and the way it was supposed to be 
 played. Stick to Tiger Woods PGA Tour if you have it. A 6.3
  
  Boxing: A pretty good sport to play with the Wii Remote and Nunchuck Controller. You hold them 
 both and thrust them like boxing gloves and lean yourself in every direction to dodge hits or stuff. 
 Sometimes, you'll try to do a left hook but end up doing a regular punch. The motion controls can 
 be very inaccurate at times but this shouldn't stop you from playing it if you like to fight. I 
 give this an 7.9 Well, there's my reviews on the sports in Wii Sports. Another good thing is you 
 can train your Mii to make him/her gain experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_cHrIs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is the free game that was packaged with the nintendo wii in most places (think only 
 Japan missed out on it) and what seems like a tech demo turns in to a surprisinly deep game.
  
  wii sports is five games in one they are tennis, golf, boxing, baseball and bowling. The graphics 
 in wii sport arn't great but they do the job and every character is is a mii which is pretty cool 
 so not too much to say about the graphics but surrice to say that they do the job. The sound in 
 wii sports is quite good most of the sound is spoken through the speaker so every whack of that 
 tennis ball or punch to the face is right beside you but they can get a bit annoying if you would 
 rather lisen to music which I occasonaly like to do. As for the motion senseing it works well in 
 all the games and there is a surprising amount of depth to each one in tennis the speed and direction 
 of how you swing the wiimote really matters also boxing can be a bit hard to do at first but what 
 you have to renember is that the mii can't throw punches as fast as you so if you are there like 
 swinging like a mad man the mii and you will go out of sinc causeing much confusion. bowling works 
 on speed and direction and how you swing that wiimote but contre to what I thought at first once 
 you work out where to stand to get a strike it's still just hard enough to have to think how much 
 your gonna tilt that ball. golf works as you expect but its really the only game I dislike. Basball 
 is all really about timing and it can be quite a challenge somtimes.
  
  lastly the wii has a skill level basilally in one player you want to get over 1000 skill points 
 to be a pro but what seems easy at first becomes a welcome uphill struggle at the end. training 
 option which chops each sport down into three minigames each with it's own nugget of wisdom about 
 the sport also you can win medals and wii sports also has a fitness option that calculates your 
 fitness level from playing three minigames and it; s not to dissimilar than brain training.
  
  This game should be in all wii player collection (well it came with the thing right) and will 
 probebly draw you inwhile playing zelda and warioware. Lets just hope wii sports 2 comes out and 
 they put luging in it.
  
  sorry for all the text but if you made it this far thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports features 5 sports: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. Each mimics life like 
 actions, from swinging the Wii-mote to rolling it like a bowling ball. Boxing forces you to attach 
 the nunchuk and go for the knockout. The games are fun, save one (Boxing is like a game where you 
 are forced to button mash) but lack depth. But you know what? WHO CARES?!?! They are just plain 
 fun when you are playing with a friend. Alone you have nothing to do but play fitness games or 
 go up against brain dead opponents, but with a friend (or friends) the game gets so much closer 
 to actually being like the sport. The problem with the depth will be solved by time; already a 
 tiger woods game is being made for the wii. Each game is a demo of what the Wii will soon be. But 
 they aren't just demos, they're fun demos. Oh, and have you heard it can help you lose weight? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisisthepope
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  My first Wii game and admitedly quite addictive. Great to pull out for a quick show-off to the 
 uninitiated. A few moments spent making their Miis and you're off cracking serves at each other 
 in tennis or bowling backwards for strikes. It lacks any real depth in terms of technique, but 
 the obscurity of the Wiimote always suggests that you can do more (maybe by twisting your wrist 
 a little to the left before letting go of the bowling ball or serving with your wrist...)
  
  It's nothing dynamite and left alone with the Wii, I'm not that interested in playing anymore. 
 However, the game has been greatly valuable for a quick stretch between long working bouts as it 
 greases joints and flexes muscles long since cramped in slouch-position in front of the computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Bowling This one is ok and the easiest to control in my opinion will find know problems it is just 
 a matter of hold the b button and swing. Tennis I found this one a little annoying because I coud 
 not control the guy my self and it is done automatically, but the motion sensing is very good and 
 no problems. just swing the remote.
  
  Golf This one is a little interesting you do not have to swing the wiimote hard for it to go at 
 full speed which I found this game quite difficult
  
  Boxing This one is also pretty good and box and nobody gets hurt except the miis, but I still wish 
 I can control the guy myself. Baseball This one is rather annoying if you the ball in the infield 
 you get out it does not matter if it hits the ground or not and it goes and you bases automatically 
 like a single, double, or triple. And homeruns are easy to get. Graphics Needs improvement but 
 they are not bad so I am not complaining since the game comes with the system. Sound Why there 
 nothing wrong with the sound but could be better. Overall The G ame comes free with the system, 
 but I do reccommed this game and it is not that bad and you learn it pretty quickly. So overall 
 there is nothing wrong with the game. Just swing the remote not throw we do not need injuries or 
 broken tvs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, simply, isn't very hard to explain: this Wii pack-in of sports games has you using 
 the Wii remote (and sometimes even the nunchuck add-on) for 5 of various sports, which includes 
 tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. You, playing as an athletic Mii, have a goal to professionalise 
 in each sport, by getting one thousand skill level-points for each one. So here's the review:
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: Well, as I said already, Wii Sports has five sports to play: tennis, baseball, bowling, 
 golf, and boxing. To tell you about each sport, I'll just tell you what my favorite sports to play 
 Wii Sports is, from favorite to least favorite, as well as explaining how each works. Right off, 
 my favorite little mini-game is bowling. The reason why I guess would be how well the controls 
 mixed with the sense of reality for bowling in this game; the controls are simple: you only use 
 the remote, and with that, you use the d-pad to move from side-to-side in your lane, A to switch 
 to changing your aim, which is also controlled with the d-pad; to start bowling, you simply raise 
 the remote, hold the B button (back of remote) to get ready to bowl, and then release it, as well 
 as lowering and flicking the remote to release the ball, having it slide down the lane (or pretty 
 much like how you play in bowling) . And on a side note, you can twist your hand to put a spin on 
 the ball. Next is baseball, being my second favorite. You either bat or pitch; for batting, you 
 pretty much swing the remote (this game is remote-only) when to attempt to hit the ball. For pitching, 
 you still swing the remote; however, there are certain types of pitches, much like regular baseball. 
 They include fastball (just swinging the remote) , curveball (while holding the A button) , screwball 
 (while holding the B button) , and both for a splitter. Also note that you can pitch inside and 
 out with the d-pad buttons. But anyways, my third favorite would have to be tennis (and as far 
 as I can tell, doubles) , where you just swing upwards, and then downwards for a complete serve, 
 and swinging the remote swing your racket. Fourthly is golf, in which you swing your remote as 
 you would a golf club (to driving it from putting it) , but with a power bar to see how powerful 
 you need your swing; too much causing a hook or slice. While this one certainly has a great sense 
 of feel, I find that this can be eventually boring, mainly due to lack of golf courses (only nine 
 holes) , as well as variety. Also, in golf, motion controlling here is the trickiest; sometimes 
 it's sensitive, and sometimes it feels nonresponsive. And then my least favorite would have to 
 be boxing. It's not the fact that I don't like the game (I find it okay) , it's just the fact that 
 it's so easy that you can just wiggle the remote (which, by the way, uses both the remote and the 
 nunchuck) and not it's other features, which includes raising your nunchuck controller much like 
 guarding, and waving the controller from one side to another to dodge hits. Other than a training 
 mode and a Brain Age-esque Fitness test (relating to sports in game) , that's it. All of these sports 
 can be picked up and easily played in just a matter of seconds, and really, as you hear ad after 
 ad, anyone can very easily pick up and play this game, literally. However, Wii Sports is really 
 a very shallow game and offers nothing other than what's on it. But, on the other hand, it's pretty 
 much a free pack-in with the Wii, and is alright to play for a few days. I have not much really 
 else to say.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: Well, the graphics are okay, but that's not what Wii Sports is obviously aiming for. 
 All the Mii characters certainly give it some charm (if not, all the charm the game has in store) , 
 but the environments are, well, plain. Still, though, the environments don't look that bad; but 
 on the other hand, you can tell it can get better.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: Not bad, but once again, this isn't what Wii Sports is aiming for either (obviously) . However, 
 the background music fits for whatever it's doing, but it's mainly the main menu. You'll mainly 
 be playing sports in quiet-ness, which is a relief, since it would be hard to concentrate if there 
 was music. Sound effects are spot-on, and the announcer-guy isn't as annoying as you think (but 
 he can be as cheesy as you imagine him) . Still, though, despite all of this, there's not enough 
 for the sound department to be any more than decent, but it's still not that bad.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: It really shouldn't take you long to professionalise on each of these minigame of sports 
 . The fitness test can be played as long as you like, but one time is usually good enough. And, 
 really, I believe that the practice mode is nothing to play over and over for, if not, at all. 
 The real main drawl for Wii Sports is multiplayer; it's flat-out way more fun to play with somebody 
 than the computer, for alot of times, the computer just isn't competitive enough as it should. 
 Even if you don't have two Wii remotes with a nunchuck add-on to play all of these games; you can 
 play golf and bowling with just one, dare I say it, Wiimote . Really, multiplayer in Wii Sports 
 is what should stretch the value out enough to play it for a while, and this seems to be what Nintendo 
 was aiming for in Wii Sports. But the replay value is still decent.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: It's hard to say I recomend this game if it's already packed in with the Wii. I'll say this: 
 if it wasn't a pack-in, I most likely would recommend a rental at best, if not at all. However, 
 it's a pack, and it isn't bad to play if you can't afford another Wii or Gamecube game at the moment 
 for at least a little while. It's very easy to pick up and play well, so that should certainly 
 be an up to everything. Flat-out, a good-enough game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a really good game, which is surprising because it comes free when you buy the system 
 new. It does get repetitive after a while but the game on there are really fun, and provide a pretty 
 good workout, in my opinion wii baseball, or wii boxing provides the most exercise of them all 
 in wii sports. So this is a good game to start with if you spent all the moeny you can spend on 
 the wii, and dont have any money left over to spend buying a game or a few. So overall this is 
 a pretty fun (free) game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-samurai
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fun sports game that will enlighten people about the wii. Wii Sports is packed 
 in with the wii. Wii Sports is great for starters with the wii. Wii Sports has five sports included 
 in the game. It has baseball, bowling, boxing, golf, and tennis that will show strong power to 
 the game. There is not just sports that you play, but there is also training mode and wii fitness. 
 In training mode you can practice on some of the sports that you need help on example, baseball: home 
 runs, bowling: hitting pins, boxing: dodging balls, golf: hitting a hole in one, tennis: hitting the 
 target. In wii fitness you get train your mii and stats by doing wii fitness tests. you'll get 
 a wii fitness age at the end of the test. depending on how well you do you''l get a good age. You 
 can also play as your very own mii that you create on your wii that is pretty cool. The gameplay 
 is pretty simple, you hardly ever press any buttons but which represents the good of the motion 
 senseing of the wii. The graphics were'nt expecting because I saw some glitches that I wasnt happy 
 about. The sounding on the wii remote was pretty crappy. Wii Sports is fun for everyone and makes 
 a good addition to the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, a couple of days ago I finally managed to pick up my Wii, meaning that one of the first games 
 I ever played on the Wii was this one, due to the fact that it is usually packed in with the console 
 when you first buy it. I have to say that this game is a great introduction to the console and 
 getting used to the controls, and it also has the option of including your own Mii in the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple and fun, working in different ways depending on the game you play. There 
 are five main games to choose from, as well as a training mode which is more for practice and mini-gaming 
 - via playing some of the mini-games available you unlock more mini-games which will later make 
 your fitness tests more interesting, shall we say. The fitness test which is also in this game 
 allows you to get a rough estimate on your fitness age - while it may not be accurate and is more 
 of a case of you being good at the games to get a young fitness age, it's still a great deal of 
 fun even though you can only take your test once a day. The fitness test uses games from Training 
 Mode, so the more you unlock there, the more random your fitness tests will most likely be.
  
  One of the easiest games available out of the main five is bowling, in which you play the game 
 as if you were probably bowling in real life, only it's much easier. Pressing the B button enables 
 you to swing your bowling ball, but release the button at the wrong moment and you drop it instead 
 of throw it. The only problem is that strikes and spares come quite easy once you've gotten the 
 hang of the game. Where multiplayer is concerned, you only need the one Wii Remote between the 
 two players, which is good for those who only have the one Remote. The game is generally played 
 as you would play it alone but with turn-taking.
  
  People may need a little bit of practice on baseball at first since it requires you to time things 
 right when batting. The gameplay for baseball is split into two parts - bowling and pitching. The 
 fielding and running is done automatically. For people who are very new to the Wii, it might be 
 hard to time the batting right at first but it generally does get easier with practice. Pitching 
 is a walk in the park, merely requiring you to make a slight throwing motion with the Wii Remote. 
 Multiplayer requires more than one Wii Remote, and while one team bats, the other pitches, meaning 
 both players don't have to take turns.
  
  Tennis is quite easy for some, but not for others. Admittedly, this game isn't one I play often, 
 but it's still fun. The Miis will move on their own, so all you need to worry about is hitting 
 the ball as it comes to you, via swinging the Wii Remote. There really isn't much else to it than 
 that, though if the ball lands outside the court, the other team gets a point, but you may have 
 already known that. Multiplayer requires more than one Remote, and there is no need to take things 
 in turn since there are two teams to control.
  
  Golf was the first game I tried and it's fairly fun. The game enables you to choose which courses 
 you want to do out of Beginner, Intermediate or Expert. It is a little irritating because at the 
 beginning of the Beginner, Intermediate and Nine-Course options, there will be a little tutorial 
 - helpful to people who are brand new to the game, but irritating to those who know the game. Thankfully, 
 pressing the - key on the Remote skips the tutorials. Swinging the Wii Remote while holding the 
 A button is all that really needs to be done, though you can also select what type of gold club 
 to use which is handy. However, if you hit the ball too hard, it may curve and/or go too far. If 
 it lands in the water or on the darkest green, it's out of bounds. It takes practice, and it may 
 end up going further than you meant it to, but the game is overall fun.
  
  Boxing is the only game on Wii Sports that requires you to plug in your Nunchuk, but it's quite 
 a fun experience once you get started. Much like with golf, when you first play it will come up 
 with a tutorial though the tutorial only appears on your first time on playing it. Holding the 
 Nunchuk and the Wii Remote up to your face blocks attacks, while jabbing them forward attacks your 
 opponent. Once he's been down for ten seconds, you've won the fight. There should be a little pie 
 shaped thing that appears which is your opponent's life bar, so that will help you in knowing how 
 much longer you have to go before you've knocked him down. Your pie-shaped health bar will appear 
 whenever you're hit by your opponent.
  
  The music is quite upbeat and fun, though some of the sounds when you're playing your games come 
 out of the Wii Remote instead of your television which isn't as good as it could be if it came 
 out of the television, but it's not too bad. Overall, this game is good and the good thing is, 
 if you're buying your first Wii, you most likely don't even need to buy it since it's packed in 
 with the console. A great introduction to the Wii for newbies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  By now, you have already known the silent craze of the video game industry that is known as the 
 Nintendo Wii. I call it silent because it didnt create as much buzz as the PS3 when first released, 
 but the Wii has sold copies, received more positive reviews, and maybe even a seal of approval 
 from doctors who say that the Wii can help your child in their exercise regimen. Specifically, 
 the exercise regimen is called Wii Sports. It is the game that is included in the Nintendo Wii 
 console, the only gaming console that has a game included. Wii Sports a quasi-demo game that 
 has five mini games included: Tennis, Golf, Baseball, Boxing, and Bowling. The Wii remote is designed 
 to mimic the real-life movements in each of the five sports games.
  
  In Tennis, you swing the Wii remote to hit the tennis ball as you play. You dont actually move 
 your player but the result of the play depends on the swing and the strength of it. In Golf, like 
 Tennis, the result depends on the swing of your golf club, but you get to position yourself on 
 how to get the ball in depending on wind and surface conditions. In baseball, all you do is pitch 
 and hit, and it only has 3 innings. You mimic the swing and the pitch using the Wii remote. Youre 
 out by either a strikeout, a pop fly, or if your ball fails to hit beyond the bases. In Boxing, 
 you get to use the Nunchuk control and the Wii remote for both hands. In this game you jab with 
 the Manchu and power with the remote, with 3 rounds only. In Bowling, you swing the Wii remote 
 like you do with a real-life bowling ball. This game also has practice modes in case you dont 
 your games to be on record. By on record I mean with each official game you play, your skill 
 level changes. The level of your computer-controlled opponent (if any) depends on the skill level 
 youre at. It also has a Fitness Test, a once-a-day exam on what equivalency age youd be depending 
 on how you play. If you did well on the Fitness exam, your age would be close to that of 20, 
 a perfect score. In other words, the more poorly you play, the older youd be, and vice-versa. 
 This is a really good Wii starting game to get the feel and habit of the Wii remote and Manchu. 
 You really feel like youre playing these games in real life. Of course, these games are not meant 
 to replace real-life since theyre way too simplistic, but it does give you a good, decent workout, 
 especially Baseball and Boxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  When Nintendo revealed its first game for the Wii at the E3 in 2006, entitled Wii Sports, the entire 
 gaming community was set ablaze. Implementing the latest motion-sensing technology, Wii Sports 
 gives gamers the freedom to actually throw a bowling ball, swing a tennis racket, baseball bat, 
 golf club or throw a jab, in the privacy of their own home, rather than pressing a button, creating 
 a one of a kind experience that not only serves as a great pack-in title with the Nintendo Wii, 
 but forever changes the way people think about video games.
  
  While Wii Sports only consists of five mini-games: bowling, tennis, baseball, golf and boxing, 
 each game has its own charm and group of gameplay modes associated with it that provide hours of 
 venerable gameplay. For instance, not only can you bowl a full 10-frame game in Wii Bowling, but 
 you can also play a spare-pick up mini-game and a power-throwing mini-game that are both challenging 
 and extremely fun. Wii Boxing also sports some pretty interesting game modes, such as a destroy 
 the heavy bag mini-game and a target punching mode that use both the Wii remote and nunchuck accessory, 
 providing a good change of pace from the other games on the disc. Unfortunately, there arent really 
 any rewards for succeeding in any of the games; however, they are addicting, as after a few go-rounds, 
 gamers will be in awe of just how responsive the Wii remote is, responding to their every move. 
 Just how responsive you ask? The use of the Wii remote in Wii Sports is so innovative, fluid and 
 enjoyable that it will not only not make you think twice about playing these games in real life 
 again, but it will turn people who you never thought would touch a video game in their lives into 
 addicts. This is accomplished even further by the implementation of Nintendo Miis [creatable characters 
 that are used in selected Nintendo Wii games] in Wii Sports. Now, the gamer can take the fun a 
 step further and create themselves and see a cyber version of themselves perform their actions 
 on the television while they perform them in the real world. This may not sound like such a big 
 deal, but to the casual gamer, this may be worth the price of admission alone.
  
  However, despite all the fun youll be having by yourself playing the game, Wii Sports is at its 
 best when played with two or more people. Bowling is easily the best multi-player game on the disc, 
 but playing doubles in tennis or a head-on game of baseball are great ways of killing massive amounts 
 of time. On the whole, the multi-player elements in Wii Sports provide an entirely new gameplay 
 experience that can stand tall by themselves if need be.
  
  Wii Sports unfortunately does have a few drawbacks, however. A few of the games, most notably boxing 
 and baseball, dont have the same depth of golf and bowling, as both games are only three rounds 
 or innings long and in the case of baseball, games can actually end in tie. Some may feel these 
 are small blemishes on an amazing group of games that is forgivable, but hardcore gamers may feel 
 a bit disappointed that the extra work needed to make these games perfect was put into them. As 
 well, despite the flat-out fun youll have playing Wii Sports, playing these games for hours on 
 end will definitely take a toll on your body and gamers [especially out of shape ones] should be 
 advised to take it slow and steady. Aside from that, the skys the limit for any gamer looking 
 for a good time with this title.
  
  Aside from these small imperfections and nuances, Wii Sports is a must own title and is a great 
 launching pad for anyone who thinks video games arent for them. Creating a completely new genre 
 of video games that will be imitated for years to come, Nintendo has brought out all the stops 
 with this one and have done the impossible in creating a game that a middle-aged mother or father 
 will want to play more his video game-addict son or daughter.
  
  Be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I love Wii sports man!!!!.... sorry I had to get that outta me this game is a breath of fresh air 
 in the overly saturated and very plain genre of sports games. I mean Im having fun playing golf 
 and Bowling!! wii sports is a demo packed with 5 sports games Bowling, Golf, Boxing, Baseball, 
 and tennis. The depth to these sports games is surpisingly very deep you will find yourself changing 
 the way you swing the wiimote to affect the way you swing your racket or block an incoming punch. 
 The graphics in my view have a sort of cell shaded simplistic style to them wich I enjoy alot. 
 The music to this game sounds like elevator music wich I surpisingly dont mind. Sound design is 
 also done very well wich each sport having there own ambience from the quite and stillness of tennis 
 to the crowd roaring when you hit a baseball out of the park. This game has huge replay value even 
 if you have no friends to play with. The more you play the harder the opponents get. Wii sports 
 also has a cool training program and Wii fitness witch determines your fitness age trough 3 mini 
 games. All and all its fun and exiting and I hope they either expand on the sports games or even 
 make a sequel. 8.4 awsome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MONSTER99999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I Cant believe actually I can I knew Nintendo always had it being a fan boy they have finally 
 got a master system and a great with too. Well they have had lots of great systems but this is 
 my fave. Motion sensing that is pure ownage. Anyway wii sports it plays great even if the graphics 
 are lacking who cares what people want in a game is fun and u dont need good graphics to have 
 fun. Tennis is the best I knew it was going to be the best because they showcased it at E3. They 
 are all good though except golf. I just dont like gold thats why but if anyone does like golf 
 then they will like this game. The boxing is great at the begging but after a while the computers 
 become very hard same with baseball. Bowling though is fun for a long time and is good because 
 u dont play against computers. Plus baseball and boxing are still good on 2 players actually they 
 are great.
  So all together this is a great game which is a good game by itself but paves the way for the games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugsy44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a great exercise that comes with the Wii. This game has has four sports, tennis, boxing, 
 bowling, and golf. You play each of these sports just like you would in real life, no confusing 
 controls! ^.^ . You also gain skill points as you play and win matches of tennis, bowling, golf, 
 or boxing. As your skill level gets higher, your opponents get harder, (so technicly speaking, 
 winning make the game harder. yippee.) Once you reach skill level 1000 your mii becomes a pro ............ yes, 
 thats a good thing. Also, you can lose lots if weight off of playing this, so.... play it.
  
  Well, i dont really have to tell you to buy it because it comes with the Wii..... but if it 
 didnt, i would tell you to buy it.
  
  Soooooo, I just think this is a really fun game, and Nintendo made a good choice by packing it 
 with the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicer894
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes with the Wii when you buy it and I think that was a very smart decsion by Nintendo. 
 It is a diiferent kind game where the controls are basiclly the same for a real game. For golf 
 you swing your club, in bowling you roll your ball like in real bowling, in baseball you swing 
 your bat but when you pitch you just need to move the Wii remote, in boxing you move both of you 
 hands foward with the remote and the nunchuck, and in tennis you swing the racket. This game is 
 just truely fun and addictive. Also, it is cool how it tells your Wii fitness age. And it is a 
 great game for excerising ( if you play it every day) . Also, the multiplayer is fun and competitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punaeased
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun and addicting game. My favorite part of the game is that you can play as the 
 Miis (characters) that you create! In the game you can play baseball, bowling, golf, tennis, and 
 boxing. I think that the best game is baseball. I think it's really fun to bat and pitch. Some 
 things are kind of annoying like when the outfielders catch the ball, but then they just drop the 
 ball and then the just walk to the ball, and the other team gets a triple?!
  bowling is very fun too. Like it's funny when you throw the ball behind you and the people (who 
 are watching) jump in the air and scream! Golf is not very fun its really annoying because even 
 if you only swing the wii remote a little the player (Mii) hits the ball at FULL FORCE?! Tennis 
 is pretty fun but its kind of hard to move your player. otherwise its easy. Boxing is my 2nd favorite 
 game. Its really exciting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjap00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great way to start off having fun with your Wii. Forunately, it comes bundled with 
 the console, and we should be appreciative of that. All the games are just a lot of fun, and on 
 top of that, some of them require you to think a bit. Take golf for example; you have to balance 
 out how much power you're using, how the wind affects the ball, etc. However, golf is just one 
 of the more relaxing of the five sport games.
  
  Boxing is probably the most excersising game. It requires you to throw punches with both the Wii 
 Remote and the Nunchuck attachment. You can also shift left and right, do uppercuts, and more.
 
  
  Of course, there's bowling- my favorite among all of the games. The way how you must hold up the 
 ball, and swing it across the alley feels quite natural. Also, the way the physics of the pins 
 when they get knocked down work out perfectly.
  
  Baseball is nice. The on-screen bat follows the exact movements of the Wii remote. But it will 
 only do this on a certain axis. Swinging the bat and smacking the ball across the field feels real 
 pleasing.
  
  You'll find that tennis has simple motion sensitve controls, but it is enjoyable. You hit the ball 
 with your racket, depending on how you swing the Wii remote (backhand and forehand) . You can also 
 lob the ball, as well as a whole bunch of other techniques. The characters are based on your custom 
 Miis, as well as the pre-made ones. Their designs are simple, but they look great at the same time, 
 and same as the graphics, altogether.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports was well worth being bundled with the console. Anyone of any age will have 
 a great time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Good: decent textures and sound, Tennis, Boxing, Bowling
  Bad: extremely simplistic design, annoying control faults, Golf, Baseball
  
  By now I'm sure 
 you have already heard about Wii Sports. It comes packaged in with every Wii console so buyers 
 will have something to play right from the go. It's a collection of five simple games based off 
 of real sports. It's a fun, but flawed game though, which can make it frustrating. I do like Wii 
 Sports but I have quite a bit of rants regarding it. I have expressed to fellow Wii owners my rants 
 on Wii Sports but the main response I get is, Well, it's free. What, so that should cut it some 
 slack? I think not. Free game or not free game I want it to be good and flawless. Oh well, you 
 can't get everything you want.
  
  Starting off, the five games in Wii Sports are: Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Baseball, and Boxing. All 
 of these are really just demos because the lack a lot of things that would be in the real sports. 
 They are basically simplified versions of the real sports except I think they are like that because 
 Nintendo wants this game to be easily playable for everyone. Still, I would've liked a little bit 
 more depth in the games. Even though I had some bad things to say, the games are still pretty fun 
 and enjoyable and certainly do have a lot of similarities to the real sports.
  
  I'll start with Tennis. In Tennis, you don't actually move your character, you just use the Wii 
 Remote to serve and hit the ball back and forth. The only other button used is A, which is used 
 to start your serve and in the menus. So you hit a tennis ball back and forth. Sounds simple right? 
 Well the concept itself is simple but the game is surprisingly tougher than it seems. It is possible 
 to get outs and to miss the ball as well. Another thing is that you can only do doubles matches 
 and you control both your characters. Now you're probably wondering how that works out. Well, when 
 you swipe the remote like a racket, both players swing their rackets in the game. It's easy once 
 you've got the hang of it. Tennis is probably my favorite game on the disc but it is still not 
 without it's flaws. I would've liked to see the ability for singles play also and sometimes the 
 sensor bar doesn't always pick up your swings correctly. But for the most part, the game works 
 out well and is definitely a blast to play alone or in groups.
  
  Now onto Baseball. In Baseball there are two different control schemes-batting and pitching. For 
 pitching all you really have to do is just make a pitching motion while holding the remote of course. 
 For batting, they want you to grip the remote with both hands and swing. Well, the remote is pretty 
 small so you're best off just swinging with a single hand. Also, when you are batting, hold the 
 bat up, otherwise you won't be able to see the ball coming at you. Now, in the game the teams are 
 controlled by computer players, except for whatever you are doing. (Which is either batting or 
 pitching.) This means that the computer controls everything else which can make the game annoying 
 because it's random if your team mate is going to catch the ball or not. Even with all these flaws, 
 Baseball is still somewhat fun but goes down as my second least favorite game in Wii Sports.
  
  Next is Bowling. Bowling is probably the easiest to pick up and play. It's plays just like 
 the real sport, meaning if you hate bowling then you'll probably hate this, but if you like bowling 
 then you'll like this. I can't say any flaws in this off hand because there are so few and that 
 is definitely a good thing to hear. To play bowling, you hold down the B trigger on the back of 
 the remote, and pull the remote back, then as you're bring it back forward you then release B. 
 You can use the D-pad to aim where you want the ball to go but it won't always go where you aim 
 it to. Also, pressing A will switch between two styles of aiming. Bowling is a great game to play 
 when you've got nothing else to play.
  
  Moving on to Golf... Now in my opinion, Golf is the worst game on this entire disc. It's boring 
 first of all, and the controls just don't work out that well. Too many times I'll be swinging but 
 my Mii will just make slight movements, and if I swing just a tad harder, my Mii will send the 
 thing way farther then I wanted. Maybe it's because I barely play it, maybe it's because I suck, 
 or maybe it's because the controls just flat out suck. I'm not sure yet but I think it's maybe 
 all of them. This game could've been decent but I just hate those annoying control flaws. It sounds 
 simple, you can cycle through your clubs and then you hold down A and swing, but it's harder than 
 it sounds. Oh well, maybe Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 on Wii will fix that.
  
  The last game is Boxing, which is pretty fun, but it also has some flaws. For example, if you punch 
 to fast the sensor bar won't always pick up those movements, and it may result in failure. But, 
 if you take your time and block yourself a lot then it's fun and the sensor bar will pick up those 
 movements. Boxing is the only game of the five that uses both the Remote and the Nunchuck. You 
 grip one in each hand and punch with both of them. You can do uppercuts, jabs, and side punches, 
 etc. It plays a bit like other boxing games but each player has a circle of health that is similar 
 to Mario's circle life bar in Super Mario 64. When you hurt your opponent their life will drop 
 and then eventually they'll get KO'd when their life is gone. It'll count to ten and the may get 
 up and they may not. There are three rounds and if the match doesn't end by the time the three 
 rounds are up then the judges will pick a winner. One thing that is annoying is that when it starts 
 counting to ten for your Mii, you can't mash buttons or anything to get back up. It's random. You're 
 either going to get up or stay down. In addition to offense, you can hold the controller up to 
 your face to block hard face punches or hold it at your stomach to avoid punches there. You can 
 also dodge punches by moving left and right. Overall, Boxing is probably my second favorite Wii 
 sport.
  
  In all of the games there are skill points. You'll gain skill points if you do good and lose them 
 if you do not to good or if you lose. You may win and lose skill points just because you did bad 
 on the game, even if you did win. You are trying to aim for 1000 skill points in each game.
  
  The graphics are extremely basic but they are not too bad either. The background textures are 
 pretty good in all of the games. The character models are exactly what your Mii's look like. In 
 fact, the game uses your Mii's as characters. There isn't a whole lot of detail but it is still 
 a decent looking game. The music is pretty good and the sound effects are great. There aren't really 
 any sound faults.
  
  In addition to the five games, there is a Fitness Test which is similar to the Brain Age (DS) tests 
 except with Sports. You'll play three training rounds of sports and then it will calculate an age 
 equivilant to your skill. 20 is the best age you can get. There is also a Training mode where you 
 can practice the games with three different trainign courses for each game. Also, each game has 
 multiplayer support for 2-4 players. Boxing only has 2 players though.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports was a great attempt but didn't quite nail everything right. It is free, but 
 it still falls short of being a great game. That being said, it's still fun and has great multiplayer. 
 An excellent party game it is, but an excellent single player experience it isn't, partly because 
 of control faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safasmets
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I love the creator of the wii. Not only does he come up with the best video game system, he gives 
 us a great game to go with it. wii sports makes great use of the wii-mote. You can make a mii character 
 and use him in this game. It consists of 5 sports. TENIS: alot of fun, but all you do is swing 
 your arms around. But when you really get into the game it is a lot of fun. BASEBALL: pitching 
 and batting are a lot of fun but thats all you do. the cpu plays defence. so no double plays. still 
 lots of fun. BOWLING: the wii-mote acts as a bowling ball, and you can make your bowling ball into 
 one of four colors, blue, green, red, gold. GOLF: the wii-mote acts as a golf club. BOXING: (my 
 personal favorite) (needs the use of a nunchuck) you use the controllers as gloves. The cool thing 
 about this sport is that you can evade the other persons punces. a fast pace game that is a lot 
 of fun. So if you dont have a wii yet get one because you will also get this awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuban
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Good: Everyone can play, easy to learn, training mode and fitness mode, great party game
  
  Bad: Sometimes the motion detection screws up while playing golf and tennis... I was a little shocked 
 when Nintendo announced that Wii would feature a motion based gameplay. I meant it was too early 
 for the industry to make that move. Now that I see the results I have to admit it was time and to 
 see it works is more than I hoped for.
  Wii sports is a very addictive and fun game. The sports are fun and realistic, which raises the 
 party value a lot.
  To those of you who have'nt played yet, I recommend you try it, and be surprised and impressed 
 how fun and easy it is.
  
  Gameplay: Very realistic. Fun and easy. Nintendo have brought many non-gamers to the gaming world.
 
  
  Graphics: Ok. Not made too much out of it, but good graphics here is not the point.
  
  Sound: Good atmosphere and sound effects. Plain and simple music.
  
  Value: This game will never 
 get old. With training and fitness mode it will last.
  
  Tilt: Surprisingly fun and addictive gameplay that won't let anyone down. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy_Frank
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  ~Game play ~
  After creating your mii you can use it as a character in all the sports that the Wii sports game 
 has to offer. Each sport, tennis, bowling, golf, baseball, and boxing requires you to mimic the 
 basic movements of each respective sport: for bowling you would mimic the swing, for boxing you 
 would be punching using the nun chuck and wiimote and so on. After each match you earn experience 
 points towards a professional goal which will keep some people coming back to play. Although single 
 player may grow old for some people and some people will not enjoy all the sports, Wii sport's 
 multiplayer makes the game feel fresh and new every time people come to play. Theres nothing like 
 knocking out a clone of your best friend or shooting a round of golf with a bunch of buddies that 
 never held a golf club in their life. The game also has a fitness age which is similar to the game 
 brain age that test you with some physical mini games which it will analyze to determine how Wii 
 fit you are. ~Graphics ~
  Wii sports Graphics are not good but that does not pinge on the games wonderful game play. Most 
 of the time (unless you are watching while waiting for your turn) you will not even notice that 
 the graphics are bad. The graphics have no effect on the multiplayer. When you're playing against 
 people you know the sight of them on the screen will excite you enough to not notice that the graphics 
 are not up to par.
  
  ~Sound ~
  The sound does not stand out in Wii sports. You do get the sound effects in correspondence to each 
 sport, pins crashing, the crowd cheering, but it is nothing out of the ordinary. Some tracks for 
 sports can become very repetitive to a point where you may have to play your own music in place 
 of it.
  
  ~Value ~
  This game comes free to the Wii owners in the United States but if I did not have this game already 
 I would honesty say that I would fork out the average price for a Wii game to buy this game. Wii 
 sports is a must have for Wii owners around the world and should be a release to look forward to 
 in other countries.
  
  ~Reviewers Tilt ~
  Wii sports, so far, has offered me the best multiplayer experience on the Nintendo Wii. This is 
 saying a lot seeing that I have played Smooth moves and Rayman. The Multiplayer outweighs the flaws 
 in graphics and the lackluster sounds that Wii sports has to offer. Although the single player 
 may get old to some people, Wii sports is a valuable important game that all Wii owners should 
 have in there collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izman222
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game includes 5 fun games. It's free. so why should anyone be complaining :P
  
  Good: As your skill increases, so do the bots. No matter what sport you play you will have fun 
 with this. unless your a retard that can't swing the Remote.
  
  Bad: The bots only go up so much. There is also a lack in depth in games, like Golf and Boxing.
 
  
  Either way your going to have a good time on this cause A) It's free
  B) It's a great way to start of your Wii Experiance 
  
  PS. I wish they cut this some slack, 
 but Wii Play just got beat on.
  
  The Funnest Sport in my opinion is probally Tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Well if you own a wii well here you go this is your first real game to play on it! Whats this no 
 box?!! piece of junk lol. Seems like a demo disk without a box... oh wait it feels like one to. 
 In this game you play 5 sports. Boxing, Baseball, Tennis, Bowling and Golf. This game brings the whole 
 family together with enjoyment. Even my mom wanted to play and she hates games. Sadly the game 
 has limited amount of rounds compaired to the real games. Like baseball with 3 rounds? Plus some 
 of things are automatic like going to catch the ball. This allows time to pass and determines if 
 your out or how many bases they go. The game offers an interesting amount of the wii motes kickass 
 features and is really like an intro to the wii remote. The game allows you to use your mii's you 
 created or custom mii's they make. Sadly these mii's arn't very graphic wise so it kinda ruins 
 the graphics. The graphics themselves arn't that bad, well for the most part. This game is free 
 so I got nothing else to say, except that this game will be alot more fun if family and friends 
 join in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest. I never really wanted Wii Sports and I was really annoyed when Nintendo decided 
 to include it with the Wii. However now I'm glad they did as it has provided a great experience 
 and refreshed the meaning of video game.
  
  Graphics - Plain and simple but it works
  
  Gameplay - Absoloutely amazing. Very easy and simple and can keep you and your mates entertained 
 for hours.
  
  Sound - Nothing flashy but a nice theme tune
  
  Value - Will last you a good while and you will always go back to it for one more game.
  
  
 Overall - It is a great achievement by Nintendo. The tennis is fantastic, as is the bowling and 
 baseball, but golf and boxing take some getting use too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  For people just getting used to the new controls for the Wii, Wii Sports is definitely the best 
 way to do so. Its addictive gameplay will keep you coming back for more every time you play. Also, 
 different game types, such as Fitness and Training Mode will drive you nuts until you achieve the 
 highest medal for each. Assuming that every Wii owner has this since it comes with the system (some 
 people may have sold it) , Wii Sports is a great game that you can get for free, and its a great 
 game to play multi player against your friends with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_BlackBird_X
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has Bowling, Boxing, Baseball, Tennis, and last but not least... Golf. Bowling is not 
 very chalenging, but very fun to raise up in ranks, and bowl high games. Boxing is fun, but you 
 easily get pissed off because your Mii doesn't do what ever you tell him to. Baseball is fun, but 
 it would be even better if you could do more than pitch, and Hit. Tennis is the best one to play 
 with friends... and people you don't like, because if you are in close quarters you might clunk 
 your friend in the head. Golf is fun and frusterating. none of the graphics are very good, but 
 hey it's nintendo they haven't ever had it, and they don't need it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXXGMRXXXX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the first game obtained by anyone who buys a wii. The good news is that's not a bad 
 thing!
  
  1. Graphics: Not that great. The environments are pretty plain and bland. However, the aim of the 
 game isn't good graphics. The use of the Miis helps create a better experience here, but won't 
 really wow you. 3/5
  
  2. Sound: There is background music, although it doesn't really involve the player in what they're 
 doing. Other sounds, like pins being hit or hitting a golf ball, do manage to establish a nice 
 realistic feeling. 3/5
  
  3. Gameplay: More than could be expected. Five games come packed in, each a different sport. Each 
 of the games requires you to make realistic motions to simulate the sport being played (swinging 
 the wii remote to swing a racket, punching with it to punch in a fight, etc) . These games all have 
 points systems. If you win or play a sport well, you gain points. Likewise, losing a game or performing 
 poorly take away points. These points are what you need to achieve a pro ranking in that sport. 
 This rank is the aim of playing each of the games. It definitely adds great incentive in the game. 
 You may even be awarded special things for becoming a pro in some sports... There is also a training 
 area that contains three minigames for each of the five sports. They are surprisingly fun and deep, 
 and I enjoyed most of the minigames If that's still not enough for you, there is even a Wii Fitness 
 section. Here you participate in a few randomly chosen minigames from the training area, and your 
 scores on those minigames help figure out your Wii Fitness Age. Twenty is the best you can do. 
 I've done it twice so far, scoring 42 the first time and then 26! It is an interesting concept 
 and will keep you busy. There is still multiplayer to consider. You can have up to four players 
 in bowling, tennis (the two best in my opinion) , and golf. Everyone can have a wii remote and battle 
 against each other. The remaining boxing and baseball can have two people playing. There is A LOT 
 to do here. 5/5
  
  4. Difficulty: This is what this game should be all about: getting everyone into the game. The 
 single player mode is suited for everyone, ranging from the extreme gamer to your own parents. 
 It is easy for most to gather points in the games and become pros. Then, more serious gamers can 
 push on and gain even more points in the games (I have 2025 points in boxing) , thusly providing 
 both casual and extreme gamers an enjoyable experience. The minigame and Wii Fitness sections are 
 both simple to use and are fun for anyone, regardless of gaming experience. Multiplayer is a great 
 success as well. The games are simple to play with more people, and yet even hardcore gamers will 
 enjoy the experience with family, friends, etc. Understand that some of the games may seem unappealing 
 or hard at first, like golf, boxing, or even baseball. This doesn't mean the games are hard, just 
 that you havent really gotten to enjoy them yet. 5/5
  
  5. Replayability: I'll still be playing it two years down the road. There is virtually no limit 
 on gaining points, so you can continue to play and play. The minigames are incredibly fun and addicting, 
 and high scores can continue to be set. Wii Fitness is a great idea that can't get old. Multiplayer 
 is a gem that will never age. You will come across so many different people and play this game 
 with them. The game sells this point well. 5/5
  
  6. Story: No story, but this a game purposely devoid of a story. So I can't fault it. 5/5
  
 
  Final Verdict: 26/30: B+
  Recommendation: Here is a game that turned out better than many expected to. I would tell you to 
 get it, except it already comes included with your wii system! So don't just toss it aside and 
 start playing Zelda, give it some good hours, and you may find that you are actually having fun 
 with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Panda
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ok the game has bad graphics, thats great. Now lets get to the point. Miis are amazing.
  
  ... Did i just here somone say i could play as my favortie 1 year old nephew in a boxing game?...
 
  
  yes, i just did. And that my friends, is enough... but i wont stop there.
  
  Tennis is a great game, espicially on 4 players, but liek every other game on wii sports, it WILL 
 get repetitive.
  
  Bowling is great. Its amazing fun because its so simple, and can be played with one wiimote. This 
 baby will take a little more play to get repetitive.
  
  Baseball is o-k. Knowing that no matter how hard you try, if your hit is not perfect, the ball 
 will get caught. Boxing is very bad compared to the the rest. It just cant sense your punches fast 
 enough, but its still a great game for a while. Golf is also great, but, im just not a fan, my 
 brother and dad however, really like this the most. Maybe tiger woods can help us next month a 
 bit, right?
  
  All these games are great, espicially in each training mode, amazing minigames. Dodge the ball 
 for boxing, etc, etc,
  
  The test your age minigame is cool to, but you cant really test it on a younger person, or on yourself 
 if you a teen. The youngest fit you can be is 20 years old :shock:.
  
  so yes, this game is repetitive, with no incentive, but, its got its charms
  
  Close, but no 
 cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasoNight
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I like Wii Sports its a really fun game. BASEBALL- Baseball is fun but its kinda hard cause to 
 hit a home run your timing has too be just perfect. But pitching is easy cause you dont even have 
 to pay attetion. All you have to do is swing your arm and hold down the A button or the B button 
 or both.
  BOXING- Boxing is the funnest i think. At the begining its easy cause your openents go down right 
 away it only takes like 3 hits. After a while it gets harder and takes longer. The people get really 
 really strong and you have
  to get them down like 5 times before its a knock out. BOWLING- Bowling is the second funnest i 
 think. Its the only one im a pro on. Its a lot like real
  bowling. its real easy. TENNIS- Tennis is fun its not my favorite though. For the dificulty of 
 tennis is medium. you choose if your in the front or back,
  1 or 2 playerson the front or back. TRAINING- if you just start playing for the first time i recomend 
 yo start of with this. FITNESS- Do this after you've
  played the game for a week or two. its kinda fun. over all its the 2nd best Wii game iveever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunnjon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Yeah... that's about it. Good TImes. All of the ganes make good use of the WiiMote. The simple actions 
 and onscreen antics really suck you into the experience. Plus you are required to make actual movements. 
 I can see why people are claiming that they've lost weight with the Wii. Most games can be played 
 by sitting on the couch, but it's fun to stand and jum around like an idiot. Bowling was especially 
 fun, since everyone acted like we were at a real bowling alley. Everyone sat and talked until it 
 was their turn, they got up, got set and bowled. There was also much cheering when someone got 
 a strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wookie_Fodder
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics are cheap, and the sound really isn't anything spectacular, Wii sports is 
 the perfect 'starter' game for the Wii. The controls are very intuitive and this game can be played 
 by anyone, regardless of age.
  
  This game sets up to be a good preview for what the system can do. I personally enjoy playing tennis 
 and bowling the most. This is the first game in a long while that I can sit and play either by 
 myself or with other people and never get bored.
  
  Since there is no real purchasing of this game individually, when you get your Wii - you will not 
 be disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I am really glad that Nintendo decided to pack a game into the Wii, glad it was this one. This 
 was the only game I had for a couple of days and it was absolutly fun. Though rather on the easy 
 side it really shows that anyone of any age can pick up the controller and play. My 3-year-old 
 son and I played the boxing and he almost beat me. Tennis is fun by yourself, but I am sure that 
 it will be much better with more than just yourself. Golf was probably the worst out of the whole 
 group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsan224
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  When I got my wii, made a mii, and started playing this, I was amazed. This game is awesome. Especially 
 Bowling and Boxing. Let's start with the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10, no brainer. I love the use of the wii controls to swing a tennis racket, swing 
 a baseball bat, roll a bowling ball, swing a golf club, and punch some other guy's face with a 
 boxing glove! Even though boxing was a bit glitchy, it was great. I had a lot of fun, and I still 
 do after getting the Wii on January 21, 2007.
  
  Graphics: 7/10. Some games had good graphics, some games did not. Tennis and golf looked great, 
 Boxing looked pretty bad. Bowling and baseball were around the middle. I know that graphics beat 
 gameplay, but graphics also make you feel like the game you're playing is truly real. The reason 
 why my graphics rating was a 7, was because of boxing. It was a total disappointment.
  
  Sound: 10/10. When you swing a tennis racket, you can hear it in the remote. When you punch someone, 
 you can hear it in the remote. The sounds coming out of the wii-mote were just awesome. The theme 
 song was catchy! Just amazing.
  
  So overall, this is a great game. This is normally a party game, but even playing alone when you 
 want to get your skill level as high as it can be, it's still fun. There is training, fitness test, 
 and just normal playing. This game truly is a sports game. I give Wii sports a 9.1, out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheddarLimbo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is exactly what it sounds like: a compilation of sports games for the Nintendo Wii. 
 Wii Sports ships with the Wii, so its essentially free and that means you get an awful lot of 
 bang for your buck. Players can participate in single or multiplayer variants of five sports - 
 Golf, Boxing, Baseball, Bowling and Tennis  each making use of the innovative possibilities of 
 the Wii. The sports have simple to understand control mechanics and depending on your personal 
 taste the game can provide hours, weeks or months of enjoyable fun.
  
  Each sport strives to emulate the action associated in its real-world counterpart. In Baseball, 
 for instance, the player takes a sideways stance and swings the remote as they would a bat, or 
 whip it forward over their head when pitching. In Boxing, the player holds a remote in one hand 
 and the nunchuck in the other and literally punches the air in front of them. In Golf, the player 
 holds the remote in both hands pointed towards the ground as a golf club. In Tennis the remote 
 is swung from side to side like a racquet. And in Bowling the remote is held up in front of the 
 player like a ball, and then swung forward and released at the appropriate time. In most instances, 
 the controls are responsive and intuitive. There are times when you could perform the required 
 in-game action with a minimum of extraneous movement, but its more fun to put your whole body 
 into the act. However, it is sometimes difficult to gauge exactly how your real life movements 
 are affecting whats happening on screen. Its notoriously difficult to tell where your hit will 
 take a baseball, and in Boxing you may have to swing several times in a row to get the punch youre 
 looking for. Veteran gamers may find this haziness in control at fault since it lacks some refinement 
 and can lead to frustration. However, the goal of Wii Sports is not to replicate perfectly the 
 games in question, but to provide a fun and entertaining way to use the Wii with an accessible 
 approach to sports.
  
  The graphic style of Wii Sports is colorful, but simplistic. All in-game avatars are Miis  generated 
 through the Mii Channel  that are either default creations, or are drawn from a pool of stored 
 user-created Miis. This largely contributes to the over-the-top cartoony style. The environments 
 and play areas are pretty but not gorgeous, and they serve to create a pleasant enough stage on 
 which to test your skills. It would have been nice to be able to customize some of the elements 
 of the environments, but the lack of this ability is not a deal-breaker, just unfortunate. The 
 sound effects are pleasant and well staged to accent the action without overwhelming it. Cheers 
 and other reactions from the audience can be heard in Boxing, and the crack of the bat connecting 
 with a baseball (coming from the speaker inside the remote) is a welcome and satisfying touch.
 
  
  Beyond the traditional gameplay of each sport, there are several training exercises which can be 
 used to refine your play techniques and provide new challenges to experienced players. There are 
 bowling lanes with obstacles and difficult to target pin formations. There are putting challenges 
 and tennis courts with targets, and even a good old fashioned punching bag. These challenges can 
 be used on their own for fun, or players can create their own exercise regimen and keep track of 
 their fitness levels, by using the same Mii over and over. In the end, Wii Sports may not be all 
 things to all people, but it accomplishes what it sets out to do. The light-hearted nature of the 
 game is accessible to friends and family of all ages and is a great way to introduce new players 
 to video games. Its a terrific showcase of the Wii controllers innovative capabilities, as well 
 as a stage on which to display new Miis. .It is a really fun diversion and while its not really 
 a comparable exchange for a legitimate, regular workout it sure beats sitting on the couch all 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_rule
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  the several games are a great start to figure out how to play the wii. even know you are almost 
 forsed to take it with the wii the games are a very good start. the mii you an put in it is cool 
 also because it makes the game more personal. The best game on the wii sports is tennis (my personal 
 opinion or maybe it's because i cought on to it the fastest and i'm good at it but it is a great 
 start. then theirs bowling witch i think is very fun because it is the next thing i cought on to 
 and i have always liked to bowl and the wii creators have made it feel like the real thing and 
 after you become a pro you get stars all over your ball. then thier's baseball, you can't go wrong 
 baseball and you don't even have to run!!, the interactiveness is fun althoughit may through your 
 arm out it is still very fun. and you really cant go wrong with boxing and you dont even have to 
 get hit. and then theres golf, even know golf is boring it some people really like it and it is 
 really hard and it is a challange 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is essentially free as it comes packaged with the Wii console, although many would argue 
 that the price was raised in accordance. Its a strange game to review in that respect because 
 whether you believe that to be the case or not youre pretty much stuck with it either way. The 
 game consists of five basic sports games: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing; each one 
 attempting to showcase a different aspect of the controller and its motion sensor abilities.
  
  Tennis is easily the best game on offer. The controls are all pretty straightforward; you serve 
 by flicking the controller up and then swinging forward whilst the ball is in the air. You lob 
 by swinging the controller lower than you normally would and add top-spin by hitting the ball from 
 a higher angle, you can even curve the ball by flicking your wrists at certain angles as you strike 
 the ball.
  
  While these are pleasing when you pull them off effectively you dont have the option of moving 
 your character around the court, so after some time with the game you can learn certain techniques 
 to best your opponent without giving them so much as a chance to return the ball. Surely it would 
 have been easier to implement the nunchuck into the proceedings considering it comes with the console 
 anyway.
  
  Even so it still gives you total control of your power and timing which is adequate enough for 
 a good few hours of solid fun, especially when you add friends to the mix. It allows up to 4 players 
 to jump in and partake in a doubles match, and while purchasing those 3 extra controllers can be 
 pricey I guarantee that everyone involved will have an absolute blast.
  
  Baseball is extremely simple, you can either bat or pitch. Batting is all about the time of your 
 swing, unfortunately this allows you to cheat the system, listening to the ping of the ball flying 
 from the pitchers glove can be used to get a home run on a semi-regular basis. If only they added 
 a few more techniques into the process then it wouldnt feel like such a monotonous affair.
  
  Pitching also has its flaws, it doesnt matter if you swing your arm slowly or thrust it at 
 the TV so hard you risk dislocating your shoulder, the speed of the ball at times seems entirely 
 random. Its also a shame that curve balls and split balls are dependant on a button push as oppose 
 to the movement of your controller.
  
  Bowling while less enthralling than the other sports due to its mellow nature is a welcoming change 
 and works really well. You treat the controller like the ball, a push of A represents your grip 
 and as your swing your arm you release the button (your grip) just like you would do in real-life. 
 Well in most cases anyway, I have to admit I had a habit of throwing the ball backwards into the 
 crowd at first. Whoops!.
  
  What you do with your wrist can also have a big impact on how the game plays out, you can control 
 the direction, speed and curve of the ball all by moving and twisting your hand in different directions 
 before you release the ball. With a bit of time and patience learning the different techniques 
 Wii Bowling can really make for a rewarding experience.
  
  Golf has never really appealed to me, while others say its relaxing I say its plain boring. Putting 
 that aside (pun intended) its truly apparent that this game in particular doesnt have the skill 
 or depth needed to keep your interest for all that long, its a classic case of power over precision. 
 Putting is about the only thing worthy of your time here which makes you wonder why they didnt 
 replace this with a crazy golf game, surely that would have been their best move.
  
  Boxing is an absolute farce, the whole game is dependant on the figures reacting to your movements 
 but more often that not they will perform a punch you didnt enact or simply stand there like a 
 dithering idiot. Unfortunately punching isnt the only problem, blocking is a complete waste of 
 time also, by some small chance your character does actually block where you would like them to 
 your opponent will probably just hit through it as if you never bothered in the first place. It 
 really is one of the most frustrating things I have had the misfortune of experiencing with the 
 Wii so far and heres hoping it doesnt become a common trend.
  
  In addition to the main attractions the game also offers a training mode which features a series 
 of mini-games designed to improve your skills in certain areas. Each one relates to one of the 
 five sports, from hitting certain targets with a tennis ball to punching a dummy senseless with 
 your boxing gloves. How well you do in these challenges determines your Fitness Age. Those familiar 
 with Brain Training for the DS will be all too familiar with this concept, your progression is 
 charted and shows you whether youre improving or wasting your time by comparing your Fitness Age 
 from various time periods. While this is all well and good its more to do with your proficiency 
 at the games and less to do with your actual fitness.
  
  Wii Sports is certainly not going to win any awards in the graphics department, you would think 
 considering that this was intended to highlight the machines capabilities they would have made 
 it look a little sharper. Think early years of the GameCube and youre close to the mark.
  
  At times the audio is bearable and others it can be downright annoying, probably because half 
 the tunes wouldnt feel out of place in an elevator. The sound effects that come out of the controller 
 are a nice touch though, its really pleasing to hear the twang of a racket as you return a tennis 
 ball in a rally or the thud of a bowling ball as it trundles towards the pins.
  
  Despite the novelty of throwing your favourite Miis into the action the whole thing plays out 
 as a tech demo; even if Nintendo refuse to admit it, and while its hard to tell at this point 
 whether these so-called revolutionary features will stand the test of time Wii Sports offers 
 just enough variety and innovation to keep me optimistic for the time being.
  
  Gameplay - Fun for all the family, the only problem is the fun is over a little prematurely.
 
  
  Graphics - Doesnt flatter the console at all, what is designed to showcase the systems visuals 
 does nothing of the sort.
  
  Sound - Tunes can get a little tedious but the sound effects more than make up for it via the controllers 
 built-in speaker.
  
  Value - Tennis is the jewel in a pretty rusty crown, Baseball is too simple, Bowling has potential, 
 Golf is uninspired and Boxing is a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is not one that will blow you away with visuals or sound effects. It is not complicated, 
 and it has no story. You play five different sports; bowling, tennis, baseball, boxing, and golf. 
 None are overly deep, but they all play very well. The only one I have trouble with is boxing, 
 as it does not register my punches all the time. However, since this is a free pack in, that can 
 be over looked. While each game is done really well, they do leave you with a desire for a deeper, 
 more fleshed out experience than what is given to you. Since it is a free game, I don't need to 
 suggest picking it up, but if you own a Wii, and you have non-gaming friends, this really is a 
 great game to put on when they come over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthkaiser
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game has five different sports boxing, baseball, tennis, golf and bowling but its not just 
 to mash buttons youll have to move your hands according to the sport to play for example in the 
 boxing game youll use the controllers to punch your opponent, in baseball youll have to swing 
 the controller like a bat to hit the ball, in bowling youll use the controller as your hand when 
 you throw the ball, in tennis you have to swing your controller to hit the ball, in golf youll 
 swin the controller like the stick. This gives a more realistic and fun touch to the game. The 
 graphics are not bad but are not good either the Miis (your characters) look somewhat fat but thats 
 not very important when youre having fun, I cant write very much about the music because the 
 game lacks it Im not saying it doesnt has sound, Im just saying it doesnt has to much music.
 
  In my opinion I think Wii Sports is some kind of demo and yet it's fun. Is a great game to play 
 alone but its better when you play with friends, you can make small tournaments with them. This 
 is a game that will last for years because from now on sport games will suffer a huge change and 
 Wii sports will be remembered as the game who started this revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has been on the innovative front for the past few years from their Nintendo Ds and now 
 to their Nintendo Wii. North American users will get Wii Sports once they purchase the system while 
 others like the Japanese, can choose to buy it. Either way, the game does show off what the Wii 
 is focusing on while they avoid focusing on graphics.
  
  At the get go, the game is pretty basic looking. If you're someone who needs the best graphics 
 and the best colours and the best looks, this game will surely annoy you. The characters are basic 
 looking but on the plus side of this, they are based on avatars called Miis, that you can create. 
 Another bonus is the fact that you can save them and then use them on your friend's console with 
 the colours and the faces that you gave them. Though they don't look great and you could even say 
 they are downright Gamecubeish, this fact allows you to see the game as it was meant to be seen.
 
  
  There are five sports that you can choose from. In my opinion, none of the games are really full 
 games but putting them all together gives a great single, and even better multiplayer experience. 
 You can play golf, boxing, tennis, bowling, or baseball. The games are all two to four players 
 so having extra friends come over isn't a problem. Only boxing needs the nunchuk so that can be 
 a good thing if you're short on those.
  
  Sounds in the game are great from the swing of the bat to all the pins falling over in the alleyway. 
 There's some annoying announcer parts of the game and you wish you could turn it off. It seems 
 the guy from Wave Race has found some work again through Nintendo but overall, it's still solid 
 from a sound standpoint.
  
  Boxing is probably the worst of the batch because the controls don't seem to work well. You can 
 dodge and move left and right and hit high and low but in the end, it feels random. When you try 
 to punch, sometimes, it just won't work. Sometimes, there's a delay when you dodge so you get hit 
 anyways so boxing is my least favourite.
  
  Golfing is almost like a mini game. There's not much depth and only the same 18 holes. If you wanna 
 play a golf game, get Super Swing Golf unless you're happy playing for only a bit.
  
  Tennis is very simple as well. All games are double based and you can control both. You do not 
 control movement, only the swing, which can be frustrating. At times, you want to anticipate the 
 next hit but the avatars don't predict well where the ball is going at times so instead of returning 
 the ball, you lose the point but this is fun and a great multiplayer game since it is 4 player 
 simultaneously.
  
  Bowling takes into account the curve of your spin and how fast you shoot the ball. It is realistic 
 in that sense and is quite fun even though I don't like bowling much. The last game is baseball. 
 The graphics are basic and all fielding is controlled by the computer so all you can do is bat 
 and pitch, which is fine for the purpose of this game. It can be so rewarding swinging the wiimote 
 and then getting a double off the right field wall. Though the game is fun, there are some issues 
 like errors in the field. Sometimes, if someone makes an error, it wouldn't actually cost you a 
 base but in this game it does for sure even if it's a small bobble. Wii sports also has three training 
 exercises for each sport that you can try with your friends or by yourself and also has a daily 
 training routine that estimates your wii fitness age. Though it's not entirely accurate, it is 
 quite neat to see if your speed is better than the day before or if balance has taken the front 
 seat in your activity.
  
  Wii Sports is almost like five mini games in one. With all of them together, this game is fun, 
 complete, and is easy to acess to all ages. If you got a Wii, you probably have this game and it's 
 totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a pack-in game for the Nintendo Wii. Nintendo came up with the idea of Wii Sports 
 to help people adjust to the Wii's new motion sensing based control scheme. To do this, Nintendo 
 made a simple game with Tennis, Golf, Baseball, Boxing, and Bowling.
  
  Throughout the game you'll see your own created Miis in the game. This adds a lot of fun to the 
 game, surprisingly. You'll even see other Miis you or your friends created in the audience in the 
 bowling alleys, arenas, or fields. TENNIS
  
  Tennis is pretty simple. You play a game of doubles tennis, and if one player is on a side you 
 control both the front and back player. You don't move manually, but automatically. You don't use 
 any buttons, just gestures with the Wii remote. This works very well, you can do lobs, spikes, 
 slices, top spin strikes, any real Tennis technique. Every sport in WIi Sports has minigames to 
 go with it, Tennis's are based on returning balls at target locations.
  
  GOLF
  
  This is very simple as well. You hold the Wii remote like a golf club and swing. You can gauge 
 your power with some helpful HUD and practice swings. There's multiple courses here, and as usual 
 you have smaller minigames, such as trying to hit an area target.
  
  BASEBALL
  
  You play 3 innings of baseball in this mode. While batting, you simply hit the ball with the Wii 
 remote as if you were actually swinging a bat. Catches and running are done automatically. Pitching 
 is done like real pitching, although just a wrist flick will be fine. You can throw screwballs, 
 fast balls, curve balls, etc by holding down different buttons.
  
  BOXING
  
  This is my favorite. You have to use the nunchuck attachment for this one. The nunchuck is one 
 hand, the Wii remote is the other. In this mode you can throw various punches (High and low, uppercuts, 
 jabs, straights, hooks) , block by moving each hand, or dodge by moving both controllers either 
 side. The minigames here are awesome, they include working the bag, dodging balls, and hitting 
 targets.
  
  BOWLING
  
  This is another favorite, because it's simple but works the best out of all the sports included. 
 It's like real bowling pretty much. Not much to explain here. The minigames of this sport are the 
 best. There's obstacle bowling and bowling with up to 99 pins.
  
  If there's anything here that hinders gameplay, it's that it's a little too simple. Still, it's 
 very enjoyable and literally anyone can play it. As for graphics, it's deliberately simple. It's 
 colorful though, and golf shows some impressive water effects. It does the job, and it doesn't 
 look ugly. The sound is simple, and uses a lot of 80's style synthy tunes. The game has a lot of 
 different modes, and due to its fun factor, you'll keep going back to it to play. Nintendo's Wii 
 Sports does what Nintendo wanted it to do. It proves that with the Wii controller, people can have 
 a lot more fun with a new control scheme, even without realistic graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Budgie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Whatever happens if you buy a Nintendo Wii, You WILL get this games as it comes bundled with every 
 Wii Console. Is it just a cheap playable tech demo or a great game?
  
  In my opinion its both, All the Sports in Wii Sports are very simplfied versions of their real 
 life counterparts but its still great fun for everyone even if the player has tried to avoid the 
 'XStationcube 360' nonsense you really would have to hate fun to not enjoy Wii Sports.
  
  Tennis is simple enough just swing to hit the ball, You dont even have to move yourself - It's 
 done automatically, This is probably the best game to play if your on your own, The computer opponents 
 can often be challenging and difficult to beat.
  
  Baseball is the second game in the collection, All you do is swing your bat or throw the ball depending 
 on which side you are on. Unfortunatly I found the A. I to be a little dim and people who have just 
 come to have a quick go may find it difficult to score if you throw them a lot of Splitters (A+B)
 
  
  Bowling is also vvery enjoyable, I expect I'll never go real bowling for a long time as this feels 
 very lifelike the only difference being you haven't got a whopping great ball in your hand, In 
 my experience most people want to try Bowling first so this is a great game for people that don't 
 usually play games.
  
  Golf in all fairness is boring, I've never enjoyed it and Wii Sports Golf hasn't changed my mind 
 but like tennis, It seems fairly accurate to real Golf, For some people they may get bored with 
 9 holes very quickly.
  
  Boxing is probably my least favourite, It seems to be the one stuck in at the end because 5 games 
 is better than 4, Whichever hand you hold the Wii Remote in will often just not respond and most 
 of the time it just feels like floundering about like a idiot hoping you will hit the guy.
  
  The Graphics in Wii Sports are rather basic if you compare them to 360 or PS3 titles however 
 they look nice enough and with the cartoony feel of the Mii's it seems to work really well.
  
  The sounds are basic and are what you would expect Tennis swings and your boxing punches come 
 out of your remote and the announcer talking comes from your TV, Their simple enough and their 
 is no major background music other than the main menu.
  
  Overall Wii Sports is a great pack-in title for your shiny new Wii, However don't expect Wii Sports 
 to keep you interested for too long unless you are hellbent on getting PRO scores on every single 
 game, I wouldn't recommend the game if you had to pay money alone for it but as a pack-in it works 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The Wii was bond from the start to have a lot of minigame based games, and since I review a lot 
 of Wii games I have yet another Wii minigame based game Wiiview. Yeah! :P This time Im reviewing 
 the game almost everybody has, rather you like it or not. Yes Im reviewing Wii Sports. Im going 
 to review this game in parts. Im going to start off with the five main games.
  
  Tennis:
  
  Tennis is what you would expect. It is a game of double tennis. You swing your Wiimote 
 to hit the ball and it is as simple as that. The controls give you enough freedom to add spin and 
 control the ball for more experienced players and are easy enough for beginners. But there are 
 a few annoying things about tennis. You always play a double match, no matter if you are playing 
 alone or not. And you cant control where your character goes. This isnt really a problem until 
 you start facing harder opponents, then it becomes very annoying. But besides that tennis is one 
 of the best playing games in the collection, and is one of the funniest. Baseball:
  
  If you thought tennis was a little shallow because you cant move your player just wait until you 
 play baseball. You cant run or field, and pitching isnt all the great either. In baseball all 
 you do it pitch and swing. Swing is fairly accurate and is pretty fun. But pitching is another 
 story. While you do have different types of pitches you cant control where they go. The splitter 
 is almost useless since it is always a ball and the computer never swings at it. And you will be 
 disappointed that you cant choose who is on your team, which is very, very sad for a baseball 
 game. Despite these flaws you can still have fun with it, especially batting. But it is a far-fetch 
 from being anywhere near other baseball games.
  
  Bowling:
  
  Bowling is by far the best game of the collection. You play just like you would think you would. 
 You hold the Wiimote, swing and let of B (dont let go of the controller !!!: P) . And spin can be 
 added with a simple twist of your wrist while swing. This works very well and is by far the best 
 controlling game. The pins also seem to have good physics. They look like that is what they would 
 do in real life. The added touches to the game help also, like the people behind you, and the people 
 bowling besides you help make you feel you are in a bowling alley (besides all the smokers :lol: 
 ) . Golf:
  
  Golf is one of the worst games in the bunch. There are only nine holes, and you might not even 
 try them all because golf controls horribly. You swing the Wiimote like you are swing a golf club. 
 But the problem is that the game doesnt do one to one motion. Instead it simulates you swing based 
 upon your speed. This just doesnt work, you can swing with the same speed and power and undershot 
 it and then do it again and overshot it by a mile. And putting is almost impossible. For some reason 
 the Wiimote doesnt pick up the small movements you make for putting and if it does pick it up 
 it is always far to hard. Boxing:
  
  I dont like boxing. It feels unresponsive and is nearly impossible to play against harder players. 
 You play by punching with the Wiimote and the nunchuk, each one simulating a hand with the Wiimote 
 in your dominate hand. For some reason the game doesnt respond well to the nunchuk movements. 
 And it is nearly impossible to control where you are punching making later fights impossibly hard. 
 Besides the main games, Wii Sports includes a training mode. There are fifteen different games, 
 three for each game. Most of these are actually very fun to play and is the main reason to continue 
 to play Wii Sports. It increases the replay time by awarding medals based upon scores you get in 
 the training game. And it will take a while to get just one platinum medal, the highest medal in 
 the game. Overall Wii Sports is a good game but its shallow and wouldnt stand out if it wasnt 
 pack in with most systems. It is a good introduction to Wii and you will find yourself playing 
 it more then you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Almost everyone will find something to enjoy; 5 different sports in one game; Motion controls 
 work great in 3 &frac12; games; Smart use of the Wiimotes speaker; A great multiplayer/party game 
 if you have the gear; Lasts a while if played for the right lengths of time; It's free
  
  Cons: Almost no depth in any of the sports; Limits of the system may already be showing in boxing 
 (I hope not) ; Golfs controls are basically broken; Sound is very bare-bones; To get the most out 
 of the game, you need to spend $40 anyway for another controller; You can run through the game 
 fast if you arent careful (and/or dont have friends/family to enjoy it with)
  
  When Wii Sports was announced, everybody had mixed reactions. Some were happy with Nintendos bold 
 new direction, some thought that simplicity would kill the game, others thought Theyre gonna 
 make me pay $50 for this!?! Thankfully that last group has been silenced (the game is free with 
 the system) , and most of the second group can now officially shut up, since they can actually try 
 the game.
  
  Simple, and accessible is the name of the game in Wii Sports. The use of buttons is very limited, 
 so that old gramps or your little cousin can understand what to do. Not only that, but the game 
 is anything but violent or complicated looking. And having gotten multiple nongamers actually interested 
 in the game, I must say that Nintendo has done something truly great here.
  
  In Tennis for instance, you only control the direction (forehand or backhand) , and timing of the 
 racket. Everything else is handled by the game. It may sound bad for some, but in short bursts, 
 its actually quite fun. Baseball is quite simple too, you get full control over the bat, except 
 height, and you swing as best as you can. And pitching is swinging the right speed and pressing 
 buttons to select pitch type. Bowling simply involves setting up the shot with the control pad 
 and A buttons, holding the B button, and swinging, letting go of the button when you want to release. 
 All 3 of them work extremely well, and although Tennis and Baseball cut out some large features 
 of the sports, it doesnt detract too much.
  
  Unfortunately, the controls dont fair out as well in Boxing and Golf. In boxing, you use the Nunchuck 
 (this is the only game in Wii Sports to involve it) and handle everything by movements. You punch 
 forward with either hand, hook by tilting in a direction and swinging, block by moving the controller 
 up and down (actually tilting, since the Nunchuck cant point) , and dodge by tilting from side 
 to side. The only issue with boxing is that it tries too much, and often times, the controls either 
 feel unnatural (tilting to raise and lower fists isnt right) , or have issues (really actually 
 only an issue for hooks, since mostly everything else works fine) . Either way, the game shows the 
 limits of the controller as well as the ideas that can come from them. Oh, and you cant punch 
 with two hands at the same time (you have to wait for one hand to completely return to use the 
 other) . Whats up with that???
  
  Golf on the other hand just feels flat out broken. Now, I am willing to dismiss this as a glitch 
 and not some hardware limit, but it really shouldve been ironed out. Basically, you aim with the 
 control pad, and using a meter on the left, you take practice swings until you are ready and hold 
 A while swinging to take a real swing. The issue is that the meter and swing reading system just 
 dont work well. You can lightly swing, get a light hit, and next time when you really swing, do 
 the exact same thing to hit it hard in-game. It just isnt fun when you cant get under par due 
 to bad controls.
  
  However, with the exception of golf, all the games come out fun to play, and amazingly accessible 
 to everyone. The only thing is that you have to take it in short bursts, since there isnt much 
 depth to the game. Do that, and itll probably last you almost as long as the Wii. If you dont, 
 and/or you dont have friends/family, you probably will get bored of the game quickly.
  
  Something can be said about the games style, which is minimalist. Although it is for a reason 
 (to not be intimidating, and show Nintendos gameplay&gt; graphics approach) , and I think it looks 
 great, some people will be put off, knowing how far technology has come. Unfortunately for the 
 sounds, I cant exactly see the minimalist logic. The sound effects in the game are nice, and work 
 great (especially hitting a tennis ball and hearing the racket whack in the remotes speaker) , 
 but there simply arent enough. Is it really bad? No. Would it have hurt if the game had used more 
 noises and music? Definitely not. However, the game is free, and the noises arent bad, so I wont 
 worry too much.
  
  The issue with reviewing a game such as Wii Sports is that everybody gets the game free with the 
 Wii. Its a great game to introduce non-gaming crowds, and show off the Wiis hardware, but its 
 unspectacular in every other way, offering no real depth or single player. However, if you take 
 the game easy, and have company to enjoy it with, there is simply no better way to welcome the 
 Wii into your house, or to get another controller for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ehllee
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Not since the day of the Nintendo 64 has a system launched with a pack-in game so that you can 
 pick up and play without having to go out and purchase x amount of addition peripherals. While 
 Wii Sports is no Super Mario 64, it still is a warm welcome addition.
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of five different sports: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing. 
 Tennis has you playing two on two for up to 4 players and you swing the Wii-mote to hit the ball. 
 Baseball has you playing two aspects of the game; hitting and pitching for up to 2 players. Bowling 
 has you playing 10 pins and you swing much the same way as you would roll a ball. Bowling can be 
 played for up to 4 players. Golf offers up to 9 holes for three different difficulty levels. Up 
 to four players can share one Wii-mote. Boxing is the only game that requires the nunchaku attachment. 
 You hold the Wii-mote and the nunchaku in front of you and each of them represent your left and 
 right gloves and you use them to punch your opponent. There are also two other modes, Training 
 and Wii Fitness Test. Training has three different mini games for each sport. These mini games 
 have you playing the sport with different objectives than just winning. For example, a bowling 
 training game will have you hitting pins, however there are now obstacles in the way thus it forces 
 you to use curve balls. The Wii fitness test can only be done once a day. Basically you do three 
 different mini-games from the training and you are graded with a Wii Fitness Age, similar to the 
 Brain Age from the Brain Age games on the Nintendo DS. Each game automates some aspects of gameplay; 
 for example you dont have movement control of your tennis player as he/she will automatically 
 move to the ball. In essence you only have to swing to hit the ball. It makes it very easy for 
 anyone to get into a game. While it may be pleasing to those who do not play video games due to 
 its ease of use, many veteran players will find very little in terms of depth and each game does 
 get old quickly. Many of these games feel like technical demos more than full games. Wii Sports 
 while not being technically impressive looks great and all the animation and visuals are clean. 
 Menus are organized well and are aesthetically pleasing. The game also makes good use of the system 
 Mii functionality which allows you to put yourself in the game. The sound is good and the sound 
 effects are all great. However, there is no music playing in any of the games and the music during 
 the menu selection is not memorable. This absence of background music makes gameplay feel even 
 more monotonous. This seems like a missed opportunity to add extra character to each individual 
 game. Wii Sports delivers five games which by themselves feel watered down. If you have several 
 friends and extra controllers this compilation will prove to be a fun night. Then again, it comes 
 free with the Wii so you really cant complain. If you want to get something nice and shiny without 
 losing a months rent, the Wii is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Let's talk Wii. The games look childish, simple and retarded. On the flip side, I gave it a chance... and 
 I have to say if it looked like an XBOX 360 game visualy.... and had online multi-player... this 
 would be the most popular gaming console out, but it doesn't. The games are just plain single-player 
 fun. The baseball game lets you pitch and hit... but really no other main controls that I have found 
 to make it more interactive. Boxing and bowling are pretty easy to pick up on and have fun using 
 the full motion of the controls. Tennis has a few issues, but you catch on to it easily. The Wii 
 has the lesser power of the other consoles... as you can see it makes it up with interactive controls 
 that will make allmost anyone like it. The visuals in the 480p have a few issues to be cleared 
 up... but hopefull soon they make games with the ZELDA graphics from then up. The game comes with 
 the purchase of a Wii and will show off the pure potential of the machine. This is a very good 
 buy and having played alot of it the last couple days.... it covers the $250 mark by a long shot!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports, which comes bundled with the Wii itself, is, of course, an interactive sports game 
 featuring: Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, Golf, and Tennis. Each of these game makes you use and hold 
 the Wii remote in different ways and positions.
  
  At the menu screen will be the five sports, a Wii fitness feature, and different mini games that 
 can help you improve your skills on each game. These mini games are extremely fun, and really do 
 help. One of the minigames includes small, square barriers on the bowling alley. Your objective 
 is to curve the ball around them, and hit the pin. It is extremely entertaining!
  
  On Wii fitness, those mini games will randomly be thrown out at you. After three minigames, it 
 will determine your age, with 18 being the youngest. It's pretty cool, but you can only do it once 
 a day.
  
  Here are the sports:
  
  Bowling:
  Bowling is extremely fun. You can aim and curve the ball depending on how you throw it. You star 
 out by holding your controller straight up, aiming it, then pressing the B button to start your 
 run. You then pull your contoller back, then forward, and let go of the B button at the end of 
 your swing. It all depends on how fast this is done, where your pointing, and how hard your do 
 it. It's very lifelike.
  
  Baseball:
  Baseball is my second favorite. By holding your Wii remote like a baseball bat, and swinging it 
 forward, you can hit the ball. Again, it depends on how fast you hit it, and how early or late 
 the ball is hit. Also, if the ball is hit, and it quickly bounces to the pitcher who gets it; you're 
 out. It all depends on how fast they get the ball.
  
  When your playing as the pitcher, you can throw a curveball, screwball, and a splitter by holding 
 the A, B, or A and B button while you throw the ball by swinging the controller towards the screen. 
 You can also aim your pitch with the contol pad. The outfield control themselves, so you don't 
 have to worry about them.
  
  Tennis:
  Tennis is one of the simpler games. All you have to do is flick the Wii remote up to start your 
 serve, then swing the remote forward. You can do a forward swing, and a backhand swing depending 
 on how you swing the remote. It's not too hard, and it's easy to learn too.
  
  Boxing:
  This is the only sport that uses the nunchuck attachment. The controls are pretty basic. The remote 
 and nunchuck serve as your hands, and when you thrust them forward, you will punch. You can also 
 bring them up to your face to block, and move them left and right to dodge. Your health is displayed 
 on a pie chart. When your hit enough, a fragment of that chart will disappear. When your health 
 hits zero, you fall, and the counting begins. It's pretty fun.
  
  Golf:
  Golf is probably my least favorite because it's kinda unresponsive. All you do is hold the remote 
 like a golf club and swing. The harder you swing the more your power meter goes up, but if you 
 swing hard, the power meter leans to the right or left, and hooks your ball that way. Since this 
 game is a little unresponsive, it's kind of hard to know how hard to hit the ball, so you'll find 
 your ball hooking a lot. Overall, Wii Sports shows some of the Wii's capabilities, and shows, basically, 
 how the Wii functions through simple and easy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  My first time ever seeing a Wii and playing it was with Wii Sports back in December at a friends 
 house. I really really liked it. Though I found out I was quite out of shape after playing a few 
 rounds of the boxing. While it is simple and the graphics are nothing special... it is still very 
 fun! Especially with a group of friends. It also can give you one heck of a workout if you keep 
 at it. I played the boxing last night for about 40 mins and my arms are still really sore today. 
 Who ever thought you'd get exercise from a video game. Heck it's a free game that's good to get 
 used to the Wii remote and what it can do. Very worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puck269
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  As it has been said numberious times, this game is defintally for everyone and is a good flagship 
 title to try to lure everyone, not just gamers, into buying a wii. I'm still playing it on occasion 
 with the kids as Tennis and Baseball are easy enough that a 4 year old can pick it up and hold 
 his own, seriously. This is defintally not for the simulation fans, as it is purely an arcade-type 
 game. Baseball is only a 3 inning affair with limited pitch types and control. Tennis has some 
 good control, and aiming is purely on timing. Bowling is probably the closest you can get to a 
 simulation on this pack as it give tight controls. Golf, in my opinion is the weakest of the bunch, 
 but not to the point that it is unplayable, its just the least fun compared to the rest of the 
 group. The Boxing game I've seen friends and family really get into, but its almost one of the 
 most difficult to master the controls.
  
  The graphics and sound are not what you would call top notch, but it is a nice change of pace to 
 get the chimes and audio clues from the controller itself, the new-aged rumble feature that is 
 subtle, but you'll miss it when you go back to playing your ps2. Bottom line, its a fun game that 
 will last you awhile as long as you have some willing friends or family that want to play it. Most 
 of the replay value will probably come from a party setting, especially those with new to unexperienced 
 gamers. You can't go wrong with it, since it's free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a free game that you get whith your Nintendo Wii. In Wii sports you have 5 games 
 to chose from
  Golf, Boxing, tenis, Baseball and Bolling
  
  The Good: It's Free, Family apropriat, high party game potenchal and good use of MIi ' s
  
 
  The bad: rarity of controlers limits party apeal, mothion sencor can be problemmatic no fencing 
 lol
  
  Golf 6/10 okay but not that fun and you don't have many courses to pick from
  
  Boxing 4/10 Realy bad the game hase tons of trouble reading you movements in this on
  
  Tenis 
 8/10 This game is very fun but not much to it since you can't move you can just swing
  
  BaseBall 7/10 Slight movement readind ishues and not enough controol over the game but still fun 
 whith 2 people
  
  Bolling 8/10 realy fun just because it is so realistic to i's to easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Look everyone, I am not completely sold YET on the Wii. I am a graphics person and I like games 
 with depth... at least a little. So when I heard the Wii was packaging their Wii sports game in 
 with their console, I thought to myself big deal . When I actually played the game (s) I was pleasantly 
 surprised.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  This falls short of a 9 or 10 because of minor problems in Boxing, Baseball and Golf. All 3 are 
 extremely fun to play but they have Wii-mote issues. Boxing has a delayed reaction time and your 
 Wii-mote doesn't work well unless you stand virtually still the entire time. When it does finally 
 react right, it's awesome and a workout. In Golf when I go into my backswing, it will go through 
 the entire swing motion before I complete my backswing. You'll end up hitting the ball in a lot 
 of roughs, bunkers and water more than you'd like. The same thing happens when I swing in baseball. 
 The minute I begin my motion, the batter will swing before I even move my front leg forward to 
 step towards the pitch. Other than those 3 issues, this game, or series of minigames, has a good 
 response time and gives us an idea on what to expect from future sports games with the wiimote. 
 Fix the minor hangups and it will boost it's value.
  
  Graphics: 5
  
  Even for a Wii game the Graphics are below average. Nice coloars, but the player models look like 
 backyard sports knockoffs. The graphics in the bowling alley are nice, but then you see the graphics 
 in baseball and boxing you understand the Wii couldn't hold a torch to the 360 (and even the horrible 
 PS3) in the graphics department. But this is the perfect example of what innovation can make up 
 for.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  While sound is crystal clear, the sound effects give me a flashback to truck stop arcades from 
 10 years ago. The sound is limited and basic. The clearness of it all is what brings it up to a 
 7 instead of a 4 or 5.
  
  Value: 9
  
  The Wii mote proves what it can do in this game. The ability of motion censor controlling was basically 
 made for sports. I love my 360, but if you have a Wii, that's a kids/ adult drinker's system there. 
 Be ready to entertain your friends with hours of competition and fun. No longer will you be sitting 
 in front. It's the closest thing to the real thing without actually going out there and doing it. 
 Want some excersize? Buy a Wii......
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  There are 2 things that bring my opinion of the game down. The fact that they are just mini games, 
 and the graphics. Like I stated I am a BIG graphics person and if Wii can bring it a little better 
 than what I have seen, then I may just go out and buy one. For now, I'll stick to playing at my 
 friends house until there are more options to choose from. I just hope the game selection is much 
 better than it was for the gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Very seldom do I rate a game this high but wow. Its not so much the games themselves but the fun 
 you have playing with friends and family. Thats why I rated it so high. My children and I had 
 a blast bowling a couple of frames or hitting the long ball. This is got to be some of my best 
 gaming experience ever. This is not a hard core game and like I said its for everyone. Parents 
 if you are looking to connect with your kids this might be the way to do it. Keep the games rolling 
 and I will keep buying them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports was for at least the U. S. wii owners was the game you got wether you liked it or not. 
 It is a collection of Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, Golf, and Tennis. Baseball: It is an extremely 
 watered down version of Baseball that the only way you are going to enjoy it is if you have 4 people 
 playing it becuase you can do is swing and pitch with the wiimote but for the most part it worls 
 well.
  
  Bowling: In my opinion the most fun of all the games this one can be enjoyed my all ages all #s 
 of people (1-4 players) and is blowing at it's best on any console becuase of it spot on controles 
 using the wiimote so it's like going to the bowling hall without the smell.
  
  Boxing: Really fun and it can be a but of a workout using th nunchuk and wiimote you wii throw 
 all kinds of punches at your aponints face, chest, and gut just dont punch your TV screen.
  
  Golf: Ummm well it's golf with the Wii mote as the club it works very well and your swings 
 have to be toned just right so you really have to like golf to like wiigolf.
  
  Tennis: Can be played with 4 players 2 to a team and you just swing the wiimote like a tennis warket 
 and it's alot of fun 2d best to blowing.
  
  Mii: Another cool thing with WiiSpots is that your Miis are the player in the game and you status 
 will be carried with your Mii so if you send you Mii to your controller than go to your friend's 
 house and play WiiSports there in his game you can bring you're Mii with its status to the game.
 
  
  Sound: The sound of the games are sharp and sound like well balls hitting things! But the music 
 is kind of lame and is just peaceful elevator music.
  
  Over All: Wii sports is lucky that it was bundled in with the Wii becuase it would not have gotten 
 away with being $50. Anyone can pick up this simple yet fun game that shows off what the wii can 
 do and quite well. So it is a great way to bring the Wii into all age groups and thats what Nintendo 
 said they were going to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The quality varies from charmingly simplistic to just plain lazy. No arms? Are you kidding?
 
  
  Sounds: Cutesy and simple, pretty much what you'd expect.
  
  Gameplay:  horrible. Every single game has simple controls, but 
 they fail to be even remotely accurate. I played through each game once and felt absolutely no 
 need to play them again, but I went through it all one more time just in case you had to get used 
 to the controls in order for them to be fun. I was wrong. It really blows my mind how anyone could 
 play this for more than twenty minutes.
  
  Final Words: There's a reason it's free, people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Oogie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The wii sports game with the wii system and it would show us how next generation for the wii felt. 
 The game it self comes with 5 different sports Bowling, Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, and Golf TBBGB. 
 All though the graphics aren't the prettiest it feels like your leaving the Gamecube one diffrent 
 pixel at a time. And if you aren't used to these controls you can always practice in training. 
 Training is a part of wii sports that help you improve on certain games and skill. One of the most 
 fun parts of training is playing bowling and trying to knock down a bunch of pins. You also can 
 earn medals bronze, silver, GOLD duh. Then wii go to wii fitness. Wii fitness is a 3 tests to see 
 how old your physical age is. It may take time to reach the age of 20. All of the fitness tests 
 are from training so if you got a gold medal on all the training sessions this will be a piece 
 of cake. Wii hope to see bigger and better thing for wii-play and I'll do a review on it to so 
 see it when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is like nintendogs in a way. It shows what the Wii can do, but it gets old fast. If 
 you have someone to play it with, the fun goes on forever! It could have used online play. Single 
 player gets old because after you play training mode, you have only the sports to play. When you 
 become perfect at the game. you win every time. It is worth the price, and It will keep you entertained 
 until you get another game for the wii. Its free, so why not give it a try. If you like repetetive 
 games, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  But since it has Mii's I created it keeps me from making it collect dust. I've made people such 
 as Al Gore, Geroge W. Bush, William Shakespere, and a lot of other famous people. Al Gore is good 
 at boxing, George is good at Golf, and William is good at Tennis. The thing I hate about this game 
 is that my best player lost his pro status in Bowling. And now it seems like it always goes down 
 instead of up. You will find this game to be a lot fun if you like playing alone or multiplayer. 
 The graphics well they aren't really good but the gameplay pretty much makes up for it. And since 
 it's free and came with the Wii it's value is really great. So this is a game really worth your 
 time and pretty much is free so you can't go wrong with this game. A thumbs up for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimkemon
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Before I begin I must stress that I have actually played this at my friends house, so I am not 
 writing about something I have never played. I never thought the motion sensitive controller would 
 add anything and boy was I right. The game is not a good game to play in the morning when you're 
 too tired to move much, which is the case for pretty much all games on the Wii. The game itself 
 is a little bit pointless. Why not go outside and play tennis? Also, the game feels a complete 
 rip off of PlayStation 2's Eye Toy Play. The characters you can make for the gameplay look stupid 
 and anybody over 10 years old would be ashamed to use them. Nintendo took sporting and made it 
 childish with its stupid characters.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not acceptable for the next generation. Although graphics aren't everything Nintendo 
 could of at least put some improvement in, they look the same as any GameCube game. The avatars 
 you can make look stupid and give the game a childish feel.
  
  Gameplay:
  We've all played most of the sports on this game but the motion sensor does nothing but make the 
 gameplay more annoying and difficult.
  
  Overall:
  A sign of things to come for the Wii. Boring pointless games that require you to piss about swinging 
 a tv remote around. The game itself is stupid, pointless and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amir_manu
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Wii sports comes free with a nintendo WII.
  It has 5 sports: tennis, boxing, bowling, baseball and golf. The game is to let you get used to 
 the nintendo wii controls, thats why its free with the console. You may get bored with it quite 
 easily, but is is ok at first. There is also a wii fitness feature, which will tell how old your 
 body is and show where your main strengths are (stamina, speed.. etc) in conclusion i rate this 
 game 6.7 which is fair. If i had to pay for it, then i wouldve never bought it. nintendo did a 
 good thing by giving it free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeLostDharma
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the first game I played and most people have played. I found it to be a very good 
 game, It's really a lot of fun. I really enjoy Tennis. It's fun and easy to get used to. The boxing 
 is probably my favourite. I'm now a pro and on 1200 points. It's good because it gets harder as you 
 go. I found the bowling and baseball quite boring and they brought down the score for me. I liked 
 the golf too. It was quite realistic and is a challenge. Overall it's a great and really fun game. It's 
 the type of game you want to play with lots of people. It's great because any age can play. Really 
 enjoyed it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  This is what the WII is all about, plain fun and active gaming! Instead of being sat on your backside 
 with a controller twiddling your thumbs with this your required to stand up and move around to 
 achieve the best play out of it, and in my opinion that promotes active and healthy gaming.
  
  It comes with an array of sports and it will have something for everyone GUARANTEED!
  
 
  Scores:
  
  Boxing 5/5
  Baseball 4/5
  Golf 2/5
  Tennis 5/5
  Bowling 4/5
  
  Each time you win it just gets harder and harder, making you work harder and promoting active gaming. 
 Plain fun for the whole family and has something for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased the Wii. From all the hype, I was expecting something incredible. Do not believe 
 all the hype. To it's credit, Wii Sports is the best title currently available on the Wii, but 
 that is not because it is so great, but because the other titles are so lame. Wii Sports is nothing 
 more than a demo disc, packaged to look like a game. You get 5 mini games: Bowling (you can only 
 play 1 string, no tournaments or anything) , Baseball (you only get to pitch and bat, for 3 innings 
 at that) , Tennis (only best of 5 sets available) , Boxing (limited to 3 rounds) , and Golf (limited 
 to 9 holes and one course) .
  
  The games do have potential, but you are cut short before you start to truly enjoy them.
  
 
  Maybe Nintendo will develop a full featured game based off each mini-game, but it is hard to recommend 
 spending $400 (console and extra controller) on just this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is kinda a 5-in-1 deal complete with tennis, baseball, golf, bowling and boxing that 
 is included with the nintendo wii game console.
  All game modes are tons of fun and really illustrate the wiis capabilties, as you swing, bat, punch 
 and bowl your way to your pro staus. In each sport you get a rating of points that keeps you in 
 the game but is still relativley simple. When you win you get more points and when you lose you 
 lose points and once you get to 1000 points and you acheive your pro status and get the challenge 
 of mantaining it. This is a fun family friendly game that has up to 4 person multiplayer capabilities 
 its really a good game to show that wii-hating cousin of yours what the wii is all about and its 
 all in great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is not a game that any of us are going to play in 2 yrs time when the Wii has a bunch 
 of games out, simple fact that it is a training game. And that is what it does very well.
  
  The new console with its new motion sensor controller was a bench mark set by Nintendo. But 
 of course we needed some sort of game to teach us how to use it. Answer is Wii Sports.
  
  Wii Sports is a bunch of very well done mini-games that gives you a feel and practice on the Wii 
 controller before you go off plunging into the main stream games.
  
  The game is and always will be a training game but one that I believe was well conceived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vote4Wii
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  My first time through playing this game was a BLAST! I had my cousins over and we played each sport 
 over a long period. After they left I played it alone. BORING! Something about Wii Sports makes 
 it only enjoyable when your playing it with other people who you can share and talk about the experience 
 with. I thought of Wii Sports being a total letdown if I had no one to play it with. A couple of 
 days went by and my friends came over to try out my new Wii. I suggested to play Wii Sports and 
 they excitedly agreed. After a few rounds of each sport switching loser out and winner in I found 
 my friends to be having the time of their lives! I noticed however it seemed to be same old same 
 old. I was not enjoying myself! Losing did not seem any less satisfying then winning. Wii Sports 
 just felt like it lost all its fun after hours of play. Though I rarely play Wii Sports with friends 
 or family, occasionally we do and I find the experience to be Eh... . I give Wii Sports a...
  
  8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega_specter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This was obviously my first game for the Nintendo Wii and it is my favorite so far. It is very 
 interactive.. its the next best thing to actually playing the sport in real life. To have the funnest 
 experience possible get friends or family to play with you.
  
  Here are my ratings for each sport:
  
  Golf: 2.5/5
  
  Bowling: 3/5
  
  Boxing: 3/5
 
  
  Baseball: 4.5/5
  
  Tennis: 5/5
  
  To make this game a 10, for me it would have to include: Online and a few more sports like soccer, hockey 
 and basketball (don't know how they would work in wii sports but im sure nintendo would find a way) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports, the pack in title of the Nintendo Wii, is an amazing little demo, showcasing what we 
 will expect from sports titles and more in the future of the Wii. (Short review of the game)
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Wii sports has a nice variety of sprots to choose from: Baseball, Tennis, 
 Golf, Bowling, and Boxing. The best of all of them is Bowling, which has the tightings controls 
 and greatest appeal for beginning Wii players. Next comes Tennis, which is really easy as well, 
 but has a slight learning curve to it. Next comes boxing which has now real learning curve, but 
 has a more difficult tone to it. Fourth, we got Baseball, which contains both a learning curve 
 and difficulty. Finally, their is the near broken Golf, which is sometimes almost impossible to 
 play for newcomers.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The Miis look good in this game, and the details of everything is basic. Still what do you expect 
 from a free game?
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The main menu theme ,and the theme for all the games is nice and soft. most will go unaware to 
 it, but when you leave the game on, it leaves a nice tone for the room your Wii is in.
  
  Value: 10/10
  You buy the Wii to get it. You get it with the Wii. The game is so entertaining 
 you don't need to buy a new Wii game for a while. its worth it. believe me.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Its a good game, but it needs more. maybe Wii sports 2 will make everything full 
 fledged (all the games are half of what the real sports are) games and add some detail to it. Maybe 
 even new sports? who knows. It was free, so I didn't expect much.
  
  Overall: 8.2/10
  Way better than expect, Wii sports delievered and got your grandma to play. Isn't that enough reason 
 to give it a high score? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leedude792
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you get to choose from 5 different sports. Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, or Boxing. 
 Players in the game can also be Miis made by your friends or yourself. This a very involving game, 
 not a sit on the couch and barely move type of game. Wii Sports is a great party game to play 4 
 players on. Just be sure to clear enough space for the event. Besides the fun factor, you even 
 get a good workout if you do it right. Actually boxing and dodging with your opponent or swinging 
 back and forth in tennis. One problem with the game is you can not play on-line against other players. 
 Only the Miis that they have made. On the whole though, this was an excellent choice for Nintendo 
 to include with the console in many parts of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Because this game consists of five smaller sports games, I'll review each sport one by one.
  
  Tennis: A good game. Tennis puts you in a doubles match against two opponents. You have you 
 swing the Wii remote to hit the ball. The timing of the swing wii determine where the ball goes. 
 It's better when you are in control of both Miis on you team when you play alone. This way, you'll 
 get two chances to hit the ball back to your opponent (AI teammates are horrible) .
  
  Bowling: This is my favorite of the Wii Sports games. You can have up to four people share one 
 remote on this game. Like in real bowling, you'll need to pull your arm back. Press the B button 
 to start, and release it when the ball approaches your Mii's leg. This is the easiest sport to 
 achieve pro status on (more on that later) .
  
  Baseball: This one is O. K. You'll probably have a little trouble getting to pro on this one. Pitching 
 involves swinging your Wii remote towards the screen. Pressing no buttons releases a fast ball 
 while pressing the A and B buttons makes the ball curve left or right. Batting is simple. Just 
 hold the Wii Remote like you would a bat and swing.
  
  Golf: This one is the most frustrating, simply because you can easily over hit the ball. You'll 
 need to take several practice swings to determine how hard your going to hit it. Putting is even 
 worse. Thankfully, the greens aren't too hilly, otherwise it would be impossible.
  
  Boxing: This one is a mixed bag. The offensive controls are well done, but the defensive ones are 
 slow and sluggish. Try punching you opponent as much as possible and you'll probably win. The Wii 
 remote controls your dominant hand while the Nunchuck attachment is for you other hand.
  
  In addition to the main sports games, you can practice in training mode or take a fitness challenge 
 to determine your fitness age. 20 is the best and 80 is the worst. After playing one of the main 
 games, you'll get or lose experience points based on your performance. Reach 1000 points and you'll 
 become a pro. This game has a surprising amount of depth in it. It's not just some tech demo. I'm 
 glad Nintendo packaged this with the Wii console as it gives gamers a chance to see what the Wii 
 Remote can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryMe01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Instead of reviewing the games as one, I am gonna do one per game. Here I go:
  
  Tennis: easilly the most simplest game out there. No buttons so push, just swing (or flick for 
 you professionals) to swing the racquet. Simple and easy, just like the Wii. No wonder Nintendo 
 showcased this game on multiple occosaions. Not much wrong with the game besides that you cannot 
 control you Mii nor have a propper singles match. Other then that, perfect to show of the Wii.
 
  
  Baseball: Swing the Wiimote to swing the bat to hit the pitched ball thrown by throwing the arm 
 (not the Wiimote as many have done already) . As with tennis, its simples and it works. Complatins 
 are no field control nor base running. The mercy rule also sucks. And the game can be long and 
 frustrating. Great if you have time to play.
  
  Bowling: Bowl the Wiimote as you would a bowling ball down an alley. Release the held B trigger 
 to release. Again, simple and it works. All motions are translated on the screen which makes spinning 
 the ball possible. Too many buttons involved makes it harder to understand to newer players (Tennis 
 has none) . Other then that, well simulated bowling as never seen before on a video game console.
 
  
  Golf: Wanna play like Tiger? Here's your chance! Swing the Wiimote like you would a club and you're 
 on the green. Limited by holding the A button to swing the club to hit the ball. Easy and simple. 
 However, putting can be a pain as it barely registers properly. Beat buying new clubs though!
 
  
  Boxing: The only Wii Sports game to utilise the Nunchuk attachment, allowing to control each glove 
 and punchs thrown. Body movements are essential to dodge your opponent's throws. A bit hit and 
 miss experience, but any one, and i mean anyone can play, winning on many occasions are by pure 
 luck and not skill. Fun to watch, not so much playing.
  
  Like Nintendo's goal, graphics are not everything and gaming is everything. And this package surely 
 does that statment justice. Pick up a Wii and pop this in, you'll have ablast, guaranteed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a minigame compilation of sports games that showcase just what the wii can do, allowing 
 intuitive ways to play sports game. There are 5 sports games in this compilation that each have 
 a different way to control than other games, there is Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling, and Boxing, 
 each is fun in their own right, but each game will appeal to a different person. Unfortunately, 
 some games are more refined than others, the most realistic of the 5 games is bowling, incorporating 
 the exact same movements as the real thing, and , as in the real thing, the ball will have more 
 spin or more angle depending on how you throw. a game lasts 10 frames and the game has a nice calming 
 feel to it.
  
  Next, is Wii Tennis, although probably the 2nd least like the real thing, is incredibly fun to 
 play, although the movements are very similar, you never control where you character goes, it's 
 all decided by the computer, but luckily the computer usually puts you where you need to be making 
 tennis a simple game of time swings, but it's still really fun to play, unlike bowling you don't 
 have to do the same motions as in the real thing, with tennis, a simple flick will suffice whats 
 nice is depending on how you flick it, the swing will be different.
  
  Golf is the least refined of the games, although fun, they seemed to have spent more time on tennis 
 and bowling than they had with golf, this version of golf is very much like the real thing, but 
 the courses are shortened and there is only one course to play, so it's a little bit simplified, 
 but thats not the problem, the problem is that the controls can be finicky at times, often, it 
 won't read lit movements while on the green, making puting harder than it should be. However, you 
 will still prefer this game than most other golf games simply because it's is less focused of beauty 
 and more focused on fun.
  
  BaseBall is probably the most simplified game in Wii Sports, the game doesn't bother with fielding 
 and running, and leaves just batting and pitching, and does very well at that. while baseball is 
 the most simplified game, it's happens to be one of the funnest, batting is simple and fun, and 
 pitching puts some strategy into the game, you can throw many different balls by pressing different 
 buttons while throwing which, if your playing 2player, will keep you friend on his or her toes.
 
  
  Finally, there is Boxing, which is the most hectic and chaotic game in Wii Sports, you won't have 
 a lot of accuracy while playing, so playing single player can be annoying at later levels, but 
 playing with a friend will make this game one of the most fun, and injury inducing games in Wii 
 Sports, Boxing is the only game in Wii Sports to use bother the Wiimote and the Numchuk meaning 
 you will have to pay for an extra numchuk to play with a friend but it's a small price to pay for 
 this kind of fun
  
  On top of all these sports games, Wii Sports also has many different things that will keep you 
 coming back on a daily basis, the Training mode and fitness games are varied enough to help new 
 player get better and challenge seasoned players for awhile. fitness mode gives you a few games 
 from training mode at random, and depending on how well you do, you will be given a fitness age ( 
 sounds like Brain Age) , and training mode gives you many different challenges to complete.
  On top of that , every game in wii sports is mutiplayer, meaning you can challenge your friends 
 and family to any game on the disk, But overall this game is basically a teck demo, it's still 
 worth having, and everyone who owns a Wii will have this game, it's not a bad deal, considering 
 that it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeconstead
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  I have had the opportunity to play this game a fair amount since purchasing my Wii and have loved 
 every second of it. For a gamer it is the perfect game, simple gameplay, difficult to master, the 
 multi player aspect is fabulous, and so easy even parents can pick it up.
  
  The games themselves are nice too, and mostly make you dream of what is to come, the golf and tennis 
 are particular favourites and the challenge in beating the high score is always present. I am sure 
 if you have maxed all your points (points are gained by improving your abilities in matchplay) 
 and completed all your tasks to a perfect degree the fun aspect has evaporated, however, if you 
 are able to play with more than one person it becomes a challenge to you both to excel in different 
 tasks, finishing the game as a joint venture.
  
  Graphics wise it does not offer much but Gamecube rounded edges and smooth characters, I did notice 
 however than some sceneries, the sky especially looked very nice, and reminded me of Far Cry.
 
  
  The game sounds also remind you what console you are playing, which I find very appealing.
  
 
  Wii Sports combines excellent gameplay, with interesting concepts, it it well worthy of a rating 
 of 8 if not to stifle to critics who automatically glance past anything under the afore mentioned 
 score.
  It is not the finished article by any means but I challenge anyone to pick up a Wii remote and 
 Wii sports and not find themselves completely transfixed with its gameplay, and hilarity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLeRKSfan4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a collection of 5 games that are bundled in with the Wii console.
  
  The games are great for getting used to the Wii remote, Keeping fit and simply having fun.
  
 
  TENNIS: It's simple to learn and play, just use the the Wii remote as a Tennis raquet and hit 
 the ball like you would in real life. You can build up your skill level by competing against the 
 CPU players or you can have up to 4 players in splitscreen. There's 3 game types to play, Single, 
 Best of 3 and Best of 5.
  
  BASEBALL: This is one of the harder Wii Sports games to get the hang of but it's pretty fun once 
 you do. The Wii remote acts as your bat this time around and you'll hit the ball to score singles, 
 doubles, triples and home runs.
  
  Up to 2 people can play this and you will take turns in Pitching and batting. The same applies 
 for 1 player taking on the computer.
  
  GOLF: This also takes some getting used to but is great to play. You've probably guessed how you 
 use the Wii remote in this game so I'll skip that.
  
  There's 2 different game modes in Golf. 9 hole game and 3 hole game. In the 3 hole game you can 
 choose the difficulty level and is the best way to start playing.
  
  You can do single player or have up to 4 players.
  
  Bowling:
  
  Use the Wii remote as 
 a bowling ball to knock down the 10 pins. This is easy to learn and is great for multiplayer.
 
  
  There's single player or you can play with 3 others.
  
  Boxing:
  
  This is fairly easy to get in to but isn't as much fun as the other games. There are a few motion 
 detection glitches here and there but if you can get past that then you will still enjoy it.
  
  Boxing can be played with one or 2 players.
  
  TRAINING:
  
  In the training there are 
 3 different practise games you can play for each sport. Some of them are pretty cool like the Tennis 
 and Golf target practise.
  It's also good to do the training when you have some time as it comes in handy for...
  
  FITNESS 
 TEST:
  
  In the Fitness Test you will do 3 random tests taken from the Training section of Wii Sports.
 
  
  The lower your fitness age the better.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are kept quite simple as far as the characters go but the environments pack quite 
 a lot of detail. The best visuals you will see in Wii Sports are when you play Golf.
  
  SOUND: The sound is pretty good. There's some nice lighthearted music and the sound effects are 
 great. Some sounds also come through the Wii remote's built-in speaker. So when you hit the ball 
 in Tennis or Baseball, etc you will hear that sound from the remote
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Altogether, these 5 games as well as the Fitness test and training add up to a great game. It's 
 one of the best multiplayer games out at the moment and it's a game that literally anyone can play. 
 Add to the fact that it comes free with the Wii and it's even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiasjim07
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Not challenging, computers are too easy to beat, makes it fun at the begining but boring after 
 few hours of play.
  
  Fun to play with friends but not recommended if you want to play by yourself.
  
  for instance, 
 the hardest enemies's skill level =2000, and you play with the same guys every time.
  
  Not challenging, computers are too easy to beat, makes it fun at the begining but boring after 
 few hours of play.
  
  Fun to play with friends but not recommended if you want to play by yourself.
  
  for instance, 
 the hardest enemies's skill level =2000, and you play with the same guys every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a compilation of 5 different sports games, including Baseball, Golf, Boxing, Bowling 
 and Tennis. With the Wii Remote, you can move it to control these sports games almost as you would 
 in real life. My favorite on here would either be Baseball or Bowling.
  
  Another good thing is that you can use your Mii profile on any of these games and you can save 
 your records by using your Mii.
  
  Maybe I shouldn't expect much from the graphics, but they aren't that good. Sometimes your characters 
 are missing arms and legs and everyone is shaped like Legos. The background an stuff are like a 
 lot of other Nintendo games. I just wish the characters would look a little more realistic.
  
  Some of the sound FX rocks. It's more realistic. I really like how on the Boxing game, some 
 of your punches makes it sound like you break your opponent's bones.
  
  Overall, I'm glad that Nintendo choose this as a free game to come with your Wii. This game is 
 also good for exercise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to fault this game in the slightest because i got it with my console today, and 
 i've been playing tennis, and boxing so far... wow... what a workout, it's one way of getting the 
 blood going, and the graphics are a break from what other consoles have been battling it out to 
 be the best in.
  
  I'm still trying to adjust myself to this console, but also i'm working out just doing so... anyone 
 who's playing these games just keep going, you'll find what feels right eventually.... mind you.... unlike 
 my other game, Red Steel, i'm having a bit of trouble getting used to the controls, just counting 
 on Metroid Prime 3 Corruption to be well oiled.
  
  But anyways.... having lots of fun already... Great job nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Wi Sports offers 5 games including: Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Baseball and Boxing. It also offers 
 the ability to play mini games known as a training mode in the game. You can play with up to 3 
 other people. This game is alot more fun when you play with other poeple like a group of friends. 
 The controls are very accurate for some games but for golf and boxing the controls are not so accurate. 
 Tiger Woods for the Wii will showcase what the Wii-Remote is really capable of. The boxing is alright 
 when you play against a friend but can be borring alone because it is a very repetitive motion 
 (left arm, right arm, left arm, right arm.... you get the idea) . My favourite would have to be 
 the Bowling, It is incredibly accurate and you can spin the ball with amazing accracy. Some people 
 say that this game is only good for a couple of days and then you get borred of it, but I find 
 it very revolutionary and simply fun because you can swing a golf club in the house without taking 
 out a lamp or puting a hole through the wall. I give Wii Sports an 8.5/10 mainly because the graphics 
 are Nintendo 64 style and the sound is very primitive and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I had some mixed reactions about this game. I will start of with the bad, and then end with the 
 good, as this is, overall, a good game.
  The worst thing about this game is that it gets really old really fast when you play by yourself. 
 Its fun while you are trying to get used to the Wiimote and the whole experience is new. Its fun 
 when you finally learn the nuances of the Wiimote and you start doing really well at all the games, 
 and then you just can't play it by yourself anymore, and that doesn't take long. The baseball is 
 horrible. The pitcher has the complete advantage over the hitter. I have played a lot of this game 
 both by myself, and with friends, and there is really no way to get a high scoring game, in fact, 
 hardly ever even a scoring game at all. Also, the Wiimote is not quite sensitive enough for all 
 the putting situations in the golf game.
  The good aspects of this game, however, far outweigh the bad. The coolest thing is when you make 
 your Mii for the game, and realize that, holy crap, it really does look just like you! And then 
 you have this little Mii that looks just like you running around and doing all these cool things. 
 It just rocks. Then there is the multiplayer, this isn't multiplayer like get a bunch of your gamer 
 friends together and go game, this is like get your mom and play some tennis with her, or play 
 some golf with your grandfather sort of multiplayer. In other words, these games and the way they 
 are played are appealing to everyone. I have been to parties where more people wanting to play 
 Wii Sports than anything else. I haven't had as fun in a long time as I have playing tennis on 
 this with my roommates. In the summertime set it up outside with a projector, and get some exercise 
 and some sun! Plus, as a result of the Wiimote, there is almost no learning curve. Everything is 
 almost completely intuitive, and it just takes a little bit to adjust to using the Wiimote. This 
 game was NOT intended as a game for hard core gamers, and I can picture all the people who play 
 video games for the sake of blowing things up or hacking them with a sword, or driving over the 
 speed limit not liking this game very much. But this game really is a very good game that pretty 
 much everyone can enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  For a pack-in game, I can't complain too much. At first this game is hella cool and if you get 
 a small taste and don't get time to digest youll have happy memories but when it boils down to 
 it, its kind of lame. My first time, I simply loved it, but it gets old fast. Also (and I know 
 this isn't the games fault) but i havent gotten a second controller yet so multiplayer is beyond 
 my grasp, so im sure itll be a bit better. The Good: The training mode was brilliant because it 
 showed truly the depth of the actual sensing and gave strategy to the games I thought were pretty 
 boring. It's also a thrilling title for non-gamers and a decent pack-in. The mii system works well 
 and it's a decent workout if you get into it for awhile. Also, it distinguishes itself from any 
 other sports game out there, and one of the only to feature 5 different sports.
  
  The Bad: It could have been so much more. The sensing was sub-sub-par on baseball pitching but 
 pretty good on batting. The graphics could have at least had some touch-ups to look more appealing 
 (although that's not a big problem) . Also, the the boxing can overload and have delayed reactions.
 
  
  What I would say are the best to least good games.
  1. tennis
  2. golf
  3. boxing
  4. bowling
  5. baseball
  
  Now this review doesnt matter much because anyone getting a wii 
 will have it but it's nice to know about your pack-in game that you will ultimately recieve with 
 or against your will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  For those of us lucky enough to get our eager hands on Nintendo's happy white joy box aka the Wii, 
 we were given Wii Sports for free. Sure free stuff is awesome but in this case it's merely okay. 
 Wii Sports is basically a collection of a bunch of tech demos that are here merely to show you 
 what the system can do. The games themselves aren't entirely complex but they're good pick-up and 
 play games. Although the bowling and boxing are good everything else is bland.
  
  Let's start with the tennis. Sure you can serve the ball by making a serving motion with the remote 
 and yes you can swing the remote like you'd swing an actually tennis racket but the main problem 
 here is that YOU CANNOT CONTROL WHERE YOU CHARACTER MOVES. In a tennis game that is important, 
 instead the computer decides where you character goes which is the general area of where the ball 
 is/will land. The boxing in Wii Sports is the only game to make use of the nunchuk attachetment 
 and is undoubtly the best game in this collection. My only gripe with the boxing is the computer 
 gets really good, really fast which forces you to up your game after a few minutes of play.
  
  The bowling is good, it does what it's supposed to do. The golf is alright. The game is responsive 
 enough for accurate shots and forces you not to go overboard with you movements if you want accuracy.
 
  
  Lastly, the baseball.... is a trainwreck. The batting and pitching are all fine but like with the 
 tennis you can't control where you're outfielders move after the ball has been hit and you can't 
 steal bases.
  
  I'll admit I'm being alittle unfair but for a sports collection, the games could've been a little 
 deeper. I'd say rent this but it's a freebie so enjoy it until you Tiger Woods 07, a new Mario 
 Tennis, and a better baseball game come out fo the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This game, although not great in graphics or sound, is a very fun and addictive game. Wii Sports 
 comes with the Wii and it is basically the first game anyone will play when they first take out 
 the Wii. You have five games to choose to play: Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Baseball, and Boxing. Each 
 game is unique in their own way. The funnest in my opinion is Tennis. Tennis requires you to really 
 get into the game to hit the ball from different angles and also requires space. You don't want 
 to hit somebody in the head or break your TV. Golf is fun and is very much like playing it in real 
 life. But like most golf games, it can get kind of boring. With the Baseball, I was really letdown. 
 It is really nothing like really playing Baseball. You don't run, if the ball hits the ground you're 
 out, and the pitching. The pitching requires nothing of you but flicking your wrist very fast. 
 You don't need to aim. The batting was good though. Bowling is very fun. This is the game you play 
 at a party or with a lot of friends. Very sensitive, the bowling ball will change direction by 
 the tilt of your wrist. And then the boxing. Very fun. Very realistic. Very accurate with remote. 
 It's always fun to beat the crap out of some funky-cartoony character. So Wii Sports is a great 
 game. With Tennis and Bowling being my favourites. It's easy for all and is great to play with 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saphiro01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Video games since I was 6 years old and that was 1987. I have been waiting 
 for this cool of a game that showed off the capabilities of the system it comes with for some time. 
 I'll be honest. If you are a graphics whore you will probably have a problem with Wii Sport's simple 
 interface. For the average gamer that loves fun more than graphics however this is just fine. Creating 
 a Mii and having it play golf with you or boxing against some cool character is worth the price 
 of the Nintendo Wii in my humble opinion. Golfing is spot on with very subtle controls for putting 
 and slightly exaggerated controls for driving. Bowling is fun in groups at parties beyond what 
 it should be when you think about it. It's bowling ^_^0. But I have a personal love for bowling 
 games and when they are tedious I would feel it pretty quickly. Wii Bowling is never repetitive 
 or tedious (although a soar arm is an unexpected side effect) . Boxing is a fun workout and if you 
 go all out you can lose some water weight from sweating so much. It's that interactive. Tennis 
 must be enjoyed with friends to be fully realized. Seeing your buddy actually whiff on a virtual 
 tennis ball is classic comedy. Hardcore solo gamers and graphics enthusiasts can tap into their 
 hidden craving for just simple no commitment fun here as much as a person who has never played 
 a video game in their life. The one down side to all of this was baseball for me. But then again 
 I've played a good number of Baseball games over the years and never been able to actually swing 
 at the ball. To top everything off you can train yourself to get better with mini-games that provide 
 a new spin when you get a bit bored with just playing the regular sports. Highly recommended to 
 try if you don't own a Wii. If you do you already have it at this point LOL. Go try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  When this is the first Wii game you play, you are definitely going to give it such a high score. 
 Its just wonderful to get a game you can really interact with. This game comes with five different 
 sports you can play. Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, Golf, and Bowling. It also has a training section 
 and a fitness section. The fitness section is kind of like Brain Age. It tells you what age you 
 are physically (not mentally like Brain Age) and records it. 20 is the best with 99 being the worst, 
 I think. The training section is just what it says: go and train so you can improve your skills 
 in the different sports.
  
  Tennis
  This is my favorite sport on Wii Sports. Its just so fun. You swing the Wiimote just like you would 
 a tennis racket. You can twist the racket for different ways to send the ball and you can also 
 control the speed. The sound for this is just so realistic. Especially with the Wiimote speakers. 
 It makes a noise everytime you hit the ball. Bowling
  This would have have to be the best party game. When four players can play with only one Wiimote, 
 how can it not be? This is just one realistic game. It all matters how you throw the ball. If you 
 twist your wrist, the ball will go that way. Just like in bowling. Its always nice to get a strike 
 in the game. It makes you feel so proud, so great.
  
  Boxing
  This game isn't for everyone. It's more for the people who would just like to get the anger out 
 of them or who just like fighting. And when you can actually punch someone else by swinging your 
 fist in a video game, then it is a really great stress reliever. Haha. The only bad thing about 
 this game is that usually you move to fast for the motion to detect most of your movements. So 
 you either swing wrong or dont swing at all. Golf
  This is my least favorite game on here. Im just not a golf kinda guy. But if you like golf then 
 you will truly find a realistic experience out of this.
  
  Baseball
  This game is pretty good. You swing the Wiimote just like you would a baseball bat. And speed and 
 timing determines how far you hit the ball. You also pitch in this game. Just swing the Wiimote 
 like you would a baseball. You can do different pitches by pressing different buttons. There is 
 just one bad thing about this game: you can't play the outfield or run on your own.
  
  Ok. So this game is actually really good. And I cant recommend you to buy the game because, well, 
 it comes with the Wii. So if you dont have a Wii, I suggest you buy it because no matter what type 
 of gamer you are, you will definitely find some games you will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SILVRIZE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm saving a fortune on shoe rental at the bowling alley and on the batting cages. It's a shame 
 that Xbox and PS3 couldn't give something back to the people who pay the bills....... the gamers. 
 Neither of those systems cares about the consumer . They are more concerned with forcing their 
 individual medium for High Def down your throats: HD DVD on Xbox and BluRay on PS3. Yes they have 
 incredible graphics, but who can afford a $1000 TV and a $500 gaming system. I could get a cheap 
 car for $1500 or a sweet PC. In the end, it all boils down to how much fun is it to play. I have 
 seen some awesome looking games that sucked and played many a NES game that still rocks by todays 
 standards.
  Kudos to Nintendo. May they succeed long into the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports, the older Brother to Wii Play. This is the pack in that came with US Wiis. The Sports 
 include Tennis, Golf, Baseball, Bowling, and Boxing, Boxing being the only game requiring a nunchuck. 
 It is also the first game to use the player made Miis in the actual gameplay as well as Wii Play 
 depending again on where you live. It may not contain an extra controller, but its free in the 
 US, and a lot better than Play. It's hard to review a game that is free, but there are those in 
 other countries who have to pay, so I will judge this game as if it were fully priced. So having 
 this mind set, how does it stack up. All of the games are well thought out, and have some of the 
 most spot on controls the Wii has to offer. The trade off is, a lot of the games are smaller in 
 size. There's only on golf course, as well as the other games don't have much of a background change 
 either, although really golf is the only game that suffers. From a stand alone point, most of the 
 games are very good. Tennis is simple, yet fun to play, and very exciting in multiplayer, a personal 
 favorite of mine. Golf is very much like the real game, it has wind speed and sand traps, my only 
 complaint is that it only has one 18 hole course, which severely limits the replay value unless 
 of course you play multiplayer, which is also very good. Baseball is a bit bland, The batting and 
 pitching controls are spot on, but you can't control anything in the out field, and frankly isn't 
 much fun to play even in multiplayer. Bowling isn't much, but it gets the job done for what it 
 is. Single player isn't something you'll play a lot unless you like to bowl, but multiplayer is 
 a nice distraction. Finally Boxing, besides Baseball it's the only other 2 player only game, but 
 it manages to pack in enough to be really fun. You punch like you are really punching, dodge like 
 you are really dodging, it's great in both single and multiplayer. Now for the single player aspect. 
 Some people don't realize all the modes built for single player. They are basically a workout mode 
 much like the DS hit Brain Age that instead judges your fitness age, and a training mode. Training 
 mode adds some new twists to the game controls and helps you get better at a certain sport. Like 
 the boxing practice where you dodge balls or hit targets. The variety is pretty good and offers 
 some fun twists on the sports. The other mode is fun as well, as you and your friends can compete 
 to see who can score the youngest. Outside of this, you can raise your Mii to a pro in each sport 
 in the single player modes. It's a fun diversion once again, but it is a lot better in single player. 
 My only gripe my be the graphics, it fits the Miis, but it really could have been done better. 
 It does not hurt the game a bit, but you would think Nintendo would have polished the first game 
 you are going to show your friends. Against Wii Play, Sports is obviously the better title, and 
 with not a lot of Wii games out yet, Wii Sports is worth it's price for the multiplayer aspects 
 alone. So whether or not you are getting it free, if you have an extra controller and some friends, 
 Wii Sports is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports has five sports to play there is baseball , tennis , golf , bowily and boxing . There 
 is a training mode and wii fitness test . In training mode you unlock two more things for each 
 sport that helps and it can appera on the wii fitness test. Tennis you use the remote is as a tennis 
 racket and swing right like fore hand and left for back hand. Baseball you use the remote like 
 a baseball bat to play. Golf is different and you dont use it as a golf club you use semi-hitting 
 the club but dont go passed 3 and a haft mark. Bowing you can aim , move your charater and use 
 the remote like you bowily. Boxing the nunchuk is left hand and remote is the the right hand doding 
 you swing the remotes sie to side .
  
  The game comes with the wii so just have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teekazeek
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is very clearly a game designed to showcase the Wii controller features; as it utilizes 
 basically all the aspects of the Wii controller in it's various sports games.
  
  Wii Sports, as most of you know, consists of five sports games: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, 
 and Boxing as well as a training program comprised of 3 mini-games for each of those sports and 
 a Brain Age-esque Fitness test to determine how good you are doing - though it doesn't actually 
 have anything to do with how fit you are. The core games themselves utilize Mii's created by the 
 player on the Wii Menu and give ranking scores to each player based on their performance in the 
 various games. For example, winning matches in Tennis would add points to your tennis score. In 
 golf and Bowling this score is based on your score at the end of the game (seeing as unless you 
 have other friends playing with you, you will be playing alone) . The game then charts your score 
 with every game you play (again like Brain Age did with training) . In Tennis, Boxing and Baseball 
 - the higher your score, the more difficult the opponents get. The games generally follow a common 
 trend that deviates from the norm of console games. The motion required for the given sport (in 
 real life) is slightly mimicked with the Wii Remote. It's quite natural to pick up for the most 
 part and kind of neat to see things actually follow what you are doing. It is not, however, completely 
 accurate.
  
  Tennis: I was originally taken back by the Tennis game, as the player motion is not actually controlled. 
 The only action the player physically takes is the racket motion which, for the most part is fairly 
 well done. With my own experience, as my score increased and the opponents got more difficult I 
 began to realize that I didn't quite get the tennis game and was largely just swinging the racket 
 when a ball came my way. I proceeded to the three training games which progressively get more difficult 
 and found that I hadn't mastered the timing of my swing - the thing that dictates the direction 
 the ball went. This seemed a little counter-intuitive to me but once I began working on it more 
 it became natural and actually seemed quite reasonable to expect. Baseball: The Baseball game places 
 you as either the batter or pitcher in a short baseball game. The controls for the batter are rather 
 simple, you swing as the ball gets to you (timing applies as it did with the tennis game) . Your 
 hits are either deemed: Out, Foul, Single, Double, Triple, or Home Runs. And you get points as 
 your players get back home. The batting mechanism is pretty nice but the game feels rather boring 
 after a few rounds. It would have been more interesting if the player could control the outfield 
 as well. As it is it just feels like, well, a tech-demo.
  
  Bowling: The bowling game features surprising response to the Wii remote, so much so that my lack 
 of skill in bowling translated to this game. The bowling mechanism involves making the motion exactly 
 like bowling in real life, down to twists of the wrist. I found that I naturally put a leftward 
 spin on the ball and with some training (of which spin and accuracy are two of the mini-games) 
 my score improved significantly - though I am still not a good bowler. The game is quick and very 
 fun, particularly in a group.
  
  Golf: The golf game features a choice of several difficulties and the choice for an entire 9 hole 
 course. The game requires that you choose your angle and club and swing, in a golf like motion, 
 the Wii remote with varying velocities to hit the ball harder. This game focuses on the control 
 of the swing, as an over swing results in the ball hooking to one direction or another, and often 
 leads to getting in the rough or out of bounds. The game is rather relaxing and does a nice job 
 of a no-frills golf game. The controls seem a little finicky at times and could probably have been 
 fine-tuned slightly. I imagine the strange behavior is due to a desire to appease people who wanted 
 to swing all out and the couch Wii players who simply wanted to flick their wrists. It works though 
 and you certainly see improvements the more you play.
  
  Boxing: The boxing game requires you to hold both Wii Remote and Nunchuck up infront of you. They 
 then act as each of your fists. High punches go high, low punches go low , hooks, jabs - the works. 
 It's a neat idea but the controls are, from my experience ineffective. The boxing is innaccurate 
 and in the midst of a fight you find Mii acting in ways you didn't intend. It does, however show 
 the potential for this technology in a similar game. The game as it is, however, was not particularly 
 fun.
  
  From a social perspective several of the games are quite excellent. I have had friends over and 
 played long games of Tennis, Golf, and Bowling (the latter being the most fun) . People who have 
 never been particularly fond of games get very into most of these games and generally have no trouble 
 picking them up.
  
  If anything - Nintendo has succeeded in showcasing the potential for a technology that may very 
 well appeal to those that find gaming in it's previous state overly complex and foreign. It's about 
 having a good time, and I think Wii Sports does that very well. It's not a deep game, it has no 
 story or customizable options but it's still entertaining and if anything else educational - a 
 very good choice of game to come with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikEhn
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Tennis, baseball, golf, bowling and boxing is the five sports in Wii sports to Wii.
  Wii sports was actully the first wii game i tested.
  It was a fantastic moments when i swinged 
 the wii remote true the air and the guy in the game did the same.
  Tennis was the first sport i tested in Wii sports.
  It was really fun but the grapich ruind much.
 
  Yeah, it was fantastic but when i saw the grapich i sough of sadness.
  I tested Bowling instead!
  Bowling was well done and the gyro worked perfect...
  But once again, 
 the grapich!
  The grapich is not so good but the gameplay is funny!
  Test it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  just got my wii today, so i decided to review wii sports. some of you may be thinking, its free 
 so it must be terrible . but its very addictive and very fun. the games that come in it are tennis, 
 baseball, boxing, golf, and bowling. tennis plays very well. baseball plays good, but i wish that 
 you could field the ball (the computer does that for you.) boxing is my second favorite game. it 
 plays great but it sometimes it doesnt read the punches. golf is the worst game included. its very 
 hard to swing without making it curve. bowling is my favorite. it plays just like the real thing 
 but without the heavy ball. thats the review. to sum it all up for those of you who just skipped 
 down the end to see what i thought (like i usually do) its a great game. dont assume that its bad 
 just because its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3DPiranha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I was very suprised by this game. When I heard that this would be packed in with the Wii system 
 I didn't expect much out of the game. However this is the best game on the Wii so far, and in my 
 humble opinion the greatest Next Gen game to date. The multiplayer is top notch and the Mii feature 
 found in this game is very creative. The controls are very simple yet extremely innovative that 
 Even A Caveman Can Do It . I encourage everyone out there to try this game so that they will realize 
 that games nowadays are not just about great graphics but creative gameplay. Apart from NBA Jam 
 and Blades of Steel, I really haven't liked many sports games, so even if you don't usually like 
 sports games I think you will find yourself suprised with this title. I must say that this is the 
 greatest sports video game ever. This game is absolutely delicious. Try this game out, you won't 
 Wiigret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waitaseck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and gameplay is the best. It is easy to pick up and learn right away. Even 
 experienced players will love getting PRO status in all of the sports. Greatest free game that 
 comes with a console by far. The controls can be annoying sometimes (golf, tennis) but you will 
 get used to it. This is a must play for all new gamers. Best SPORTS GAME EVER. My favorite sport 
 is definetly bowling. Scores for individual sports : Tennis-8.0 Baseball- 7.0 Bowling-10.0 Golf-7.5 
 Boxing-9.5 ALSO THIS GAME MAY BECOME LIKE THE DREAMCAST AFTER NINTENDO STOPS BUNDLING IT WITH THE 
 WII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: facit_90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a game included when you get the Wii, and probably one of the best games for it out 
 there.
  There are three parts of the game; Wii Fitness; Training; and the different sports.
  
  The 
 sports area is probably the area explored by most, but it isn't the best part of the game even 
 if it's really entertaining. There are five sports in total; Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and 
 Boxing. As you play you will earn points, or lose points if you play really bad. If you get a total 
 of 1000 points or more you will get the honorable title 'pro' to show off every time you beat your 
 friends easily. As you get more and more points your opponents in Single Player will get harder 
 and harder.
  
  The Training department involves a set of three exercises for every sport included in the game. 
 From the beginning there will only be one of each sport available, but as you try the different 
 exercises you will unlock more of them. Here you can set your own high-scores beat them and earn 
 medals- bronze, silver and gold. I just can't get enough of it. The bronze medals aren't that hard 
 to get, you just need to understand what to do and hoa to do it. The silver medals are a little 
 harder and the gold medals are for some games a real challenge.
  
  The Wii Fitness is a day-to-day test of skill in three random games from the Training department 
 of the game. Your results will be tested in speed, stamina and balance. The results will show up 
 after you have gone through all three games. In the results screen you will see your fitness age, 
 kind of like in the Brain Training series together with a diagram of your previous results and 
 a triangle of which area you exceeded in and which area that made you older. Ah yes, tthe better 
 results the younbger you will be, but you will be 20 years young as youngest.
  
  There is a large difference between playing styles realted to the impression of the game. If you 
 stand up, hold your baseball bat as in real life, hit the air with your gloves of hard plastic 
 and put the ball with a really short club etc you will have a positive experience of the game but 
 if you just sit in your sofa and shake your mote you won't have fun at all. Give and you will be 
 given.
  This game will hold for a long time if you just give it a chance and if you fully explore the Training 
 and Fitness modes. The graphics are simple, but good enough to be able to play and the game will 
 make you a character in the game, just that you move around in your living room, and what graphics 
 are better than those of real life? The possibility to use your own mii makes this game even better, 
 since that might make you feel even more like being a character of the game. The music, where it 
 exists is useless, but there isn't need for it either. The sound of a tennisball from your remote 
 or from your fist smashing someones face is amazing enough to rise the points for Sound a lot.
 
  
  Either if you play this game by yourself or with friends and family (first game where I saw the 
 latter as a possibility) you will have a lot of fun. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports Makes a very good pack-in for the Wii. It's a lot of fun and great for other people 
 to come over and play with you. YOu can play 5 different sports. I'll list them from Best to Worst: 
 Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf, Boxing. Tennis is the best b/c it's a lot of fun and it's a quick 
 game to play. Boxing isn't as much fun b/c it's hard to direct your punches and you really don't 
 know what you're doing. They have a Wii Fitness Test that you can take everyday. It's just a unch 
 of basic things like hitting baseballs, curving your bowling ball. ect. it rates you by age, 20 
 being the best age. It's kinda of a fun challenge to take and pretty hard at that. I haven't gotten 
 to 20 yet. the closest i've gotten is 22.
  Gameplay: Really Fun. even more fun with others
  Graphics: Could've been a lot better
  Sound: It's fine but I didn't expect much from it to begin 
 with anyway
  Value: IT's definatley worth it (even though it does come with your Wii anyway)
  Overall this 
 game is fun and Makes a good pack-in for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradybaby
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply terrific and it comes fwii! What more could you ask for???
  Ten pin bowling is definately the best game on here. How can you not like tin pin bowling??? Exactly. 
 Today, My girlfriend, mUm, dad and i all played bowling. It was so much fun and a great laugh was 
 had by all
  . Both my parents are in their mid 50's and the mrs and i are in our late 20's and it is mine and 
 there favourite multi player game ever.
  My dad goes bowling every monday and is in a league. He commented on how realistic it is. And indeed 
 ive spent the last hour practising my technique as i came last today! Im supposed to be the games 
 master of my family. After a good practise session, i just bagged a 209. this will improve. As 
 im typing this my mrs is practising. Im the first to break 200 and now have a shiny new ball and 
 am at pro status. My parents are coming around tomorrow to play again. They are not happy about 
 my 209. Bowling 10/10, 100% for sure.
  Golf - is very very basic, but is still good fun for the family.
  Tennis - as above, but very 
 energetic.
  Baseball - Not really my cup of tea, not a loved sport in the uk and not much fun to play - sorry 
 my yanky cousins, but its simply not cricket!
  Boxing - Now this game is absolutely knackering. If you wanna shed some pounds, then this is the 
 game for you. Single or multi player, three rounds of this bad boy and you are sweating and your 
 heart is pounding.
  I own the PS3, XBOX 360 and the Wii and i have to say the Wii is my fave for multi player thus 
 far. Well done nintendo and well done on WII Sports. Ten pin bowling is worth the price alone and 
 has plenty of replay value on both single and multi player.
  Im not sure how anyone can have a bad word to say about this game!
  For all the Family 10/10
 
  H4rdcore Gamer - 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davesy22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo did three things right with the Nintendo Wii. The first was to make a revolutionary system 
 with new controls and innovative gameplay. The second was to make the price a lot lower than the 
 competing system. The final thing that was done correctly was to package a game with the system. 
 Was the game a good deal?
  
  Well to say that Wii sports is a great game is lie, but it definetly merits the title of a very 
 fun game. Simply said, Wii sports is good fun. However, it is essential that this game be played 
 with multiplayer or else, the game feels repetitive and lame. When there are other people joining 
 in the action, then the experience is novel and interesting. But why does single player suck? The 
 truth of the matter is that the game has no depth whatsoever. The game is essentially a tech demo 
 that supports Nintendo's new controls. This game shows the capabilities of this new system. However, 
 this isn't even a tech demo in the full senso fo the word. It doesn't use Nintendo's complete hardware 
 power. The graphics in this game are first generation gamecube graphics. The don't look particularly 
 great. So, if you are waiting for great visuals you'll be disapointed. Finally, Wii sports is constructed 
 out of 5 games. 2 of these games are absolutely terrible. Boxing isn't much fun as a single player 
 or a multiplayer. Golf is also highly tedious. Baseball is pretty fun. However, the only games 
 that truly take the cake in this compilaiton are tennis and bowling. In summary, Wii sports is 
 a fun experience that works as a great multiplayer. Although most of the titles presented on the 
 game are not particularly interesting and often tedious, the game is free and as a result is defiently 
 a fun expereice (especially when you what that ti costs no additional money) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sondra
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Not an avid game player, I was impressed with how much fun I had playing Wii Sports (thanks Adam!) . 
 The nunchaku is the key, allowing total immersion into game play. The physical interaction gets 
 you off the couch and moving your whole body - much better for kids and a major plus for people 
 who don't have the physical capacity to play sports or are homebound. And I'm imagining all sort 
 of uses in physical therapy.
  
  I've been waiting for this kind of interactive play. Now all I need is 3D graphic realism and a 
 direct-neural-interface so I can dive into cyberspace... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Highly addictive; you'll want to come back for more! You can play with your custom miis.
 
  Playing with the controller is just plain fun.
  
  The Bad: Only a few games. No big deal, whattaya expect?
  
  For a complementary starter disk 
 that came with the system, it was more top notch than I expected. The wii remote works great, you 
 can use your mii characters, and the games are actually fun! This was packed for the sole purpose 
 of showing what the wii can actually do. Nintendo succeeded marvelously in displaying what the 
 wii is capable of doing. From using a racket, baseball bat, bowling ball, boxing gloves, or golf 
 clubs, there's much fun to be had here. Here are the sports:
  
  Tennis: A fun game of tennis, swinging the ball back and forth. Swinging the remote is as easy 
 as swinging a regular racket. If you enjoy tennis so much, this is worth a try.
  
  Baseball: One of the best sports on here. With the swing of the remote, it captures your every 
 swing. It's a great feeling when hitting a homerun. The pitching is just as cool as the batting. 
 By pressing different button combos and moving the remote as if throwing a ball, you can pull off 
 fast balls, curve balls, splitters, and screw balls. WARNING: put the wrist strap on, you might 
 throw it into the TV.
  
  Bowling: It's like bowling, without the bowling alley. Throw it like a bowling ball and knock down 
 some pins. What's fun about this one is that you'll never get a gutter ball and will feel more 
 like a pro. This is one of those games in which you'll want to play again to get a higher score.
 
  
  Golf: One of the harder sports to pick up and play. You swing it like a golf club, but it should 
 be swung straight for the best results. Even in the real world of golf, you can make slice and 
 hook shots. The problem is that it is hard to have good control of the swing. It might be too hard 
 or it might be too soft. Swing it depending on the situation. Overall a good demo of what is yet 
 to come. I can't wait for them to make a Mario golf like this.
  
  Boxing: My least favorite because I have to get off my fat rump and stand up like I'm punching. 
 It's exhausting, but fun to do. This is one of those games in which you'd burn the most calories 
 in. Still worth playing.
  
  Overall, this is one nifty package that Nintendo gave for free. It might be a tech demo, but it 
 proves that Nintendo was wise in making their new system and showing what their Bad Boy can do. 
 It might be short, but you'll be back for more. It's like an arcade game, you'll want to top your 
 records. This is an auspicious start for what Nintendo has to offer. Kudos to Nintendo for a fun 
 game that's for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Tenis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing! What else can you ask for a party!
  
  The game does not features any kind of story mode nor anything else, but it keeps track of your 
 experience points until you reach the pro level with 1000 experience points. There are also some 
 variations to keep you entertained.
  
  So I'll take out of the way the more obvious details first.
  
  The graphics are clean with 
 very nice details, and, in general, get the job very well done. The characters are the same as 
 any Mii an so that's all you can expect from them.
  
  About the sound, that's a real good deal, as the general environmental sounds are just fine, but 
 the real great addition are the wiimote sounds, as they really make you turn up all the volume 
 in your remote to hear the swinging, hits, etc.
  
  Ok, now for the sports:
  
  Tenis is really a no brainer when coming to try out the Wii's capabilities. You don't need to move 
 your character but you have very great control over the raquet itself. Soon, you can start making 
 some great moves and, depending on your partners abilities, the game can become very long and exciting! 
 You can play from 1 to 4 players and even request the CPU to assign you a partner in case you want 
 some help. No button press is required at all! My 2nd personal favorite from the package.
  
  Baseball can be a bit harder as it requires much more precision to hit correctly the ball, 
 but as you get more practice you can turn almost any ball in Home Run, which is very rewarding! 
 In the other hand, when you pitch there are several things you can do to make things a little more 
 interesting, as each button (A, B, A+B) can turn your ball into a curve, splitter or screwball. 
 1 to 2 players.
  
  Bowling is, for much, one of the greatest games included. The control you have over the ball is 
 really amazing, and you can instantly start doing some great tricks adding effects to the ball. 
 This also requires a little more explaining as you need to manage some buttons and the D-pad to 
 ensure you get the most out of the game. 1 to 4 players and my 3rd personal favorite along with 
 Golf.
  
  Golf, as you can expect, makes a great use of the wiimote to simulate a golf club. You have 9 full 
 holes ranging from beginners to expert courses, and the game also requires A button and the use 
 of the D-pad to adjust your position. 1 to 4 players and this shares the 3rd position in my favorites 
 list.
  
  Boxing is the only game which requires both, a wiimote and a nunchuk for each player, as they simulate 
 both hands of the player. No button is required and it'll give you a hell of a workout! The game 
 itself is very exciting, although the controls may seem a little bit unresponsive at times. As 
 you progress in the sport you'll take notice of the best position to grab the controllers to ensure 
 best response. 1 to 2 players and my personal number 1 favorite of the package!
  
  Finally, the game also features a fitness test wich you can take just one time a day and it will 
 determine your phisical age using several sports. There are, also, several challenge modes for 
 each sport that allow you to try variations of each sport to improve speed, accuracy, etc.
  
  Overall, this has been my opening card in each demo party I've had and they had been great 
 fun for everyone!! You may also enjoy a lot playing alone but don't miss the chance to play it 
 with friends and family! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teufelherz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is defnitely a great way to experience the Wii remote and give you an idea of what you 
 could expect for it in the future. There are five games in total: tennis, boxing, baseball, golf 
 and bowling. All of the games are fun to play, but after a few games, you find them too repetitive. 
 Picture tennis for example; you will swing the Wiimote from side to side for a while in a game, 
 maybe you'll go for a second time, but you will definitely try something different after that, 
 since just swinging the control from one side to the other is boring. If they had only added a 
 few more sports, like swimming, soccer shootout...
  The graphics are nothing to get excited about, but they are really nice and fun to watch. You can 
 play as your Mii if you want to, which is a nice touch. The controls are very responsive. Maybe 
 golf is the best example for what the Wiimote can do, since you have to take into consideration 
 the wind, the field you're playing on, the stick you're using and hit the ball with the right amount 
 of power. I found the boxing game to be the least responsive. It is the only game that requires 
 the nunchuk add-on for the Wii remote, and while trying to hit with it, sometimes my character 
 would perform the action or not at all.
  All in all Wii Sports is a great game that will keep you entertained and it's a great way to show 
 your Wii off to other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jensen_slipknot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game introduces you to the awesome motion sensitive controll of the wii, also a great game 
 at the same time. Its like your really playing! In tennis you swing your arm to hit the ball like 
 you were holding a tennis racket. In baseball you hold the wii remote like a baseball and hit as 
 hard as you can (just dont let go) . Bowling is probably my favorite. Making a strike has never felt 
 so good. Hold B, swing your wii remote, and release (B) to release the ball. In golf you hold the 
 wii remote like a gulf club and swing. For boxing you connect the nunchuck and punch your opponent. 
 Wii sports is a great game and the best part is... ITS FREE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinoX20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun whether your playing by yourself (but way more fun) with others! the wiimote adds 
 a whole new way of playing! sometimes is not as accurate as you would hope, especially with bowling. 
 great value super fun game! Creating ur own mii is a good addition is one of the few games out 
 so far that puts ur mii to use. its winter time so wii sports is a good way too get exercise by 
 playing boxing, baseball, tennis, bowling, or golf! how can you resist such a game and plus it 
 is free with the wii so there is no harm in that. it wasnt ment to be the best game ever so we 
 have to take that into considiration it was made to be just a quick fun game! and they accomplish 
 that. Nintendo does it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a compilation of 5 different sports that you play with the Wii remote. It includes 
 Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling and Boxing. After playing through and winning some games you will 
 get to the PRO rank which will allow you to move faster or throw harder for example. It also makes 
 the computer AI more difficult to beat. Each of the sports involve doing simple motions with the 
 wii Remote. There is a training mode which helps you hone your skills for types of swings, spins, 
 or pitches. These mode helps you get used to slightly more complicated motions with the remote. 
 Theres also a Fitness mode which is similar to your brain age tests. The sports never get old, 
 and they are even more amusing with other friends to play them with.
  
  The graphics are not what id call fantastic, but they certainly do the job and get their point 
 across; the game is only introducing what types of motions the Remote is capable of and also restates 
 that the graphics dont have to be incredible for it to be fun to play. They are very simplistic, 
 but this may even add to the game as it is just an introduciton. The colours still manage to be 
 quite vibrant despite some of the more simple textures.
  
  The sound aspect of this game basically does its job well, and thats about it. Theres nothing too 
 notable other then the sound that comes out of the Wiimote's speaker on occasion. This feature 
 of the remote is actually kind of cool even though the quality can faulter at times. All the sounds 
 did manage to be pleasant or satisfying where they needed to be. All in all this game is an awesome 
 introduction to the Wii's unique controller and capabilities and it manages to be a fun game all 
 the while. The fact that it comes with the Wii for free just makes it that much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is seriously the end of couch potato-ism. This game is not only great, free (with the 
 purchase of the Wii) , and entertaining, but it brings the involvement of the player to a new level. 
 In boxing, you actualkly throw punches with the nunchuck and wiimote, in tennis, you actually move 
 to hit the ball with the wii mote, in baseball, you actually swing and pitch, in bowling, you actually 
 roll the ball, and in golf, you swing the club. This game will truely usher in the next generation 
 of gaming. I'd advise you to buy this, but if you have a Wii, you probably have it anyway.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great game for the nintendo wii. It is very good at using the wii remote in many 
 ways. For different sports you use the wii remote differently. The sports in this game include 
 bowling, boxing, golf, baseball, and tennis. These games are good at using the motion sensitive 
 wii remote to incorporate the moves you make into the game. It is also a good way to exercise while 
 playing video games at the same time. This game coukd have more sports on it though. Another great 
 game about this game is it is very good at using the Mii channel. You can create your very own 
 person on the Mii channel and make them look just like you. There are a lot of features to choose 
 from so your Mii can look just like you. These Miis can be used to play all of the sports on this 
 game. Overall, this is a great game with a great use of the controller and motion sensor bar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  When you first look at it you might be thinking Hmmm, that game looks like it sucks. You WILL be 
 surprised if you say that. This game is really fun with the sports age, training, and the actual 
 games. Some of the practice games are so damn fun. My favorites are dodging the tennis balls in 
 the boxing section of training and the 91 pin knocking which is under the bowling training section. 
 In this game you have Boxing, Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, and Golf. All of these are pretty fun 
 especially the tennis and bowling. Golf I've just always hated in the game, and in real life, its 
 go damn boring. This game is really addictive by your self. If you have any friends (i would hope 
 so) then you can have them play with you. I'm telling you all right now, playing Tennis with your 
 friends is really fun. Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingoptimistu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The trend for most sports games has been minor changes each year and a constant increase in complexity. 
 Sports games have largely become so complicated that new games are often turned off by the huge 
 numbers of commands and options that must be learned to be competitive. Wii Sports simplifies 5 
 sports to their most basic essence and is therefore very approachable and enjoyable to new gamers 
 of all types. I've played this game with about a dozen people that don't normally play video games, 
 and they all loved it. The motion control is largely spot on, and the simplified graphics and sound 
 don't hurt the game much. The games vary slightly in quality, but they are all enjoyable. Bowling's 
 control is almost perfect, and baseball and tennis are very responsive. Golf is a little tough 
 to control exactly how far you hit the ball, and the 9 holes are a little limiting. Boxing is a 
 blast to play, but all of your punches don't register and some moves are tough to pull off.
  
  The single player aspect of this game is quite fun, with a few different modes and a ranking 
 system that checks your progress on the way to pro. The games vary widely in difficulty. Tennis 
 and golf are very easy to get pro in, while boxing requires some serious dedication. The computer 
 opponent is always ranked above you, and your ranking may drop even if you beat an opponent that 
 is better than you. This inconsistency hurts the single player game a bit.
  
  Multiplayer is incredibly fun, especially if you have two controllers. The game feels completely 
 different with friends, and it is easily one of the best party games I've ever seen.
  
  If you are a hardcore gamer that demands tons of depth and cutting edge graphics, this game may 
 disappoint. But anyone willing to let go of these things for a game that puts gameplay over reality, 
 this is one of the best games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDancingQueen
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Me and Zero were playing this game. It's alright. I like the boxing part where you hit the bag 
 thing. I also like the dodging part. I like the part where you are supposed to hit the matt. I 
 also like the target thing in tennis. I hate the baseball part. This game isn't that entertaining. 
 You would probably get bored of it after awhile but I still like it. I like golf too. Baseball 
 sucks. Tennis is sorta fun. Anyways it's free and I wouldn't mind if someone gave me it. I also 
 like the wii fitness test. I got age 59 though that's pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke_is_cool
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports, a game that is packaged with the Wii, is an amazing example at how the Wii could turn 
 a game that would be horrible without the Wii's innovative controls. At its roots this game is 
 a piece of poop, the graphics are mediocre, and the game's soundtrack isnt that good either. But 
 thankfully this is a Wii game, the controls work great, this is easily the funnest game to play 
 with friends since Super Smash Bros. There are 5 sports Bowling, Boxing, Golf, Baseball, and Tennis. 
 even though they are all great fun my two favorites would be bowling and golf just because they 
 are the two that are most realistic but are still fun. To summarize this review Wii Sports is fun 
 and even if it cost me $50 i would still buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLordHimself
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  It's the game every Wii owner is going to have, and thankfully, it's a good one. Wii sports lets 
 you play 5 different sports: Golf, Tennis, Boxing, Bowling and Baseball. Trying to say which are 
 the best is trivial, since everyone is going to prefer different ones, but I would quite confidently 
 say that each handles well, whichever one you like best.
  It kind of goes without saying that Wii Sports is here to showcase the motion sensing capabilities 
 of the Wii mote, (Plus the nunchuck for boxing) and not aesthetics. So with that said, the graphics 
 and audio presentation are pretty basic. They could easily have been handled on the Dreamcast, 
 but they work, so remain functional.
  The actual control on the other hand quite honestly gave me that 'next gen feeling.' Actually swinging 
 your hand to hit a tennis ball or punching with the nunchuck to box is really satisfying, although 
 you will look like an utter loon while doing so. There's a significant amount of replay value to 
 be had as well, since playing in single player raises the point level of your Mii, ensuring you 
 face more difficult challenges the next time you play. Rising above 1000 points makes you a 'pro', 
 but even then you don't have to stop there. And there's also the prospect of playing multiplayer 
 which should keep you playing.
  There are one or two technical hiccups as regards the motion sensing though. It's possible to cheat 
 on certain games by performing motions other than specified, and occasionally your character will 
 make a sudden sparodic movement even if you don't seem to. For the most part though, instances 
 like these are minimal.
  It may not have incredible depth, and it may look like a 10 year old game graphically, but it proves 
 that motion sensing in games can provide a more satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well if you are opening up that fresh new Wii you will problably see that free game in the box 
 and say this game is free it can't be that good . Well, YOUR WRONG!!!!! Wii sports is an enjoyable 
 game that is sure to be your next party game to replase Mario party untill it comes out. So here 
 we go. The gameplay in Wii Sports is great, awsome, and many other words. The controls in each 
 sport game are great and respond quickly and effectovly. You will all ways be amazed how in the 
 tennis game you can do a back hand hit and in boxing the Mii hits the target how you move the ramote 
 to hit the opponent Mii. You will always be having fun in the gameplay and you will just laugh 
 when you mess-up but you know it is your falt. Over all the gameplay is really good. The graphics 
 in the game are great. The Miis in the game look really good and the stadiums look really good. 
 They allways look smooth and never have problems. The framerate is good and you will never have 
 any problems. The graphics are good and you will be saying the graphics are pretty good. The sound 
 in the game is o. k. The announcer in the game is o. k but gets pretty iritaing so you will probly 
 go mad listening to him. The crouds sound good and make you feel special. Really the sound is o. k, 
 but is not a work of Mozart. Over-all Wii Sports is not a game that you should put down because 
 it is free. So go get some friends and go see who is the best in.... (wait for it, wait for it) 
 WII SPORTS!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that is free if you buy the Wii in the US. It's an awesome game for a free 
 game. The game has 5 different sports boxing, tennis, bowling, baseball, and golf. My favorites 
 are bowling, tennis and boxing. The game makes you do all the sports by moving your hands around 
 and stuff. Like in tennis you flick the Wiimote like a tennis racket to hit the ball and in boxing 
 you punch at the screen with both controllers to hit them. It's all really cool. This game makes 
 a great multiplayer game with friends or family. It supports up to four players. It gets you really 
 into the game. It keeps you coming back because of the fitness test. The graphics in this game 
 aren't spectacular but they get the job done. The sound is great I love how lots of the sounds 
 come out of the WiiMote speaker. Overall this is a great free pack in game. So go get a Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Good: Revolutionary; Brings everyone in the family together; anyone can play it and once they do, 
 they want to play again and again and again; Wii Speaker actually does its job in the game; puts 
 in some brain age like stuff; 5 of the games are great to play; very high Replayability; you can 
 create your miis and use them in the game.
  
  Bad: You need 4 controllers to fully experience it (And 4 people) ; your parents will probably beat 
 you at most of the games; graphics are underwhelming, because the miis kinda look like bloated 
 stick figures.
  
  Overall, this is the one game that everyone who plays the Wii should play first; but since it comes 
 with the wii, you wont have to worry about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  Well their is alot more that you would want. This game has most of it. It would have better if 
 they had more sports to play and more training games for them. It is very cool that you can create 
 your mii and then use them in game. Without this game miis would be the most pointless thing ever. 
 It makes me sad to think that this will probably be the only game that will be able to use the 
 miis.
  
  graphics- they aren't amazing. In each game I always ask myself WTF WHY DOESN'T THIS GUY HAVE ARMS. 
 sound- the sound coming out of the speakers is very cool. It is very cheap sounding but it beats 
 not having it. If you don't like it you can always turn down the volume. gameplay- multiplayer 
 is alot of fun in this game. Boxing is intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesmiknat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is free! so youre expecting a tacky, simple game, and thats exactly what it is, but 
 not in a bad way,
  although i was a tad dissappointed, because in tennis youre raquet doesent move like youre remote 
 does, its like only 2 movements, regular hit or a backhander, so you cand determine youre speed 
 or direction of the ball unless youre good at timing, its the same with baseball, you can move 
 youre bat whereever you want, but it will always bat in the same way, and the pitcher can do some 
 dodgey throws that you cant hit, then when it coms to throwing, all you determin is speed and style 
 of throw
  and when you do the splitter (the dodgey throw) it says ball!
  bowling is the most realistic, you can aim the ball whereever you want, even add spin, its a great 
 party game, and its the most realistic,
  golf and boxing are the most unrealistic, golf you have to hhit it at the right speed or youre shot 
 will go where you dont want it to, and boxing is just tacky, and doesent even pick up youre real 
 movements, all you can do is fling youre arms around
  overall, great game for free, has some faults, but a brilliant party game, tennis + baseball+ bowling 
 are all competetive!
  and youle spend hours of fun playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Thought to have gone the way of the dinosaur, the pack in game has made a triumphant return in 
 the form of Wii Sports. Everyone who buys their Wii console (in the US at least) goes home with 
 a free copy of the game. Does it play well? Well, the game looks, and in some ways plays, like 
 a glorified tech demo, designed to get you accustomed with the Wii remote functions with virtual 
 renditions of tennis, baseball, golf, bowling and boxing. Calling it a sports sim would be giving 
 it too much credit. At times, the game is surprisingly short on depth but as a result, is far easier 
 for non gamers to get into and have fun.
  
  One of the games selling points is how easy it is to get into. The interface is clean and simple 
 to navigate making jumping into a quick game to kill time quick and easy. The individual sports 
 use the Wii remote and in the case of boxing nunchuck to emulate the most basic actions in the 
 respective sports such as swinging a bat in baseball or throwing a punch in boxing. There is a 
 bit of a learning curve to each sport, but many players will acclimate themselves to the control 
 scheme of each game rather quickly. The included training modes are fun and a great way to improve 
 your skills between games.
  
  Tennis plays pretty much like the real thing, as the player holds and swings the Wii remote like 
 a tennis racket. To serve, you flick the remote upwards and swing. To return the ball to your opponent, 
 you swing the remote, creating a forehand or backhand swing, depending on your handedness. The 
 actual game consists of a two on two doubles match with no option for singles play. On the field, 
 the AI automatically moves your two characters to put you in the best position possible for returning 
 the ball and the AI usually does a good job of getting you into position. These are likely design 
 choices to simplify the game and make it more accessible. As a result, it does cause the game to 
 lose a lot of strategic depth. You never have incredible accuracy or control over your swing, and 
 the direction the ball goes in is entirely dependent on your timing.
  
  Baseball is one of the deepest of the five sports, giving you the most accurate and deepest control 
 over your swing and the pitch. Swinging the Wii remote like a baseball bat controls the swing and 
 emulating an overhand swing controls the pitch, as you would expect. Timing and power of your swing 
 is the key to knocking the ball out of the park and there is a bit of a learning curve to adjust 
 to before youll be able to do that. Pitching is similarly deep, allowing you to choose from a 
 number of different types of pitches. The standard fastball is performed by just making the overhand 
 motion and you can throw curveballs, screwballs, and splitters by pressing and holding either the 
 A button (screwball) , B button (curveball) or both (splitter) . You can also control the direction 
 of the pitch, be it inside, outside, high or low by pressing and holding a direction on the d-pad. 
 Each game consists of a three inning warm up instead of the traditional nine inning stretch of 
 a real game. Unfortunately, this suffers from lack of depth in everything besides swinging and 
 pitching, since thats all you have control over. It really feels like he game is playing itself 
 when the AI handles everything from catching fly balls, to running the bases. It almost seems like 
 the length of time between making contact with the ball and it being caught controls how many bases 
 you run. After a while of playing, youll be able to predict how far your character will run solely 
 based on the time the ball is in the air. When you consider things like this, it almost feels like 
 the game is playing itself whenever you arent actually throwing or taking a swing at the ball.
 
  
  Golf is pretty weak in comparison to many of the sports in the collection, particularly due to 
 the sometimes finicky controls. Holding the Wii remote down, pointed at the ground and swinging 
 like you would a real golf club is simple enough, but swinging can be fussy at times. The game 
 does detect your handedness and realigns your character accordingly, but doesnt take into account 
 which way you will actually swing the club, be it right or left. As a result, many accidental swings 
 can result from simply setting up to make your swing. Swinging itself is rather difficult to control. 
 On the screen is a power meter which is comprised of four dots at regular intervals, which appear 
 on a minimap, and figuring out how hard you need to swing is a simple matter of figuring out which 
 of the four dots you need to hit on the power meter. Simply swinging as hard as you can when driving 
 for the fairway is not a wise course of action as the ball will automatically hook or slice. Getting 
 a powerful shot without managing to max out the power meter and hooking or slicing the ball is 
 rather difficult, particularly since, for some reason, the power meter continues to rise even after 
 the ball has left the tee with any upward motion of the Wii remote until after a certain point. 
 Once you grow accustomed to the controls, you will find nine holes of golf here, split into beginner, 
 intermediate and expert courses. While they are all entertaining and rather challenging, one does 
 begin to wish there were more than just nine holes to play on.
  
  Bowling is perhaps the deepest and most entertaining sport of the bunch, because it plays well 
 and has most of the strategic depth of the real thing. You start by holding the Wii remote directly 
 in front of you, with it pointing straight up. To throw the ball, you hold the B button, and emulate 
 the down, back and forward again motions of the real sport, releasing the B button again to send 
 the ball down the lane. Twisting the Wii remote to the left or right as you throw the ball puts 
 a spin on the ball, which you can counteract by moving your character to the right or left and 
 changing the angle of your throw before making your approach.
  
  Boxing, the only game to use the nunchuck attachment, is perhaps the weakest sport in the package 
 simply because its generally unresponsive where it counts. Throwing punches. Your fighter moves 
 in accordance to your movements with the Wii remote and nunchuck. Dodging punches by moving your 
 character forward, backward or side to side are accomplished by moving the Wii remote and nunchuck 
 in the appropriate direction. The position of the two controllers also govern your ability to block 
 incoming hits and by moving them, your character will mimic the position of both controllers with 
 their hands. Everything controls pretty well except for the one thing that should control best, 
 the actual punching. Throwing punches is pretty unresponsive some times and really detracts from 
 the entire experience. When the game does respond well to your movements and you begin to consistently 
 land punches, it is fun and has a decent amount of depth, as youll have to actually aim your movements 
 high and low to land head or body punches. In combination with the dodging and blocking movements, 
 this couldve been the best sport in the package, but its limited responsiveness also limits its 
 fun.
  
  The Mii avatars, which populate the game add a bit of spice to the collection. At the outset, youll 
 be asked to choose a Mii from your collection to pose as your virtual avatar when playing any of 
 the sports or training modes. Statistics are saved to that Mii which include your Wii fitness age, 
 records held in training games and your Wii Sports level. This level is measured in points. Performing 
 well at each of the five sports gives you points towards your Miis level in whichever sport youre 
 currently playing. Performing poorly subtracts from your level so this gives players an incentive 
 to practice and get good at each of the five sports. Once you exceed 1000 points, you gain Pro 
 status, which, other than a PRO icon next to your name, doesnt offer any real benefits, but 
 it makes for a nice touch.
  
  Another element of the game is the Wii Fitness training. This mode is similar to the Brain Age 
 Check mode in the Nintendo DS game. The mode consists of three events, each one being one of the 
 many training modes mentioned earlier. When the player completes all three games, the game measures 
 your performance in the form of a Fitness Age ranging from the best possible age of 20 to the 
 worst, 80.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is pretty much what makes this game stand out. Up to four players 
 can participate in tennis, golf and bowling and two can play boxing and baseball. Golf and bowling 
 even support hotseat play using just one remote between up to four players. The multiplayer modes 
 add a level of fun and interactivity that the solo modes just dont have. Its as if Nintendo clearly 
 intended for players to play this game with their friends and family.
  
  In the end, even though this collection of sports titles may be a bit light on the sim aspects 
 of each sport and in turn loses a bit of depth because of it; its accessible by nearly everyone. 
 Even those who have never played a video game before in their lives can easily play and enjoy this 
 one. Serious sports fans wont get much enjoyment from these games but everyone else can find something 
 to like. Its a great pack in game and despite the feeling of playing a glorified tech demo; makes 
 for a pretty fun game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports as everyone knows is a free game that comes with the Wii console. Overall, the Gameplay 
 is passable and the fun factor is good. This game is much, much better when you are playing with 
 a group of friends.
  
  Tennis: One of my favorite games. The gameplay is pretty good, and the Wii mote works rather well 
 as a tennis racket. I would really like to see a real tennis game someday with better control over 
 spin and power (Virtua Tennis?) .
  
  Bowling: My other favorite game. The bowling controls are superb. The spin and power control is 
 excellent and this is by far the best minigame.
  
  Boxing: The worst minigame by far. The boxing controls suck so much, its not even fun. I played 
 boxing one time and disliked it so much that I have decided to never play it again.
  
  Baseball: Not terrible. I hate baseball as a sport, so it's really tough to get into this one. 
 The hitting controls are awful in my opinion and if one knows how to pitch well, the hitter really 
 has no chance.
  
  Golf: Mediocre. After playing games like Hot Shots Golf, its hard to like a game that seems so... 
 apathetic.
  
  Well that about does it for the reviews of the minigames. Overall, this is a game that serves its 
 purpose to demonstrate why the Wii is fun, but it is really, really fortunate that it is free, 
 or there would be much more to complain about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBlade753
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Since this game has been packed in with the Wii every single person that bought a Wii had the chance 
 to experience this fun game. There are 5 mini-games Bowling Boxing, Tennis, Baseball, and golf. 
 All of these games are controlled how you would expect it to control so they are easy to pick up 
 and play. This game defiantly has followed through with the promise to appeal to people that don't 
 play games. This was a genius move by Nintendo to help the Wii launch. Everyone can and should 
 try this fun and easy to pick up game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomgod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  When on christmas day i unwrapped my wii and put wii sports into the disk drive i didn't expect 
 to much. However what it delivered was extremely fun, despite lacking the graphics of my next gen 
 games on 360, it managed to deliver an equally fun gameplay experience. Nintendo have managed to 
 keep the game short and sweet and have not overly complicated it. Which makes it a perfect first 
 game on the wii for getting you used to the totally revolutionary wii-mote. The games are all interesting, 
 fresh and enjoyable although some specifically Wii tennis and Bowling are best enjoyed as a multiplayer 
 experience. Despite my praise of the game there is many things about it that could be improved, 
 one of the main things being the golf on the game which seems to make even the simplest shots seem 
 frustratingly hard. The lack of online play is also frustrating although i hope they look into 
 changing that for the near future. Overall i think the game is a fantastic sports gaming experience. 
 And its hard to beat the fact its free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyroglex
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  When you get Wii Sports you'd better have a friend to play multiplayer, because one player can 
 only entertain you for a few games. This game includes Baseball, Boxing, Tennis, Golf, and Bowling. 
 Each computer you beat will be a little harder every time. You can play as your Miis on the Mii 
 channel, which is pretty cool. I will now give my opinion on each sport.
  
  Baseball: The nunchuck is not used here. Pitch and swing like you normally would in Baseball. You 
 cannot influence the catching in any way, though I wish you could. This is pretty fun.
  
  Boxing: The nunchuck and wiimote are used to block, dodge, and punch your opponent. No complaints 
 here.
  
  Tennis: The nunchuck is not used here. You can play doubles with other people if you want. Your 
 player moves on his or her own toward the ball. This was a little over-simplified, I think. You 
 should've been able to move. Otherwise this is okay.
  
  Golf: The nunchuck is not used here. Oooooooohhh... This ain't so good. People would probably enjoy 
 hitting a ball with full power, but if you get too much power, the ball swerves around and will 
 probably hit a sand trap. So... I don't really like this.
  
  Bowling: The nunchuck is not used here. This feels like real bowling, so I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports Review
  Well demos have been around for ages but now we finally got to get our own Nintendo Wii! The console 
 has the game Wii Sports for free. I loved it, but for some reason many fans considered it a demo 
 Well since this game has 5 different sports I will talk about all of them individually.
  Wii Golf
  Perhaps the most frustrating of all the Wii Sport games, Golf is a lot harder than 
 it sounds. Players have to swing very lightly to get an accurate hit. You swing the club by holding 
 the Wiimote down as you bend. Gripping it as if it were an actual club, you swing gently just like 
 in real golf. Accuracy is key in this game, and although I am good and had no trouble learning, 
 many people will have problems. For one thing, you have a power meter bar to determine how strong 
 your swing is. Hit it too hard and you will hook it horribly to the side, resulting in bunkers 
 and stuck in the rough. You may occasionally hit the ball to hard and end up on the green, but 
 chances arent too likely. This may sound impossible, but putting is the hardest part. You are 
 expected to hit so lightly. Just one bit of energy thrown in will completely throw off your putt. 
 So be warned.
  Wii Bowling
  By far the easiest and probably most enjoyable of the 5 games, Wii Bowling is great. You hold the 
 B button and hold the Wiimote up as you would a bowling ball. You then extend your arm back and 
 throw. Halfway through the throw, you are expected to releases the B button. If done correctly, 
 you will have the opportunity to knock down some pins. You can curve the ball as an option, and 
 power actually matters. The harder you throw the more accurate you will be as to where you aimed. 
 Be warned and wear the strap. I had an incident where I hurled the Wiimote and it hit the ceiling!
 
  Wii Baseball
  The most active of the Wii sports, baseball is intense. You have to swing by holding the Wiimote 
 up and swinging as the ball approaches. Then you can pitch in a variety of ways by holding specific 
 buttons and throwing as you normally would throw. I like this game, but it is still simple. You 
 dont even play out in the field: all you do is pitch and swing. I like this game, but it isnt 
 the greatest in the collection. Wii Boxing
  This Wii Sport game features the Nun Chuck. You punch by thrusting each of the 2 parts to the Wiimote. 
 You can knock out your foe and this makes a great Anger Management Session. You can also dodge 
 which is indeed useful.
  Wii Tennis
  The most popular Wii Sport game, Wii Tennis just simply requires you o swing as you would a tennis 
 racquet. It may sound simple, but it may be a bit challenging trying to hit the tennis ball on 
 the other side in bounds. Serving is also pretty cool.
  So there is a variety of sports to try out. This game features great multiplayer. Everyone can 
 take part in each individual game. Overall Id say multiplayer is the best feature. Lastly, there 
 is training and Wii Sports Age, where you complete designated tasks to determine how old you are 
 in Wii Fitness. This is very cool and can only be tried once a day.
  Graphics are a bit dull. The scenery is great but the characters (the ones you created in the Mii 
 feature of the Wii menu) are the only players available. Ugly or pretty, these characters are too 
 simple to make the graphics be considered fantastic.
  Sound is also a bit dull. There isnt much to hear. I really cant say much about it. As for value, 
 it gets an automatic 10. Do you want to know why? The game is free like it or not!
  Overall I really enjoyed this game for its unique features. I still play it and it doesnt get 
 boring too quickly. This game is a lot more fun with multiple players, mind you. Well thats it. 
 Hope this helped. Peace
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  who new a free game would be this good. wii sport has 5 differnt sportgames and 4 of them are playable. 
 here are all the sports and i will rate them all
  
  tennis is an okay sport. it gets pretty boring and the ai is pretty stupid. its only good multiplayer. 
 but thats my opinion. and somtimes the wiimote just dosent know what angle you try to hit. i give 
 it a 6.5 out of 10 bowling is my favorite by far. im a king at it. controls are fun cause you move 
 the wiimote the same way you would bowl the ball. and you can move your remote to angle were the 
 ball goes. so i give it a 9.2 out of 10. now baseball its medocer. the controlls are fun but get 
 funky. throwing the ball is easier than hitting it. if you suck at baseball in real life you will 
 suck at this on the wii. thats why i suck so much. i give it a 7 out of 10 boxing oh boxing the 
 sport i go crazy at. you throw puches at the tv with both knumbchuck and wiimote to kick your oppenets 
 behind. its crazy cool in multiplayer cause you can beat up your freinds. and you could also beat 
 up your parents without getting in trouble. i would give it a 9 out of 10
  
  and golf. it sucks dont play. 1 out of 10. there you go all of wii sports shown to you in my opinion. 
 its a super duper fun multiplayer game but a mediocer single player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was labelled by some as a tutorial to show people how the Wiimote + Nunchuk function 
 with the Wii. If that is indeed the case then this game has got to be the best damn tutorial for 
 anything ever made.
  
  Not only does Wii Sports utilize the Wiimote + Nunchuk features, but it utilizes them brilliantly. 
 The graphics are not the best, however they arent supposed to be compared against your rival sporting 
 games on other consoles, because Wii sports wasnt intended to look that way.
  
  This is a good fun game which is even better when you have a few friends or family around to join 
 in with you. You will throughly enjoy yourself playing this game, and considering this game was 
 a throw in with the purchase of the Wii console, you cant get better value than this game.
  
  Thanks for your time
  
  - Paul James 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvnthegod
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  I just recently got the Wii, and I got 3 games including this. And this is actually the game I 
 have played the most. I'm 14, and my family have all finished college, and none of them have ever 
 been big on video games. But when they saw me playing this, they all joined in. It's a great game, 
 with such an easy learning curve. Tons of fun for multiplayer. I usually don't like sports games 
 like golf, bowling, and baseball, since they'll have so many meters. But this is just so simple. 
 The graphics aren't great, but I don't really care about looks. If you have any friends or family 
 that don't play video games, keeps this handy when they visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Not sure why anybody is even reviewing this game since it comes with the Wii, whether you like 
 it or not, its FREE!!! That being said, I WOULD BUY THIS GAME at a cheap price of course, if this 
 didn't come with the Wii, its a great game, and really gets you pumped up about trying to outdo 
 yourself everyday in the fitness test, I'm sure all of you already know what games are included, 
 so I won't go into the details, My Top favorites, are in this order.
  
  #1 Bowling
  #2 Tennis
  #3 Golf
  #4 Boxing
  #5 Baseball
  
  When playing this game I've been getting 
 really sore, especially after playing Tennis, my daughter who is 3 1/2 plays Golf just great, she 
 made Par on one of the holes, &amp; I didn't help her at all, this is such a great game to play 
 to introduce people to the Wii console, &amp; I'm really glad Nintendo included this, ITS LOADS 
 OF FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggshnyne
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fun active game play thats new and simple, to where it almost feels as if you were doing 
 the real deal. Plus most of the sports you can use one Wii-mote for multiplayer. Also, how cool 
 is it to see yourself in the game (along with other Miis you can make) by using the Mii channel, 
 thats in the systems main menu. Not to mention, the game comes with the system! (In North America)
 
  
  The Bad: The graphics are a bit blocky.
  
  And the Replay: The replay is good, since it has five different sports games to choose from, along 
 with the Training mode, and the Fitness test. Plus this game is a lot of fun with family and friends. 
 Its so simple, your mother-in-law could even play it. Which makes this games replay value very 
 high, since its a game anyone can pick up and play. If Wii Sports wasnt bundled right on in with 
 the Wii, I would have told you that this game should not be missed by anyone, for the most part. 
 The game complements the Wiis controls just beautifully, with pick up and play controls. All yeah 
 got to do is pick up that Wii-mote and swing as if you were swinging a bat, a racket, to throwing 
 a bowling ball down the line for that spare, to throwing a fast one down home plate! You can also 
 swing that 9-iron. Not to mention, you even get to swing your fists as if you were Mike Tyson!
 
  
  I got to tell ya, all the sports in this game play very well. In the bowling you can actually put 
 a curve on the ball, by twisting your wrist, and you can even lob it down the lane. And Ill tell 
 you, Bowling is definitely my favorite out of the five sports, and its controls seem to be the 
 most responsive, out of all the sports in the game. Plus the physics for Bowling are just fantastic 
 - looks like somebody did their math home work, when they made Wii Sports. Then theres the Boxing, 
 which I also enjoyed. You get to swing your fists with the Wii-mote and Nunchuck attachment, to 
 hit your opponent. You can move your character in the game left and right, by leaning with the 
 controllers to dodge attacks. You also can guard yourself by holding the controllers near your 
 face and body. Plus you can hook your arms to punch the sides of your opponent. You can even do 
 upper cuts! But the controls for Boxing will take some time getting used to.
  
  The Golf is pretty responsive, the only time when I usually have a problem, is when I use the putter, 
 it seems to have a bit of a delayed reaction. The Tennis is definitely the most active, especially 
 if you imagine four people playing it at once, in your living room, all swinging a Wii-mote! And 
 let me tell you, you better wear your wrist strap while playing Wii Sports, if you dont want a 
 Wii-mote to go flying through your television screen. And last but not least, Baseball. And like 
 all the sports in this game, the Baseball works exceptionally well. All you got to do is keep an 
 eye on the ball and swing, not unless youre pitching, then you swing the Wii-mote over your head, 
 and if you want to through a curve ball or whatever, you just hold down a different button as you 
 swing it.
  
  And like I mentioned before, theres also the Training, where you can have fun by yourself, or 
 with a friend, and theres three different Training modes for each sport. Theres also the Fitness 
 test, where you can play once a day by yourself, to see what your fitness age is, ( kind a like 
 Brain Age.) So as you can see, this game has a lot to offer, with a various amount of modes, and 
 with its fun active game play, that appeals to the crowd of people that have never touched or even 
 smelled a game in their whole life. Not only that, but it should appeal to many gamers as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii was one of the hottest items this holiday season, it wasn't until after New Years 
 that I got lucky, and managed to get my hands on one. I didn't buy any games with it initially, 
 so I was pretty much stuck with Wii Sports, the hyped up game that is included with the Wii. It's 
 not a bad game, but it's not a great game either. I don't care for sports games, so Wii Sports 
 isn't exactly anywhere on my favorite games of 2006 list. Still, it serves as a decent intro to 
 the use of the innovative Wii Controller.
  
  Wii Sports is split up into a five different sports, baseball, golfing, bowling, boxing, and tennis. 
 In baseball, you use the remote to swing the bat, and throw pitches. In Golfing you use the remote 
 to hit the golf ball. In bowling you use the remote to position yourself, and release the bowling 
 ball. In tennis you use the remote to.... you guessed it, hit the ball. Finally in boxing you use 
 the remote to punch your opponent, and avoid his attacks.
  Wii Sports is fairly linear as you can't do much in each sport. Bowling is the only one where you 
 can freely move your avatar at all. In the rest of the games your avatar moves by itself, and you 
 focus more on hitting something using the controller... usually a ball. This presents one of the 
 games biggest weaknesses, as simply hitting something can get old very fast making Wii Sports a 
 game that you'll probably only spend ten to twenty minutes on, max.
  
  WS has... interesting graphics. Characters are not at all detailed, and look like plastic toys. 
 The environments (what little you see of them) are also fairly bland, and look like traditional 
 sports arenas.
  
  There's nothing special in this area. The audio is okay, the sports sounds sound as they should, 
 and the music despite being rather silly serves its purpose.
  
  Wii Sports isn't bad for a free game that is included with the system. Still, it's only really 
 an introduction to the Wii's unique controller, and it gets old very fast. Since Wii Sports is 
 free, it's not really a bad deal... just don't expect a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshari
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  After playing this game at a friend's place, I realized that the Wii has some good things coming. 
 This game is a testament to that. With the launch of the Wii, many buyers were given a free game 
 with their purchase, and that free game was Wii Sports. Using the Wiimote (and occasionally the 
 Nunchuk) , gamers could play the sports they never were good at, in the luxury of their own home. 
 The games that are included are: tennis, boxing, baseball, golf, and bowling.
  
  The game makes great use of the Wiimote. For example, say you're playing tennis. As the ball comes 
 towards you, instead of using the D-Pad to move your character to the ball, and then pressing 'A' 
 to hit the ball, the character automatically moves for you, and as it gets near the ball, a simple 
 flick of the wrist will do.
  Another game to play, is boxing. This game uses the Nunchuk. With a Wiimote in one hand and a Nunchuk 
 in the other, those emulate your fists. To guard, you simply hold both of them to your face. To 
 punch with either hand, you simply strike towards the screen and you can do an array of combos 
 like 2-hit combos, or uppercuts, hooks, but nothing too fancy. This is just a start for Wii, not 
 EA's Fight Night.
  
  Now, the main problem with the game, are the graphics and the limiting gameplay. The graphics are 
 colorful, but they look too simplistic. Sure, simple is good, but that doesn't exactly mean too 
 simple is really good. Now, the limiting gameplay on the other hand... well, it's limiting. What 
 I mean by that is, as stated earlier, when you're playing tennis, instead of you moving the guy 
 yourself, the computer moves him for you. And in boxing, you simply just stand there and duke it 
 out with your opponent. But then again, I can somewhat understand why Nintendo did this, as they 
 were merely introducing the dynamics of the Wiimote to the gamers, and didn't want to get too technical 
 and complicated.
  
  All and all, it's a fun humorous game that you can just pick up and play without knowing what you 
 have to do. A good game for any kid, a good game for any adult, and a good game for any fat gamer 
 who sucks at sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is at beginning easy game, but it gets hard soon.
  
  As you know wii sports has a five sport stages.
  
  1-Tennis
  2-baseball
  3-bowling
  4-golf
 
  5-boxing.
  
  Tennis is maybe the best one, its easy and its fun.
  Baseball will be hard at beginning but if you know how to swing then it can be fun too.
  Bowling-this 
 is maybe the worst one in single player but multi player gets very fun. And you can round up with 
 four people with one wii mote!
  Golf-this is the worst one, you have to control your hits, if you hit too hard then ball will fly 
 out. Important thing is wind too.
  Boxing-the funniest single player game. You can dodge, block and hit the opponent. Later on game there 
 will be harder opponents.
  
  The game good things are that there is wii fitness (every day you can make a 3 tests what was taken 
 from training, every day comes the different ones, worst score is 80 and the best one is 20) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitterguy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  It's good that Nintendo dumbed down Wii Sports just becuase it makes it so incredibly easy for 
 anyone to play without any prior gaming knowledge. It does, however, hurt it, because I have this 
 constant feeling (especially in Tennis and Baseball) that I could be doing much better with more 
 control.
  
  Tennis is easily one of the best games in Wii sports, as its so simple, that during gameplay, you 
 don't have to press any buttons. This is great for new gamers, or just... well anyone new to this 
 stuff, but after you play it for a while, you'll be wishing for a way to move your player and change 
 his position. Why? Becuase your character will often run to the far right of the court and want 
 to do a back-hand (or to the left with a fore-hand) , and make it nearly impossible to hit in. Sometimes 
 the your character also tends to not dive when you want him or her to, so that's also an issue.
 
  
  Baseball is pretty cool, and uses a lot of Miis at once, which is nice. The pitching is the only 
 real problem, it doesn't feel very realistic or responsive. Bowling is absolutely awesome for the 
 most part, as is boxing, with only a few minor problems in them.
  
  Golf doesn't feel right, the putting is weird, and you'll sometimes hit the ball nowhere near where 
 you originally intended. It also only has 9 holes. Would it be that hard to make 9 more?
  
  The point of the game is to make it pro in each sport. You do this by collecting points by winning 
 matches... or so I thought. Apparently, you get points based on your skill. What does that mean? 
 I have no idea. I once beat someone in tennis without losing a game, and lost 4 points. One time 
 in bowling, I bowled one of my best games and lost 4 more points. This gives the points a random 
 feeling, and it's REALLY annoying.
  
  Wii Sports also has the Fitness test, which is pretty much a rip-off of Brain Age's test. It's 
 actually quite fun if you've done all the training missions that unlock the extra tests.
  
  In short, Wii Sports has some great multiplayer and is worth playing, if only to show off that 
 shiny new Wii of yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I think Nintendo packed in the best game to start you off right with the new console. This was 
 the perfect game to get you use to the Wiimote. I spend a good 5 hours playing all the games on 
 Wii Sports. There are 5 different games to choose from you have Bowling, Baseball, Tennis, Golf, 
 and Boxing. These games are easy to get into and a good to get you started on how to use the controller's 
 motion. I ended up playing Wii Sports more than the other two games I bought with the system. You'll 
 definitely enjoying playing Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandma1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Nintendo made a smart move bundling Wii Sports in with the system. It is composed of mostly small, 
 easy to learn sports games. Looking at Wii Sports it may seem nothing impressive. Bad graphics, 
 simple game play, but looks are very deceiving in this game.
  
  In Wii Sports you have 5 options of games to play: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, (and everyone's 
 favorite) Boxing. Each game has you imitating the real sport with different motions tracked by 
 the wii-mote and wii sensor strip. You can play these game multi player or single player. Single 
 player gives you skill points until you reach 1000 and rank up to a pro. The first time you enter 
 into a game you get some warm-up time where it teaches you the rules. The rules don't go into much 
 explanation, but it informs you how to hold the controller and other things of the such. Really 
 you don't need the tutorials, but it makes an easy way to get your whole family into it and teach 
 them how to play.
  
  The game also supports these little quirky characters called miis. You can create a mii on the 
 mii channel and then use these characters in the game. From what I can tell they don't take into 
 consideration of how tall or wide you made your character, but it's not very noticeable anyways. 
 Honestly its pretty funny to see a cartoon version of your self getting knocked out in Boxing, 
 and they make a great addition to the game.
  
  Tennis has you swinging the wii-mote back and forth to hit the ball over the net to the opposition. 
 This is no Mario Tennis, but it is pretty fun. It is disappointing that you can move your character 
 though. When you have 4 people in the room all playing tennis in the room, you'd better watch out 
 you don't hit something, but then again your having so much fun that no one will realize the damage 
 you have caused.
  
  Baseball is definitely the most tiring game, because it has you constantly hitting and pitching 
 the ball. Once again in this game you do not control your characters running. Pitching has some 
 depth as you can decide where to pitch over the plate and decide between a curve ball, screwball, 
 splitter, or basic fastball. Hitting is pretty basic in the fact that you just hit the ball. Timing 
 is key though as depending on if you hit it early or late your batter will drive the ball to certain 
 parts of the field.
  
  Bowling is a more relaxed sport and is easier to get 4 people to play. You only need one wii-mote 
 to play this game and then you can pass it around as you go. Beyond speed and angle that you put 
 on the ball, there is also a spin factor. You tilt your wrist as you let go of the B button (the 
 ball) and you can add spin to the side you want.
  
  Golf is similar to bowling in the fact that you only need one controller. There are 9 in depth 
 holes and you can pick to play the first 3, middle 3, last 3, or all of them in one game. Little 
 dots on you power meter and aim indicate where the ball will land. You use this to add the amount 
 of power you want, but don't swing to hard or else your ball will draw or slice. You really need 
 to take a mini swing to get the right amount of power, so golf enthusiasts will just have to wait 
 for Tiger Woods. Putting is the same as driving and most of the game has similarities to Mario 
 Golf. It is a disappointment though that there aren't more courses, and selection of clubs.
  
  Boxing is probably the fan favorite. It uses the wii-mote and the nun chukka to play. You hold 
 the controllers in your preferred hands and through them towards the screen as if you were punching. 
 You can also sway the controllers side to side to dodge punches and hold them up to block. There 
 isn't much depth to Boxing, but you will no doubt love knocking out your friends.
  
  In addition to all these games there is also a training mode where they give you tasks to complete 
 in each game to make you better. Also there is a Wii fitness test that uses the training tasks 
 to give you an age based on how well you played.
  
  Its a good thing that Wii Sports was bundled in with the system, because initially it didn't look 
 like a real game. It is a great way to get yourself familiar with your wii-mote and learn how the 
 Wii works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the perfect pack-in with the Wii. To begin this review, I'll sum up each sport separately.
 
  
  Tennis: The simplest game in Wii Sports, it won't take long for anyone to get the hang of it. Still 
 very fun, though.
  
  Baseball: Again, very simple, but there's a lot of hidden depth. Batting is great, but the fielding 
 (which is automatic) is a little unreliable. Pitching is the deepest part of the game, with several 
 different throwing types, underhand/overhand control, and directional control. 
  
  Bowling: Probably the best game on the disk. It's fun, simple, and works a lot like the real thing. 
 This also seems to be the most popular game amongst new players. Personally, it really captures 
 the feel of a real bowling alley.
  
  Boxing: My personal favorite game included. Ducking and weaving works well, but blocks and even 
 some swings don't read very well. 
  
  Golf: Many real golfers seem to enjoy this game, but I find it occasionally unresponsive and overly-sensitive. 
 Only 9 holes to play on over and over again. 
  
  The sound in the game is nothing amazing, but it gets the job done. Spectators audibly gasp and 
 cheer in all of the games and they become louder in larger crowds (as you get better, the crowds 
 grow marginally) . Every swing of a bat, tennis racket, golf club, or fist can be heard through 
 the Remote's speakers; as well as the judge announcing "Knockout!" in Boxing, pins being knocked 
 down in bowling, balls being hit in Baseball and Tennis, and audio cues for a player's turn.
  
  Wii Sports' visuals are nothing spectacular, sometimes a little too basic, but they're never 
 ugly. In the bowling alley, the ball's reflection can be seen on the shiny wood floors and other 
 Miis can be seen playing and watching. Speaking of that, Miis are all over the place in Wii Sports. 
 They can be seen in the crowds at games and as your opponents and team mates.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is fun and simple. So simple, that just about anyone can play it. Training 
 modes are generally fun, and fitness mode keeps you coming back everyday. It won't take long for 
 you to tire of the game, but casuals and newcomers to the Wii will love it. It will take some time 
 to become a "Champ" at all 5 games, especially if you don't play every day. One of the best parts 
 about Wii Sports is the fact that you can come back to it at just about any time, no matter how 
 long it's been since you last played it, even if only for one quick game of Bowling. Be sure to 
 bust this out when guest are over, especially at parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkthedueler
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is an EXCELLENT pack-in game for the Wii that truly demonstrates the Wii's power. The 
 gameplay using the Wii remote is amazing and very easy to pick up whether you're playing tennis, 
 boxing, or even golf. Even though most movements can be performed just by flicking your wrist the 
 games are so immersive and fun that you'd want to get up and play just as if you were really playing 
 the sport. However boxing isn't as precise as it could be but still fun none-the-less. The graphics 
 are pretty simple but very smooth except for minor flaws (like the bat going through a player's 
 head) and the ability for you to play as the Miis you've made is fun as well as hilarious at sometimes. 
 The sound coming from the TV is very good and the sound coming out of the Wii remote isn't that 
 bad either. Even if this game wasn't packed in with the Wii I'd recommend that you'd buy it just 
 because it is extremely fun for the whole family, a nice workout if you try hard enough, and a 
 great party game that almost everyone would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganondorf_002
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Sports in my opinion stink so, why Im going to play a sport game? The game is included with the 
 Wii I dont have any other option, so now I own it. The previous sentence were my words before 
 playing Wii Sports, now in my review you would see my words after playing it.
  
  Wii Sports Review:
  
  Tennis: 
  This game is awesome!! is nearly like the real one, so you 
 just have to swing the Wii-mote in the right moment, timing is everything. The game is 2 vs.2, 
 you cant play 1 vs. 1 that was a little bit disappointed, you can play on one, two, three and 
 even all four positions I challenge you to do that, totally insane!
  Tennis 9/10
  
  Baseball:
  Baseball is not made for my I never hit the damn ball! Batting is easy just swing 
 the mote like a real bat, you can hits some home runs or OUT! Pitching is great you can do fastballs, 
 curveballs, screwballs and splitters, you have a complete set of weapons to take down your opponent.
 
  Baseball 9/10
  
  Bowling:
  I never played bowl, finally I can play it!! Just swing your arm and done!...... well not really, 
 you also have to control the spin of the ball, twisting the mote. A combination of speed and the 
 twist of the mote will bring down all the pins.
  Bowling 9/10
  
  Golf:
  To be real, golf stink so I played on Wii Sports and I like it!! The game is impressive, you 
 have to watch the speed of the wind and the level of the terrain. You have four clubs for long 
 and short distances. The game sometime dont respond to the actions of the Wii-mote, but it still 
 a good game
  Golf 8/10
  
  Boxing:
  This is the best game of Wii Sports and the funniest of all of them!! This game extremely, superb, 
 awesome, incredible and great. Very easy to play just throw punches like a crazy!..... if you do 
 that you are going to be KO so you have to block the attacks or dodge them. I promise you this 
 is the best game on Wii Sports.
  Boxing 10/10!!!
  
  Overall of the five sports: 45/50 for a 9 superb!
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is completely motion 
 sensitive so no buttons to push!! Sometime the Wii do not respond correctly to the actions but 
 when you are on the action that can mess your fun.
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  This is just a tech demo, so the game use the Mii system for the characters and the environments 
 look fair so the game is not a wonder in the graphics aspect.
  Graphics 7/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound alright, the Wii-mote speaker works great on this game and the music is good, but the 
 sound and music is not too deep, remember is a tech demo.
  Sound 8/10
  
  Overall:
  The game is completely awesome! you are going to love it and the multiplayer is totally cool. The 
 game have a training mode which have 3 games by sports and the Wii Fitness Test you play it once 
 per day by Mii you will know your fitness age. I dont promise you that you are going to love them 
 all, because that depends on your personality. Prepare to move your body, remember to use the wrist 
 strap and order the new one is free and you can order 4 of them, you dont want to lose or harm 
 anything important. Have fun!!
  
  Final Score: 9.1-SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a very enjoyable game but at the end of the day you can't help but say I can't wait for 
 Mario Tennis Wii etc. The controls are very accurate, some games like boxing can't keep up to how 
 fast you jab and really ruins the experience. The sound and graphics are good but it would not 
 be worth buying if it didn't come in the box. It is not a complete game but one of the best demo's 
 I've ever played. displays what the Wii can do perfectly. Baseball is probably the best one to 
 show you what the Wii can bring, The bat movement is extremely accurate. Tennis give you the feeling 
 why dont I just push A. It is more of a button then a real movement, and back hand forehand get 
 mixed up easily. This is the perfect game to throw in with the Wii as it is fun and shows the WIi's 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Shipping this game with the console was an excellent move by Nintendo. Wii Sports is so simple 
 to pick up and play that you may have to fight your parents for Wii time. The brilliance of the 
 game does not come from its graphics or its depth but rather the comradory from laughing and playing 
 with your friends in the same house again. Wii Sports is more of an advanced demo than a full fledged 
 game, but that is what it is intended to be. There are five different sports to play; baseball, 
 boxing, bowling, golf, and tennis. I personally think that bowling is the best while boxing is 
 by far the weakest. If your a golfer you should have some fun even though there are only nine holes. 
 The only problem is that you can't take a big back swing making each shot feel more like a chip 
 shot. Baseball while fun in the homerun derby the actual game against each other lasts only for 
 three innings. Overall I am very pleased with the accessibility and fun that Wii Sports offers 
 and just happy to get a game that comes packed for free with the console. Thanks Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokeypokemon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Wiimote takes gameplay to a whole new level. A level I call... the addiction zone. 
 Or, when playing bowling, the couch with a heat pack on your triceps. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Crystal clear quality. If you look hard enough, you can even see the Mii's you've created 
 in the audience! 10/10
  
  SOUND: This game reuses some sound effects from Animal Crossing, and has some wonderful music in 
 it. 10/10
  
  Value: The flaw. When you've beaten the game, there's almost nothing left to do!
  
  Brownie 
 Points (Reviwer's Tilt) : 10/10
  
  THE VERDICT: Overall, Wii Sports is possibly the best free game ever. Now, give us a sequel!
 
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.7 superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Now that the Nintendo Wii is out, the one game that everyone will have is the one included with 
 the system: Wii Sports. While more of a tech demo than an actual game, Wii Sports still manages 
 to provide many hours of party-game style fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Wii Sports truly shines in terms of gameplay just because of the nature of the Wiis unique controller 
 design. The motion-sensitive controller allows the player to mimic real-life motions, which in 
 turn controls the characters on-screen.
  
  Included in Wii Sports are 5 sport-related mini-games: Tennis, Baseball, Boxing, Bowling, and Golf. 
 These games have been greatly simplified to several core elements, but this allows the games to 
 be picked up and easily played by anyone that is even remotely familiar with the sport.
  
  However, this does create a drawback, as the games are not very in-depth. Therefore, Wii Sports 
 is really only effective as a party game. A single player wont get many hours of enjoyment out 
 of it, but throw in 3 more people, and the game really stands out.
  
  There is also a fairly steep learning curve involved in using the Wiimote. Although the game 
 mimics the real-life sports, the way in which the movements are performed needs to precise, and 
 seems to be based more on timing than actual skill. This leads to a lot of in-accurate shots, and 
 statements such as I totally hit that ball!
  
  GRAPHICS
  Because Wii Sports is more of a tech demo, the graphics suffer while the gameplay shines. Not that 
 Wii Sports looks bad. Its just not up to standards. This game is the first to use the Mii features 
 of the console. This allows you to create a personal avatar to control in the game. These avatars 
 have a LEGO character style to them, but this means that theyre very blocky.
  
  In fact, the characters dont even have arms, and in some of the mini games, dont even have feet. 
 I understand the style they were going for in this game, but all this makes you wonder about the 
 true graphics capabilities of the Wii.
  
  Its not all bad, though. The Miis that you have created will actually be in the background when 
 playing as other character. The backgrounds look decent, and theres a nice focus effect in some 
 of the levels. But you cant play on any different levels. Therefore youll be playing on the same 
 tennis court, baseball field, etc every time you play.
  
  SOUND
  Although the sounds are a little basic, the way theyre implemented is what makes them stand out. 
 The Wiimote has a built-in speaker, which allows for audio queues per player. Things like hitting 
 a baseball are done through the speaker of the player performing the action. This further pulls 
 the player into the experience, and opens new possibilities for other games. Imagine playing a 
 shooting game where the gunshots actually came from the remote. There isnt much in the way of 
 voice-overs, or even music, but the fantastic use of basic sound effects more than makes up for 
 this.
  
  VALUE
  This is the only area where Wii Sports is sort of mixed bag. As I said before, there isnt a lot 
 of lasting single player value because of the shallowness of the gameplay. However, as a party 
 game Wii Sports will provide many hours of entertainment.
  
  The ease of controls allows even people who have never played video games, to be able to join the 
 fun. The use of Miis is very well implemented and allows each player to not only have a personal 
 avatar, but also a way to keep track of their own high-scores.
  
  Online play would have been nice, but its much more fun when playing with people in the game room. 
 Overall Wii Sports is a great title for Nintendo to include with the new system. It feels more 
 like a tech demo in certain places, but its still a lot of fun, and also introduces a lot of basic 
 concepts that players will use in other Wii games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  well this is the best pack in game with system of all time. very fun game. great thing is the whole 
 family can join in. bowling is great with the wii controlls comes off very smooth and gives you 
 that you are in the game.. tennis is a lot of fun with the family playing. and the games to me 
 look good. nintendo has done it again. brought new life in to the video games again like they did 
 in the late 80s. golf i did not like that well. baseball was fun nothing like a pro game like EA 
 sports. but this is about a fast fun game. easy to play and fun like the rest. i cant wait for 
 there new wii sports next month. xbox360 has nothing like this i know i have the 360. i think nintendo 
 has a great system here with games that are easy and fun for the family and get a work out. great 
 game. i will enjoy wii sports for years to come. not a one month game and sell it on ebay. this 
 game is a keeper enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, im not sure about anyone elses opinions, but this is mine. If i have any friends come over 
 they dont want to play Need For Speed, or Madden, they want to play Wii Sports. I really love it 
 and so do my friends. The only thing about wii sports that i dont really like is that the putting 
 on golf is frustrating and that getting pro on any of the games is relatively easy. My personal 
 favourite is Bowling because i believe that it is the most realistic as it immitates the slightest 
 flick of the wrist. Also, most of the training games are fun like dodging tennis balls in boxing, 
 to power throws in bowling. I really like how wii sports isnt like other systems and there isnt 
 a million cheats and glitches in it. Some of the training is hard and it puts up a real challenge 
 but still is very enjoyable. Wii sports is a great multiplayer game but does not work that well 
 in tennis because if you have a small tv it is fairly hard to see where the ball is and very often 
 gets confusing if you arent used to it. Overall i really like this game and i would definately 
 reccommend it to anyone with friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  If you need to get used to playing the WII or your just an everyday gamer, this game is a must 
 for you.
  
  If you are a hardcore gamer and wouldnt play often with other people, i don't recommend this for 
 you.
  
  The bowling game is a great game to play against your friends if your limited to one controller, 
 although it can be picked up quite easily by more experienced games (ie it never changes if you 
 do something)
  
  I also quite enjoy the golf and baseball is OK. i do not like the boxing or tennis side of things. 
 The tennis doesn't feel as real as it could be.
  
  The game is also good for younger children aswell, they will have alot of fun against their school 
 friends. This game from my perspective is ok, it is easily picked up. A fantastic game to start 
 you off on the WII. Still could of been better... though im into the more adult FPS n strategy 
 n stuff so i didn't really get too excited when me and my sister got the wii for xmas :P but my 
 sister is 12 and my family n family friends all fit into the wii genre so for them its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoWii_Fan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game like no other. Seriously. I would be surprised to find another game quite 
 like it! Wii sports has 5 games packed in, Boxing, Bowling, Tennis, Golf, and Baseball. Some of 
 the games are good, while some are a letdown. Here is my review:
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing. I was tottaly immersed with these games, but with the different 
 styles of gameplay, I will break it down with sections for each game.
  
  Tennis: Tennis is probably one of the better sports in the package. While you hit the ball, your 
 Mii Character runs around to the ball. When you hear it, not controlling your characters might 
 sound awkward, but it works. It gives you time to think about when you will hit the ball. Using 
 the Wii Remote, your movements with it hit the ball. It works nicely, and sometimes I actually 
 felt I was in the game.
  
  Golf: Golf is easily the worst sport in the package. It is extremly dull, and it does not seem 
 like you are really hitting the ball. You can hit the ball without barly moving the club, and it 
 says you hit it way too hard. Overall, Golf is NOT worth your time.
  
  Bowling: Bowling is the best sport in the package. It controls perfectly. You hold the B Trigger, 
 pull the remote back, and release the B trigger as you swing the remote forward. It is incredibly 
 simple, and amazingly fun. While releasing the ball you can move your wrist and give the ball some 
 curve. Easily the best Wii Sport.
  
  Baseball: Baseball is a fun sport, for what it is, and what is is pitching and batting. Feilding 
 and base running? Computer Controlled. Is it a bad thing? Not Really. I have invested a bit of 
 time in baseball and enjoy it. For pitching, you swing your remote like you are pitching a ball 
 and real life, and for different types of throws, you hold different combinations of buttons. For 
 batting, you well, bat! No buttons, just swingin your remote like you were really in the great 
 game.
  
  Boxing: Boxing is KO, I mean OK. It is the only sport to use the nunchuck attatchment. You swing 
 each of your controllers like you would be dealing blows. To dodge, you move the controllers to 
 one of your sides. It is fun, but that enjoyment soon tires, and also could leave you with sore 
 arms.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Wii Sports are simpilistic, and thats what gives it its charm. You can 
 use your Mii Characters in-game as characters, and they fit in perfectly with the enviorment. You 
 sometimes wish that the game was a little bit prettier. The graphics are overall, charming but 
 dated.
  
  Sound: The sound is OK. Most of the games have no music, but the sound is enjoyable, but you might 
 tire of the Wii Remotes internal Speaker, wich sounds about as good as a Mcdonalds Toy Speaker.
 
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a great game, with its strenghts and weaknesses. Its free, which is definetly 
 a plus, but if I had to pay for it, I guess I could muster up about $30. I give Wii Sports an 8.0 
 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3art-Attack
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  For coming with the system, wii sports is a great value and suprisingly good for such a simplistic 
 game. The graphics arent special but there not bad either. On terms of sound, there is nice background 
 music that sets the mood and the sports sounds are fairly well done. In terms of gameplay the controls 
 are very responsive and only a light touch is needed for most sports. The game lets you choose 
 your stance for every sport but as far as my knoledge goes there are no sensitivity settings. There 
 are only a few sports to select and more would have been nice but this is still a good game to 
 keep for when family and friends come over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Everyone gets this one with their Wii... a collection of five sports games. Using the Miis (simplified 
 Playmobile-esque characters created with the Wii) up to two players can play Baseball or Boxing, 
 and up to four can play Golf, Tennis or Bowling.
  
  The graphics of this game are rather simple, but they get the hob done. The golf course itself 
 is the most noteworthy, visually. The sound is entirely forgettable... with generic crowd roars, 
 beeps and music. One nice feature is that your Wiimote beeps when it is your turn.
  
  Tennis - One of the better sports in the package... if only because it is one of the most playable. 
 The game is standard doubles tennis in a series of one, three or five games. Your characters move 
 automatically... a flick of the wrist with the Wiimote responsively executes a fore or backhand 
 shot. Your Mii's position relative to the ball determines trajectory, seemingly regardless of the 
 stroke type. If you are playing alone, your Wiimote will swing for both players. The game seems 
 a little random with the shot quality... I haven't been able to figure out what goes into giving 
 a shot power or spin, even though the manual says doing this is possible. It's not terribly deep, 
 but it works.
  
  Baseball - Baseball can also be fun. Players alternate between batting and pitching for three innings. 
 It plays more like homerun derby... fielding happens automatically and the ball's landing point 
 determines how many bases you get. If you have extra Miis created, they will fill in the extra 
 spaces on your team. The batting is very responsive, but I find it difficult to control the speed 
 of my pitch. Again, not a terribly deep game. It probably won't stay fun for more than a few play-throughs.
 
  
  Boxing - Boxing might have been fun... but its very limited. The controls seem very imprecise. 
 Despite reading the manual and forums on the game, I still can't seem to intentionally throw anything 
 besides a jab or reliably defend myself. Games deteriorate into random jab-fests, devoid of all 
 skill. As a fan of Fight Night and other fighting games, not having precise control is a deal-breaker 
 for me. I gave it the honest try, but I was disappointed. One of the weaker games in the package.
 
  
  Golf - I was also very disapointed with the golf game. The controls for the swing are very fidgetty 
 and counter-intuitive. It really doesn't work like a real golf swing at all, and you must swing 
 EXTREMELY gently to avoid a punishing error. Controlling your power is an exercise in frustration. 
 Reading greens is also counter-intuitive. The aiming system works well though. There's only 9 holes 
 (based on the original NES golf!) , but its fine for the few times I've attempted this game. After 
 playing Super Swing Golf, an average Wii golf game, it really shows how broken and incomplete this 
 game is. I play this game least of any.
  
  Bowling - Yay! Bowling is awesome. A fully-functional four-player game that is intuitive, accurate, 
 fun and responsive. I've seen entire parties grow around my Wii when I pick this game. You can 
 bowl straight or hook shots, aim the player before bowling. Pins fall predictably. This is hands-down 
 the best game in the package, and it single-handedly makes the disc worthwhile. This is the kind 
 of thing the Wii was made for.
  
  Aside from just straight up playing games, there's also Challenge and Fitness modes, which further 
 simplify the games and offer some simplistic statistics tracking. There's a few little things you 
 can unlock for completing all this, but none of it from what I've seen/read will significantly 
 change the game experience for subsequent playthroughs.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  If you're getting your Wii in the US, you're getting this game. It's not bad as a sort of demonstration 
 of good things to come on the Wii... but that's about it. Some of the games can be fun, but if 
 you don't already have the game, I wouldn't go out of my way and spend $50 on it. Bowling and tennis 
 are fun, but the other games are forgettable... and there's already a better golf game out.
  
  +Bowling is awesome
  +Tennis is playable
  +Miis are funny
  -The graphics/sound are nothing 
 special
  -Most all the games are oversimplified
  -Some of the games are imprecise to the point of unplayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This is the first review for the wii that I have done. As you all know you get the sports game 
 with the console. But dont despair if you are tight for money and can't buy another game right 
 now, because the sports can kep you easily entertained. The good things are: You get to pick from 
 baseball, golf, boxing, tennis and bowling. So if you tire of one you have another to go to or 
 if you just start getting your butt handed to you by the pros. Also, the more you play the games 
 you earn skill points, which you need a thousand point to become a pro at any sport. That gives 
 you more of a reason to try other sports on it and to keep playing it. Everyone always wonders 
 if the wii controler good, does it work right? The answer is YES it works really well. the controls 
 are easy to understand and that makes the game enjoyable for everyone, even people that don't play 
 other consoles. The controls will have you up and moving. which also makes it very fun. OOH, and 
 the wii people are so cute and fun to create. more than one person can play, and families seem 
 to be doing so. Now for the bad thing about the game. would have been cool if there was another 
 game or two on the disc, the graphics are good but not XBOX good, but you have so much fun you 
 really dont care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emroy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  So this game comes along with your Wii, so everyone that has a Wii has Wii Sports.
  
  For those who have played this game, mostly will agree that the graphics aren't that good but hey! 
 It comes for free! What did you expected?
  
  Well I expected less, and in spite of it not having the best graphics ever, its just fun! Who cares 
 about the graphics when you are having so much fun? I mean isn't that the point of gaming?
  
  Well lets get to the point: Simple, but fun!
  Tennis: the tennis minigame is quite fun, it 
 requires a lot of timing for the ball to go where you want it but when you have mastered it, there 
 is nobody that can beat you. Perhaps in the end is way too easy :)
  
  Baseball: this one is more complicated and easier than tennis at the same time, you need to build 
 up reflexes on this one but it has always been fun to hit things with a bat anyways ;)
  
  Bowling: this one is perhaps too simple, there isn't much difference on how hard to throw it, but 
 when exactly you drop it... anyways i can never get the ball to go straight, it always gets curved, 
 i wish it was like that in RL where i can never curve it ;)
  
  Golf: this one is more complicated, but its fun and for once stands for a challenge! and that is 
 a plus because the others are way too easy :)
  
  Boxing: this one is plain fun when playing with someone else! :) and the controls are great as 
 well ;)
  
  Training minigames: these are great, lets you feel the control you can have over the game, and 
 it educates you on what the wiimote can do!
  
  Fitness minigames: a challenge! see what's the lowest age you can get by playing your best on the 
 training minigames
  
  So it has a bit of everything, its free, simple and fun!
  
  Worth playing.
  Yours,
  Emroy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_cook100
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Summary: I feel like Wii sports is kinda like a cheap thrown together game that took almost no 
 time to program at all. The Mii (which I feel the Mii is such a good idea, but it could be so much 
 more!!!!) makes the game look very cheap. That being said, the game is fun. The background graphics 
 aren't all that bad, the textures on the ground look pretty good. This makes for a mixed performance 
 since the textures look like they're from a 360 and the characters look like their from an Atari 
 (more like a N64, but you get my point) . The games are fun, very simple and allow 4 people (all 
 but boxing and baseball) . A side note- for some reason girls love Nintendos; they never want to 
 come play top spin, but are so addicted to using the Wii's controller its insane. Most of the games 
 are easy to figure out, but the reason they are hard is because the inconsistency of the user. 
 These sports all depend on how accurate you can create a certain movement with your arms, not your 
 thumbs, so all of you non-kinetic people might not master the games like you used to.
  
  Pros: The game is fun. Its not challenging enough to get frustrated and throw your controller (but 
 you still have a wrist strap just in-case) . It's such a change up from normal video games. As I 
 said before, these WIis attract friends, its not like a lan party, but its not a sausagefest either. 
 Bowling is actually surprisingly accurate to real bowling, and once you figure out the spin for 
 tennis its decently accurate too.
  
  Cons: Boxing kinda sucks. Maybe I haven't spent enough time on the controls, but the punch is off. 
 Plus, being tall the sensor needs me to lower the controls way low to block low, I get dominated 
 by small people (which most girls are, right? So that can be embarrassing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gater29
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The game comes free. It has 5 different sports that take advantage of the Wii's motion sensing 
 controller. The games are fun and innovation making good use of the motion sensing capabilities 
 of the Wii.
  
  The game has a good multiplayer mode that is quite fun when you have a quople of friends over and 
 it is cool how your character in the game is your Mii.
  
  It has a neat daily fitness challenge that gives you an age rating that you can compare with your 
 friends.
  
  The motion sensing can get a little akward at times, mainly in the boxing (it sometimes doesn't 
 register swings correctly, or at all for that matter) , but it does not really take away from the 
 overall experience. The graphics and sounds aren't really anything spectacular, but it's not like 
 anyone expected them to be. The game really stands out in its gameplay.
  
  For a free game, Wii Sports is great. Good job Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1vgfan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great game, especially for the price... it's free! Packaged with the Wii system, 
 this game is a lot of fun. Instead of summing it all up I'm going to review each game, all 5.
 
  
  Tennis- tennis is a great game, and is fun for anyone, even someone who has never played a video 
 game in their life. All you have to do is swing the remote, no buttons to press or anything. My 
 only complaint is that it is too easy. There is absolutely no depth here. The characters run by 
 themselves, and you have no control of them.
  
  Baseball- baseball is probably my second favorite game. This game is easy, but has more detail 
 than the other games. For example, when you're pitching you can throw inside, outside, fastball, 
 splitter, screwball, or curveball. Mixing it up adds more fun to the gameplay. However, sometimes 
 the unexperienced video game players have some trouble with this game.
  
  Bowling- bowling is definetly my favorite game on Wii sports. With a simple design this game gives 
 you hours on gameplay. Allowing you to curve the ball, get spares, strikes, and keep on improving 
 your score, bowling is a great game. Also, it's a great party game too.
  
  Golf- golf is probably my least favorite game. Swinging the ball is unbelievably unaccurate. If 
 you barely tap the remote, the ball goes flying. It's so unaccurate, it makes the game unjoyable.
 
  
  Boxing- boxing is an ok game. I haven't been able to play it with a friend yet though because I 
 can't find another Nunchuck in the stores. The game itself is fun though, but pretty unaccurate. 
 You can jab the remote 5 times, but your Mii will only jab once.
  
  Extras- Wii sports has some extras too, like a fitness test. The fitness test allows you to keep 
 track of your fitness age by 3 different tests, and keeps track of your record. I try to do it 
 once a day and see how I improve.
  
  Overall- overall Wii sports is a fun, simple game. A great party game, and anyone can play it. 
 My only complaint would be the lack of detail in some games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuckey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  To say that the Nintendo Wii is innovative is an understatement. The Nintendo Wii is like no video 
 game experience that's come before it. I've been a big fan of Nintendo games and hardware since 
 I first got my NES when I was a kid. I played that thing non-stop. I'd even wake up early for school 
 to get in some Super Mario Bros. before I got on the bus... and let me tell you mornings and I are 
 not exactly compatible. The Nintendo Wii makes me feel that way again. Every time I have a free 
 minute I want to power it up and play. My kids (ages 5 and 3) are always asking to play it. My 
 wife (who was a gamer as a child, but has since lost interest in modern day 3D games) will play 
 for hours. Wii Sports is the title that all of us can enjoy together.
  I've searched over and over again for a game that my family could play together where we all could 
 play at our level and enjoy it. We have Mario Party 7 and while it's accessible for the kids, it's 
 not exaclty a great time for my wife and I. Wii Sports is the game I've been looking for. It's 
 easy to learn, but not as easy to master. The kids can have fun (and be fairly competitive) playing 
 most of the games and my wife and I don't have to throw the game to make them feel good. There 
 is a clear winner, but it's not about winning because the experience of playing is just so darn 
 fun!
  I'll give a breakdown of each of the sports included in the game.
  
  Tennis: This is one of the most fun and best uses of the Wii Remote (or the Wiimote as we like 
 to call it) . You swing the remote as if it were a tennis racket and your timing affects where the 
 ball will end up. If you have a widescreen TV the 2 player split-screen mode is very fun too.
 
  Baseball: Batting in this game is a hoot. It feels like you're a major league ball player. If 
 you twirl the bat while you're in your stance it twirls in the game too. The controls are responsive 
 and they translate perfectly into the game. There's nothing like hitting a homerun. Pitching is 
 less exciting as you can only pick from a few pitches and your arm motion is always the same, but 
 if you really get into it and you set up in a normal pitcher's stance it can be really fun. It 
 is really exciting to strikeout a batter though. The 2 player experience is much more fun as the 
 computer players seem to be way too good at batting.
  Golf: Golf is kind of hit or miss for me. It's fun to play, but the controls are sometimes not 
 as responsive as I'd like. If you don't pause in your backswing sometimes the game won't register 
 the swing and you'll have to start over. Also the mechanism for controlling the strength of your 
 swing is difficult to get used to. The same speed swing but just a little longer or shorter can 
 send your ball in the wrong direction. If you hit the ball too hard (in other words the power meter 
 exceeds it's boundries) then you'll hook or slice the ball. This game is defeinitely more enjoyable 
 for someone who plays golf and understands the mechanics of a swing IMO.
  Boxing: This is the only game that uses both the Wii Remote and the nunchuck and also is probably 
 my least favorite game to play alone. With another player it's very fun. You have to keep your 
 hands (holding the Wii Remote and the nunchuck in each hand) either up in front of your face or 
 down in front of your body to guard against punches and you punch by actually throwing punches 
 with your hands. The games go quickly and it's a blast to play against or watch 2 other people 
 play it. The controls are sometimes unresponsive which is a bit frustrating at times. That's why 
 this is my least favorite of all of the games.
  Bowling: I've saved the best for last. I love this game. The Wii Remote and the motions you have 
 to take translate very well into the game. It's also easy for anyone to pick up and play. My 5 
 year old daughter can get a strike and it's not an automatic to me or my wife. When we play our 
 scores are all pretty close. All in all this game is just plain fun.
  
  One thing I would recommend for this game is that you have more than one Wii Remote. I would suggest 
 having as many Remotes as there are players. It can be a real pain to pass the Remote back and 
 forth while playing in some of the games (especially golf since the player order changes so often) .
 
  
  All in all Wii Sports is one of the most innovative and definitely the most fun game I've played 
 in a long time. It's easy to play and can be played by young and old, gamers and non-gamers alike. 
 I think this game is the reason why the Wii has been flying off the shelves since it's launch. 
 If you have friends and family who you'd like to be able to play games with the Wii and Wii Sports 
 is a definite must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geordanuk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports makes an excellent pack-in for yout brand new Nintendo Wii since it introduces the Wii's 
 features like no other game does.
  
  Bowling!
  Bowling in my opinion is the best game to play as soon as you get the Wii out of the box as the 
 controls are simple and straight forward , Just one problem with the bowling I discovered which 
 is the ball will often trail off to the left or right of the pins and often leaves you stood there 
 with a gutterball when you first play it . One of the best things about the bowling is the little 
 secrets which are there one being able to throw your ball backwards at the crowd and they scream 
 in fear , I think this is a great way to show how well Nintendo worked on a opening game. Another 
 great thing about Bowling is the multiplayer feature since you only require one remote and is a 
 brilliant way to get your friends entertained.
  
  Boxing!
  Boxing is by far the most tiring game but the most entertaining once you've got used to your Wii 
 , again the controls are fairly straight forward considering you don't need to press any buttons 
 at all and just swing your arms as if you was punching the living daylights out of some poor guy 
 .As much as the controls are easy the boxing is a little erratic when it comes to actually hitting 
 the guy your versing since most of the time it doesn't actually swing at all. But even though the 
 controls are erratic this game will leave you coming back for more since its the most challenging.
 
  
  Baseball!
  This game recieved alot of critism about how poor it was in most magazines , but it really is quite 
 boring especially when you miss the ball and feel like putting your TV through , apart from that 
 its fun when you actually hit the ball , a big downfall on the baseball is the pitching since when 
 you do it doesn't make much of a difference how you do it , the game is cool although it is quite 
 rubbish most of the time.....
  
  Golf!
  Golf is a cool game when your actually playing it ,but to play it you do have to like golf or you'll 
 get mighty bored ,mighty fast , but for most golf fans you might notice one little problem or it 
 might just be me only but when playing the golf you'll swing back and it will then take your shot 
 instead of swinging forwards , the game as in real life that if your not good at it then you will 
 get annoyed and you'll probably break someithng in the process!
  
  Tennis!
  Tennis is a fun game and is one of the boredom killers of Wii Sports , tennis is one of those games 
 which will leave you entertained for a short while before you end up returning the same shots again 
 and again , but when the game isn't doing that its an awesome game , the most irritating thing 
 of alll on the tennis is hitting the right shot which sometimes feels impossible.
  
  Overall this game is a fun game although it has its downfalls its also a nice feature to be able 
 to use your Mii's . The graphics are very nice and shiny for a packed in game and the sounds are 
 quite accurate one being giving the rap/R&amp; B part to the boxing , you can't seriously complain 
 at this game again since tit comes with your Wii so whats there to complain about. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The idea of putting this game in with the Wii system is a great idea. This very user-friendly game 
 is great for anyone who has any desire to pick of a Wiimote. Bowling is incredible on this game 
 is is probably the closest to the actual sport. Tennis is pretty good too, as is baseball. Golf 
 is probably the least responsive and the most friggin frustrating too. Come on, why are the other 
 ones so responsive but one half of an inch is 300 YARDS of smackpower difference! Frustrating MUCH! 
 Ah, but it's not so bad once you get the hang out, but it is still the worst sport of the five. 
 But hey, all in all this game is worth the free admission because it comes with each and every 
 Wii, so why not pick it up (with the Wii of course) and start kickin ass in the sports world. P. S. 
 Don't throw the Wiimote through your TV retard.
  
  
  
  Or your windows, or glass doors, or anything else that is breakable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I recently played the Wii for the first time over my friend Chris (classic7) 's house. My other 
 friend Brandon (commando21) was there too. I schooled Brandon at baseball and he killed me at bowling 
 and boxing. I also beat him at tennis. The game is just so simple and entertaining I just thought 
 it was the best video game experience I have ever witnessed. The Wii was wicked precise with the 
 Wii Remote movements and I can't call this game anything other than perfect. This game does not 
 disappoint me on any level. I'm glad to see that the Wii is not a disappiontment like the Gamecube. 
 Can't wait to buy a Wii...... Anyways a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hendrix4Lyfe
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a really fun game for the Wii. Since the game came free there is no reason to dis 
 the game. Wii Sports delivers a great learning curve that also teaches you how to play the Wii. 
 One of the things I liked about the game is that anyone of any age can play it right away. It's 
 just that easy. With a variety of games for all types of players it makes a nice gift. Oh ya its 
 free, and I'm not done there. Sports also has multi player so you can play with your friends anytime. 
 It's a fun classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  when it comes to graphics this game is far from amazing. the sound is close to the sound that your 
 disgusting uncle makes after a thanksgiving dinner. so why even bother with a game that comes complete 
 with junky sound and graphics? the answer is its just plan fun. the control get a 100 out of a 
 possible 10. every game that is offered to you in this video game can be played for hours and you'll 
 think 10 minutes went by. its a great game that can be played with anyone in the house. my friends 
 played the tennis game for three hours after a few beers and had a blast (a lot of smack talk was 
 going on) and my wife and i played the bowling game for a long time and she hates video games (not 
 any more after the wii came out) . i know the game came with the system, making the value of the 
 game overwhelmingly huge, but if it didn't i would have spent the extra 50 bills to get it just 
 for the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fan211
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  In Wii Sports you play 5 different sports: Boxing, Tennis, Bowling, Golf, and Baseball. This sports 
 are very exciting and fun to play with the family.
  
  Gameplay- Very different for each sports but for each sport it is like you are playing it for real 
 than you are vitual playing it.
  
  Sound-
  The hits in Baseball are real and in Tennis as well but do not expect a rock or hip-hop tune cause 
 it has the same thing over and over again.
  
  Graphics-
  They look good for a Wii game but please guys or girls do NOT put the bat in your Mii's Eye for 
 they will not feel it but it is funny so don't do it.
  
  Replay Value-
  Very, Very, Very, Very, Very, Very, Very, Good because you need to gain points to unlock Pro Points 
 and need to win games.
  
  Problems-
  A bit more games well why didn't nintendo use Basketball or Hockey or Soccer (GC or CC) . With one 
 of these it is exciting.
  
  So this is a short review but explains everything the games has and needs you see my favorite is 
 Boxing and many many people love it but i hate golf a little cause it is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This little game collection is fantastic! I am really surprised that it was a free game with the 
 Wii. It is a great game for multiplayer fun.
  
  Surprisingly, the game my friends and I play the most is the golf selection. The game play is great, 
 easy to pick up, and the record tracking gives you a goal to accomplish on each and every game.
 
  
  The only bad thing would be the golf is only 9 holes, they should have had an 18 hole option also, 
 but maybe that will be coming in the future. I give this little game 9 with a player tilt of 10 
 because of the group fun you have with this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fragman435
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  When i opened up my wii and tryed out wii sports i knew it would be the first stab in the playstation 
 3's 600$ price tag. the gameplay is simple use the wiimote to play your favorite real life games 
 like tennis or baseball. the motion control is tight and persice like the should be. Boxing and 
 Baseball are the funest thing to play while the inner tiger woods in you will like golf. bowling 
 is the hardest because the flick of the wrist in the wrong directon can screw up your ball. The 
 graphics aren't going to hit gears of war in the face with a baseball but are better than the ps3 
 gundum game. overall the gam should get about a six but the fact that it comes free with every wii 
 brings it up apoint of two. have fun before you even pick up the master sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  As one of the lucky few to find a Wii on the shelf, I have to say that this game is highly addictive. 
 Bundled with the system, you are getting this game whether you like it or not. The nice thing about 
 it is that everyone can get into it. I had my parents playing it and they aren't that interested 
 in games at all.
  
  So it breaks down into five sports: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. Tennis, bowling, 
 and golf are up to four players, and the other two are two player. Each of the sports has a set 
 of training games to practice your skills as well. As you play, you earn or lose skill points. 
 If you reach 1000, you become a pro.
  
  Tennis is played as doubles. You can choose between 1 game, best of 3, or best of 5. You swing 
 the controller to make a forehand or backhand hit and serve the ball. The practice games include 
 hitting consecutive serves, hitting targets, and hitting a target wall.
  
  Baseball is a three inning slugfest. You do not actually do any fielding in this and baserunning 
 is dependent on how long it takes for the characters to find the ball. Your pitchs include a fastball, 
 screwball, curveball, and splitter. The practice games include homerun hitting, accuracy hitting, 
 and speed hitting.
  
  Bowling includes a regular rules, 10-frame event. You can position your player left and right and 
 rotate their body. On the follow through, your tilting or angling of the controller will change 
 the direction of the ball. The practice games include spare pickups, power strikes, and accuracy 
 spare pickups.
  
  Golf can be played in either a 3-hole (novice, intermediate, or expert) or 9-hole set. You have 
 choices between the driver, iron, wedge, and putter. The wind is important to remember when driver 
 because of the great effect it may have. The practice games include chipping onto the green, target 
 practice, and putting practice.
  
  Boxing uses the nunchuck controller attachment. You spare against opponents of increasing toughness 
 and intelligence. The match takes place in 3 rounds of 2 minutes a piece but you can go for the 
 KO. The practice games include practice punching, hitting the bags, and dodging.
  
  There is also a Fitness Test which includes three of the minigames randomly. You can only take 
 it once a day and the calculation of your age may not be accurate. It can still be really funny 
 if your age if completely off.
  
  The game uses the Mii characters you create on the main menu. You can keep records of all of your 
 accomplishments and even adjust your look and take your character online.
  
  The positives are that anyone can play this game and all of the minigames are enjoyable. The graphics 
 may be a little childish, but they are clean and smooth. It takes some work getting use to the 
 controller, but you will get the hang of it.
  
  It comes with the system, so you are going to play it anyway, but you should feel comfortable because 
 it is a solid game that has a lot to offer. I would even buy it on its own if it was not bundled. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jmac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I was pretty skeptical about the entire concept of the Wii itself. Especially when the Wii controller 
 was unveiled at that Spaceworld show o' so many moons ago. I wrote the entire system off... then 
 a week later, I started to realize what this system 'might' be capable of doing... and my wildest 
 dreams are coming true with the addicting, Wii Sports being the pack-in title in North America.
 
  
  First off, here are my scores and skill levels so far... yes, this has absolutely nothing to do 
 with the actual game itself, but this can be just so you can compare your own, and trash talk me 
 for not being as good as you... or you can post YOUR scores... and I can trash talk you... hurrah!
 
  
  Tennis: Pro: 1248
  Baseball: 657
  Bowling: Pro: 1341, top game: 257. (I missed three shots the whole game :P)
  Golf: Meh, 0... dont 
 like it.
  Boxing: 650 (recently discovered, playing a lot right now...)
  
  Gameplay and Controls:
  
  Controls can be described in one word: Fun.
  
  For some, that 
 would be enough to warrant a purchase of this game, but if you're not convinced, read on. Wii Sports, 
 due it being a pack-in title, does a very good job of easing you into how to control the Wii... not 
 just for this game, but it takes good advantage of the Wii's best strength... which is the control 
 scheme. The first time I started to play Wii Bowling, I was seriously scared of how intuitive the 
 entire remote was. My jaw almost hit the floor, and I'm having a hard time picking it back up. 
 Every single turn, even spin or accidental movement of your hand as you're throwing the bowling 
 ball, and the movement of the ball is affected... just like real exact bowling. Not only is the 
 bowling the best facet of Wii Sports, it is by a LONGSHOT the greatest Bowling Game of All Time! 
 (let that sink in.......... ok good.) (note: there has never been a good bowling game.) Yah, so, 
 since there's never been a good bowling game, maybe saying its the best bowling game ever isn't 
 saying too much... but you can easily play the bowling alone for 45 minutes without getting bored 
 of it... and that's saying a lot.
  
  Tennis is the 2nd best sport on the disc. You flip the Wiimote up to toss the ball up, then flip 
 it back down again to hit it. When I first started, I was going like a maniac... hitting the ball 
 as hard as I could. Needless to say, I'm in good shape... I'm a tall, lean, athletic guy, I'd say... and 
 I was still sore :P... so since then I've learned how to get the same results of speed, with significantly 
 less flailing. However, the Tennis I'd say, is the most pysically demanding sport on the disc. 
 (baseball is pretty physical too.) If you hit the ball at the exact right time, you get a REALLY 
 fast serve... and once you get the timing down, you'll hit pro-status in no-time... and it gets a 
 lot more fun :) .
  
  Boxing, initially I didn't care for... until I spent some time at a buds place and realized how 
 much more fun it is to box against the person standing right next to you. Learn how to hook punch, 
 work off the jab, and bury him with the uppercut... (note, if you uppercut to the body, it looks 
 like you punch him in the crotch, which can be VERY funny.) But get a friend, and play this a lot.... the 
 computer can be boring, but still fun to punch the stuffin's out of.
  
  Baseball is good... not great, but good. The games are a minimum 3 innings long, and sometimes the 
 innings can drag on. But it IS fun, dont get me wrong... its great. Hitting homers is very satisfying, 
 but I always go, Meh, I could be bowling right now whilst I'm playing... so I never last too long... however 
 its still good :)
  
  Golf is god awful. The swinging just feels wrong... you cant really see the breaks in the greens, 
 you only have 4 choice of clubs... meh. Its not fun... which is sad.
  
  Impressions:
  
  Wii Sports is simply put, Mind Blowingly Fun. The Mii's that you can create always get a laugh. 
 A HUGE sidenote.... NEVER create a Mii of yourself. ALWAYS let a friend, or loved one do it for 
 you... because they're a LOT funnier if you let someone else do it. It might be like, awww come 
 on, I dont have a nose THAT big) (because I have a big nose) , but if you accentuate your features 
 on it, it just looks funnier, and more like you :P. The Mii's ALWAYS get a laugh :)
  
  Wii Sports keeps me busy, so that I'm ALWAYS playing Wii when I'm awake. (my vacation ends Monday 
 : (... going back to college) But inbetween Zelda, I play Wii Sports... in between Trauma Centre, 
 I play Wii Sports...
  
  It is simply FUN. I'd pay money to get the game, but what makes it even better, is that it was 
 FREE!
  
  If you have a Wii, you're already playing it... so I'm surprised you haven't even stopped reading 
 this review to play it.
  
  However, if you dont have a Wii yet, and you're still unconvinced? *shrugs* I'm not sure what will 
 convince you, but I hope Wii Sports does. You'll be missing out if you dont play it... because lets 
 face it... curiousity will get the best of you ;) .
  
  Have FUN! *bowls at the computer* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmiBlade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is very immersive, it really shows what the WIi can do, and including it as a free pack-in 
 was a good choice. The graphics are simple, but they needed that for the inclusion of Miis, and 
 it is also this game's style. It is very well done in the presentation section, as it uses the 
 Wii's pointer and the menus all look sleek and match the style of the game. This game runs in both 
 16:9 widescreen and 480p at 60 frames per second. The Mii characters also really add colour and 
 flare into a situation such as this.
  
  The music is very immersive and the sounds coming out of the remote are crisp, especially in Tennis, 
 of all sports. The music is charming and delightful, which really adds to the mood.
  
  This game is best played as a multiplayer fiesta, Bowling being one of the best, only matched by 
 four-player Tennis. Some of the modes do lack depth, however.
  
  This game will keep coming back for more in replayability, because it will almost always be the 
 first game you show people when they come over to see your new Wii, or how the Wii works. It will 
 always be fun to just pick up and play in the middle of an impossible dungeon in the Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess, or after a huge boss fight in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. You will also 
 want to try to become pro in all five sports, Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. There 
 is also a training mode which is more of a minigame mode than anything, with three minigames for 
 each sport. Also, there is a Wii Fitness mode which you can play once a day to calculate your age 
 and how fit you are, based on three of these minigames, which are random everyday. Wii Sports is 
 a game which really has some great multiplayer and replayability, but lack of depth and a little 
 more realistic graphics decrease the score to a still amazing, 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the pack-in game for the Wii that packs a punch!
  
  The controls are very intuitive, no doubt there, but in Tennis, for example, it appears unsure 
 how to create spin on the ball or to create a power serve where the ball has a trail of white when 
 hit. Boxing is the worst of the bunch in that it seems to register your punches slowly, so making 
 even the one, two punch is difficult to achieve. Graphically speaking, the game offers nothing 
 groundbreaking, and it shouldn't. The game's design is steeped in minimalist ideals and it works 
 wonders on Wii. The frame rate is, consequently, very good and I have yet to experience any sign 
 of slow-down. Sound, I think, is Wii Sports' biggest shortcoming. The sound effects are nice and 
 do the job, but the background music isn't new or memorable at all. However, when connected to 
 a surround sound capable system, games such as Bowling and Baseball make you not want to leave 
 your house ever again.
  
  Replayability is everywhere in Wii Sports. you have daily fitness trials, practice scenarios, and 
 the games themselves either alone or with multiple people. There are no secrets to unlock, very 
 little appears after getting Pro status in most games, and yet my family can't get enough of it 
 for hours on end. Nintendo is showing the world what gaming really is about: Good games with no 
 inside ads, easy controls, and fun. Don't overlook this game just becasue it's a pack-in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  When I got my Wii I knew I was going to get Wii Sports along with it. This was the game that was 
 going to display the WiiMotes abilities and how innovative and intuitive the Wii is suppose to 
 be. Easily accesible by everybody? Yes. Fun for the whole family to play? Yes. But single player 
 is kind of boring, this game is best played with other people. But Nintendo chose right to put 
 this game in the box with the Wii, its one of the best party games you can buy.
  
  First off, you need to make a Mii so you can have a little virtual you in the game. Which is quite 
 fun to make a Mii and see him/her playing the games. Once you have your Mii you can choose from 
 5 sports games to play. They include: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. My personal 
 favorites are Tennis and Boxing. In Wii Tennis you play either a single match, best of 3, or best 
 of 5. And you have a partner and play against either 2 computer opponents or other people. This 
 game can get you to work up a little sweat if you do a best of 3 or best of 5 game. The AI opponents 
 won't just give you your points, its not terribly hard but you have to earn your points. You swing 
 the WiiMote like a tennis racket when the ball gets close to your Mii. You don't have to use any 
 directional buttons of any sort, your Mii moves where the ball goes and its up to you to time your 
 swing right so you hit the ball. And how soon or how late you hit the ball effects where it goes, 
 like it actual tennis. The rules are like in real tennis, the game goes to 45 points (15-30-40-45) 
 and in order to win you must win by at least 2 sets (45-30) . The sound design is pretty well done, 
 you almost feel the ball hit your WiiMote when you hit it with your racket in the game and the 
 crowd gets into the game when things start to get tense. Obviously the graphics aren't jaw dropping, 
 but the cuteness of the Miis makes up for it, in my opinion. In order for more than 1 person to 
 play however you need more WiiMotes.
  
  In Wii Bowling the game plays out like a bowling match, you press the B button and hold the WiiMote 
 up to your chin like you're really gripping a bowlilng ball then swing like you're tossing a bowling 
 ball. And how you curve or swing the WiiMote determines where the ball will go down the lane. This 
 game is pretty easy once you play it a couple times, my 10 year old sister got a strike on her 
 first swing of the WiiMote and she now averages over 100 points per game. The scoring is like in 
 real bowling or you can just rely on the game to tell you how the points go (personally I don't 
 know the scoring in bowling so I did) . And that is pretty much all there is to Wii Bowling, up 
 to 4 players can play and its simple and easy to pick up and play and with just 1 WiiMote!!
  
  Wii Baseball is not one of my personal favorites over the others, but it is still fun to play. 
 In the Wii's version of America's favorite pastime you hold and swing the WiiMote like a baseball 
 bat. The pitcher tosses the ball at you in a few different types of throws and you must react accordingly 
 to them in order to get the best hit. When you do hit the ball how far and how long it takes the 
 opposing players to get to it determines what kind of a base hit you got. Ex. If you hit it in 
 the outfield and it takes about 3-5 seconds for the outfielder to get to the ball, you'll get either 
 a double or triple. But, if you hit it in the infield and a fielder gets it in a couple seconds, 
 you will most likely get out or a single if you're lucky. When you field you are the pitcher and 
 you throw the WiiMote like you're throwing a ball, and you can press certain buttons to get different 
 pitches. Besides that it is standard baseball but you only play 3 innings. However, to play this 
 game you need more than one WiiMote in order to play with another person.
  
  Wii Golf is one of the more challenging Wii Sports games. You have to swing the WiiMote like a 
 golf club and it reacts to your swing quite accurately. If you overswing you will either hook or 
 slice the ball which can really hurt your game. But it isn't overly difficult, it is still easily 
 accesible so that just about anybody can play it, its just a tad more challenging than the other 
 games. You can play a 3 hole match in either beginning, medium, or hard modes or you can play a 
 9 hole round. The Golf courses are animated very well and gives you the feel like you're really 
 out on a golf course playing with your chums and having a laugh all the while.
  
  The last, and one of my personal favorites, of the Wii Sports games is Wii Boxing. Where you put 
 on your boxing gloves and punch the daylights out of the poor sap that is your opponent. In order 
 to play Wii Boxing you need to use the Nunchuk attatchment. You hold the WiiMote and Nunchuk like 
 you are wearing boxing gloves, and you use them like you would boxing gloves too. You hold them 
 up to your face to protect your pretty Mii from your opponents punches. You hold them close to 
 your body to protect your chest and you can dodge side to side to avoid your opponents punches. 
 To attack you punch out with the WiiMote and Nunchuk for your left and right hands. Holding them 
 up higher attacks the face and lower to the chest. When you get to the higher levels you really 
 have to concentrate and look for an opportunity to attack and defend. Your opponent and your Mii 
 have a little circular health bar to show how long it will take for them to get knocked down. Like 
 in boxing you have to knock your opponent down for 10 seconds in order to win, and you have to 
 earn your victory.
  
  Other things included in Wii Sports is a training mode that lets you practice different aspects 
 of the sports to increase your abilites in playing those games. And there is a Wii Fitness mode 
 that has you do tests to see what your fitness age is, the best you can have is 20 years old. You 
 can only do this once every day so make sure it counts!! Your Miis gain experience after winning 
 or losing a game and your experience makes your little Miis stronger.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is a fun pick up 'n play game for the whole family that you can play just about 
 any time and anyone can do it. It truely displays the WiiMotes capabilites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_carlos_90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game, wii sports, its simply a very good game, even though some game controls are very simple 
 like the tennis game, it will keep you at the tv playing for a few hours.
  
  This game bundle comes with tennis, base ball, bowling, golf and boxing. In the tennis part, you 
 ned to simply swing your remote to strike the ball, as simply as that, you can choose single or 
 double game.
  
  Next is the baseball game, here you swing the remote to strike the ball with the bat, and when 
 you're pitching, you just need to move your remote forward, you can also give effect to the ball 
 by pressing A button, B button, or A + B buttons.
  
  Then comes the bowling game, here you select where to shoot the ball, then move move the remote 
 pointing up, press B button, then move the remote as if you where throwing a real ball, and release 
 the B button when you want to release the ball.
  
  After this one we have the golf game, here you just need to select the direction where to shoot, 
 and then just swing the remote to launch the ball in the direction you choose.
  
  And finally comes the boxing game, here you will need the nun chunk because, the controller would 
 be used as one arm, and the nun chunk the left arm, you just need to move the controller or the 
 nun chunk forward of your face to attack foes face, and move them forward your stomach to attack 
 foes stomach. And to avoid foes punches, you just simply need to move left or right.
  
  In conclusion wii sports is a great game to pass a good time with friends, family, or alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desianhunter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive, because no matter what your skill level, it is fun for everyone. 
 Eventually you get better and better at each sport, until you finally meet you challenge with the 
 pros with ratings in the 1000's. The gaming is also very immersive, for instance, when I was pitching 
 on baseball I really felt the pressure as my arm felt the pain as I needed to make the strikes 
 when the game was tied. The only problem I had was with some of the motion-sensing on tennis and 
 the aiming of punches on boxing. It is clearly one of the best games on the Wii, and best of all 
 it's free with every system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When playing this game, you won't be overwhelmed by how incredible the game is, but you will be 
 surprised by how well it works. The games work similar to the actual game. Tennis and Boxing, however, 
 were a bit off. Tennis has your character moving by themselves, and it can get to the point where 
 flailing your arms will probably work. Boxing gets really sensitive, and it's hard to get the punch 
 you want. You have to get the perfect spot in order to get a jab. Other than that it works really 
 well.
  
  Tennis: Very fun, but repetitive. You can flail your arm around (which I do quite often) and get 
 along just fine. Other than that, it works pretty good.
  
  Baseball: Very challenging, but works just like real baseball. You pitch like real-life and you 
 will most likely have fun playing this game.
  
  Bowling: Probably the most realistic and fun game on Wii Sports. You can curve the ball to pick 
 up spares or strikes, and you can zoom in to find the point where your best throw is. The game 
 works like real bowling, just without the weight of the bowling ball.
  
  Golf: The game works well for the most part. It gives you an accurate read-out that allows you 
 to figure out where you need to hit. And it also gives you realistic physics so when the ball hits, 
 it rolls. But when putting, it gets VERY sensitive.
  
  Boxing: This game is a lot of fun, but very sensitive. It's not as sensitive as putting in golf, 
 but it needs to be done just right in order to get it right. The game can only be used if you have 
 two remotes and two nun-chucks, so that's a down side to the game.
  
  Graphics: The game comes with the system, so the graphics aren't all that great, but they are serviceable, 
 so it works for the game.
  
  Gameplay: Very realistic and worth the $250 you pay for the Wii. And if you don't have the money 
 for a new game, it will last you a while.
  
  Sound: Every time you hit a ball, you can hear it in the remote, so that's a plus. But the music 
 in the game can get repetitive and annoying.
  
  Value: It's worth it, it's fun, and it will last you a while before you get bored.
  
  Overall: 
 It's a decent game for a launch title, and it definitely shows off what the Wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stali
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok now I can't say this will be an amazing review because I don't 'own' a wii, but I've played 
 wii sports at my friends enough to give it a review.
  
  Tennis- It's ok, I could play it alot and would play more, but you can just swing the remote and 
 your character will swing non-stop, plus u can't move. The crowd was a bunch of mii's. Boxing- 
 Now I had loads of fun right here. I even started to sweat. The controls are easy to use and learn, 
 and it doesn't get hard until you really have played it alot. I can say I was mad that my enemy 
 couldn't just stay down after a beating and the end of the round did happen at some annoying times. 
 The crowd were mii's in this.
  
  Baseball- Alright, I'll admit it. I down right suck at this wii sport, but I do enjoy it. I can't 
 say I enjoy the fact how easy it is to get out. Batting can causes fouls which add to strikes, 
 so be carefull with your swing. Don't fling it like my pal did, because man that's just sad, but 
 I know my turn is coming. Throwing can be down any way you move the wii remote and you press a 
 and b to throw curveballs and screwballs and fast balls are regular. Holding the wii remote with 
 two hands can get tough. I can't say I am imperessed with the crowds being circles that are colored, 
 but Nintendo did have a release date, and I have yet to play any decent sport like football where 
 the crowd doesn't look good or real.
  
  Bowling- Personelly my favorite sport. It can make someone mad when you drop the ball alot. You 
 can choose where you shoot from and to curve just move the remote left or right when you bowl. 
 You can't change the color of your ball which is depressing and you can't unlock balls or upgrade 
 them to make them like the best in the game which I consider good. The crowd is Mii's again and 
 they bowl as well which I think is a nice touch to the game.
  
  Golf- I suck at this too, but not enough to give up. The controls are simply, but annoying at times, 
 and it's easy to swing off the bar. Putting is easy, but sometimes a little too easy. The enviroment 
 is nice and it seems like a fun sport when your by yourself.
  
  Others- It great that you get to use your mii's and the fitness test and age thing can keep you 
 trying fot the best of those two, but other than that this game is a decent 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Story: There is none, so I will make one up, you are transformed into a wooden Mii figurine and 
 forced to play Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and Boxing for the world of Mii's and become a Pro 
 Mii Athlete.
  
  Gameplay: There are 5 very fun games inside of this little Pack In game. You can play against your 
 friends or the AI in the game, you can play training games, and there is a Wii-Fitness test so 
 you can see how good you currently are.
  
  Controls: You are able to replicate the experience of the 5 Sports in this game quite well, but 
 I do have a few gripes. In Golf the Remote is too responsive, in Baseball you cant time it very 
 well, in Tennis you cant make it go the way you want sometimes, in Boxing you need to hold the 
 remotes out for a second to make it respond, and in Bowling it is hard to hook the ball the way 
 you want. Mabye that's just me, but the controls work well. And you do not need to make exagerated 
 movements, you can make simple movements for everything on there except boxing. The controls do 
 demonstrate the capabilities of the Wii quite well.
  
  Graphics: I am not the first one to say this, but Wii Sports is not a graphical showcase, that 
 being said the people look like wooden toys. But the enviroments can look gorgeous. The Golf courses 
 are the best looking and they do have grass that could be real. But Wii Sports is techicnaly not 
 a powerhouse, but in artistic direction the game does look good.
  
  Sound: There is simple music, and sounds of the sports and the crowds, not much to go on.
  
 
  Multiplayer: You can play all of the games with friends, and they are damn fun.
  
  Replayability: You may want to keep playing to get pro on everything, and the gold metals for the 
 training games, or you may just want to play with friends, so much to do.
  
  Overall: Wii-Sports is a fun little Party Game that should keep you and your Friends entertained 
 untill the big Killer App's for the Wii are this year, but you should still keep playing this game 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juniorspudgun
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  For the first Nintendo Wii game i have played, this was very surprising, when i first saw the Wii, 
 i thought that the graphics were far from 'Next-Gen' but with this, the graphics look pretty, well, 
 good! But, this fact is short lived when you realise that these are pretty basic graphics, yes 
 it does look astonishingly good, but it leaves you wondering what else they COULD have done, but 
 don't get disappointed, because the gameplay is so addictive, now i thought little games like Pac-Man 
 and Mario were addictive, but this is unbelievably addictive, every time you fail something, you 
 put the remote down, look at it and think I could have another go... and this just goes on and 
 on, and that's a good thing, a successful game is one that makes you want more, and then there's 
 the sounds, never had i seen such an amazing way to use sounds, until now, all the sounds are spot-on, 
 if you play bowling, when the pins fall over, it actually sounds like pins falling over, with people 
 cheering and ooooh-ing in the background, plus, if you play tennis, when you hit the ball, the 
 remote makes a swoosh and then a whacking sound, so you feel immersed in the game, makes you feel 
 like you are actually THERE, playing, it's the same with every other sport you can play, and it's 
 not a game you can learn in a couple of minutes and know what to do, it involves a lot of skill, 
 it'll take you ages to master every combination of techniques, and each time you compete in a sport, 
 you'll earn a number of skill points these count as your skill level and once you get 1000 points, 
 you'll reach PRO level, and everything will be taken up a notch, made much harder, i've only been 
 on pro level in Golf, and that is noticeably harder, the winds are more aggressive, and the timing 
 and power of your swing has to be JUST RIGHT, and don't just think that you can only play games 
 in the available sports either, you can go and do fun training levels where your skill level is 
 unaffected, in Bowling, you can do the power throws training, where more and more pins are added 
 each time, and in Golf you can do target practice in Boxing you can punch on a punchbag, and in 
 Tennis there's swing control i think you get the idea, there's three training levels for each sport, 
 but it doesn't end there either, you can do your Wii Fitness Age where you do three of the training 
 activities randomly selected and the game calculates your Wii Fitness Age, and you have to do this 
 once a day to get your Fitness Age going down until you get to 20.
  
  So it's all perfectly good having some fun on the game on your own, but when more people are involved 
 the fun is turned into you being competitive, the multiplayer is, once again, simple, but effective, 
 i've even been beaten on Bowling by a three year old! but that just shows how good it is at getting 
 people involved, everyone can enjoy this game, and for a game that came with the Wii, this is an 
 incredibly good one, it's just a shame that it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spire913
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  When you buy the nintendo wii it comes with a goofy looking game by the name of wii sports. The 
 game is highly addictive with really good graphics. The best part of the game is that you can actually 
 play with the charecters you make, and if you dont think thats addictive then the games will get 
 you. Wii sports comes with a verity of games like  boxing. These 
 games are so addictive when you first get your wii you will be up all night, trying to make it 
 to the pro level that the game challenges you to get to by gaining experince points for your mii 
 charecter. Now with good games comes flaws. Baseball is great but the thing that sucks is that you 
 can't run with the charecter to bases and when ever the ball hits the floor and bounces back up 
 it is considered a out, even when they dont throw it to a base, other then that i didn't find any 
 thing else wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3DSh8rk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't too hyped for Wii Sports, but once I picked up the Wii-mote, I lost my self in a matter 
 of seconds. The graphics aren't midnblowing, but they fit the game; I would honestly not want realistic 
 graphics for this game. The reason this game is a true success is because of it's innovation. Once 
 you pick up the Wii-mote, you lose yourself. It has a very fun multiplayer. You will have many 
 laughs with your friends and family. The only downside to this game is that the controls for some 
 of the games are a little flawed. Bowling is closest to flawless, but I still like tennis most. 
 Im sure that all of this will be solved in the future by Wii connect 24, but why are you sitting 
 here, go have some fun with Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General-Zod
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this you either own a Wii and don't have to, or you are considering buying a 
 Wii, and therefore this is part of the whole package.
  
  In short, buy a Wii. Reasonable price, backwards compatibility, virtual old school games... the 
 list goes on. I only mention this because the game comes with it.
  
  The game is fun, a great introduction to the motion sensing controls, and perfect for killing 20-30 
 minutes if that is all you are looking for. Aside from the games, most of which are more fun to 
 play with someone else (bowling might be the only exception) , there is training you can do to earn 
 medals, too.
  
  Bowling is a favorite of mine, along with Tennis, which is fun to play head to head with someone. 
 Boxing is the only one which is not much fun, as when you are going head to head he who flails 
 the most wins... kind of boring.
  
  You'll have a good time with this whole package though, as all the other games are fun, and hey, 
 the price is right. So...
  
  GO GET A Wii!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a all around good game. The sound that comes out of the Wii remote acutlly sounds 
 really good. The graphics arent that good for a next gen system though. The gameplay is fun to 
 because you can make your one player. And if you want to you can have it Wii Mingle which means 
 it wonders to others peoples Wii's. Witch is really cool. Also the way your motion senser works 
 on your controllers is very good. The best achivement of the game is the sound from the Wii remote 
 and the Wii gameplay those two are just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mk200114
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  So, Wii Sports is just a free tech demo that helps Wii users get a feel for how the controller 
 works, right? Wrong. By my guess, Id say Im past the 30 hour mark of playing time since I first 
 swung that bat on launch night. If there was ever to be an Olympics of gaming, this would be it. 
 While some video games keep track of your fastest lap times or how many kills youve acquired, 
 arguably there is no other game that tests your pure athletic abilities as well as Wii Sports. 
 There are 5 sports available to play, and on some level they can even be compared to the real thing. 
 Besides playing the full games from beginning to end, there is also a Training mode for every 
 sport and a Fitness mode.
  
  Fitness mode, similar to Brain Age on the DS, will tell you your fitness age from 20 to age 80. 
 Depending on how well you do in the three randomly chosen challenges from Training mode, you will 
 be rated by balance, speed, and stamina and then given your final age score -- the lower the better. 
 Its cool to see how you progress from day to day, but in my opinion, its not to be taken too 
 seriously because you might be better at one challenge than another.
  
  As for the full games themselves, your rating in each sport rises and falls depending on how well 
 you do per game. Your goal is to try to eventually achieve the Pro ranking by winning your way 
 to 1000. I think its cool that you and your friends can compare your ratings in a particular sport, 
 so you can prove whos better. Lol. Currently Im just over 900 in Tennis right now.
  
  The manual doesnt do so well at telling you how to play each sport, other than what buttons to 
 press and the basic movement you have to make with your arms. Theres a bit of a learning curve 
 because there seems to be a sweet spot for every sport. What I mean by this is that theres a 
 certain point in your swing that the Wii identifies as where youll hit or release the ball. Itll 
 take a bit of practice to memorize these key points. What I did discover, though, is that by literally 
 mimicking the real life movements you do in these sports, the rest will come naturally -- with 
 the exception of some things like in bowling, for example, because you have to set what direction 
 you want to throw the ball before you actually throw it; but swinging the racket or bat just 
 as you would in real life has a surprisingly realistic result.
  
  Training mode is not a tutorial, as it may sound, but a set of challenges for each sport. These 
 challenges, in my opinion, are the most addicting part of Wii Sports. Youll try to accomplish 
 things from hitting 10 homeruns in a row to bowling a strike with 91 pins. Of course, your high 
 score in each challenge is recorded. And as if that wasnt enough, you can earn medals for every 
 challenge. Right now I have 2 gold medals, which believe it or not, Im pretty proud of; so you 
 can consider what an accomplishment itd be for someone to get all 15 gold medals (or platinum! 
 XD) . Wii Sports is a blast to pick and up play at anytime. Its so much fun trying to beat your 
 personal records and, dare I say, it even feels like youre on the court or at the alleys. If Wii 
 Sports is this fun playing solo, I cant imagine how amazing itd be to go head to head with two, 
 three, or even four people simultaneously!
  
  Wii Sports is all you need to experience to know that Nintendo is heading in the right direction. 
 And at a price of $0, its a value you cant argue with.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes free with the Nintendo Wii console. Whether you're a sports fan or not, or even 
 a gamer or not, you'll certainly enjoy this game.
  
  Tennis -- The controls in Tennis are simple. All you do is swing the Wii Remote to swing your racket. 
 The timing of your swing is what's important. Depending on when you swing, you'll hit the ball 
 to the left, down the middle, or to the right. One of the best aspects of Tennis (and all the other 
 sports as well) is that after each match your skill level either goes up or down depending on how 
 you did on that match. If your skill level goes up, in your next match your opponents will also 
 be tougher. So by the time you've reached your approximate skill level, you'll an opponent with 
 about the same skill level as you, making for a tough match.
  
  Baseball -- When hitting in baseball, all you do is swing the Wii Remote the same way you would 
 swing a bat. When pitching, you use the d-pad to dictate where you will throw your pitch. You use 
 A, B, and A + B, to choose which pitch to throw, and then just swing the Wii Remote as if you were 
 really pitching. As with Tennis, your skill level dictates the skill of your opponent. Baseball 
 is probably the middle man of the five sports, meaning that out of the 5 I would rank this as the 
 third best.
  
  Bowling -- In Bowling, as with just about all of the other sports, you swing the Wii Remote to 
 roll the ball. No, it's not that simple, but it's pretty tough to explain exactly how you play 
 bowling so you'll just have to get it yourself. ;) With a little spin, scoring around 150 isn't 
 nearly as difficult as it would be in real life. But to reach 'pro' status (skill level needs to 
 be 1,000+) you not only need to have around 180 every time you play but you need to get 3-4 strikes 
 as well. It may sound easy, but reaching pro in this is harder than any other sport I've played 
 so far.
  
  Golf -- All I can say is bleh, Golf is by far my least favorite of the sports. Maybe I just suck 
 at golfing in general, but I found it really difficult and really boring. So, because of my lack 
 of really playing this sport that's about all I've got to say on it.
  
  Boxing -- This is one of that sports that you'd want to play when you're tempers flaring or you 
 just need to punch something in general. All you do is swing the Wii Remote and Nunchuck to throw 
 punches. You can also block by holding them up, and move left and right by swinging them left and 
 right. At first this is a fun sport but it doesn't really last as much as the others. I'd place 
 this one in fourth out of the sports.
  
  So in conclusion, Wii Sports is a fun game that will not only help you get used to the Wiimote, 
 but will be loads of fun when you're just not in the mood for any of your other games. For a free 
 pack-in, Wii Sports is a score in every sense of the word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsephV2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I have only had my Wii for a few days and I have to say this game is a hole in one, home run, ace, 
 strike and a knock out. Now granted it is not the best game ever made and it does come with the 
 Wii the moment you purchase it but this game is just plain fun especially when playing with friends 
 or family. Wii Sports offers five different sports; golf, baseball, tennis, bowling and boxing. 
 In addition to the sports there is training and a fitness test which are also neat features. Ok 
 the gameplay for this game is very simple. Each sport has their own gameplay and basic movements 
 are used depending on what sport you play (baseball you act like your swinging a bat, tennis a 
 racket and so on) . At the beginning of each game you are directed with what controls to use so 
 it never gets confusing.
  
  Now the graphics are a different story. This is really the only downside to the game but if you 
 can get past the graphics its perfectly fine. The graphics aren't horrifying but once again they 
 aren't the greatest. Basic character models are used (at times the models do not have legs, feet 
 or arms they always have hands) and they aren't that bad too look at. A fun feature with the models 
 though is that if you use the Mii Channel of the Wii you can create your own characters for Wii 
 Sports. The sound is pretty good for this game especially during boxing matches, every punch is 
 very clear (I can't wait to see a Fight Night come out for Wii) and at certain times during all 
 the sports your wii remote makes sounds. There is tons of replay value with this game especially 
 with when you play with friends and family. You only need one remote to play bowling and golf but 
 when you play these games with friends or family (create a character for each of them) its pretty 
 awesome. With games like the boxing it actually puts up a decent workout. Overall this game is 
 just really fun. When I first got the system I expected a pretty basic game and it turned to be 
 really cool. For a game that comes with the system it provides one big punch and is a perfect party 
 game for friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  My first wii review, and i thought i'd start with this as it was the first game i played on and 
 i haven't completed the others as of yet so can't give a fully accurate review. So, onwards!
  
  So, yea, yea, we all know it's a 'freebie' and is apparantly chucked in to get us to grips with 
 the controls, but take a second look and this game really does offer enjoyment to you and anyone 
 else daring to brace the new wiimote!
  
  Wii sports centres around your already created mii person (s) . So, you can have your little guy 
 or girl dodging around the boxing arena or making a desperate run for fourth base or even sinking 
 a 20m putt on the 3rd green.
  
  This game, as it is free, can't be expected to be in-depth and full of features, but
  its simplistic 
 games and controls work in its favour allowing it to be a real 'pick-up and go' game for a single 
 person or many! The selection screen is basic, offering the option to play one of the five games 
 or to delve in to practise or a wii work out ( basically you perform certain tasks aimed at raising 
 heart rate ) , and it even gives you a fitness age!
  
  The five games are wii tennis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. All of which can be played in 
 multiplayer modes where other players take on the roles of other created miis. All five are exciting 
 to play in multiplayer modes - tennis, however is probably the most enthralling and involving as 
 it requires all participants to play constantly and 'stay on the ball'. Wii sports throws in some 
 incentive to carry on playing in the form of experience points. After every game you play, your 
 mii receives certain amounts of points depending on how well you have performed and your overall 
 score. So, if your a whizz at tennis then you could see yourself becoming a pro in no time ( 1000 
 points are required to become a pro ) !
  
  For an average gamer, getting used to the controls won't be a mammoth task and once overcome, they 
 work well and feel excellent. The rumble feature is used alot ( at its best in boxing ) , and the 
 wiimote speaker is utilised also ( done so well especially in tennis and golf where the impact 
 between bat / club and ball can be distinctly heard ) !
  
  Graphics wise, wii sports actually bosts some rather detailed and glamerous scenery within the 
 games themselves. However, some are rather basic but aren't to noticeable. For example, in wii 
 sports golf, the 'fly by' before you play of each hole is excellently presented and accompanied 
 with some rather catchy tunes, but around the green and fairways, basic textures and repetitive 
 landscape dull the experience somewhat.
  
  Now, there have been some doubts over the reliability and effectiveness of the wiimote, but wii 
 sports casts them all into darkness and replaces these doubts with wii excellence! In all 5 games, 
 the remote responds to your every flick and timing and the nunchuk also works well. In boxing, 
 it has you using the wiimote as one hand and the nunchuk for the other, and it sees you thrusting 
 and jabbing and blocking furiously. It all gets exciting and really pulls you into every game!
 
  
  Overall, this is a nice start to the wii and every gamers new experience to this console. What 
 drags it down is the lack of variation in most games and somewhat too childish graphics, but this 
 is expected in a 'free' game and the first for a console! So, to say its free, it's an excellent 
 multiplayer for everyone of all ages and will stay that way for most of the wii's career! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a good game to have. So you can play with your family or your friends. Plus it comes 
 with the wii. The thing is it's not supposed to be a game of the year type of game. It's just trying 
 to introduce you to the new wii controls. And it does a good job. There is no selectable difficulty. 
 When you win, your skill level goes up along with the computer next time you verse themin that 
 specific sport. Let me type some more words to finish off the character limit. Let me type some 
 more words to finish off the character limit. Let me type some more words to finish off the character 
 limit. Let me type some more words to finish off the character limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DO646260
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  Some people survived on ONLY this!!! and it was free with EVERY Wii? Awesome!! I own other games 
 and still play this for fun!!! I would have even paid to get this, but Nintendo freaking rocks!!!! 
 I have owned Nintendo from NES to now and will continueto support them forever! I recommend spending 
 the money on the Wii to play these games, and thisone is even free!!!! 250$ (+tax) And you can 
 play!!!! Still won't let me submit this review, how close is it to 100 words? Come on! I love playing 
 this game and my friends find it very challenging but fun and a different experience then the PS3 
 and Xbox 360, which is Revolutionary in my opinon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  A bundled videogame that comes free with a console? Surely it has to be bad. Strange that Nintendo 
 opted to include Wii Sports with the Wii console and not as a cheap stand alone product. In some 
 way that decision may have marred the games respectability, or at least until you load it. You 
 then realise that Wii Sports is actually a brilliant game and one that youd have been happy to 
 pay a little extra for. No, its not graphically stunningas well shortly examinenor is it an 
 aural assault on the senses, and theres very little depth to be had. Yet Wii Sports is still a 
 slice of absolute genius. Lets examine why.
  
  More than anything else, Wii Sports does one thing amazingly well, it shows gamers what the Wii 
 remote is capable of delivering, but it does it in such a clever and fun way, it makes gaming accessible 
 to everyoneeven non-gamers. Perhaps this is why Nintendo chose to include it with the Wii console. 
 Wii Sports includes simplified versions of Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Boxing and Baseball. Each of 
 these sports will see the Wii remote utilized as though it were a bat, racket, club, ball, and 
 boxing gloves. This is what makes this title so much fun to play, and also so appealing to those 
 people in your family that dont usually partake in your gaming hobby. Wii Sports lacks the confusion 
 of a title like Zelda, or many other in-depth games, instead getting down to the nitty-gritty of 
 what gaming is about, fun with a capital F.
  
  All of the sports in Wii Sports use the Wii remote, with the exception of Boxing, which uses both 
 the Wii remote and Nunchuk, one in each hand, each mimicking the movements youd make in the ring. 
 This aspect of the Wii control mechanism will surprise many who believed the Nunchuk was merely 
 a regular controller add-on to the motion sensing Wiimote controller. Sadly, despite the cool 
 factor of the boxing section of Wii Sports, its the one title in the compilation that feels a 
 little hampered; though it can still be fun.
  
  If Wii Sports is going to have any criticism aimed at it, its probably going to be that it lacks 
 depth. To this I say, So? Who needs depth when youve got a game that is fun, hilarious, and 
 a true family experience? When a four-player game of bowling has you whooping and cheeringmuch 
 as you would were you actually at the local bowling alleyor a game of tennis has you exerting 
 as much grunting energy as a pro would, then who cares about depth? The immersion factor of Wii 
 Sports is absolutely astonishing and its all down to the way you play it. Sitting on your behind 
 to play the deep and graphically resplendent titles such as Top Spin or Tiger Woods is one thing, 
 getting off your behind to forehand and backhand like a pro, or chip in from the bunkereven with 
 modest graphicsis an entirely new world, a wonderful world, a world we like, and a world youll 
 like too.
  
  Its difficult to criticize Wii Sports for anything else other than its lack of depth. Sure, the 
 games are simplistic, as are the graphicsextremely simplistic in comparison to other next-gen 
 consolesbut all of this is of little consequence because Wii Sports arrives as a free game bundled 
 with the hardware, and it is an absolute blast to play. Regarding replay value, Wii Sports has 
 it in abundance in both multiplayer and even in single-player modes. You can aim at becoming a 
 pro by accumulating points; the more points you get, particularly in tennis and boxing, the harder 
 your opponents will become in order to keep the experience challenging. This ramping up of difficulty 
 works well because it keeps you interested and increases so gradually that even non-gamers will 
 have become adept by the time real difficulty creeps init certainly wont ruin the gameplay.
 
  
  Theres also another little section in Wii Sports called Wii Sports Fitness. This is essentially 
 a little add-on mode thats similar to Dr Kawashimas Brain Training on the Nintendo DS, although 
 this is meant for fitness. Youll be asked to play through a series of tasks that will assess your 
 agility, balance, and stamina, and then the results will be gathered in order to give you your 
 Wii Fitness Age, which will be stored in a chronological graph format so you can chart your ongoing 
 progress. Its not a huge addition, but its still funand the reappearance of the f word pretty 
 much sums up the title overall.
  
  So, there you have it, Wii Sports is free game that comes packaged with the Wii hardware, and it 
 offers more fun than youre probably going to have on many of the ported full-priced titles. Furthermore, 
 this review didnt even see us needing to add a female gamer angle, because Wii Sports is for one 
 and all. And, as all the sports games use a representative Mii which you can create in your own 
 image (or someone elses if you desire) , its completely balanced in terms of gender. Its also 
 a rare title that will have that ever elusive girlfriend market desperately wanting to take a 
 turnhell, the mom and grandma market too. Wii Sports is tempting to all of those groups, and non-gamers 
 in general because of its instant accessibility, and its also a joy for the veteran gamer because 
 of the innovative control method. Wii Sports is, in a word, amazing.
  
  Gone is the complexity inherent in the latest EA or 2K franchise sports titles, this is bare boned 
 sporting goodness and it can be made all the more enjoyable by the Wiis ability to create a Mii. 
 Yes, create a Mii character based on yourself, get your friends to do the same (actually you wont 
 have to get them to, theyll want to) and let the games begin. Youll probably spend most of your 
 time playing tennis and bowling, but the other sports are also fun in short bursts; boxing is the 
 only one you may not play for long. The Wii is a new console full of great promise, and its innovation 
 is incomparable to its next-gen counterparts. Trust me, depth or no depth, youll still be playing 
 Wii Sports in a year, be it at family parties, when youre bored on a rainy day, or just when you 
 want a little fun-filled exercise. The only thing youll have to worry about is a sore shoulder 
 for a day or two from all the effort the experience coaxes out of you. Wii Sports rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathnote21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a highly addictive party game that I guarantee you and your friends will play for 
 a long time. After all it comes free when you buy the Wii.
  
  Game play: Wii Sports has a fun and simple game play nothing much to say than is fun, they even 
 give you a tutorial the first time you play the sports. Graphics: the graphics arent that good 
 at all. (Worst graphics Ive seen from the Wii so far.) I still ask myself: how can the Miis run 
 so fast if the have no legs playing baseball. Sounds: With the Wii controller making sounds, this 
 game is perfect in sounds. The sports make the same sound they would in real life (For ex: if your 
 playing tennis and you hit the ball you hear the racket hit the ball.) Wii sport definitely shows 
 the abilities of the wii. And of course everybody loves the intro song. Wii sport definitely shows 
 the abilities of the Wii remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwy11north
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the game that everyone with a Wii has, and for non-gamers, it's pretty good. Unfortunately, 
 a gamer like me sees the flaws in Wii Sports. When I first played it for about 2 hrs at a friends 
 house, it was a lot of fun and it showed me what the Wiimote was all about. However, after getting 
 my own Wii, the game had lost it's appeal. The games are too simple, and many are based on luck. 
 Some, like golf and boxing, can be horrendously unresponsive at times. In tennis, you can't control 
 which way you hit the ball, so when you want to make a backhand shot, the game will make you hit 
 a forehand shot out of bounds. In bowling, the ball spin can sometimes seem random. And in boxing, 
 only about half of your punches register. It should be fun, but it isn't. Wii Sports is over-hyped, 
 and it is basically a tech demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shipporules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports displays the Wii's potential and capabilities. It's an extremely fun game that's easy 
 to learn.
  
  Gameplay: 10- Again, it's fun and easy. Wii Sports is fun for hours, especially for my mom.
  
 
  Graphics: 7- The graphics aren't astonishing like a PS3 or 360 game, but are comical and refreshing, 
 nonetheless.
  
  Sound: 7- Simulated sounds create a realistic (enter sports name here) environment.
  
  Value: 
 10- Kudos to Nintendo, a wonderful game to kick off the arrival of the Wii. Wii Sports can always 
 provide a challenge, so you'll find yourself playing it for a long time.
  
  Tilt: 10- Even if you're not athletic (ME!) , Wii Sports will make you feel like a pro. You can 
 train to get better in fun minigames and test your health. My dad may be 47, but he has the body 
 of a 29-year old!
  
  The Best Sport: Bowling!
  
  Bowling is extremely realistic. It's the easiest to play, and you'll find yourself playing better 
 than you do in real life. Bowling includes pieces of comical humor (throwing bowling balls at people 
 behind you, picking up spares for people in other lanes) and will provide fun for hours.
  
  How I rank the Sports:
  
  1: Bowling
  2: Baseball
  3: (TIED) Boxing Tennis
  5: Golf
  
 
  WII! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons1fan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  well first ill start off my first real review with this ame wii sports ill first say that it is 
 a good game for a product demo/shipment game. its a fun game for anyone of anyage. It has a wide 
 variaty of games, and they never really get old. It is fun to be able to make your mii's and use 
 them in this game. Well the graphics are kinda poor but there ok. Some of the games *cough* boxing 
 *cough* dotn register your hits alot, and the game bugs some. Hmm the sound in this was fairly 
 good, but the sound from the speakers were better than most games. This game has a great pricerange 
 becuase its free!
  The learning curve of this game can vary from person to person, mostly on how much they videogame. 
 But after you get ahang of it and work yourself out of all the bugs, you can really get into it 
 I do have ONE big complaint... You hurt the next morning BADDDDD.
  
  Overall u have to get this game... literally. I would reccomend playing this, and it doesnt really 
 get old.
  
  overall a 7.7-10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_seaxx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports. [Nintendo Wii / November 17, 2006]
  
  The title of the game just sums it all up -- a small sports game for the Wii. Five interestingly 
 motion-sensored games that use the WiiMote [while one also uses the nunchuk attachment] . Each game 
 has its flaws and pros, but does the whole game add up to be great?
  
  At first, if you look at the game itself, the graphics .. aren't as great compared to the X-Box360 
 and the PS3. But do graphics really matter in a game that is just a demonstration of the Wii's 
 capabilities? I think not. Besides, since I'm not a fan of the X360 or the PS3 and I don't look 
 at their game screens, etc.. I don't really know what the hype about graphics are, so I think these 
 graphics are good! Better than the Gamecube.. good enough for me.
  
  It is INSANELY easy to start playing this game. When we got the Wii, we immediately grabbed it, 
 put in Wii Sports, and started to enjoy. It was very easy to get the controls down -- they had 
 the little animation schemes up to help teach you for about a minute, and then the game finally 
 started. Learning curve was very low -- I'm sure anyone can just pick up the Wiimote and start 
 swinging their racket, or start bowling the pink bowling ball.
  
  The first game that we did was bowling (obviously) because I had heard it was a fun experience, 
 and multiplayer. When we first entered the game (my brother &amp; I) , I was captivated by the enviroment 
 -- with other Mii's playing beside you, and your own Mii's in the back cheering you on, which gave 
 it a warm atmospheric feel to it. The bowling sensor controls were all spot on, and the striking 
 and sparing felt great. Now this game is currently my parents' favorite, and we're playing it together. 
 It really brings a family together.
  
  Then we looked at tennis and baseball. Tennis was good, it seemed a bit boring whacking the ball 
 back and forth with no movement whatsoever (because the game did it yourself) , but soon it became 
 more fun when you played with one of your own family members as one team. My parents love playing 
 together against two computers with similar skill levels. Baseball was a bit harder than the other 
 two games because it involved more hand-eye coordination. My brother has yet to get a homerun, 
 but he's awesome at pitching. The graphics look good except the sound gets annoying here with the 
 announcer saying Foul ball in the most monotonous and sarcastic tone.. ever. Worst thing is that 
 skill level is not raised in multiplayer Baseball..
  
  Golf was surprisingly the best, graphic-wise. I loved the green scapes and the enviroment looked 
 extremely realistic. Playing the game was a bit tougher, especially with the wind levels and such 
 being included in the factor. Golf is still hard for the family, because it's less wild and more 
 patience is acquired -- not a hit in the house at the moment. Boxing was a great game for my brother 
 and I. We love beating up the people, and waiting for the numbers to rise to 10 and a KO sign appearing 
 on the screen. It started off extremely easy, and it still is -- but the difficulty level is increasing 
 and makes it more fun to play.. great stress reliever. However, sometimes the sensor bar doesn't 
 take in your motions and it gets delayed. The graphics are a bit more poor in this game as well. 
 But the worst thing is that your boxing skill level doesn't increase in multiplayer boxing.. even 
 if your opponent is about 20 points ahead of you..
  
  Then there are two more modes before the game is complete. The training modes are really fun and 
 really do help you in the real game itself. I especially love power striking in the bowling training 
 -- with about 70 pins to knock down, it makes you feel very accomplished with about 65-70 down. 
 Wii Fitness is a similar thing to the Brain Age concept of the Nintendo DS. It's basicalyl three 
 training tests that measure your stamina and balance like that.
  
  In the end, this game surprised me a lot.. since it was free with the Nintendo Wii, and didn't 
 look very good in the screenshots -- its warm atmosphere and multiplayer capabilities pull this 
 game to be a winner, especially with family and friends. Dad, give me back the WiiMote! definitely 
 explains this game -- it shows that the Wii is bringing everyone of any age back to video gaming.. 
 including your parents. I'm glad this game is with the Nintendo Wii, because it's definitely a 
 party starter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good for a free game. 'nuff said
  
  Gameplay: The game is really easy to play and you will have a lot of fun playing all the games... 
 That is if you get to play it because your parents will be playing it a lot.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't great. The reason I am not marking the graphics down a lot is because 
 Nintendo made the graphics like this on purpose. They did not want the graphics to look threatening 
 to new gamers.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. The sound is really realistic and the sound never gets annoying.
  
 
  Value: The game is not only free but it is really fun. For the replay value You won't play this 
 game for a long time until you start playing with your friends when you are bored. Once you play 
 again you won't stop for a while. Then the cycle will repeat over and over again. Oh yeah, the 
 game is free!!!
  
  Tilt: There is a lot to do in this game besides play the sport. You could test your health, play 
 fun minigames like one of the baseball minigames is a homerun derby. This game is an awesome game 
 that everyone should own and will own.
  Now lets talk about the different sports.
  
  Baseball: My favorite sport. There are three innings and you play as the pitcher and batter. This 
 is a really fun sport.
  
  Golf: My second favorite sport. You can pick the different types of clubs that you could play from, 
 you have to hit against the wind, and there are many obstacle.
  
  Bowling: My third favorite sport is really fun and simple. It is just like real bowling.
  
 
  Tennis: This is tied with bowling as my third favorite sport. This game is a little too simple 
 and there is no variety to it. For example You can't do backhand serves and you can hit the ball 
 differently.
  
  Boxing: The is my least favorite sport. People are complaining that they get tired by playing this. 
 I found this sad because all you do is whack the other person. There is no difference in hitting 
 the rival hard or soft. For example, if you hit the enemy with all your might it will do the same 
 amount of damage as if you hit him with barely any energy. Also the only punches that you can pull 
 off are headshots and body blows. Both punches do the same amount of damage so it is sort of pointless 
 and it is dumb how you can't do anything else.
  
  This game is awesome ,period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Everyone by now knows that the Wii game named Wii Sports comes with every Nintendo Wii system except 
 for the people in Japan. Is it a success? Yes, because it does one thing successful and that's 
 all: Showing off the Wii's capabilities. No other game has demonstated the Wii's capabilities better 
 than Wii Sports. It's free, it's easy, it's what Nintendo chose to give to the customers. Sports, 
 and lots of people enjoy Sports.
  
  Wii Sports doesn't show off the Wii's graphical capabilities though, so those graphics maniacs 
 will be disappointed with the rather colourful but bright and simple graphics included in Wii Sports. 
 However, the game focuses on the Wii's controller more than anything else. Graphics and sound are 
 not the highlights here. The controller steals the show.
  
  Wii Sports comes with five different sports for you to try with your Wiimote. Tennis, Baseball, 
 Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Each game uses the Wii's motion sensor for you to play with. There's 
 also a Training mode and a Wii Fitness mode for other benefits, but I'll tell you about that later.
 
  
  Tennis focuses on you swinging the racket with your Wiimote by simply swinging it away like you 
 would if you hitten it with a real Tennis racket. However, you can't move your character around 
 the court, so you've only got to focus on hitting the ball with your Wiimote. Backswings are done 
 by switching the Wiimote around. Some say it's rather simple, but people are missing the point. 
 This is demonstrating on how you can swing the Wiimote around and how it can keep you in shape.
 
  
  Baseball is another swinging Sports game for your Wiimote. You are in control of two things: Batting 
 and Pitching. Notice how the game doesn't go too advance such as fielding? This is because the 
 computer does that for you. Hitting a ball with your Baseball Bat couldn't have been more easier. 
 Just swing the Wiimote as if you were hitting a ball with a bat. Power and accuracy is included 
 in this so if you want to get a Home Run you're gonna have to swing it hard. Standard Baseball 
 rules are focused here so three strikes will get you out. This game is demonstrating power and 
 accuracy on the Wiimote.
  
  Bowling is rather unusual. It is different from the other two because in order to bowl you have 
 to hold the back button and swing the controller as if you bowling a bowling ball. To give the 
 ball a little spin, you have to twist the remote around to the direction you want the ball to spin. 
 Standard bowling rules apply, such as Spares and Strikes and invalid bowls. This is a great game 
 to play if you only have one Wiimote and want to play with others. You can also line up your shots 
 with ease and change the angle of your shot. This allows better accuracy and a higher chance of 
 winning. This game is demonstrating power and accuracy again, but also how you can play multiplayer 
 with only one Wiimote controller.
  
  Golf is a rather big favourite and accurate sports game here. There are 9 holes in total, but you 
 can do either Beginner , Intermediate ,or Advanced . You can also play all of the holes if you 
 want. In order to take a shot, you must position your Wiimote as if it was a golf club and swing 
 away. The faster you swing, the longer the shot. You can also change clubs by pressing up and down, 
 plus you can move your swing shot by pressing right and left on the Wiimote's D-pad. Wind is also 
 included in some holes, to give you more difficulty in the game. Once you get onto the green, you 
 have to putt the ball into the hole with the putter. This game demonstrates the acceleration in 
 the Wiimote and the colourful graphics in the Wii.
  
  Boxing is the only Sports game here to include the Nunchuk controller. You use both the Wiimote 
 and the Nunchuk to knock out your opponents by pushing one of the controllers forward as if you 
 were punching an opponent with boxing gloves. Think of the controllers as your boxing gloves. If 
 you want to block, you move both controllers towards you as if you were really blocking. As you 
 are fighing, you can punch up, down, or forwards to beat your opponent. There's a chance you'll 
 get hit, but once your opponent's health bar hits zero he's on the floor. If he's on for over 10 
 seconds you win! Same rules apply to you. You might stay on the ground or come up and fight again. 
 This game demonstrates 2P multiplayer with more than one Wiimote and how effective the Nunchuk 
 controller can be.
  
  Other modes such as Training can help you improve with different Sports minigames and as you get 
 better, you unlock more training stages. All five sports are included, and these can help you improve 
 in Wii Sports. The other mode, Wii Fitness, can help determine what your Wii Fitness Age is. Don't 
 be afraid of it, because it does really work. You do three Sporting activites each day and it tries 
 to work out your age. Power and accuracy are cruicial here if you want a good age. Ages range from 
 20-80 so don't worry if you do bad the first time. There's always room for improvement.
  
  Wii Sports is also the first game to show off the Mii's. You can create your own MIi in the Mii 
 Channel on your Wii. This is a great example of showing off your Mii's and you can use them like 
 characters in any of the sports games. They're simple, but get the job done for the game.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is one of the most important games on any console to date. The simplicity 
 and fun factor makes this game a hit. You get it free with the Wii so what have you got to lose. 
 Play it so that you can see what the Wii is capable off, but don't take graphics and sound to high 
 expectations. Otherwise you may be shattered and disappointed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottozero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics=Gamecube
  Sound=gamecube
  Value=Wii
  Fun=Wii
  Control=Beats the crap out of my 360
  
  This game is free and that great. Not the best game 
 but a started kit basically. For a first generation Wii game it's great. But to be honest I wouldn't 
 pay more than 19.95 for this game (sorry Japanese people U) .
  
  The bowling is ok ,but too easy and not enough tricks to it.
  The tennis is annoying. No singles 
 damm that sucks.
  Also not enough tricks. (Bet the Wii version of Super Mario tennis will solve this though)
  
 
  Golf, I like this game. Good job nintendo..
  
  Boxing... fun against other people but the CPU sucks.
  again more tricks needed.
  
  Last but 
 least... Baseball, Hey I want to play out field and I want to fun the bases.. Fun though.
  
  I can forgive the graphics and the sound is good enough for me but this game is only a SAMPLER 
 and not deep enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helmith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that anyone can play and be good at the only possible downfall it has is getting 
 boring unless you have more people. The training mode provides a good distraction though if your 
 getting bored of playing the actual games. Wii training sounds boring but actually can present 
 a challenge at points such as dodging tennis balls for boxing or 91 pin bowling. However after 
 5-10 hours of gameplay its just not fun anymore but with multiplayer it feels like a brand new 
 game thats just hilarious to watch or play (and its funny to see someone get slammed is the face. 
 Overall you should try playing the game even if you don't think its going to be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Wii Sports contains a total of 5 sports, some of which are awesome and some of which 
 arent as good. The first sport is Wii Tennis. This is probably the best game on there, and is 
 an absolute blast to play. The controls work perfectly and its especially fun to play with friends. 
 Plus it gives you a good workout! The next sport is Wii Baseball. I didnt think that this was 
 as good as most of the other sports. Its definitely a good concept, but the problem is the difficulty 
 of getting points. I found it to be nearly impossible to hit the ball without getting a foul, and 
 even if you do manage to hit the ball, if you dont hit it out of the park then the catchers seemed 
 to catch the ball more than half of the time! The third sport is Wii Bowling. This is the second 
 best sport on the disc, and is really fun to play! Its pretty addictive trying to beat your high 
 score or playing with friends, and feels like youre actually bowling! The fourth sport on the 
 disc is Wii Golf. Ive got kind of a mixed opinion on this one. Its definitely fun to play, but 
 its just so hard to be exact in terms of how hard you want to hit the ball, since if you swing 
 with any amount of effort, youll max out the bar and swing as far as you can (meaning to fill 
 up the bar 3/4 of the way, you have to hit it pretty lightly, which is really strange) . The final 
 sport is Wii Boxing. I found the controls to be pretty unresponsive for this game. Its pretty 
 hard to swing the way you want, dodge, block, etc Even so though, its still surprisingly fun 
 to play with friends! While the game is fun to play multiplayer, playing the game solo is extremely 
 lacking. There isnt really much incentive to play it by yourself at all, which is why it is tough 
 to say that the gameplay is a 9 or a 10.
  
  Graphics: Wii Sports is an alright looking game. The visuals are pretty basic, and nothing looks 
 amazing in the game, but then again, nothing really looks bad either. The overall look is what 
 youd expect from this type of game. While Im sure that these visuals could be easily pulled off 
 by last-gens Gamecube, its hard to argue that Wii Sports isnt a good looking game.
  
  Sound: The sound in Wii Sports is, like its graphics, very basic. The sound effects are excellent 
 and match their real life sound effects nicely, but there isnt really a whole lot of music or 
 anything of that type in Wii Sports. That makes this a tough category to rate: on the one hand, 
 there isnt really anything bad about the sound effects or music. However, on the other hand, there 
 isnt really anything great about the music or sound effects either. So, the audio aspect of Wii 
 Sports is not bad, but not great either.
  
  Value: Now, while the sports are fun to play and for the most part work really well with the Wiimote, 
 theres just an overall lack of things to do in the game. I mean, you can pick a sport and play 
 a match of it against the computer (earning you ranking points in that particular sport) , and 
 theres some Training things which test you in things such as how many times you can hit the tennis 
 ball back before missing or how many home runs you can get in 10 tries (the game records your high 
 scores for these) , and theres a daily Fitness Test that works similar to something like Brain 
 Age, where you perform 3 tasks and it assigns you an age that matches your Fitness Level based 
 on your performance in those tasks, but thats about all there is to the game. Theres no actual 
 main game or story mode or whatever you want to call it. It all seems more like an upgraded 
 tech demo than anything else, and its hard to imagine anyone paying full price for this game (luckily 
 for us North Americans, it was included with the Wii) . The multiplayer is lots of fun, and its 
 the type of game that you can keep coming back to with friends (until something like Super Smash 
 Brothers Brawl comes out, anyways) , but in terms of single player well, put it this way: Ive 
 had my Wii for nearly a month and a half, and Ive played this game by myself for about 15 minutes 
 So while Wii Sports may fill your Wii multiplayer sessions, its got a total lack of things to 
 do in terms of single player, and its hard to imagine buying this game if it wasnt packaged in 
 with the Wii.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Wii Sports is a great multiplayer game but a bad single player game. Its hard to 
 consider it as being much more than a supped-up tech demo, because there is an overall lack of 
 substance to the game. So, is Wii Sports a bad game? No, of course it isnt, its actually a lot 
 of fun playing it with friends and the sports have enjoyable gameplay that work very nicely with 
 the Wiimote. However, if this wasnt already packaged in with the Wii, I wouldnt really see any 
 reason to pay full price for this game. So while Wii Sports is definitely a good display of the 
 Wiimotes capabilities, its not really an amazing game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fjackel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is great i would say it is a must buy but it comes free with every Wii console! A really 
 cool part about the game is that you can get a great exercise while you play (especially in boxing) 
 and that there are a good selection of sports like Bowling, Tennis, Boxing, Baseball, and Golf. 
 But the golf is not my favorite because there is a little lag when swinging the club, but golf 
 is still fun. Another thing good about this game is that the motion sensor surprised me because 
 i didnt think it would be as good as it is. So yeah if you dont have a wii try to get a wii because 
 it is alot better then PS3, and the graphics on a 360 are actually better then the PS3. And Before 
 I End This Review Wii Sports Is A great game to play with anyone just like in the commercials, 
 GREAT PArty Game For All Ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  My family has never been the gaming sort. My mother's always scowled whenever I buy the most recent 
 Playstation game, and always wonders how I can find pressing buttons fun.
  
  My mom, instead of scowling when she had it, wouldn't stop talking about it. In fact, she ended 
 up playing herself and enjoyed it, with the end result of me bring it to my grandparent's house.
 
  
  My uncle, two cousins, aunt, father, sister, mother, and even my grandparents were up off the couch 
 swinging the little controllers in games of tennis, or boxing their hearts out to kingdom come. 
 It was a sight that I myself was shocked to see.
  
  My sister now plays it more than I do - she's in college. My family loves the thing, and it seems 
 that my father even went on to talk about Wii Sports to the neighbors as well, who are now curious.
 
  
  The game is great thanks to its simple nature. Swing the remote, and it swings that racket on the 
 screen. Jab the remote, and it punches with a fist. And with the press of a button, a whole group 
 can go bowling, golfing, boxing, or have a few rounds of baseball or tennis.
  
  Best part is, the multiplayer is great. Having friends over has never been th is fun - play a game 
 of baseball with two people. No confusing controls and buttons to press, it makes everything easy.
 
  
  The graphics aren't amazing. The 'Mii's', though cute, look like they were slapped together in 
 a flash animation made 3-D. But the entire point of the game is that the graphics don't matter.
 
  
  With the bargain it is, coming free with the Wii, this game's amazing. It's games like this that 
 prove the power of the Wii, and the future it holds in stow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123kemps123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my wii this game was included and I heard that the game rocks. So that was the 
 first game I ever played on my wii and is still the greatest. Wii sports has five sports: Baseball, 
 Bowling, Boxing, Golf, and Tennis. Lets start with that list. Baseball
  Pros: Very fun when batting, Alot of pitching throws, Fun when you're winning
  Cons: You don't 
 get to control the outfielders or basemen, Too easy to hit homeruns,
  ---------------
  Bowling
  Pros: Very accurate, Awesome party game, Fun practice mini games
  Cons: Can't change 
 ball color or picture on ball
  ---------------
  Boxing
  Pros: Very funny to watch, Good excercise
  Cons: Alot of punches you throw do not get transferred 
 to the game
  ---------------
  Golf
  Pros: None
  Cons: Can't hit the ball as hard as you can, Putting is to hard, The ball bounces to much when 
 chipping or driving
  ---------------
  Tennis
  Pros: Awesome Part game, Fast Paced volleys
  Cons: None 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  For the first time we had four players playing Wii sports together. From a 98 year old grand mother 
 to a 4 year old the Wii is a big hit with people of all ages. This is where I think Nintendo really 
 released a great product. When people of all ages can enjoy something together it is amazing.
 
  
  To watch my family play, interact and even talk a bit of trash was so funny. We turned a belated 
 boring holiday party into something we will all remember for years to come. Even my cynical father 
 in law was enjoying bowling down the lanes although he was pretty skeptical. I have to admit the 
 Wii can get a bit dangerous. Younger kids tend to flail the remote around or spin it on their arms 
 when they are waiting for their turn. Also people ten not to pay any attention to things in the 
 area so watch your dogs, valuables and little ones while playing. All in all it is nice to see 
 the family playing together on something that promote exercise and anyone can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaadam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is an interesting way to show the new system works and is great as a free game. Finally 
 a company has decided to hand you a game when you buy their console. Something that the other companies 
 have yet to do (other than getting people to buy them past release) .
  
  The game is best played with friends, due to the chaos that can ensue (or the casting of curses 
 that have gone on) . Its also interesting that the games give you a workout as you play, something 
 that is not only sort of new (outside of DDR) and something that fits perfectly in with the gamer 
 lifestyle. Now kids everywhere have an excuse to play games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philq123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  So all wii owners are lucky to play dis demonstration of the wii's new intuitive controller (the 
 wiimote) ... Okay the graphics aren't great.. but u shouldnt judge it on that... And each game allows 
 you to play as yourself in the form of your newly created mii... I've put the games in decending 
 order of fun: -Bowling: this is the game that makes Wii Sports as a must play game.... i like the 
 way you really are able to controller where the ball goes... using curl and placement of your mii... This 
 game is the easiest to get to the level of pro in.... i did so in two days
  -Tennis: The controls are relatively responsive... its easy enough to play.... And you are able to 
 pick the amount of games you out of.... The only drawback is the lackage of movement.... your mii 
 moves for you... though this makes it easier... it also makes it less fun
  -Boxing: Attach your nunchuck.... Hold tight and swing your fists..... this game is easily the most 
 tiring.... but its fun and a great stress reliever... the controls arent that responsive but really 
 who cares... just go mad
  -Golf: Boring...... Thats the game.... its just a warmer version of the game that only the old love..... As 
 you can tell i don't find this game fun.... it does uses the controls well.... its just not for me...
 
  -Baseball: I found it like golf was long and drawn out..... it could have been great if the controls 
 were easier to use....
  
  All in all Wii Sports is great demonstration of the wii's power.... Games are fun and way to addictive.... Well 
 thats what i think .... I'm off now to play Wii Sports...... PQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is an editied version of my review for Wii Sports. I can basically tell you now that for a 
 Wii game, the controls are unresponsive. I doesn't matter if you flink the remote at the screen, 
 and nothing will work. Another agravating thing is the fact that the scoring system is crooked 
 and terrible. That is because the scoring is unrewarding and doesn't bring justice to you overall 
 performance. Please, only if you like Wii games or are a Sports fan, get this game. For everyone 
 else, stay the HECK away from it.
  
  Good: It came with getting a Wii..., graphics are good, sound is good, some of the controls are 
 fun to use.
  
  Bad: Controls are unimaginable unresponsive, Can't save more than one Mii to the play list, value 
 isn't really good, more originality could have brought the score up, scoring system is just bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a great game if you have a lot of people playing. One player though gets boring after 
 a while but hey what can you do. The Good: a decent game for the Wii that actually comes with it 
 for free; great multiplayer ( with 4 players it's a blast!!!) ; feels like your in the game just 
 like Wii designed its console; you can play it forever as long as you play with 2 to 4 players.
 
  
  The Bad: not the best graphics the Wii can give you; Could be more sports to play; the people looked 
 really wierd and could have been improved; in baseball they could have put more innings.
  
  Wii sports is a great game to play forever with a lot of people. But a couple improvements could 
 have been made. Make sure thou if you don't have a lot of people over often playing Wii sports 
 with you then make sure this isn't the only game you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrissey1959
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Just picked up a Wii system for the fun of it.
  
  Booted up Wii sports and my wife says oh.. this looks fun .
  
  So she creates Mii's for everyone 
 in the family and has been having a blast playing it. We have had some friends over, and after 
 a few drinks this game is damn fun, as anyone can play, even if they suck at traditional games.
 
  
  I've been a little bored of games lately, as I find I haven't had the time to learn the steep controls 
 of new 360 and PS3 controls. To be honest, I still think FPS should only be done on PC's with a 
 mouse.....
  
  I think the Wii is going to be a hit, because you can pickup and play for 20 minutes, and anybody 
 can play it, not just the gaming nerds.
  
  I may still end up buying a 360 or PS3, but I think the Wii will keep me going till those systems 
 drop below $300.
  
  Anyways, this game is pretty damn fun to play with friends or family, and I'm looking forward to 
 more games like this. My wife is already excited about Smooth Moves coming out soon..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports. What can I say?
  It's great. And it comes with the Wii. It's a pretty good demonstration of what the Wiimote is 
 capable of. Tennis is a tad simplistic, you merely swing the wiimote when the ball is within range 
 of your Mii. But it's easy enough to ignore this when played with another person. Baseball is probably 
 my favorite game in the package, and contains a decent - if not simplistic representation of the 
 game. The worst part of it is probably the pitching, as it doesnt really matter if you use the 
 gesture they say or not - just swing it to throw it and you'll do good. Bowling is fun enough, 
 but I think it takes some getting used too - the twisting of your wrists to add some spin to the 
 ball - but it's an alright game. Golf is pretty fun and possibly the best representation of a sport 
 within the package. Not many courses or anything to play on, but it's decent fun.
  
  And boxing, in which you also make use of the nunchuk attachment.
  It's also a pretty fun game 
 - though a tad easy, especially compared to the other games. The graphics in all of the above are 
 simple, but attractive.
  That you get to use your Mii in the game is just fantastic and I hope later titles like this make 
 use of them also.
  
  The sound is kind of minimal, but whats there gets the job done well enough.
  
  On it's own, 
 perhaps Wii Sports wouldn't be so great.
  But it comes with the Wii and some of the games in here are actually pretty good, so theres no 
 excuse for not giving it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritcheyz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the ideal pack-in game for the Wii, as it showcases the intuitiveness and ingenuity 
 of the Wiimote, wihle maintaining an essence of fun that will last you for days, or even weeks, 
 while you wait for your family to get done with Twilight Princess. Not to say that there isn't 
 anything bad about the game.
  
  Pros: Intuitive controls make for a fun, new gameplay experience that's perfect for gamers and 
 non-gamers alike, and it can be pretty funny at times. Punching your friend's on-screen avatar 
 has never been so much fun.
  
  Cons: The golf can be tricky at times, swinging when you don't want to, although I guessed they 
 realized this by implementing the practice swing portion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  With a bit more time and effort put into it, this game could have been excellent, however much 
 of it feels rushed and really just half-baked overall. More sports could have been added, ones 
 more suitable for the capabilities of the wiimote such as clay pidgeon shooting or anything that 
 requires aiming. The nunchuck could have been used for movement in tennis and boxing without great 
 difficulty on the developers' part, adding substantially to the fun factor, not to mention the 
 strategic factor.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Good, not great, the game is really just a tutorial on how to use the wiimote/nunchuk 
 controllers for the wii. The controls are very good and the bowling stands testament to just how 
 sensitive the wiimote really is. Unfortunately, most of the games dont even take too big of an 
 advantage to the innovative new control scheme, boxing being the only sport to even use the nunchuk 
 attachment.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is the first wii game to use the custom made mii to represent the player, this is 
 a great addition to the game adding a cool quirky and wacky stylistic touch to the game as opposed 
 to focusing on reaching levels of higher definition. Effective overall.
  
  SOUND: Nothing really stands out as being good or bad about the sound except the wiimotes god awful 
 tinny speaker.
  
  VALUE: Well the game is packaged with the wii so pretty good value all around, you still have to 
 buy the wii though to get it.
  
  PROS: Demonstrates the wii's future potential for sports games, Bowling is a very fun time-killer, 
 its a game for everyone and its hard not to like at first impressions, everyone wants a go -they'll 
 look like complete tools doing so (ideal opportunity for blackmail) , fitness test may keep you 
 in shape (may being the keyword in that sentence) , CONS: Half-baked game, rushed and is only a 
 polished demo for the wii, gets boring quite fast, not something you will find yourself playing 
 for hours on end (but then again you might love it) , waaay too easy, boxing controls are quite 
 un-responsive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Though the graphics aren't as good as Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, it doesn't seem 
 like this game wants to look better. With it's cartoon-like qualities it really makes for a fun 
 collection. Sound: The sound isn't really bad, but it really isn't great. The tennis rackets sound 
 like tennis rackets and the bats sound like bats. The sound really is just straight-forward and 
 thats not bad. Wii Boxing has some cool sound effects with the punches though.
  
  Voices: Although there isn't really many (if any) voice overs for Wii Sports the few they have 
 are fine.
  
  Music: I really liked the music of Wii Sports. During the menu screens it's a very laid back and 
 nice. Each sport has its own kind of music with golf being very calm and boxing being very intense. 
 The music fits with the sport you're playing.
  
  Gameplay: This is easily the high point of Wii Sports. The gameplay is both easy, fun, and addictive. 
 Now since this game wants to be simplictic, it does become too simple. For example, in Wii Baseball 
 all you have to do, when batting is swing. There is not running involved. Now even though this 
 does make for a far too simple gameplay it still keeps me coming back. Tennis is simplictic and 
 fun. Golf is more difficult because it requires percise hitting, but that doesn't mean it isn't 
 fun. Bowling is fun as well, but it seems too easy to get a strike. My personal favorite is Wii 
 Boxing. This is the only sport that uses both the Wiimote (Wii Remote) and Nunchuk. The Wiimote 
 being your right hand and the Nunchuk being your left hand. It makes for a fun boxing game that 
 is really addictive that isn't up to the standard of Fight Night, but it's still a really fun boxing 
 game.
  
  Now my personal favorite feature of Wii Sports is the use of Mii characters. Although playing as 
 a Mii doesn't really make yoru character stronger or faster it is fun to have the custom character 
 playing Wii Sports. The characters I created are really fun to play as and it's just more fun to 
 play with your own characters then the presets the game gives you.
  
  So over all I say Wii Sports is a terrific game, both simple and one that has alot of character. 
 I give Wii Sports an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioxx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  This game is now my first WII game but in the are five sport game's and i cant this playing with 
 two or more player's want i have now one WII REMOTE but the game is not bad but it is a little 
 short. And my favorite sport in this game are Bowling and Boxing but my friend's found tennis the 
 best of all the sports but i found that not. But i playing this more with my brother than alone 
 want than is it a little boring but as i WII Play and Rayman Raving Rabbits have than playing i 
 more on the WII and than have i two WII REMOTE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great idea, but falls short of true greatness. Like Pong and similar games of that 
 era, Nintendo is using sports games with simple game play to draw in new people to gaming. This 
 is not without sacrifice, especially for those who are more experienced gamers. Because of this 
 innovative package, Wii Sports should be a classic you wont want to be without. Just dont expect 
 to play for hours or days at a time.
  
  Youll notice that tennis, baseball, and boxing remove a lot from the games to make them easier 
 to play, like freedom of movement. However golf can be too hard for new players, because of the 
 fickle power gauge and only 3 club options, along with difficult courses and wind. Boxing can also 
 be hard to make the punches work right and there is a limit to how fast you can throw combos, like 
 most fighters. Without options for full length games, more control, and more realism, these games 
 get old fast. Some games use only computer generated Mii opponents, but Baseball also uses your 
 created Miis, which is good and should have been in some other sports.
  
  Bowling seems to sacrifice very little of the true sport. However this sport is limited to begin 
 with, so its easier to translate into a virtual experience. Spin and power and timing all combine 
 with better motion sensing to give the feeling of accuracy. Various leaning of the remote creates 
 a spin during the swing. The swing animation is often off (like golf) , and you cant go over the 
 line and step onto the lane, although this has no effect, but it is the biggest complaint about 
 this sport.
  
  When you are holding the bat before the pitch, start practice swings in golf, getting ready to 
 bowl, or moving your boxing gloves before the fight, the motion sensing seems very accurate. However, 
 the swinging in the game is often a triggered reaction, rather than your actual motions of your 
 hands, and has identical animations every time. This may have been done to make it easier for novices, 
 but an option for more realism would have helped. Tennis seems to have the least amount of actual 
 motion animation: none.
  
  Besides getting a different pattern bowling ball for becoming a Pro, there is not much to attract 
 players to keep playing, besides the game play itself. Playing to get higher scores just doesnt 
 seem very attractive anymore after decades of progress in video games from such goals. There are 
 more skilled opponents to face as you improve, but almost no in game unlockables or reward for 
 your progress other than getting new training games.
  
  Theres little doubt that this game will be the most fun Wii game to play with other people. The 
 fact that it comes free with the system, and you can play 2 of the 5 sports with one remote, is 
 a good thing. Theres also little doubt that this game seems rushed because of its limited options 
 and motion sensing. Sports games have come a long way to provide gamers with almost unlimited customization, 
 and Wii Sports falls well short of that, regardless of how easy it is to pick up and play.
  
  For those who have never tried a Wii, or gaming in general, this is the game to play first. 
 Each game has its own quirks about its motion control that must be overcome to be able to play, 
 however the game is still a lot of fun. Just dont get too vigorous when swinging the remote around, 
 because this game has the potential to be dangerous to those around the players. Heed the warnings 
 everywhere in the game. I just hope Nintendo can incorporate some of these game play ideas into 
 fuller games with more control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  What a way to initiate the Wii to gamers!
  
  This game is great for many reasons. All the games are easy to pick up and play. Anybody with a 
 working arm, or wrist, and hand can play this game. Each game is broken down to the basics. You 
 swing the wiimote to hit the baseball, tennis ball, and golf ball. You swing your arms with the 
 nunchuk and wiimote to hit your opponent in boxing. The swing your arm like you would in bowling 
 to throw the ball down the lane. Plain and simple controls.
  
  The sound is simple too but it fits the game perfectly. Graphics wise the game is also simple and 
 kiddish, but great too.
  
  The replay value is the best part about this game. Play with friends and the fun never ends. Do 
 the training and beat your best scores. Do fitness to stay 'fit'. This game ends up in my Wii atleast 
 30 minutes a day and I have had my Wii since day 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Before I get onto the main review I will list all of the people I got to play this  
 and all of them loved it and were hooked (especially my aunty) !
  
  Gameplay-Perfect apart from the ever so light learning curve in bowling this is because you have 
 to hold a button and there were frequent yells of Where is B button .
  
  Graphics-Hardly grounbreaking but they are pure and simple and do a wonderfull job of being bright 
 and colourful.
  
  Sound-There are some good sound effects from the speaker but otherwise the music is elevator style.
 
  
  Value-Apart from the fitness test ther isnt much to do but it will always be a fun game for a party 
 or when you do multiplayer with a friend
  
  Reviewer's Tilt-I love how I can see my non-gaming family have great fun with it, it brings a smile 
 to my face! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumarr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  For a tech demo this is about as good as it could get. (Final Fantasy 7 on the PS3 aside)
  
  Five games that really show you what you can do with the Wii. Fitness Tests and a Training 
 area. I've never had so much fun and laughed so much with my family in a long time.
  
  Nintendo's strategy was to try and bring people together with the Wii and that's exactly what Wii 
 Sports did. Creating your Mii and having them is the game adds to the fun.
  
  Game play is fast and easy to pick up. Would of been nice to have full versions of the sports (9 
 innings of baseball, 18 holes of golf) . It is nice for quick little bursts of game play then get 
 someone else in to have some fun. The graphics aren't great but they don't look bad either. Bright 
 colours and simple designs put the focus on the mechanics and not graphics.
  
  Sound quality was good both coming from the television and the Wiimote. Although some music would 
 of been nice as some of the games (bowling, golf, baseball) can get pretty quite.
  
  Daily fitness tests and leveling up your Mii's in all sports makes for tons of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a bundeled game to come with the wii. And overall it is a great game but i would 
 question buying it. So you have 5 sports tennis, basebll, bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Tennis is 
 fast paced and you swing your wii remote. If you hit the ball at it's high point it will have a 
 huge hit with lots of power. Overall i found this the best multipalyer sport. Oh and all games 
 are played in double sets.
  
  baseball. This one is a bit half assed, but still fun. What brings it down is theres no fielding 
 you're Computer controlled chracters catch the ball and then it will say sing, out, double, triple. 
 And if it go's out the all mighty home run. Also your roster is the same 9 people ever game with 
 no subs. And all games are 3 innings with no extras. Batting is done with a simple swing of the 
 bat and it's all about timing. But pitching is a bit more complex. hold down the A button and you 
 throw a Screwball. Hold down B and you get a Curveball. Hold down both and you get a spliter, and 
 if you hold down nothing you get. A fast ball the pitch speed depends on how good your from is. 
 And this is a good multi-player game. But for only 2 players. Bowling. Bowling is fun like bowling 
 you have 10 frames with 2 turns per frame. Spares, and Strikes work like you might expect. To play 
 you hold down B swing your controler frowereds. Then when the ball is in a good spot you let go 
 of B. You can put spin on the ball on the by tilting your wii remote left or right.
  
  Golf could use some work. The wii remote dousn't match your movements is the bad part. And i often 
 found my self swinging front to back instade of back to fowards.
  
  Boxing is great. You can lean punch with both hands. (only game that uses both the nucnchuck) Also 
 boxing agianst a friend is fun. But it sucks you can't walk around or taunt.
  
  Then there are 5 minigames per sport. And fitnees age mode. Like brain age a fitness age test. 
 Gives you 3 tests and then a fitness age everyday you test. Which gives the value of the game 2 
 extra points. Overall You will have a lot of fun in multi player. And every one who has a wii should 
 be playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbfalco
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  If you bought a Wii, you were guaranteed to get a game whether you wanted to or not. And this is 
 that game. But is it worthwhile playing?
  
  Wii Sports uses the Wii's Mii feature, allowing you to play as your character, and your stats in 
 the game are stored with the character you play as. Nice touch of personalization.
  
  The Wii Sports menus are surprisingly clean and modern looking. The Wiimote pointer is used for 
 navigation unsurprisingly, and it's simple to navigate through. Wii Sports Tennis allows you to 
 play a game of tennis by swinging the Wiimote back and forth to do either forward swings or back 
 swings. The characters move on their own, so all you're left with it controlling the serve and 
 swing. It's a fun game to play, especially with two or more players. Controls work perfectly on 
 this one, and it's even fun to exaggerate your swings such that you appear to be actually swinging 
 a tennis racket.
  
  Wii Sports Bowling is another excellent demonstration of the controller that's actually fun to 
 play. The game detects the little nuances in your movement so that you can pull off the curved 
 bowls you can in the real bowling alley. You control by moving your hand in the motion of throwing 
 a bowling ball, holding b and then releasing it to let go of the ball. Responsive controls, and 
 excellent game.
  
  Golf is a decent game. You focus on swinging the Wiimote as a club, and aiming your character. 
 The club selections are generic, just a driver, iron, wedge and putter. You do have to worry about 
 wind however, making this a pretty in depth game relative to the others. How hard you swing is 
 how hard you'll hit the ball, but too hard will cause the ball to hook or slice.
  
  Baseball is a mixed bag. It's insanely simplified compared to the others, so there is limited enjoyment. 
 Pitching involves pressing some buttons to adjust the type of pitch, and throwing the ball by gesturing 
 with the Wiimote. The motions don't translate directly on screen since it seems to wait for the 
 pitcher's input before doing anything. The batter however is instantaneous and pretty much one 
 to one with the motions. Base running, and catching are done automatically, limiting the game's 
 lasting value...
  
  Boxing is an excellent use of both controllers. It requires the nunchuk attachment for good reason. 
 You play by actually punching using the controller. You can guard, hit the head or body, and dodge 
 by simply holding the controllers up to your face and leaning left and right. Probably the best 
 example of the capabilities of the Wii controllers.
  
  Wii sports also includes training and fitness modes. Training lets you try to complete some goals, 
 like returning 50 serves, or picking up interesting spares. Fitness gives you a random challenge, 
 and similar to Brain Age, it gives you a fitness age when you're done.
  
  Visually, the game sports simple, but surprisingly clean graphics. The textures are crisp, and 
 the game sports subtle depth of field effects as well as a subtle bloom effect at times. It's not 
 impressive by any standards, but won't distract from the game. It looks great without being impressive. 
 It supports 480p and Widescreen for good measure.
  
  Sound wise, it sounds fine. It has the best use of the Wiimote speaker where it plays sounds of 
 the tennis racket hitting the ball, or menu button presses, or notifying you that it's your turn 
 in the turn based games. None of the Wiimote speaker sounds sound bad in this game. The game features 
 a few tunes here and there, but nothing outstanding, or detracting in any way. It supports Dolby 
 Prologic II for 5.1 surround sound, which sounds nice, wrapping up the clean presentation of the 
 game. Overall, Wii sports is an excellent game, especially when played as a party game. It won't 
 last very long as a pure single player game, but even then, it's pretty good. This game does an 
 excellent job of being perfectly clean in all aspects of presentation, without being overly impressive.
 
  
  All in all, it feels like a simple demo of the controls, but does a good job at being fun while 
 doing that. With that in mind, it's tough to rate it as a regular game, but it's best that I do... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo_123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Wii sports makes great but simple use of the wii mote. To swing a baseball bat, just hold the remote 
 like a bat and swing. It's this kind of pick up and play game play that makes it so addicting. 
 People who have never played tennis can quickly become worthy of the U. S. open. The fact that it 
 comes free with the wii is an added bonus. If it is the first game you play on the wii, it gets 
 you used to the wii style of gameplay while keeping it easy and entertaining. The graphics may 
 seem down played compared to MLB 07 or Tiger Wood's pbg tour 06, but part of the fun becomes designing 
 the miis to look as realustic or crazy as you want. Overall the game is highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Wii Golf mechanics are similar to that of PC Golf Games' simulated swing (pulling back mouse, then 
 pushing forward) , except it does not matter how wonky your swing is in Wii Golf... As long as you 
 get the speed of the stroke right it will not slice or hook.
  
  Wii Boxing is not responsive enough. Some moves are just impossible to do, unless by chance (unresponsive) .
 
  
  Wii Tennis is fun in Multiplayer and sometimes I feel as if I've got it figured out exactly how 
 to hold the Wii-Mote and swing it to hit the ball, only to find I'm wrong. It's still unclear to 
 Me how to be successful at hitting the ball in Wii Tennis. Mabye fast-motions, rather than slower-motions 
 is the key...
  
  Wii Baseball I have not figured out yet if the position of the Wii-Mote on contact with the ball 
 has any relevance to where the shot ends-up. Multi-Player Baseball is much funner than Single-Player 
 and seeing your self-created Mii's running around catching you out, you can't help but smile and 
 have a good laugh.
  
  Wii Bowling I think this is My favourite of this five game compilation. It appears to be the most-responsive. 
 Nice Bowling Ball/Pins physics. Wii Bowling = Fun on your own or with a friend.
  
  Gameplay 7 Fun enough but not perfect, controls iffy in some games
  Graphics 6 Basic, does the 
 job though
  Sound 6 Basic, nothing overly fanciful
  value 10 It comes with the console free, great value
  tilt 10 A big swing in favour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perock
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports gets an 8.6, for its party and realistic reasons.
  
  Tennis: Tennis is a great game on wii sports, my second favorite.
  GAmeplay: Fun, can really mimic 
 your movements well, but cant move player.
  Graphics : Nice graphics, in all wii sports games I love the use of the mii`s.
  Sound. Sounds 
 exactly likea ball hitting a raquet.
  
  Bowling: Not one of my favorites
  Gameplay: GREAT at first...... but the gain is too repetitive so it gets easy.
  Graphics, samd 
 as all nice, love the miis.
  Sound: Sounds exactly like a bowling aller, they probably recorded it...
  
  Boxing: My personal 
 favorite.
  Gameplay: Many kinds of punches, dodges blocks, feels like your in it.
  Sound: Love it, sounds like punches, and I love how a vibrate/sound comes out of your wiimote when 
 you puch, so you feel contact.
  Graphics, same as all, but I love the intimidation acts from myself amd comps
  
  Golf: Boring 
 to mee, but probably fun to others.
  Gameplay, realistic, but too sensitive, a but is like driving.
  Sound: very realistic
  Graphics: 
 Good, but worst of the group, because the clubs are not ratioally right.
  
  Baseball: Suprisingly bad, on the count of baseball is the best real sport.
  Gameplay: Boring, 
 same 3 pitches, same swing, no control of runners or fielders.
  Graphics, good, a baseball diamond, but average.
  Sound: Realistic, but no difference in hard 
 hit sounds or soft hit sounds.
  
  Wii sportsis a great multiplayer game, but you can also have fun in training, fitness levels. But 
 on your own, it is fun to unlock stuff and boost your miis ratings on your lower sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipodman3x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports brings the world a new generation of gamming. Here you can transfer your Wii Mee to 
 your game and make them play. The interaction is amazing. There are a few glitches here and there, 
 but overall its a pretty amazing game. In Golf the realalistic traits are the wind. And then you 
 are able to switch clubs and take alot practice shots. In Bowling, you can twist the ball and aim 
 it just like real life. Also you can drop it or trow it backwords or trow it up and into another 
 lane!
  
  In Baseball you can smack thhose home runs or even bunt it! Then in pitching you can throw curve 
 balls, screw balls, fastballs, and a splitter. It's spectacular! In Tennis you may not be able 
 to move your self, but you can actually throw up the ball and serve the ball!
  
  In Boxing you can use the Nunchuck as the second hand. You can use all sorts of diffrent combos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedog007
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Synopsis
  Wii Sports is a pack-in game for the newly released Nintendo Wii console. It is a collection of 
 5 semi-minigames: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. In tennis your character moves for 
 you while you swing the wii remote when the ball is near you, and in baseball you can pitch and 
 swing at the ball, using the respective motions while holding the controller. Bowling, golf, and 
 boxing should be self-explanatory.
  
  My Opinion
  This game is not worth the hype. It is very clearly a tech demo showing off the wii's motion sensing 
 controller. While the games hardly have any depth, you still can have some fun playing with friends. 
 But what did you expect from a free pack-in game anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes packed in with every Wii system, and as such, people might not expect much out 
 of it. I know I didn't. But when I put it in my Wii, i quickly and happily realised that i was 
 completely wrong. The pick up and play mentality of each of the games makes for an easy to learn, 
 hard to master experience that should haave you coming back over and over again. Below is a rundown 
 of every game included in Wii Sports.
  
  Tennis: the first game I played, and the one that I expected the most out of. your character moves 
 automiatically around the court, but it is up to you to swing the racket and aim the ball correctly. 
 The game reads lobs, backhands, etc with surprising accuracy. Before long, you will be putting 
 the ball exactly where you want it on your opponent's side of the net. fun factor=8.5/10
  Baseball: The Wii really is incredible. I really should be better at Baseball, but i suck really 
 badly at baseball irl, and I think this translates to my performance in Wii baseball. Players swing 
 the bat and pitch fastballs just like in real life. My main complaint with baseball is that it 
 is seemingly impossible to throw anything but a fastball while pitching. FF=7.5/10
  Bowling: This is one of the most accurately displayed games in Wii Sports. If you roll the wiimote 
 like you would when putting spin on a bowling ball, your ball will spin that way on the screen. 
 The game is intensely accurate when reading spin. FF=8.5/10
  Golf: I have never played a golf game that I have enjoyed. Not even Mario Golf put enough fun into 
 the dry game for me to enjoy. It is with great pleasure, then, that I announce Wii Sports' golf 
 game as the best digital golf game i have ever played. Not only is it very fun, but it reads your 
 golf swings accurately too. This is probably the deepest Wii Sports game on the disc. FF=8.5/10
 
  Boxing: Boxing is a laugh riot. While I haven't played this with two players yet (I only have 
 to wiimotes, not two nunchucks) , it made the other people in the room laugh their butts off just 
 watching me play it. As hilarious as it is to play and watch, your computer opponents are basically 
 idiots, eager to eat punch after punch to the face. It's kinda funny to watch someone just stand 
 there and get punched in the face about 14 times in a row (especially when you have a michael ian 
 black (of Stella fame) Mii character beating on a pre-made Mii that looks strangely like Jesus) , 
 but it's not as challenging as some may like. FF=8/10
  
  While the games are all excellent, the graphics aren'nt quite as good. They are very charming, 
 but not much detail actually went into them. Still, they are good. The gameplay is the hight point 
 of these games. THey are all played like their real life conterparts. Sound is another high point 
 of the game. I, unlike many others, do not find the wiimote speaker to sound tinny or cheap. I 
 love the sounds it makes when you hit a tennis or baseball, or how an umpire yells time out! through 
 it when you pause baseball. The little touches really make it great. One last thing that players 
 should note is how much fun multiplayer is. The games are fun by themselves, but expect the fun 
 factor to go up by about 5 times for each person thrown into the mix. Wii Sports is a great showcase 
 o fwhat the Wii is capable of, and should not be overlooked just because it is a pack-in game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports isn't a story based game. It focuses more on sports and trying to beat high scores and 
 have a blast with multiple options. It is a great game for the family because it isn't about much 
 violence unless you play boxing.
  
  There are 5 sports included in this game. Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Each sport 
 has a multiplayer feature so friends or family can join in on the fun. The most players can be 
 4 depending on what game you choose. Tennis can be up to 4 players. It is a 2-on-2 match that goes 
 up to 45 points or above if you are in a tied game. You will hold the Wiimote like a real tennis 
 racket which is vertically. You will swing either to the left or right of you depending on where 
 the ball is. Baseball is similar to tennis except you are holding it and swinging it like a baseball 
 bat and you will only be able to have 2 players. You will pitch by making a forward motion with 
 your arm. You will be able to change your pitching style by pressing the B button on your Wiimote. 
 Bowling is just like the real thing. You will hold down the B button and roll the ball down the 
 lane. You're actually able to position yourself and choose the specific angle so you can hit a 
 certain spot or pin. This game has up to 4 players.
  
  Golf is probably the most difficult because you will have a tough time meeting the meters expectations 
 on how hard to hit the ball. You will be using different clubs depending on the position of the 
 ball. In the bunker, you will be using a wedge and on the green you will use the putter. Since 
 there is no indicator, you will have to use your mind to figure how hard you are going to hit the 
 ball. You will actually be able to take practice swings to see how hard you are hitting. This game 
 lets you play with 4 players.
  
  Boxing is a tough sport as you get more points toward your character. You will be using both the 
 Nunchuck control and the Wiimote because on boxing you don't use on hand. You will have 4 main 
 punches. A jab, uppercut, hook, and haymaker. The controls can mess you up in this sport so try 
 to execute the move as best as you can. Since there can be only two boxers and a referee in the 
 ring, there can only be 2 players.
  
  The sports are fun indeed, but one thing that is a real pain is the controls. The Wiimote is very 
 sensitive and it can be a little to loose at times you need it to be perfect. In boxing, the Wiimote 
 goes very slow compared to how fast you throw your punches. So you can be outmatched because the 
 computer can regain and beat you. In baseball and tennis, you might swing at time when you just 
 flicked the controller on accident, which can cost you. Besides this minor flaw, Wii Sports still 
 is enjoyable.
  
  If the games are too tough, then try training. Training is available for each sport and has a numerous 
 amount of exercises. You will find it easier to play after you have completed each exercise and 
 recieve medals.
  
  This is a great game to go along with the console. If you don't have it for some odd reason, then 
 try and find a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's done it again. A great launch title to show what their new system can do. In this pack-in 
 game, you get five minigames that utilize the Wii Remote in different ways, a special training 
 mode which feature microgames of each of the sports, and the Wii Fitness mode. Remember Brain Age, 
 where it tested your brain's age based on how well you did on things like math problems? Fitness 
 Age does that for your endurance and stamina. I personally feel it's inaccurate because the Fitness 
 Test consists of three of the microgames from the Training mode. Some people are good at Tennis 
 but suck at Golf, and that will hurt your Fitness Age.
  You get simplified versions of Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing in one package. Perhaps 
 too simplified. You cannot move your character in Tennis, only swing. In Baseball, if you don't 
 hit the ball past the diamond, you're out. These sort of things seem to be unfair to us hardcore 
 gamers, but seem great to the casual crowd. My personal favorite is Bowling.
  The graphics are like the game itself - simple. All the characters are Miis created by you or by 
 Nintendo, and obviously the ones by you will appeal more. Some of the Miis created by Nintendo 
 just look creepy. All environments to the game are all simple.
  The music is - you guessed it - simple. Smooth music is found in some of the games, but in Boxing 
 it's a little more fast-paced. No music to be found in Tennis. So it's quiet... too quiet.
  Multiplayer can be a blast, provided on everybody's preferences. Tennis seems to be the popular 
 choice here, and same with Boxing. This game was absolutely meant for multiplayer, and by all means, 
 play multiplayer a lot.
  Everything about this game is simple. Hey, at least it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Good: Pure brialliance, super idea, fun multiplayer, bowling is realistic, its addictive, straight 
 out of the box.
  
  Bad:
  Rough in places (e. g Tennis &amp; Golf) , you will struggle for longetivity Wii Sports is a super 
 game. You'll get hours upon hours of fun from this. Plus its straight out of the box, so set it 
 up &amp; your away. You really can't get enough of it. Here are the games available:
  
  Wii Tennis: This has all the makings of a great game. Sadly the great idea hasn't been executed 
 all that well. Its very easy to miss a shot. Sometimes you get caught up, like instead of a forehand 
 your expecting a backhand shot, but the ball was coming to the right side of you therefore you 
 play the wrong shot or the player plays the shot before the ball gets to your Mii. Also you can't 
 control your Mii. 6/10
  
  Wii Baseball: This works very nicely. Nothing wrong with baseball. batting is great fun, but bowling 
 is somewhat a chore as its hard to bowl different types of balls. Sometimes it curls sometimes 
 it goes fast. That feature needs a bit of a rethink. 8/10
  
  Wii Bowling: Ah, the best game on this game. For the simple fact its realistic. Like the pins would 
 fall over exactly where they would if you were playing bowling for real. The spin features great. 
 Curl the Wii-mote on release of ball &amp; you can spin it. Plus you only need one Wii-mote, which 
 is brialliant as theres a real shortage of Wii-motes around at the moment. 10/10
  
  Wii Golf Oh dear, this is bad. its almost feels as if the Wii-mote doesn't work in this game. Once 
 you get on the green the Wii-mote is completely unresponsive. You would use the Wii-mote as a putter, 
 but when you tap it (like you would do in real life) the is no response on-screen. Bad game, you 
 might as well ignore it. 4/10
  
  Wii Boxing Some people say this feels almost like a chore. Well i don't know what planet there 
 on. This is good. Problem is you need a nunchuk attachment to play with 2 people. This game isn't 
 a chore its rather good. A decent idea well executed. 8/10
  
  Overall a great game that everybody, yes everybody will enjoy. Nintendo's idea of getting more 
 people to play seems to be working &amp; this game will do that target no harm. It will last you 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is the free game that is included with every Wii upon purchase. You probably alread 
 knew this. So, for that reason, my review is just to say whether or not it's any good, not to convince 
 you to buy or rent it.
  
  Let me start by saying it's a fun game. Nothing huge or special, but it show what the Wii is meant 
 for. Not for these huge production value games like the Xbox 360 has, it's for pure fun. And it 
 delivers.
  
  Graphics are not very good. In fact, Wii doesn't have good graphics in general. So, get over that. 
 If you're a graphics lover, don't play Wii. If you want fun, this is where you belong.
  
  The sports are for the most part fun, if a bit simplistic. Bowling is the worst, it's ridiculously 
 easy. You just push a button and lift the remote, and you can get the ball down the lane and get 
 a strike or spare everytime. Baseball is fun, three innings of batting and pitching can be fun 
 if you act out the motions.
  
  Boxing is fun, if a bit exausting. Takes some time to figure out how to move the controllers to 
 punch how you like. Tennis is pretty basic and pure fun. And golf is, well golf. Requires a lot 
 of knowing just how hard to hit the ball, and can be frustrating.
  
  Anyway, the game is fun especially with two or more players. Great party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite Wii launch title (yes, even more than Zelda) because all five games offer differing 
 gameplay that is just loads of fun to play. It's easy to learn, and from the moment you first play 
 the game you'll be hooked. The graphics and sound effects are very simple, but they work that way 
 and it is still cool to play as your Mii character that is modeled after yourself. This game has 
 incredible replay value since you can keep trying to best you high scores, and you can also do 
 the daily workout mode, which owners of Brain Age for the DS will like. I also shouldn't have to 
 tell you how great the multiplayer is in this game, either. Here is what I think of the five sports, 
 in order from best to worst (well, least good is more like it) .
  
  Boxing: I don't understand why a lot of people don't like this one. It is surprisingly deep, since 
 you can jab, uppercut, dodge to the left and right and block your face and chest. I feel just like 
 Rocky Balboa when I play this, and it gets even better as you progress and face some of the more 
 difficult boxers.
  
  Tennis: You can actually control where your shots go and how hard they are hit. This game is awesome, 
 and just like boxing, it gets better as the AI gets harder.
  
  Bowling: This game feels remarkably close to actual bowling, without the weird smell and the fear 
 of being seen at the alley. Plus, you don't even have to leave your living room!
  
  Baseball: Hitting is a lot of fun, but pitching is overly simple and the fact that you don't control 
 the fielders hurts as well. Still a solid game though.
  
  Golf: Wii Sports Golf is fun, but it's golf. I've always thought this sport was a little boring, 
 and that kind of translates into the game. Again, there aren't any bad games in the bunch, but 
 this would have to be considered the weak link. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proudeskimo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  So after playing this introductory game for the Wii for some time I find that it isn't just a disc 
 full of gimmicky mini games. Wii Sports successfully introduces you to the Wiimote and is a game 
 worth having in your collection. While it may seem shallow before you play, it may surprise you 
 by pulling you in to play for hours by yourself or with others. The Mii models look good enough, 
 and the environments are pretty. The motion controls work great in all of the games and go far 
 beyond just gesture sensitive commands. The sound is good and with the speaker in the wiimote they 
 help you feel like you are really playing baseball bowling ect. Wii Sports is a great game for 
 anyone, be sure not to just toss it aside when opening your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  The Wii remote is a radically new piece of technology in the video games world, aimed at bringing 
 more people into gaming. Wii Sports, a pack-in game that comes with every Wii console, attempts 
 to do this by making use of the remote to perform actions like you would if you were playing the 
 real sport. The five games are tennis, bowling, baseball, golf and boxing. In addition to this, 
 Wii Sports supports the Mii Channel, allowing you to play each sport with your own Mii.
  
  Tennis supports up to four players, and sees you swinging the controller like a racquet. After 
 selecting to play a single game, best of three or best of five, you will be thrown into a doubles 
 match. Serving is performed by flicking the remote upwards (alternatively you can press A) . From 
 here, it plays as you would expect. Your player hits the ball as powerfully as you swing the remote. 
 If you are playing by yourself, each swing of the remote will trigger both of your players to swing 
 (it is always a doubles match, regardless of how many people are playing) . The display will revert 
 to split-screen if you play against someone. Tennis is a very fun game for gamers and non-gamers 
 alike. It is so easy to play, but there is depth that isnt so apparent. The Wii can detect motions 
 that allow you to slice and lob the ball, and timing shots correctly results in a more potent shot.
 
  
  Bowling is another four player game, but unlike tennis, you can play with one remote and pass it 
 around. This is standard bowling rules, so you should know what to expect if youve ever been to 
 a bowling alley before. Before you bowl the shot, you can change the position of the bowler or 
 the angle which you will bowl from. When you have raised your arm into position, you hold the B 
 trigger and then release it as you swing. Twisting the remote left or right in the bowling motion 
 will add the relevant spin. Although it is the simplest game of Wii Sports, it is by no means a 
 bad thing. The one remote multi-player helps its cause greatly too; you may frequently find yourself 
 with three friends but not four controllers. This is not a problem with bowling.
  
  Baseball supports two players, with one remote required per player. The batting side of the game 
 is all about timing. Learning when to swing will greatly increase your chances of hitting home 
 runs. Compared to the tennis and bowling, there is a greater learning curve here. Pitching is a 
 lot less enjoyable than batting. All you have to do is the motion of throwing a ball over-arm. 
 You can throw fastballs, curveballs, screwballs and splitters by holding down buttons, and you 
 can aim your pitch with the d-pad. My main complaint with baseball is the AI fielders. They are 
 a bit too good, and seem to be in the right place at the right time for almost everything. Considering 
 Wii Sports is aimed at a large audience, it may have been better if the fielders were taken down 
 a notch or two.
  
  Another two player game, this one allowing you to share one remote, golf lets you play on one of 
 three three-hole courses. There is also a nine-hole course that combines the three regular courses. 
 As with most of the games, you play golf as you would in real life. Pressing left and right on 
 the d-pad will adjust the direction of your shot (this is handy when you factor in wind speed and 
 direction) . You can take practise swings and check the power meter to see how far your shot will 
 go. When you are ready, you simply hold A while you swing to make contact. You have the full range 
 of clubs at your disposal, and you can also check the depth of the green by pressing the one button. 
 Of all the games, golf is the one where you may have some minor problems with the sensor. Sometimes 
 the sensor plays up with putting, but this is mainly because you take such a small swing with the 
 putter compared to the driver or iron. Despite this setback, golf is still a good addition to Wii 
 Sports.
  
  The final game, boxing, is the only one that requires the nunchuk. For multi-player, both players 
 must have a remote and nunchuk each. Using both controllers as a left and right glove, you can 
 punch and move your Rayman-like boxer. A slight nudge of either controller will result in a jab, 
 while arching it will give you a left or right hook. Moving the controller from bottom to top will 
 unleash an uppercut, while tilting both controllers in either direction will see your boxer strafe 
 in the desired direction. Definitely the most physically strenuous sport, boxing will get you working 
 up a sweat. As well as it plays, it can be reduced to randomly slashing away with the remote (it 
 would be like a button masher if this was a conventional controller) that usually results in victory.
 
  
  A training mode is included to help hone ones skills for each sport. There are three mini games 
 for each sport. They range from returning balls in tennis, hitting home runs in baseball and power 
 bowling to knock down loads of pins (up to 91!) . These are very fun in their own right, and actually 
 help you to get better in the regular mode. There is one last mode, which is the fitness test. 
 Once a day per Mii, you can take a fitness test consisting of three random games from training 
 mode. At the end, you are awarded a fitness age based on how well you did. This is a very addictive 
 feature that will keep you playing long after you buy your Wii. Your results are even posted on 
 the Wii message board.
  
  The graphical style for Wii sports is very light-hearted, mainly because of the Mii support. The 
 environments are very colourful and fit the game well. The character models are clearly not spectacular, 
 but they arent meant to be. They work for what Wii Sports is: a simple collection of sports games, 
 not a sports simulator. The background music is similarly light-hearted as the graphical style, 
 but the main audio comes from the remote speaker. You can hear the swing of the racquet through 
 the speaker, or the sound of the golf ball finding the hole. It adds a little bit more to the game. 
 Admittedly, the speaker quality isnt fantastic to start off with, but if it bothers you that much, 
 you can always turn off the remote speaker.
  
  Wii Sports succeeds in bringing non-gamers into the fun, but thanks to its variety of sports, mini 
 games and the fitness test, it will last you a long while. It may be a free pack in, but there 
 is plenty to enjoy in Wii Sports, whether you are playing alone or with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuineaPig255
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  If you want a great pick up and play game, then this is it. Wii sports is a collection of 5 sports 
 games in one disc that you get free with the Wii. There's tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and 
 boxing. This game makes great use of the wii's controls and is quite innovative. It's pretty easy, 
 but that's not what matters. This game is really the best when you play it with your friends or 
 family. It might not seem very fun because of it's graphics, but like I always say : Gameplay over 
 Graphics. It's very addictive, and you'll have fun for however long it's going to last you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenneil4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to partake in 5 different sports game. They are baseball, tennis, bowling, 
 boxing, and golf. The goal of each sport is to get to 1000 experience points or becoming pro in 
 each sport. Also there is a fitness test similar to the brain age formula. There are also 15 minigames 
 that will help you improve at the 5 sports.
  
  Baseball is the longest game out of the five. There are three innings and you can only pitch and 
 bat. Baserunning and fielding are taken care of for you. The game is fun allowing you to act like 
 a major leaguer at the plate. There are no bunts unfortunately.
  
  Tennis is probably the best multiplayer game. Up to four players can play at a time which cause 
 games to get pretty crazy. The moving ,like in baseball, is handled for you. All you have to do 
 is swing at the right time. Though this may seem to dumb down the game, it still remains fun.
 
  
  Bowling is the closest reality to its reallife counterpart. As in real life you throw a ball down 
 a lane and try to knock down ten pins. This game is easily my favorite because it is easy to pick 
 up and play. Also you can control both spin and reverse spin which make it more realistic.
  
  Boxing is the only game that uses the nunchuk. The wii-mote and nunchuk are your hands in the 
 game. To punch, you thrust them foward high or low. This lets you hit either the opponents stomach 
 or head. You can also dodge and protect your body using the controllers in various fashions. My 
 only gripe is that the controls could have been a bit more responsive.
  
  Golf is a love it or hate it replica of golf. It may not have the depth, it only has nine holes, 
 but it properly copies the motions of a golf swing. The green are hard to read though, sending 
 putts every which way if you aren't careful. The game is very challenging and it takes a while 
 to reach pro in this game.
  
  Graphically it is not mind-blowing. This is because Nintendo used miis to control the action and 
 not real characters. I respect their desicion and it makes the game cute and appealing to all gamers, 
 which is what nintendo wanted. The sounds of the game are catchy at first but can get dull fast. 
 Overall this game is fun and everyone will buy because it can bundled with the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroatianRebel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  I know what you guys think Golf, Tennis, Boxing, ect. are Simple Games or Been There, Done That 
 and Yes they are Games which about everyone played at least Once in their life's... but these games 
 are Fun for the Whole Family &amp; You will have Fun.
  
  For Example - Boxing - Fun Punching Game where you will have fun while you Kick Butt &amp; you 
 will be Doing the Punches insted on a PS2 or XBox where you press X and he Punches in this you 
 choose where &amp; how you punch the opponent.
  
  Another Example - Golf - If you Like Golf, Don't want to Get up, get Dressed &amp; and carry your 
 Golf Clubs to the Golf Course but still want to Swing the Club this is a Game you will Love. All 
 you do is Turn on You Wii, Put the Game in &amp; Pick your Character and thats it then you can 
 Swing away with-out going anywhere.
  
  This Game is better than EyeToy because it doesn't make mistakes like EyeToy and I Strongly Suggest 
 that you get this Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick11478
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  You know... After playing this game I realized that you don't need blood, guts, guns, or whatever 
 it may be for it to be a good game. Don't get me wronge those other games that have a ton of detail 
 are amazing too. But Maybe it's the simple games that are a lot of fun. I love the Wii, and I think 
 that it has been over-shadowd by the PS3 because of graphics. And I think that's a little unfair... 
 But that's life I guess.. lol.. But anyways.. If you are thinking about getting a Wii but you are 
 unsure about a couple of things, the tings that you can be sure about is that Wii Sports is TONS 
 of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is surprisingly one of the most fun games on the wii. Just be cautious, if you buy a 
 wii and you start playing wii sports, there's a good chance your entire family is gonna wanna play. 
 My suggestion, get another controller. This has to be one of the most addictive games ever created. 
 That's Nintendo's path and I like it. The game functions really great, it's just so fun to play, 
 and although it's admittedly not deep, it's better off that way. If the game were deep it would 
 probably be reviewed better, but it wouldn't be such a success with nongamers all over. Besides, 
 there's five sports and it's free. You want a deep free game? Good luck with that. All wii haters 
 make fun of the graphics because they are so simple, and I don't really get it. What's wrong with 
 them? The mii characters aren't supposed to be detailed, nor does it even matter. If that's your 
 problem with wii sports, you need to get real, seriously...
  There is some cheesy sound effects here with the speaker in the controller, but I just turn that 
 off and it's great. Besides that there's not that much sound. Wii sports is just a really fun game 
 to play, and will probably last a long time in your wii. All the sports are great, I'd rate them 
  But almost everyone has their own preference. 
 I think boxing is fun and...... tiring, the only reason it's so low is because it's not quite accurate. 
 Golf, I hate in real and wii life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  This is the game you get when you by the wii and it is meant to give you a taste of how Nintendo 
 wii games make use of motion controls. You can play five different sports: Baseball, boxing, tennis, 
 golf and bowling. You can also try 15 practice events (3 for each sport) and you can find your 
 skill age (20 years is the best you can get, 80 the worst) . The skill age thing is a little lame 
 since I think most of those who try it will be under 20 years old. Let me review the three sports 
 individually.
  
  Tennis: Tennis can be played alone against computers or with up to three friends. Though it is 
 a disappointment that the wii remote don't follow your exact moves, the motion control works brilliant 
 and really makes you feel like you are actually playing tennis. It can be a really intense experience 
 if you play a lot single player and gets to play against the hardest computers, and it can be a 
 lot of fun playing with friends, as long as no one accidently hit the other when they swing the 
 remote. It is also an event where you can improve your skills and where it's not random who wins. 
 The three practice events are fun as well. The wii remote can misread your movements some time, 
 but all in all it is a brilliant event. Score: 9
  
  Bowling: Bowling might be the sport that makes best use of the motion control. It takes some skill 
 to throw the ball good and get a strike, so you might work a lot on your technique. Still I have 
 managed that my seven year old cousin can knock four strikes in a row by swinging her arm like 
 a crazy person, so it isn't perfect. However bowling has the most fun and challenging practice 
 events and it has great single and multiplayer. It really feels similar to real bowling, only easier. 
 So it is to me the best of the five sports. Score: 9.5
  
  Boxing: Though it is a lot of fun to play it multiplayer, it is frustrating how little skill matters. 
 A five year old that randomly swings the nunchuk and remote around, has as a good chance to win 
 as I do, even though I have reached over 1000 skill points, giving me the rank of pro. It is a 
 big problem how often it misreads your movements. Boxing also has some of the most frustrating 
 practice events, which really leaves a poor impression. But still it is pretty fun. Score: 6
  
  Golf: For most people, golf isn't a very fun sport, but games like Mario Gold have succeeded 
 in making it good before. However this game has very boring music and make it even more boring. 
 It is somewhat bugging that swinging the remote to hard cause your ball to swing to much. Also 
 it is hard to get the perfect strength on the swing. However if you practice, it can be fun. But 
 multiplayer isn't that great. One of the practice events is really fun (when you are trying to 
 get the perfect length on the drive and hit the bulls eye) , but the others aren't that much fun. 
 Score: 6
  
  Baseball: The practice events are tough and challenging if you try to get platina, but they are 
 very fun, and the biggest plus about baseball in this game. However playing normal baseball can 
 be very bugging. It has frustrations like the fact that it is next to impossible to control how 
 you pitch, and thus very hard to stop the computers. Also you might be frustrated by your team 
 mates dropping the ball or by how hard it is to hit the ball. You can easily hit the top of the 
 ball and hit the ball straight down. It would have been more fun if the motion controls had been 
 done better, but it is still very fun the way it is. Score: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  I got my wii 2 days after release in the UK and i rushed home and looked upon my 2 unopened games, 
 zelda and wii play. i picked wii play first and i left zelda unopened for days as i was totally 
 addicted to wii sports.
  
  The first thing i did was play tennis and i was surprised at how simple it was to play and how 
 accurate some shots can be and dissapointed in how inaccurate they can be too. The colourful graphics 
 pleasantly surprised me, i dont mind there not being anything fancy in any of the wii games, gameplay 
 is more important than graphics and wii sports is a prime example of that.
  
  Boxing and baseball i feel is a complete waste of time, bowling in baseball is too boring and swinging 
 doesnt feel right as you dont have complete control as to where the ball goes. Golf is good on 
 one player but for me bowling and tennis are the best ones, i play with my friends all the time, 
 its too much fun playing against each other or on a same team against a difficult opposition.
 
  
  The sound is simple and the music is catchy. The wii mote makes the noises too when you swing and 
 connect with the ball in tennis which is nice too.
  
  Overall im really impressed with this game, it really shows what the wii mote can do and is great 
 fun, youll be playing this for hours and hours on end provided you have somebody to play with. 
 i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  It's fun, it's innovative, and it's free. Really, could you ask for anything more?
  
  However, getting past it's price (or lack thereof) , Wii Sports is actually a decent game. It is 
 not much of a full-fledged game, but more of a collection of sports-inspired minigames that form 
 a perfect introduction the the amazing piece of hardware that is the Nintendo Wii. I've made more 
 than a couple game-haters into gamers: one woman in particular absolutely hated games, then, after 
 watching her daughter play this game, she was asking where she could get one by the end of the 
 evening! Though not much of a game in it's own right, the Wii's controls make Wii Sports an enjoyable 
 and innovative experience for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surid
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports has 5 mini games. Tennis, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and Boxing. All of which are great 
 games to play, especially with your family or during a party. Let me talk about each game individually..
 
  
  Tennis- This is my favourite game of the bunch. You dont move your character though. It moves by 
 itself. You just do a swinging motion like you do in real tennis. Its still the most fun in wii 
 sports.
  
  Baseball- Fun game but gets old really fast... This can be said about all the games in wii sports 
 though... all you do is hold your wiimote like a baseball bat and hit the ball as it approaches 
 you... depending on how far you hit the game decides if you get a single, double, tripple or a 
 home-run..
  
  Bowling- My 2ed favourite wii sport game.. its probally the most accurate game of the bunch... 
 it recognizes your motion really well... Golf- i havent spent alot of time with this mini-game... 
 but from what i have played, it was really mediocre.. i didnt really like it..
  
  Boxing- Though it dosent always recognize your motion (especially with the nunchuck) , its still 
 probably the best game to play with another player... its not fight night round 3 but its still 
 fun to play... even with the few issues...
  
  This is a perfect game to be included free with the wii. It shows what is possible with the console 
 for future game... i cant wait :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth__666
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fun and innovative little game that is full of fun. Whether you like baseball, 
 bowling, golf, boxing, or tennis, Wii Sports has it all for you. This is the type of title that 
 can be enjoyed by everyone and its the perfect title to gather around and begin competing with 
 your friends or family.
  Surprisingly, the controls on Sports are easy to learn. My girlfriends little sister who is 7 years 
 old got the hang of it in no time, so thats certainly a plus. It wont take you long to get your 
 timing down either. Even when youre learning how to play all the different sports games, youre 
 still having fun. Bowling is my favorite title out of the 5. You use your Wiimote which acts like 
 a ball; you aim, and chuck the ball down the lanes and watch the pins come crashing down. Tennis 
 is my second favorite. You hold the Wiimote as if it were a tennis racket. Then, you time your 
 swings, and swing away. It took me a while to figure this out, but if you swing sooner, your character 
 closer to the net will swing. This makes it a lot easier for you to win a match. Next comes baseball. 
 Here, you hold the Wiimote as if it was a bat and you swing for the fences. Time your swings and 
 send the ball out of the ball park. As for gold, you hold the Wiimote as if it were a golf club, 
 then swing away. Remember to make adjustments based on the wind here. And for boxing, well, you 
 actually get to use both the Wiimote and the nun chucks here. Block, dodge, and punch your way 
 to the top.
  Wii Sports is a creative way of getting the non gamer into games and it also allows people to physically 
 get into the game. This game is for just about everyone, even for those who dont like sports. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone and everyone; its really worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports, as everyone knows by now, is a pack-in title that comes with the Wii console. It displays 
 full-advantage of the Wii controllers to get you starting on the Wii the day you buy it. The game 
 is simply a compliation of 5 games: Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Bowling, and Boxing. It may lack in-depth, 
 but Wii Sports is highly enjoyable for a pick-up-and-play title.
  
  Wii Sports was designed for people to get a good feeling of the Wii controllers. In tennis, you 
 simply swing the remote without any button pressing. In baseball, swing the remote like bat to 
 hit balls out of the park, and strike the remote while you're pitching for fastballs, screwballs, 
 and splitters. In bowling, hold B and release the button as you swing your arm as you would in 
 real life. In golf, simply hold A and swing the remote. In boxing, connect the nunchuck to the 
 Wii remote for no-button gameplay. You simply punch with the controllers and block with the motion-sensors.
 
  
  In conclusion, Wii Sports is wildly fun for multiplayer parties and as a pack-in title, it's a 
 good start to start experiencing Nintendo's new console. In other words, it's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal-Sama
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game lacks interest and amusement and needs better sports. adding the mii's in it was a good 
 decision. would have been even worst without them. Nintendo needs to add more sports to it, better 
 graphics, could use a bit better sound and music, and possibly some good/ better mini games that 
 don't piss me off. My reviews on the stupidness of each sport:
  
  tennis- needs better mini-games, adding the nunchuk for this would be a good idea so you could 
 move your stupid mii. golf- good overall but some more challenging levels would be nice.
  
  baseball- horrible. needs improvement.
  
  boxing- mini-games are not very fun and/ or challenging. 
 could use better handling as well.
  
  bowling- its not too bad. could use better control though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fapoiuytr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Like every other Wii Owner, Wii Sports available with the system when you bought it.
  
  It brings to life a lot of games that are really fun for all.
  Such as,
  Tennis,
  Baseball,
 
  Bowling,
  Golf,
  and Boxing.
  
  All the games are brought to life by the Wii Remote that picks up the movement of our hand.
  
 
  Some of the Upsides to this game are,
  
  + Graphics. They may not seem like much but it brings a fun aspect to the game.
  
  + Sound. 
 The sound is pretty good, but can get repetitive. + Easy. The game is easy to pick up directly 
 when you start. Easy for all ages.
  
  + Innovative. Really brings a cool feel to the game using the Wii Remote.
  
  With the good 
 are the bad, here are some cons.
  
  - The Golf can be a little touchy from time to time.
  
  - Just when you think you have you hook down in bowling it changes on you. And (Maby it's just 
 me) But when i try to put a right spin on my ball it is nearly impossible.
  
  Other than those little mishaps this game deserves more credit then given.
  It really is fun 
 and you can pull the whole family into it. (I have done it! Its a blast having a family bowling 
 party! lol)
  So go play your Wii Sports and have fun!
  
  I give Wii Sports a
  Great 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega_DBZ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game that is giving to you wit a system EVER! Even thou the graphics aren't 
 really something to brag about. The game play is extremly fun (mostly on multiplayer) . Again, FREE 
 is the right price but i think i probably would pay for this game anyways. I'm still a little confused 
 if there's actually interaction with the Mii (like i'm playin baseball with my mii at my house, 
 While my buddy with his Wii can join my game by internet) . but yet i'm a little slow. We'll see 
 how good the second Wii Sports goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  It's free so you're going to buy if you get the Wii. But the question is whether or you're going 
 to play it? You are. It's a great little game. Yes everything feels like a tech demo in the game. 
 But they are good tech demos. You'll find yourself addicted in little time at all. It's the little 
 things that count in this game whether you're trying to get that 3rd strike in a row in bowling, 
 or hitting a few home runs out of the park you'll always be trying to better yoruself. The games 
 all start simple, but as you progress you'll find out there are more skills and moves to be learned. 
 The AI can be a tad stupid at times, but they'll but up a strong fight if needed. Training mode 
 is the games weakest point, it's extremely difficult to try and train on one aspect of your game, 
 and it's more like a series of mini games, most of which will just bore you. The game will never 
 feel like a game to you, however you'll find yourself coming back for more and more. Easily one 
 of the best wii games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicardoJr99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  i reckon this is an instant classic and one for the whole family to enjoy or if your on your own.
 
  As soon as i get my wii im probably going to play this game to death, ive only played it round 
 a friends house and he tanned me up but with some over usage of the practice feature i could probably 
 beat him.
  Also this practice feature is a nice addition to the game letting you strengthen your skills in 
 real life aswell as in the game itself and becoming good at the games give you more exp points 
 which in turn gives you access to added extras and bonuses. The graphics arent great but with the 
 added feature of the Mii you can see a variation of yourself playing all these sports and probably 
 doing better than you would in real life.
  To sum up then the interactivity of the wii is perfectly demonstrated in this brilliant little 
 gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRoderick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  You get alot more then just bloody noses and broken tables when you play wii sports, sure it can 
 be alot better but what can you expect from Nintendo.
  The baseball game is good, it would be great if you had more control. Boxing was fantastic, if 
 it wasn't for my cable snapping from my un-natural 99mph jab, i'd still be playing it! What is 
 there to say about golf and bowling... how tough can they get... it great to have control of where 
 the balls are going but sometimes it can get annoying.
  
  A new paragraph is needed for tennis, this was the money maker, it is so fun, you will want to 
 play for hours, until you realize your arm is to sore to swing! Playing the computer is fun, but 
 having a friend to yell at when you beat adds so much more excitement! If you don't have a Wii, 
 go buy it, you won't be disappointed, at least not with Wii Sports (TENNIS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mb20Addict
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok I admit it, launch day I started to get a little worried about this game. You see I was buying 
 my Wii, Zelda (Obviously) and Wii Play for the extra remote and thinking about it I started to 
 worry about the two Wii titles realising that they were just party games I was worried that they 
 would have no real longeviety to them and I would quickly bore of them. So I get my lovely new 
 console home, I set it up and slide the Wiimote in my hand and started playing Wii Sports with 
 my girlfriend and the love affair with this game started. Bowling is amazing and responsive, addictive 
 as hell, and not difficult to pick up either. My girlfriend quickly reaches Pro Level. Tennis is 
 good but my timing is off, but its still an excellent game with just 2, I wish I had 4 Remotes! 
 Boxing is brilliant, I am undefeated champion! Baseball is cool, fun but my girlfriend doesn't 
 understand it lol. A quick explanation of, 'Its like rounders' and finally she understands. Golf, 
 ah! it keeps swinging wrong! Oh man golf sucks! But then a quick read of the guide and we discover 
 we have been holding the remote wrong! Doh! A Chip-In and Birdie later surely Golf is the best 
 game! So I have decided that surely Nintendo are the greatest company in the world for bundling 
 such a great game with this wonderful console. And it gets better and better with all the excellent 
 training modes and trying to lower my Wii Fitness Age. I mean a 20yr Old Male should not be registering 
 as 41! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief9088
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Let me just start off by telling all of you how truly adictive this game is. I started playing 
 this game from 4pm and stopped at 8pm. I could not put down the Wii mote for 4 hours because i 
 was engrosed in wii baseball. From a graphics standpoint Wii sports is pathetic, but when you look 
 at its gamplay it is absolutly revoloutionary. Although some of the sports do not handle aswell 
 as others it is a great package of fun. Wii baseball has in my opinion the best controls. Wii bowling 
 is a close second. Wii golf a distant third. Wii boxing and Tennis are both very difficult to control 
 and there controlls feel very sloppy. The sound in this game is average but you will find that 
 the wii mote adds a little kick to the experience by making swoosh sounds or batting sounds while 
 you perform certain tasks. All in all this game is awsome hands down. The best part is, it comes 
 with your WII! Oh and i forgot to mention. The multiplayer is a HIT! No one will be dissapointed 
 in any of the games multi play. So go have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  You get Wii Sports as soon as you buy your Wii and Nintendo made a very good choice in choosing 
 this game because its so accessible to anyone. So far weve had grandparents, friends and other 
 relatives over and they have all loved it.
  
  Wii Sports splits into 5 games: Bowling, Tennis, Golf, Baseball and Boxing the best of them being 
 Bowling and Tennis. In each of the games you use the Wii mote to play how you would the real sport 
 so for example in tennis you swing the Wii mote like you would a tennis racket and in all the games 
 you can use your created Miis. Each of the games are very fun but some last longer than others. 
 I have found that Tennis and Bowling have been the favourites with a little bit of Golf. Baseball 
 and Boxing cant really keep up mainly because they get boring fast. In baseball your either throwing 
 pitches which is essentially just using the Wii mote to throw and batting. Although you can throw 
 the ball in numerous ways you are still doing two things over and over again. Boxing, on the other 
 hand, would have been a success but it is marred by poor detection of what you are doing. There 
 have been numerous amounts of times where i have punched and the Mii not do anything.
  
  This said Wii sports is still a great game the graphics arent the best seen on the Wii so far but 
 they dont get in the way of the game and normally you dont really care. Wii sports also has a cool 
 experiance system which gives the game a lot of depth that it really needs. After each game you 
 play against a the Wii, you gain experience, and as you gain more you take on harder opponents 
 so the difficulty really suits to how well you play the game. If it gets to a stage where you cant 
 win the opponents get easier to handle until you start getting better and working your way up.
 
  
  To get better at all of the games all you need is practice and to help you along with this is the 
 Training mode. Training mode allows you to practice different techniques through fun mini games, 
 the most notable are the Bowling ones. In Bowling you have to knock down pins whilst avoiding barriers 
 or bowl down lines of pins that inccrease as you play.
  
  Wii Sports is a truly great game for a pack in. It really shows off what the wii is capable of 
 and delivers a fun sports game with a suprising amount of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullheart
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is great for the only purpose of it being a free game for the Wii. It is very useful 
 in getting you used to the controls. Very enjoying to play with friends and family, too! But the 
 single player challenges are *too* hard, only for the reason of the controller not being very responsive 
 with the game.
  
  For example, the Boxing game. Once you get high enough in your skill level you will fight harder 
 enemies. Meaning, you can't just throw punches anymore. You have to dodge and master everything 
 in the training first. This isn't possible, because I've deemed it IMpossible. Sometimes when you 
 want to dodge or block, your character will throw punches instead (my friends had the same problems 
 as me) and you will lose easily. It is highly frustrating to me, so I don't play it because of 
 the non-responsive reasons. Bowling and Tennis, i will admit are fun and I don't have any problems 
 with those (maybe a few with Tennis come to think of it) .
  
  To sum it up, fun game. But its not a game you could master, because of the controller issues (I'm 
 not saying its the controller, I'm saying its the game) . Its also not something you could entertain 
 yourself for a week with, so don't expect this game to do just that. If you plan to buy a Wii have 
 some extra cash to get another game (Twilight Princess :D) , because this game won't be very interesting 
 after a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports
  Packing in the fun
  
  Presentation (10%) - 8
  Controls (17.5%) - 9.5
  Variety (25%) - 8
  Audio (7.5%) - 6
  Depth (15%) - 9
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 10
  
  OVERALL 
 - 8.85
  
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Multiplayer Importance: Medium-high.
  
  Previously played game in the series: None.
  
  Television set-up: 19 Sylvania CRT, SDTV 480i, composite cables.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay Outline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Wii Sports 
 is a collection of sports games including Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Each game 
 is simplified such that players only need to know the basic rules. The game comes with every console 
 in the American territories.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 0%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  If you know 
 how to play any of the five sports, you can immediately have fun with what Wii Sports has to offer. 
 It's that simple, no commitment is needed, it's immediate satisfaction.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The presentation makes great use of Miis in what can incorrectly be seen as dumbed down visuals. 
 The visuals as a whole come together really well to the point that the visuals aren't even noticed, 
 so while on the technical side, Baseball and Tennis don't look great with their colour-dot crowds, 
 you attention doesn't turn to that. And as a plus, the golf courses look great and the effects 
 in boxing are well utilized and a little flashy. Bowling looks like bowling should, no more no 
 less.
  
  One of the little joys of Wii Sports is seeing the Miis in various instances. Miis from Mii Parade 
 and from the ones you've created show up on your team, in the crowds and in the background. When 
 you don't know a particular Mii is in the Parade, you can be quite surprised to see it bowling 
 alongside you (specifically if the Mii is distinctive) . In Tennis, and to a lesser extent Baseball, 
 Miis will have hugely exaggerated leaps into the air that is entertaining every time.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 9.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Quite simply, the game is fun because of its controls; it's inarguable. If this were a game on 
 another console, it would be a mediocre budget title. As a Wii game, it's excellent. Tennis is 
 simplified down to hitting the ball, but hitting the ball isn't just hitting a button. It's swinging 
 a racket; how hard you swing determines velocity, angle determines spin -- all without the touch 
 of a button. Baseball has you selecting pitch with A and B and location with the D-pad, then throwing 
 the ball. Batting is simply swinging -- height doesn't seem to affect it at all, but in the context 
 of the game it doesn't matter. Bowling has you moving your initial position and angle with the 
 D-pad, the swinging back and then forward with the Wiimote, which also applies spin and release 
 point. In Golf, you aim and change clubs with the D-pad and swing by using the Wiimote. You can 
 take practice swings by just swinging and when you're ready to hit the ball, hold A. And Boxing 
 has you punching, bobbing and weaving by motions of the Wiimote and Nunchuck.
  
  Essentially, the controls work exactly as they should and make the games endlessly fun. There are 
 minor problems here-and-there, though. In Baseball, pitching location seems inconsistent and makes 
 pitching against the CPU particularly frustrating. Boxing can feel very disconnected because when 
 you can punch is connected to the actions of your opponent, and punch height can be difficult to 
 get a handle on. The only significant problem is that while full motions work well in all the games, 
 only in Bowling, Golf and Boxing is it the best strategy. In Tennis and Baseball, since the game 
 accommodates the lazy who don't want full motions, you can flick your wrist in a far greater ratio 
 of speed than full motion and thusly get better velocity and power. This doesn't matter in multiplayer 
 where you can regulate it, but when you can't get full results against the CPU, it can be annoying.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Five sports games is a good value even having simpler versions of each game. Tennis has single 
 game, best-of-three and best-of-five, and is only doubles (you can play with or against a CPU player, 
 local human player or combination of both. Baseball is a single 3-inning game of pitching and hitting 
 -- no fielding, which is done automatically by the fielders. Bowling is just bowling a game. Golf 
 has a single 9-hole course, which can also be played in sections of 3 holes. And Boxing is a single 
 three-round match. There are no bonuses, only good versions of each game.
  
  But in addition to the games, there are also training modes. There's Wii Training and Wii Fitness. 
 Wii Training is a collection of exercise, three for each game, in which you can earn medals (worthless, 
 but good as an achievement) . These training modes are pretty varied and make for actual useful 
 practice in specific elements of each game and can actually make you better. Wii Fitness works 
 like Brain Age in that it uses three short random exercise to judge your age, best being 20. It 
 uses exercises from Wii Fitness.
  
  You also gain skill points by successfully playing games. Keyword, successfully as they can also 
 go down. You reach [PRO] status at 1000 points, but can lose it by losing points. The points end 
 up being a negative in many ways to me personally as one bad game and you can lose a ton of points 
 -- I find myself restarting a bowling game that I'd have played through otherwise.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 6
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The audio is simple and does what it should, but leaves something to be desired. Crowd sounds are 
 pretty tacked on, and the music doesn't take long to begin grating on the ears a bit. The sound 
 effects are rather good, though, and come through the speaker clearly. The crack of the bat in 
 baseball is particularly good, as it gives you a good and natural indication of how well you hit 
 the ball.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 9
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  That's right. Depth - 9/10. Natural motions make the depth in the game far more than what is usually 
 expected, particularly in Bowling. Tennis is a big surprise with regard to this. While you're only 
 hitting the ball, where you hit the ball does indeed matter. The goal is to get the opponent's 
 back player too far away to save a cross-court shot that is more easily said than done (forgive 
 the clich&eacute;) . Spin also plays into the game, although it's difficult to get a handle on. 
 Baseball is big on velocity and timed use of the splitter. Mixing speeds is essential, and barring 
 flick-wrist cheating, swinging becomes an art unto itself. Bowling is incredibly natural and the 
 gem of the bunch, it really becomes a matter of fine touch that can't be perfected. Golf is probably 
 the simplest due to the easy course and lack of use of spin; only shot power is controller by the 
 swing, which is a disappointment. Boxing has depth in that there's a lot of technique. Dodging, 
 blocking high and low and different types of punches make for a complex fight.
  
  The detractors can be seen in Baseball as a mechanic to the splitter of it failing and going as 
 a fastball down the middle is just annoying, and location isn't very specific at all and is utterly 
 frustrating against a good CPU. Box has depth, but it's a bit of a frustrating depth because the 
 slow-motion effects can mess with the rhythm of the fight and the CPU can throw comboes no human 
 can manage -- it's truly a multiplayer-specific gem. Ultimately, the complaints here are against 
 cheap CPU and not the multiplayer where there's a level playing field.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun - 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Wii Sports has the best fault a game can have -- it leaves you wanting more. This is due to 
 it being so incessantly entertaining and will remain so, particularly to pull out when people are 
 over, for years to come. Each sports game, regardless of whether you actually like the sport, has 
 its own value, and differently than other games. Tennis is the 3-4 player game and is best when 
 there are that many. It's also the best to get a non-gamer into the mix. Baseball's one that you 
 can spend a lot of competitive time on -- the psychological games are in full effect here; the 
 CPU play is the worst of any of the games, though. Bowling is the single-player game; it can take 
 a while to play with many, so playing on your own can actually be better. Golf is the non-competitive 
 multiplayer game. You don't have to be doing nearly as well as anyone else to have a good time 
 because your play is independent. And Boxing is the spectator sport; not only is it the silliest 
 to see, it's really a bragging rights game.
  
  Wii Training and Fitness are a big part of the value. Beating high-scores in Training is something 
 to go back to besides just another game. Wii Fitness is something that just feels right to do each 
 day and gets you into playing some more even if you didn't intend to in the first place.
  
  There's not a whole lot to cover here that hasn't been covered in earlier sections. Wii Sports 
 is just fun, and will always be fun. That's what it's all about.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 8.85
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Wii Sports is the quintessential Wii pack-in. Yes, Zelda sold systems, but Zelda doesn't sell the 
 concept. Wii Sports sells the concept; shows that yes, the Wiimote is revolutionary and that this 
 is how you want to play games. While it lacks the full production values and variety to make this 
 a top-tier title, it's a game I would suggest everyone have in his collection, which works out 
 well in that in the Americas, everyone will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottNak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  What a game to have packaged with the Wii. The only thing missing is an extra set of Wiimotes to 
 help have more fun with this great collection of games with your friends. But even without an extra 
 set, you can still have some fun... with most of th egames at least. Closer look at each games...
 
  
  1) BASEBALL: An exciting game to play with two players. One person does the pitching, the other 
 gets the chance to smack that ball out of the park. No need to worry about controlling your players, 
 it's done automatically. Also only 3 innings long. Which is perfect in length, as by then you've 
 gotten your fair share of baseball. [Downside: Games can end in ties. Baseball does not end in 
 ties.]
  -- Training Games: The home-run derby training is by far the most exciting to play with. The other 
 two are also nicely done as well!
  
  2) BOWLING: The game you'll have the most fun with. You can easily play it with up to 4 with only 
 1 wiimote (aside from the constant passing off of the wiimote) . You literally play as if you were 
 doing it for real. Natural tilts as if you were playing real bowling somewhat appears when you 
 play this. Very nice. -- Training: All 3 games are well done and enjoyable to play with. Perfectly 
 done!!
  
  3) BOXING: HILARIOUSLY fun with two players. But... you aren't going to register all of your punches 
 onto the screen. Why? You'll get too into it. You need to be deliberate in your actions. Nothing 
 ridiculously slow, but going to fast just makes it go crazy. Deliberate and quick, and you'll get 
 it. Usually.
  -- Training: Frustratingly hard. But, if you get the hang of your motions. Congrats.
  
  4) 
 GOLF: TOUGHEST game of them all, but eventually satisfying. Not a fan of most due to the fact the 
 whole swinging-scheme is tough to keep consistent. But in reality, isn't that what golf is all 
 about. You aren't going to be able to get that consistent swing unless you've gotten the feel for 
 it (which hopefully you eventually will!) After that, you've got a great game to play with. Honestly. 
 Just keep at it
  -- Training: Putting is a pain, but target practice is impressively fun to play with (after getting 
 the hang of the swings of course)
  
  5) TENNIS: Decent. Not as exciting without other people to play with. Again, you don't move the 
 people, just swing the racket. All about timing once again! Otherwise, not too exciting alone.
 
  -- Training: Frustraing again. Got to get the feel of the swings, else you'll be done as quick 
 as a blink.
  
  ==&gt; All in all, what a fun game to have packaged. The music/sounds it has are quite smoothing 
 and very fun to listen to. The gameplay is astoundingly intuitive (My mother (40+) , uncles (60+) 
 all took it up impressively easily) . It's worth a lot of play time in a party setting! ==&gt; Its 
 boggling to think that if we've got all these as a packaged game... imagine a game which focuses 
 on one of these games and expands it further. The possibilities are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest. First time I saw videos of Wii Sports I thought it would be really boring (seeing 
 how on tennis the characters move automatically, etc) .
  
  But I was wrong. I got the Wii and Zelda, but the first thing I did (since I knew I would be spending 
 more time on Zelda) was slide in the Wii Sports disk.
  
  It was FUN.
  
  REALLY FUN.
  
  Being my favorite the Bowling one, I found myself playing it for 40 minutes. I got totally 
 on the game, it was awesome. Then I made my mother play Tennis, and she was like no, i don't like 
 games , next thing we know, she's ADDICTED.
  
  Overall great free party game!
  
  Will be a BOMB on Christmas day with the whole family! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyric_shekai
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Hello again, The monkey Is reviewing Wii Sports. I Was lucky enough to get a Nintendo Wii and so 
 I am reviewing the Wii sports game that came along with the system. Lets start with gameplay. The 
 game is a perfect tutorial for anyone wanting to learn how to use the Wiimote. With the interactive 
 Wiimote you can do everything from hitting home runs to putting a golfball. also the game includes 
 the training feature to teach players if they are having trouble. The game is undeniably fun, although 
 a little frustrating at first it evolves into great gameplay that the whole family can enjoy. My 
 dad, who hasn't played video games since they got so complicated with all the buttons, has gotten 
 addicted to the bowling. The graphics are on par with that of kids games, the Mii's (avatars created 
 to be your character in the games) are colorful and can be customized on the console to look as 
 much like you as you can get it, or just a fun little character. they function smoothly and the 
 reactions to the Wiimote movements are simply fantastic. the sound is great. all the game sounds 
 are well presented with the active sounds from the television and the sounds that emanate from 
 the Wiimote. Overall the game is highly addictive and the ranking and progress recorders are welcome. 
 the individual games like baseball and tennis are a little over simplified. like if your ball is 
 at all caught directly in baseball it is an instant out. this sometimes gets annoying but moves 
 the game along and isn't too big a deal. overall i think this game is worth a 7.9 a really good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macpoule
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Not a descent title but here are the sports-
  
  Tennis-
  One of the greatest sport in the game that is almost complete. It's just really simple to swing 
 your tennis racket. The A. I. is getting tougher when you have more experience points. The sounds 
 are great but there is no music. Baseball-
  Baseball isn't really bad after all. Swinging the baseball bat is really simple. It's natural. 
 The A. I. is still good. It's great playing baseball in your living room instead of outside. It 
 could have day / night effects.
  
  Bowling-
  Bowling is really fun. It's very simple and has realistic movements. Bowling could have different 
 stages effects like cosmos. What's cool is the bowling ball with stars when you get a thousand 
 exp.
  
  Golf-
  Simple features and missing stuff. It's simple to play (natural playing this sport with the Wiimote) . 
 It has the simple stuff like the wind strength and the wind direction. There's four different clubs. 
 There's not enough of stages. Not enough of variety. There could have been a Golf Terrain Editor 
 to create our own terrains. The best thing is its gameplay.
  
  Boxing-
  Missing lots of content. Great gameplay. The only sport in Wii Sports that makes you sweat the 
 most. Realistic movement.
  
  Training mode-
  Training mode is a great add-on to this game. Fifteen different training options that expands replay 
 value. It makes you practice to get better.
  
  In conclusion, Wii Sports rocks in gameplay but is descent in terms of graphics. It could have 
 had music in every sport and could have a lot more of variety in its sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karasz87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a simple game, but it takes skill. It comes with 5 games in one. Boxing, Bowling, 
 Golf, Tennis, and Baseball. I mostly like the Boxing and Bowling part because they're pretty good. 
 Just try not to lose the strap and end up throwing towards the tv and break it. I mean, just wear 
 your strap, ok?!
  Anyway, if you're into fitness, then Wii Sports has a fitness part in the game.
  Oh yeah, Wii 
 Sports is a the coolest. Makes you wish you can do the real thing, eh? If you're into sports and 
 stuff, then this is definably the one you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanderuli
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Wii sports shows you what the Wii is capable of. With 5 mini games you come to almost every expect 
 what the remote can do. And the games are very fun to play as well.
  And better then I first expected the controls really work great. When you come the graphical side 
 of Wii sports, it's not very good neither is the sound in Wii sports. Nevertheless the fun playing 
 the games compares the graphics and sound qualities.
  
  The good part of Wii sports is you can keep playing it forever, when you have some friends over 
 it's always nice to beat them with some tennis or baseball. And the point ranking is pretty cool, 
 when you get the pro status on of the games, you get an extra. By bowling you get a new ball by 
 example.
  I'll now shortly talk you through each game alone.
  
  Wii sports Tennis: Tennis really stands up in these serie of games, I think it's the best game 
 on Wii sports. The feeling when you hit the ball is lovely, if you play tennis yourself you'll 
 find yourself very deep in this game, you know how to play the ball, and when or where to hit it. 
 The only flaw in tennis is the AI, once you get passed a point where you've beaten Elisa (pro 2000) , 
 you can't get any harder players against you.
  
  Wii sports Baseball: In short a good game and fun to play and to experiment with your Wii remote, 
 like if you make a little swing you won't launch the ball at top speed, but if you make a big and 
 hard swing, you really hit the ball towards the sky.
  
  Wii sports Bowling: After Tennis, bowling is my favourite, I really like the curve in this game, 
 if you twist your wrist, just like you do when you bowl in real life, it really goes when in real 
 life. What I mean is when you throw the ball it's just feels like you are really throwing the ball, 
 this is in every of the games tho, but in bowling it's just a little bit more.
  
  Wii sports Golf: Just swing your Wii remote and have some fun. Find the right angle and find the 
 right speed and birdies will fall, like rain out the air.
  
  Wii sports Boxing: I like this game the least, the idea after it it's oke, but I just don't like 
 boxing that's all. In short, Wii sports is a many sided game and very fun to play, it also gives 
 you a impression of what the Wii is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadwolf86
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Good game overall.. especially how it comes with the Wii.
  Some of the games take time to get used to though..
  I also wish that players can get skill points 
 after playing mulitplayer matches.
  
  Tennis-9/10-Would love to see more courts.. the 2 courts can get a bit repetitive.
  Baseball-8/10-Controls 
 are a bit awkward.. but it's fun to play.
  Boxing-7/10-Controls are a bit awkward.. music is annoying. Good with 2 players..
  Bowling-9/10-Good.. 
 Nothing really to complain about. Takes time to get used to but it is fun.
  Golf-2/10-The point of playing this is? The controls are awkward.. the gameplay is boring.. just 
 like golf actually if.
  
  Can't wait for Wii Play though.. Hopefully more content it added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burli_24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  For what could be called a Tech Demo, Wii Sports is pure joy at times, and great fun the rest of 
 the times, it has reinvigorated my faith in innovation, and my family has been playing it for three 
 days flat without fail.
  
  It does however, lack in areas. It would be brilliant to get more ranks than a simple 1000 point 
 Pro , it would be amazing if tennis incorporated spin, and backhand/forehand more, rather than 
 relyinig on timing, and it would be nice if the computer didn't slightly cheat in baseball. Golf 
 could have done with more fine tuning on the putting, and maybe more stages. However, this game 
 shows just how much potential the wii has in bringing these things to life, in future games with 
 higher budgets, and much more focus and time. Boxing for instance really feels great, with only 
 a couple of niggly problems, and it shows just how great a full fledged boxing game could be, and 
 I don't even usually like boxing.
  
  Pure, Bloody, Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  My first experience with the Wii - after recovering from the shock of actually receiving one - 
 was to try and get used to what I thought was a clunky control system. To my surprise, Wii Sports 
 proved me otherwise in a matter of minutes.
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of five simple sports games especially designed to get everyone acquainted 
 with the Wii controllers. Included are baseball, boxing, tennis, golf and bowling.
  
  Your playing character (as well as your adversary) can be any of the little Mii you create. The 
 more you play the games, the higher your Mii's skill becomes, and you get to track your progress 
 via a graph.
  
  The first thing I played was a baseball game against my husband. I had a blast while we switched 
 between pitching and batting, and seeing how the Miis acted according to our movements. I lost 
 count as to how many times I heard foul ball , but it was a unique experience. We use the Wii remote 
 to swing the bat at the right time and to throw the ball as hard as possible, and then we watch 
 as the little Miis scatter all over the field in between rounds. A cool added touch: the game registers 
 the speed we manage to throw the ball at and even spots curve or screw balls.
  
  We moved on to golf, where we had to stand and use the remote as a club, swinging it and adjusting 
 our Mii position to where we wanted the ball to go on the green. I found out that putts really 
 aren't my thing, but I'm pretty good at making that ball fly. You get the chance to practice your 
 swing before you actually hit the ball, adjusting strength and watching the meter which represents 
 the four zones on the map. After playing the other games, I found that the use of the Wii remote 
 in golf wasn't as accurate as bowling or tennis.
  
  I must say I really don't like boxing one bit, but actually boxing with the remote on one hand 
 and the nunchuck on the other (they represent your gloves) is a blast. You actually swing at your 
 opponent with both hands, and depending on the angle, you can deliver a number of different punches. 
 Raising both controllers to your face or placing them in front of your chest will protect your 
 Mii's face or chest from incoming blows. Tilting both remotes to either side makes your Mii lean 
 to the sides and circle around the opponent. Boxing is my favorite Wii Sport, and one I keep on 
 playing until my arms are tired.
  
  My second favorite is bowling. I love bowling, but I have very weak wrists and every time I happen 
 to go out to a bowling alley, I can't seem to find a ball light enough to let me play more than 
 just one game. Wii bowling solves my problem! Using the remote as if it were the bowling ball, 
 you swing back holding the B button, swing forward and release the button to let go of the ball. 
 You can also adjust your position left or right to knock down the remaining pins. Watch out for 
 the angle of the remote while throwing though. I kept throwing my virtual bowling ball curving 
 to the left, so I made up by moving my Mii to the right, but it's interesting to see how the motion 
 sensor registers small changes like that and reflects them in the ball's trajectory. Bowling matches 
 can be played with up to four players.
  
  Last but not least, there is tennis, which can also accommodate up to four players. I went for 
 a single player match, where I had my Mii cloned to play pairs. Using the remote like a racket, 
 you swing to hit the ball and return it to your opponent. You don't need to worry about moving 
 your Mii around to whatever side of the court, it's all done automatically for you. The game doesn't 
 care if you swing on the left or on the right, since it does that change automatically. But it 
 does register your speed and angle, so basically, all you have to do is swing at the right time. 
 It's that simple!
  
  Actually, all games are that simple. More complicated are the training and fitness exercises. Each 
 sport has a few training stages - mini games, if you will - designed to give you a bit more of 
 a challenge and reward you with medals. For example in tennis, there is one where you have to return 
 as many balls as possible. In bowling, you have to hit single pins that were left behind (picking 
 up spares) . Golf lets you do some target practice and in boxing you get to work out a sweat to 
 make the punching bag fall.
  
  Fitness can only be explained as Brain Age. There's a fitness test you can do once a day that evaluates 
 your Fitness Age . It picks out the exercises from the ones available in the training stages. The 
 lower your age , the better.
  
  I was really happy to see that I could function right away in all games with something I had so 
 many doubts about. Using either both or just one controller is an intuitive process, and it comes 
 across as very natural, since you are using the same movements you would use on such sports. Wii 
 Sports is a great way to start changing the way you play games. It's bundled with the console, 
 so you won't be missing out on it, unless you decide not to play it. It's hard not to enjoy yourself 
 with these sports. They are a great fun interactive experience, especially if you're playing it 
 with friends.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=wiisports 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornercutter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When i first found out that wii sports was a pack-in for wii, i wasnt too exited, but now that 
 ive played it, i can see that its a really good game that introduces people to nintendo's little 
 white machine really well. lemme break it down for you. Gameplay: fun for a while, but since i 
 play a lot of video games, it got boring in a week or so. That doesnt mean that it is bad though, 
 my parents still make me play this game with them. that is for the 5 main games. i like boxing 
 the most, it does give you a work out. i like tennis the least, somtimes the game will read your 
 swing wrong, plus i suck at it. the training modes are really fun and give the gameplay more depth. 
 Wii fitness challenge give the game lots of replay value. Its fun to use your miis in the game 
 too. (take out anger on ppl in boxing) . ....9. Graphics: you can see that wii sports isnt the kind 
 of game that didnt aim to please with stunning visuals. the game is nice-looking. to name a few 
 highlights: trees in the golf game are pretty detailed, the reflection of pins in bowling is pretty 
 stunning acctually, during boxing, the crowd is filled with a TON of random miis. there were a 
 lot of opportunities in the game to buff up the graphics that werent taken advantage of. the crowd 
 in baseball looks like tetris. tennis really has nothing to wow you in graphics either. ......7. 
 Sound: the music in this game isnt cool, its pretty bad. it can get annoying easily. sound effects 
 are plentiful, and come through the wiimote speaker most of the time. voice acting for the narrorator 
 is nice, and the game uses the speaker in the wiimote a lot. the wiimote speaker cuts off maybe 
 1/50 sounds it's supposed to make. but it was a really good idea. it just adds another kind of 
 'cool' to the game... but it doesnt make up completly for the horrible soundtrack. ...6. Value: 
 the game is a free pack in for wii.... one bad thing though... th case is a flimsy foldable thingy.... 
 other than tat, zero complaints....9! Tilt: i tilted the rating because this game is the first 
 (and hopefully not last) game to get my parents and other relatives into playing videogames. My 
 uncle even bought a system! its a pretty easy game to learn how to play too, with the unique controls 
 and all.  fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: 5 different sports to  and my favorite WII SPORT 
 :TENNIS} , simple and good use the nintendo WII-REMOTE and NUNCHUCK, good sound effects in the WII-REMOTE 
 self {like hearing a ball in the WII SPORT: TENNIS} , everybody can play this game {like mine father 
 that was very good at tennis in past} you can enjoy hours with playing this game with family or 
 friends {surely with tennis} . THE BAD POINTS: the only game that is free by the NINTENDO WII, afther 
 you get a game like THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: TWILIGHT PRINSES or RAYMAN: RAVING RABBITS youre not play 
 game so long anymore [conclusion] i vought this game is boring because i dont like sports game not 
 so much, but this is surely fun ,specialy if you play this game with three friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a collection of five sports based mini-games for the Nintendo Wii that primarily 
 serve as a technical demonstration of what the Wii Motion Controllers are capable of.
  
  Wii Sports contains five sports tennis, golf, baseball, boxing, and bowling which all support the 
 use of your Mii as the game character. Most of the game use the remote only, with boxing using 
 the nunchuck as well. The quality and playability of these games vary considerably and I shall 
 consider them one at a time.
  
  Tennis is the simplest and easiest to pick-up and play. You only control the racket, not the Mii, 
 so as long as your timing is correct you'll get to the ball. Both back-hand and forehand can be 
 swung and it plays really quite well.
  
  Golf had the potential to be a really cool and immersive game, but unfortunately it turns out to 
 be harder than the real thing! I play a little golf (badly) and what Wii Sports fails to capture 
 is any sense of club control. Your swing speed and travel do not equate to the distance hit and 
 it can make the game extremely frustrating, especially putting! Baseball also suffers from the 
 same problems as golf. You only really have control of the timing of your strike rather than the 
 swing, and again it can be very frustrating to play.
  
  Bowling is the highlight of the package, and plays extremely well. You have control over speed 
 and spin as well as timing. Within a few minutes you can be hitting pretty accurate shots without 
 ever feeling you are not in control. With 2 or more players it is great fun.
  
  Finally boxing has a very simple mechanic of punching the remote and nunchuck out like an aerobic 
 exercise. The gameplay is actually very basic and dull and is probably the least impressive game 
 here. Graphically, Wii Sports is clean and cute. The Mii's bob and hop around and the animations 
 and textures are all pleasant and fine. Golf and tennis look particularly nice.
  
  The music and sounds are all classic Nintendo boings and dings. They bring an initial smile but 
 do irritate after a while. The noises from the Wii Remote are OK and audible given the limitations 
 of the speaker.
  
  In summary, Wii Sports is a fine free technical demonstration of what can be achieved with the 
 Wii in terms of control rather than gameplay. You won't be playing this game for long; but it is 
 fun, in particularly the Bowling and Tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is great. Hell I might even go as far to say it was revolutionary. But not quite.
  Wii sports is a lot of fun and will have most anti-gamers dieing for a game. It so however not 
 a new concept, playing baseball, tennis ect. The way you play is the real hook with this game. 
 Imagine if you will this game came out on the gamecube? It would be panned into oblivion. I found 
 tennis and baseball extreme fun. And the game shows off what the wii is all about. Its more accessable 
 than the vllage bike and moe fun too.... i'd imagine.
  The graphics if im honest isn't ps3, its gamecube shined up a good bit and to be honest i expected 
 a lot worse.
  I very much like the sound in the game and through the wii remote nothing special again without 
 the remote.
  Remembering this game is free makes me smile to think how many people will be playingthis on christmas 
 day.
  You will get sore, playing baseball for half an hour and your muscles stiffen up somthing terrible. 
 I just think the whole picture is not in focus here. If nintendo can make a poor non-wii game into 
 a damed good game the wii and nintendo have just hit the jackpot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This was a huge surprise to see Nintendo pack a game in with there new console. They haven't done 
 that since the days of the NES. With that being said its an excellent game at that, and has five 
 games on the disc: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Enough with the Chit chat, lets 
 do it:)
  
  GRAPHICS: This game has a very warm, inviting presentation, and even though the graphics are a 
 bit cartoonish, thats ok in this case. It fits well with the way this game plays, and it would 
 have been rather odd to have these cute little Mii characters in a super realistic environment 
 :lol: Although I will say the Tennis courts, and golf courses do look very detailed and nice.
 
  
  Its not a visual feat of any kind but the Wii wasn't meant to be a Graphics whore console. Even 
 for being cartoony, the graphics still look nice and clean and have great color. Yea there is very 
 little anti-Aliasing but you wont notice because your having to much fun anyway... which leads me 
 to my next subject......... game play:)
  
  GAME PLAY: I'm going to break it down in sections for you. There will be a section for each game 
 on the disc.
  
  Tennis: This is a fun and addictive little game here. Its very simplistic, and the only thing you 
 control is hitting the ball and how you hit the ball. You don't have to move the characters or 
 anything which is actually a good thing because theres enough going on on screen with out having 
 to control the character as well.
  
  The ball physics work nicely depending on how hard, were and what way you hit the ball will send 
 it in various directions with various spin. I actually see no problems with this game at all. I 
 like how simple everything is, and its just fun as hell:) The motion sensing works beautifully 
 no hiccups at all.
  
  Baseball: Another game that actually looks and plays beautifully. The motion sensing is top notch, 
 and again you don't have to control the out field or anything, just hit the ball. The AI is fairly 
 decent to. They will give you a good challenge. The hitting is easy, just swing the remote like 
 a bat with the right timing, and poof theres your home run. Pitching is easy enough, just bring 
 the remote from above your head in a downward motion and thats how you throw it. Holding one of 
 the buttons will give you different pitches to.
  
  Over all its a good game but it does have its bad points. When pitching if you forget to raise 
 the remote, immediately after throwing, it will throw the ball while your raising your arm, which 
 is kind of lame. Basically you have to hit the ball into the out field and the longer its in play 
 you will get a single double or triple, the problem I have is the fact that even if the ball touches 
 the ground if they catch it immediately your out. They don't even throw it to first base, your 
 just out which is kind of pointless to. Also theres never a set amount of innings. Sometimes its 
 3 sometimes its its 5. Which make sit unbalanced.
  
  Overall its a fun game but not the best.
  
  Bowling: The best game on the disc is right here 
 with bowling. This game by far has the most excellent motion sensing, and visuals of all the other 
 games.
  
  To throw the ball you basically make all of the motions you would if your really bowling..... Its 
 that simple. You play it just like you were really playing in real life. I can say enough about 
 this game. Its just REALLY fun. This is one of those games you and ALL of your friends must try. 
 Its just an outstanding experience: D The pin physics are spot on, no scripted physics at all.
 
  
  You cant go wrong with this one, got no complaints: D
  
  Golf: This game needs a little work. The visuals are excellent... thats about it.
  The courses 
 aren't that difficult but theres only nine of them, and the mechanics of the game don't work well.
 
  
  Obviously theres is going to be SOME finnesse involved but this is out of hand. The game instructs 
 you to hold the controller like a golf club and swing, the only problem is that you either hit 
 it to hard or to soft. Its like no matter how hard you try, you very seldom hit the sweet spot 
 in the power meter. So basically I just hold the remote upright and swing downward which take away 
 from the feel of golf but is actually more accurate.
  
  Putting is shall we say..... BROKEN! You hold the controller in front of you, take a little back 
 swing then gently swing forward... like you are really putting right..... WRONG. You do that and 
 90% of the time the club swings forward while you were actually swinging back. it gets VERY frustrating 
 at times. My advice take MANY practice swings while putting to help get the feel of the awkward 
 putting system.
  
  The games not a loss, but not much fun either.
  
  Boxing: The most F***ed up of all the games. Visuals are good, The boxing itself is 50-50. This 
 is were the remote controls crap out. Half the time you hit your opponent, have the time the game 
 doesn't even register you threw a punch.
  
  The manual just says to punch in front of you with the remote and nunchuck, and hold them upright 
 to block and dodge, both work about half the time.
  What it doesn't tell you is that there are several types of punches but good look trying to do 
 them. It tells you to hold the controllers low to defend your body and punch low... hardly ever 
 works at all. Its funny you will through a jab and then try to do it again and you will punch low, 
 like the game isn't registering what you are throwing. This one of my favorites, but I get so frustrated 
 that I just don't play it anymore, it doesn't matter what you set the wii mote sensitivity to or 
 anything, the punching just doesn't work right.
  
  A broken game....: (
  
  Training, and Wii fitness: training is self explanatory, you train to play the games, and its fun: D 
 Wii fitness is cool. It gives you 3 random training tests, and tells you what your Wii age is. 
 Its just a fun little mini game. And as you get better your Wii age drops and will stop at 20.
 
  
  Overall this game rocks. Other than the boxing and golf, all of the others play excellently and 
 have brought me many joyous hours of entertainment:)
  
  EDIT: I just realized I forgot the sound part. Its good. All the sounds are just like there respective 
 real-life counter parts. From the crack of the bat to swoosh of the golf club swing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Im suprized really how it never came out with a higher rating, this game gets you really going 
 with the wiimote. Tennis and Bowling are my faviroute by far, you will see of what i think about 
 the other 3 games as you continue to read the rest of the review.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay, as you have read tennis and bowling are my faviroute of the 5 games. 
 First of all boxing, well with boxing its a great fun game but the controller is mostly unaccurate 
 and unresponsive, also the wire gets in the way sometimes. But dont get me wrong it is still great 
 fun. Then we move onto golf, theres nothing really wrong with golf apart from when putting it is 
 hard and fustrating as it is hard to keep the powere bar down. But the main reason that its not 
 my faviroute is because, well its just a bit boring. Baseball is actually good, theres nothing 
 wrong with it at all and the only reason its not in my favroutes is because im just not a big fan 
 of it. It is fun though. Multiplayer is just really really really fun. Ecspecially tennis where 
 you can be on your mates team. The graphics are simple and clean, nothing special but who cares 
 when you've just got a strike or if your really good a turkey, lol.
  
  The sound is also great, i just crave for that sound when you wiimote hits the tennis ball. Mmmmmm 
 im dreaming of it now...........
  
  The value is of cource the best possible as its free! Lol got nothing more to say to that.
  
 
  I love this game and its a great game to get started with the wii, Nintendo are just genius's! 
 I Would say to you ' this is a definate buy' but it comes free!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Most people want to read a review to decide whether they should buy a game. Considering this game 
 comes with your Wii, there's really no need to read a review for it, since you'll most likely play 
 it anyway.
  
  That being said, and if you really want to continue reading ;-) , this game is great. It really 
 gives you a good immersive feel into each sports game, and the simplistic controls really does 
 make the game appeal to EVERYONE. Now your entire family wants to play, instead of just you and 
 a few friends. What it comes down to is -- how many controllers can you find in stores? ;-)
  
  There's a lot of easter eggs the game doesn't expand on, most of them being accessed by holding 
 some little used button down before the game begins, and all in all everyone wants to get to that 
 coveted pro status on a game. Doing so in bowling gets you a special bowling ball, while doing 
 it in much of anything else ... gets you squat. Which sucks, if you ask me.
  
  Graphically the game is very stylized, specifically for use of the Miis, which people will spend 
 just as much time making before they play than they actually will playing.
  
  But this game has done what no other game ever has before, which is get not other my mother and 
 father, but even my GRANDFATHER (who has trouble working a TV remote) , playing video games together. 
 How can you give a game that can do that a low score? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has chosen a very appropriate game to bundle with it's shiny new console. Everybody recognises 
 sport in one form or another so it's easy to see why people will feel comfortable playing this 
 game while learning the intricacies of the Wii remote. It comprises a montage of five different 
 sports - Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing. While these aren't simulations of the real 
 thing, they certainly represent the basic mechanics of each individual sport. This is what makes 
 this game the most attractive because it doesn't require a large amount of effort to become proficient 
 at each sport.
  
  The mind boggles at what the game designers would have had to go through to allow the recognition 
 of so many individual movements but they have succeeded in giving the player a lot of freedom to 
 play how they want to play. Serving in Tennis requires a simple flick of the remote upwards to 
 throw the ball and then a stroke forwards to make the serve. From then on it's just a matter of 
 timing when to swing the raquet to hit the ball. For more experienced Tennis players like myself, 
 the game also gives you the option to twist the remote to give either slice or topspin to the shot. 
 However, once again, the movements are very simplified and don't really reflect how you would play 
 in the real world. For example, you can't angle the remote to hit the ball where you want it. Instead, 
 you must time the swing to achieve a certain angle.
  
  Second in line is Baseball. This would have to be one of the more frustrating sports in the game. 
 Thankfully it has been simplified to just swinging the bat and throwing the ball. The AI on the 
 field is definitely worthy of verbal abuse because it is so easy to get caught out. On top of that, 
 the batter doesn't run at all while the ball is in the air. The game seems to rely on the time 
 it takes for the fielder to retrieve the ball and throw it to the base to gauge if you get run 
 out or make it to 1st, 2nd or 3rd base. The other big challenge was timing your swing while batting. 
 When first trying the game you'll probably connect with about 1 in 20 balls properly. Therefore, 
 most of the first few games will consist of you either striking out or making many, many foul balls.
 
  
  Bowling is the easiest sports to get into on this game. You hold the controller up like you would 
 with a bowling ball, start the run-up with B, and hurl the ball down the lane with all the intricacies 
 of a mad cow. Simple as that. Bear in mind, if you do the aforementioned motion the controller 
 will recognise this and you'll end up with a severe case of gutter-ball. This sport also requires 
 some button pushing which allows you to aim the ball at an angle or left or right of centre.
  
  Golf is next. The controls are slightly different to what you'd expect in that the controller 
 registers how hard you're hitting, not by your back swing and subsequent follow through. Thankfully 
 you can practice your swing for as long as you want before stepping up to the ball. The scenery 
 is great and the water effects of the lakes are beautiful. However, the landscape could have done 
 with a bit of variety.
  
  Boxing is the last sport to play and it is by far the most comprehensive (followed closely by bowling) . 
 Like with all the sports, the skill of the opponents you face is based on the number of skill points 
 you have accumulated (or lost) from the previous game. This way the game will always be challenging. 
 The nun-chuck must be used in this game (unless you want to be a one-handed fighting machine!) 
 and the play is simple - beat the living crap out of your opponent until they fall to the ground, 
 or if you fail to do that, the judges will decide by the number of hits you make.
  You hold your controllers up together to protect yourself and swing punches by thrusting the controller 
 either forward or upward depending on the shot you want to make. In addition, you will make a high 
 or low punch depending on the angle you tilt the controllers and you dodge side to side by simply 
 shifting both controllers left or right. All this movement makes for very dynamic gameplay and 
 leaves you in a ball of sweat afterwards, and a little sore if you really get into it. Multiplayer 
 in this game is where things become really fun because you are facing a human opponent with human 
 responses and movements. This goes especially for boxing because you can react to your friends 
 style and habits of fighting in the game.
  
  The training mode gives you a selection of exercises to hone your skills in a particular sport. 
 This includes returning balls in tennis to knocking as many punching bags clean off the chain as 
 you can. The fitness test is another mini-game that will keep you coming back for more. It calculates 
 your fitness age by giving you a series of exercises you must go through.
  
  Wii Sports is the first game to utilise the Mii functionality of the Wii. Your digital avatar that 
 you create in the Mii channel is available to you in the game and allows for fun, and sometimes 
 humorous, personalisation.
  The graphics in the game, just like the Miis, are very simplified and make the game feel unabashedly 
 camp which is an obvious choice for appealing to non-gamers. The sound is nothing spectacular, 
 but gives a very crisp and finished feel to the game and also makes very appropriate use of the 
 remote's built-in speaker.
  
  So Wii Sports is a game that you will own whether you like it or not. The game certainly has a 
 demonstrative feel to it but as long as you don't expect a fully fledged game then you will thoroughly 
 enjoy this unique package and it may be a game that will be remembered for quite some time in the 
 future, just like Duck Hunt is for the NES. Enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycindy1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game set is a great value, where else will you get a set of 5 multiplayer games free with 
 purchase of a system? Each of my family has their favorite sport game. I love bowling and golf. 
 My son loves baseball and boxing. And my wife who is far from being considered a gamer, loves to 
 play tennis and even beat me in a best of 3. I may have to buy another system to get any play time 
 myself, I'm fighting my wife and son to be able to play these games. Bowling seems to draw my attention 
 the most out of all 5, the combinations and angles keep me playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that shows promise toward's nintendo's new console. The Wii remote works great 
 with this game, allowing you to swing a racket, golf, throw a punch, and many other things. Since 
 the game allows you time to practice and improve your skills, there's no reason at giving up at 
 this game. The game is just simply fun to play, and even funner in a group. The speaker on the 
 remote adds to the effect with sounds of hitting and putting. Another bonus is that this game is 
 bundled in with the Wii, and will be accessible in evwery Wii owner's home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knife_him
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Wii play is a very good game and is very good for teaching noobs how to play the wii. It really 
 doesnt take long to find out how to play every game on it and they is training and a wii fitness 
 test witch give you a bit more to do on it. Graphics are good and the sound is good. The only problem 
 is sometimes the controller is not responsive to the right movement. It really is a brilliant multiplaer 
 and is a good game to play when all of your mates come round. This is a good game but does get 
 boring after you mum takes over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, Nintendo'd first free bundle-in game since the NES, is probably one of the most fun 
 games at the Wii Launch. The game mechanics work so well, and this is further complemented by the 
 accuracy of the Wii Remote. A swing of the remote swings your on-screen racket, a thrust forward 
 with the remote and nunchuck punches your opponent straight in the face, it all works so well
 
  
  The game comprises of Tennis, Bowling, Boxing, Baseball and Golf, and all are played like their 
 real-life counterparts. Theres not much to say about this game, except that it's realistic, and 
 if you like any of the sports above, you will love the game. Graphics are good, colorful is the 
 word. Sound is really well done, and utilizes the Wii Remote speaker brilliantly.
  
  Overall, This game would sell would sell even if it wasnt free, and is a great multi-player experience... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is an extremely enjoyable game for the Wii, and is filled with great and exciting gameplay 
 for the entire family. Here is a basic overview of the game:
  
  Tennis: Tennis, in my opinion, is the best thing in Wii Sports. It really uses the Wii's motion 
 controllers well, and it therefore feels quite natural. It is also easy and simple, and this also 
 makes it enjoyable too. Baseball: In Wii Sports, Baseball, in my opinion, is a bit harder than 
 the others. You hold the controller like a bat, and, just like in real baseball, swing the controller 
 to hit the ball. This sound easy, but, it is actually rather difficult. It takes some time before 
 you will be hitting the ball perfectly, and at the exact right moment. But, Baseball is very enjoyable, 
 and, like Tennis, feels very natural with the use of the Wii mote. Bowling: Bowling, I must say, 
 feels extremely natural. You basically just use it as though you are actually bowling. Bowling 
 is definately a bug success in Wii Sports, and is always enjoyable. Golf: Golf feels natural, but 
 the controls feel more sensitive than natural. One little hit will, at times, send the ball flying 
 across the entire area. Golf is enjoyable, but I don't find it one of Wii Sport's best. Boxing: 
 Last but not least, Boxing in Wii Sports. Boxing is definately enjoyable, and really uses the motion 
 controllers well, although, at times, it seems to be rather inresponsive. This can be annoying 
 at times. But, I still really enjoy Boxing. It is a another big success on Wii Sports. Use of Motion 
 (Wii Sports) : Excellent
  
  Thanks for reading my review. Wii Sports is a great, fun game, and I will be very surprised is 
 somebody doesn't enjoy playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom92
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports wasnt as bad as i thought. Honestly. Its a great game if you love sports and theres 
 plenty of depth when playing 2+ players. The menus are nicely laid out and very user friendly. 
 I'll give you my thoughts on all the sports on the game.
  
  First sport, Tennis. Wii sports tennis measures up to hundreds of different movements on how you 
 swing the wii remote. It tends to get pretty boring if you are playing alone but it measures for 
 a great party game. Next up, Baseball. Baseball is a heck of fun while your on your own or with 
 another player. Player 1 bats while player 2 pitches while the CPUs are the fielders. The AI is 
 pretty polished, for example if you hit the ball really high they may drop it from time to time. 
 But it fails in some ways when they are always where the ball is and when you see one on one side 
 of the field there at the other side of the field in a second. There is three innings in a game, 
 it sounds long, but its just right.
  
  Bowling. The perfect party game. Fun for everyone. Even single player. But 4 players is the most 
 fun. The remote acts as your arm with the ball in it and a simple bring the remote down and back 
 up flick of the wrist works perfectly while your system's miis watch you. Sweet.
  
  Golf = Boring. Nice control but its not my thing
  
  Boxing is awesome and its 1-2 players and 
 you use the wii remote as your right hand and the nunchuk as your left hand (you can reverse that 
 option in the game) . Its awesome on your own or with another player.
  
  Finally, the Wii Fitness Test. The game takes you through 3 different tests. There is hitting home 
 runs which gives you 10 opportunites to hit home runs. The second test is picking up spares in 
 bowling, which is pretty addictive and the final test is hitting 50 balls in tennis into the court 
 rather than outside. After all these tests, the game will calculate your Wii Fitness Age and send 
 the results to the Wii MessageBoard. Of Course, after it calculates it will show your Wii Fitness 
 age on the spot. 20 is the best possible score.
  
  Overall, Wii Sports is fun for everyone that comes with every Wii system, and its great fun even 
 if you dont like sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGuy101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The fact is that i love Wii sports and have spent many hours, and had a carpo tunnel playing this 
 game. So yes, it is worth your devotion. But, what i didn't tell you is that... well.. i only play 
 bowling and tennis. Which basically means that 40% of the game is used by me. But what about you? 
 Well you will probably not play boxing (horrible accuracy issues) and golf is not the greatest 
 (it only mesures your distance, and it's hard to control) . That leaves Baseball, Tennis, and Bowling. 
 Baseball and Tennis are both almost there but you can simply flick the wiimote to get an ace or 
 a homerun. Then there were one... bowling. Bowling works, it can tell if its underhand or not, the 
 pins have amazing physics and the practice modes (power throws is my favorite) add the only real 
 depth in the game. I will tell you right now, bowling is simply the best!
  
  Really wii sports is fun, simple and fun. But it's not all it could have been.
  But if you live 
 in north america, your gonna get it anyways so whatever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STongue
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports never really seemed to appeal to most hardcore gamers. I, in fact, never really was 
 interested in more than just the Mii concept.
  
  After making a Mii and booting up this game on my Wii, I thought wrong. This game goes beyond what 
 I expected to see in a game shipped with the system.
  
  First off, this game wasn't really intended for superior graphics, neither ours of playing. Now 
 that that is out of the way, here is the rest of the review.
  
  When you first boot up this game, you get a nice and joyful start screen. You then continue to 
 choose your sport (or training) . After doing so, you select your Mii, settings, etc. It's a fairly 
 simple menu system to navigate through.
  
  The game play, for a first-time user, is great. The very first time you use the remote for this 
 game it just feels so natural and so cool, words just can't explain it. The reactions sent from 
 the remote to the system are on par and work perfectly.
  
  You can use small, wrist movements or large, exaggerated movements. It's really your opinion. Sometimes 
 I like to use the larger movements when showing it off to my friends for the first time, and other 
 times I like to use wrist movements when playing seriously.
  
  The actual games in it, as you probably know already, are Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and 
 Boxing. Most people prefer Tennis, Baseball, and Bowling, but it is really their opinion.
  
  Most reviews said that their least favorite sport was Boxing. I actually find this sport my 
 second favorite, behind bowling of course. You just need to get a hang of the controls, which in 
 boxing takes longer than normal, to fully enjoy the game.
  
  Anyway, mostly all of the sports have their high and weak points. Your favorite is always your 
 opinion, but my favorites (and suggested) are (in order of favorite to least favorite) :
  
  1. Bowling
  2. Boxing
  3. Bowling
  4. Baseball
  5. Golf
  
  I suggest to play all of 
 them, but the top three are worth most of your time and will be spent playing with lots of laughs 
 and anger.
  
  Nintendo really hit their target to try to appeal to the non-gamers. Wii Sports is just one of 
 the games that prove gaming is beginning to move back into the spotlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is packed into every wii box, so its quite good that this game is really quite fun. 
 Most of the games dont have much depth at all, but bowling does, and you can keep coming back to 
 that one over and over again, while the other games are only really good in short bursts, except 
 for maybe boxing, since if you can get over the somewhat unresponsive control it actually does 
 have some depth, flailing your arms wont do much against the better opponents who can block, you 
 need to be able to block well yourself. Here's a lowdown on the games:
  
  Tennis: simple, fun, not much depth except for aiming, and can be somewhat frustrating sometimes. 
 7
  
  Baseball: fun for awhile, though pitching doesnt have much to it and the thing can get boring after 
 awhile. 7
  
  Bowling: the best of the games, its the one of the only ones that can be played for a really long 
 time, because of how much depth and how much fun it is, managing the speed and spin of your throw 
 is amazingly fun. great training modes, like power throw. 9
  
  Golf: Not very great, only fun in really short bursts, as at least for me the putting is very frustrating 
 and unresponsive. 6
  
  Boxing: not too responsive, but the blocking and feel of actually punching someone in the face 
 can make this addictive. 8
  
  Gameplay overall: 8, most fun, but little depth.
  
  Graphics: 7, have a nice simple style, and the textures are actuallly pretty detailed, plus the 
 miis are nice.
  
  Sound: 8, nice but repetitive music, nice sound effects, good use of speaker.
  
  Value: 8, 
 five different games, bowling and maybe boxing might last you awhile, pro modes and really fun 
 training modes, especially in bowling. Tilt: 9, really fun multiplayer, great casual play, nice 
 mii use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomeg68
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  --Gameplay --
  
  This is a very simple game for the Nintendo Wii. You have 5 sports (Tennis, Golf, Bowling, Boxing 
 and Baseball) and each of them are fun to play. Playing with friends makes this game 10 times better 
 than playing by yourself. This game utilizes the motion control of the Wii controller (Wii-mote) 
 and at first I didn't know if this idea would work but after playing this game I think that it 
 is a great idea and well executed. --Graphics --
  
  They are ok but I was expecting a lot more from a 6th generation console game. --Sound --
  
 
  Some sound effects are really life like (like the bowling sounds) . But all in all the sound really 
 isn't the key feature to this game.
  
  --Value --
  
  This is a game that you can play for hours (I know I could with the bowling game alone) . Like I 
 said before it is a simple game that is fun for the whole family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmH48
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports would be a very boring game on other consoles, but the Wiimote makes this game undenialbly 
 fun. The game comes packaged with the Wii, and has 5 games to play. There's tennis, baseball, bowling, 
 golf, and boxing. All the games are great to pick up and play, and all have multiplayer features. 
 Here's a quick runthrough of each game-
  
  Tennis- one of the most exciting games, the Wiimote allows for any kind of spin to be used- backspin, 
 lobs, and smashes
  
  Baseball- While it isnt the most fun game, baseball allows for some quick joy by swinging for the 
 fences with the Wiimote
  
  Bowling- One of the best, the Wiimote is used to add any spin and power to your shot, multiplayer 
 is a blast
  
  Golf- A very realistic golf simulator, can take some time for games
  
  Boxing- The only game to use the numchuk attachment. One of the best games on Wii Sports, blocking 
 and attacking with the Wiimote is very precise and responsive.
  
  The games difficulties start out very easy, and tutorials are displayed for first time users. As 
 the game progresses, your opponents become much harder. Graphically, this game isnt spectacular, 
 but the rest of the game makes up for it. In short, Wii Sports is a fun pick up and play game that 
 you'll be coming back to for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  http://www. n-insanity. com/modules. php? module=reviews&amp; id=344
  
  Who else was insanely jealous of that punk at this year's E3 when he won the opportunity to play 
 Wii Tennis with three Nintendo big wigs? I definitely was, and I distinctly remember my feeling 
 of disdain as I watched him be the first average consumer to grab the Wii remote. Well from E3 
 2006 to the special New York party that NOA hosted for critical Wii information, we learned of 
 the package that would be bundled with the console sporting a new way to play games. With tennis, 
 baseball, bowling, golf and boxing all at your fingertips upon initial purchase, what does it do 
 to showcase Nintendo's new philosophy? Well, frankly it does a lot, as Wii Sports just may give 
 you an excuse to not go outside for exercise.
  
  The collection of athletic software has two distinct features. The first, and most obvious really, 
 is that each game takes unique advantage of the Wii remote and the motion-sensitive interface. 
 Second, one of the multimedia (if you want to call it that) features emphasized at the Wii NY party 
 is the Mii Channel. Yes, it's Wii upside-down and spelled backwards, get over it. More importantly 
 though, is that a Mii is a virtual representation of oneself that can be created, edited, deleted 
 or distributed via the invisible waves that constitute Wi-Fi. The significance is that your Mii 
 is taken directly into any Wii Sports activity you delve into. If you play tennis, you'll see your 
 limbless virtual self magically floating a tennis racket.
  
  Before I get into what's considered the vital part of the package, how does the colorful presentation 
 fare? Well, I say colorful for a reason, because that's pretty much all it is. If you're a graphic 
 junkie, you'll as might as well stop reading this now. The actual environments that host these 
 activities are designed well though. The tennis court appears authentic, the bowling alley looks 
 just like the real thing, and the others have their own flair. Even the animation of the Miis fits 
 this quirky montage just fine, regardless of what's going on. Unfortunately the characters (Miis) 
 themselves are no more detailed than your bedroom door. Of course your head is there, but even 
 that isn't going to blow you away. We'll just say the graphics function, but they're certainly 
 not winning any awards.
  
  That brings us to the control interface. Overall, it's quite good, but FAR from perfect. Bowling 
 is easily the best activity, so for those who enjoy that whole social thing will have great fun 
 with it. The physics are darn near perfect and giving your big three-holed ball some spin after 
 tossing it won't leave you anything but satisfied. Just please, for the love of all things, wear 
 the wrist strap and don't behave like a fool, or else you're asking for some personal or environmental 
 damage. With that out of the way, Nintendo's tennis serves us well, but it doesn't mirror the sport 
 with complete accuracy. The major issue is not being able to control every angle of your racket 
 as well as where you hit the ball to. The interface is more dependent on how you swing and where 
 the ball is in relation to your Mii. If you come to understand it, you'll have some fun. Unfortunately 
 the other three, aren't nearly as enthralling.
  
  Baseball is probably next in line in terms of how the games feel. The pitching implementation isn't 
 too shabby, as you can generally control the speed of your pitch as well as what you throw. Batting, 
 however, may prove frustrating. The main issue is lack of consistency regarding your swings and 
 the end result. You can nail a ball thrown right down the middle with a perfectly logical swing, 
 and watch as it sails foul. So sorry baseball, you're out. Golf isn't too impressive either. While 
 it can be fun if you're willing to ignore the sub-par design, it just doesn't feel natural enough. 
 The actual presentation is actually very nice, but when compared to analog titles that I've played 
 of the same nature, they easily beat Wii Golf. Instead of one smooth swing, it feels like three 
 different broken segments strung together (backswing, strike, follow-through) . In other words, 
 I call a mulligan. Finally, boxing is the collection's epitome of mediocrity. You actually have 
 to use both the Wii-mote and nunchuck, but the motion interpretation never comes close to translating 
 what you're actually doing. Wii Boxing does down for the count.
  
  Ok, hopefully you survived the blatantly horrible puns and can continue to finish this off. The 
 audio is pretty basic overall, but just like the graphical department, it gets the job done. Aside 
 from boxing, each sport features some cheerful music in the background, which makes the atmosphere 
 pleasant, but chances are you won't be paying much attention to it while actually playing. There 
 are also surrounding effects from spectators/fans which do add a nice touch, so it's not a total 
 loss. What gave me a pleasant surprise though, is the built-in Wii remote speaker. Any actions 
 that you do with the controller in whatever game you play is emphasized through that tiny little 
 audio output. While it's nothing incredibly special, again, it creates an additional layer of immersion 
 that can't be experienced elsewhere. Kudos to Nintendo for that.
  
  In the end, Wii Sports indeed does a fantastic job of bringing Nintendo's new philosophy of 'bringing 
 gaming back to the masses' to life. It's certainly no Gears of War, Resistance, or Zelda in terms 
 of 'wow' factor (obviously graphics talk here) , but overall it's fun, and that's what's important. 
 The Wii Fitness feature works similarly to Brain Age's 'Brain Age' test on the Nintendo DS in terms 
 of showing your 'fitness age'. There's also training that allows you to become familiar with each 
 sport in their basic form. Like I said before, who needs the outside world when you can get some 
 decent exercise in your very living room or bedroom? It may not be anything rigorous, but it'll 
 get your body moving in ways that it normally may not. For being a fun (and free) pack-in with 
 Nintendo's new console, what's to really complain about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trafalgar42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very great title to start with for the Wii. While the graphics are not stunning 
 nor the games themselves super in-depth, the game play is incredible. My family has had hours and 
 hours of fun just playing Bowling and Tennis - in fact, the most fun we've had playing games together 
 on any console (excluding the Nintendo DS) .
  
  If you live in the U. S. then you get this game with the console. If not, then I suggest you buy 
 this game since it is a gem.
  
  The games doesn't necessarily require you to move your arm as if you were swinging a tennis racket 
 or throwing a bowling ball - it makes playing much more fun if you do (but don't over do it!)
 
  
  The games are simple, easy to learn, fun to play and addictive. It makes playing alone or with 
 up to three other friends great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Its free, The wiimote works well; coming back for fitness add replay value; Daily calandar 
 keeps an eye on your fitness; plenty of fun games
  
  BAD- Can get tiering, but exspected; GAMEPLAY:
  Wii sports is a great asset to the Nintendo Wii 
 that plays through alot of great sports games like Boxing, Bowling, Baseball, Golf and the fave 
 Tennis, they all play differently like th baseball one were you gotta try to hit the ball if perfect 
 timeing which can be abit rubbish as it does'nt swing propply, the Golf one plays a realy game 
 of golf were you gotta aim the wiimote at the ground and either tap it to roll the ball or go long 
 with a big swipe, Bowling is good but some times the ball goes the wroung way, and again this works 
 out like in real life were you gotta swing under arm, boxling can be great but very tiring as your 
 constantly hitting the screen with both arms, you have other things as well like Training were 
 you build up your stats and it'll show you your stats in a Tally chart which is awesome and a daily 
 calandar to show your fitness and improvement every time you play!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics, well they are great looking with sharp shiny colouring and blured off edges around 
 the TV giving it a bit of a tight edge, but the model themselfs aint to good, they are the Mii; s 
 you make on your Nintendo Wii main screen, create more and try to get them all realy good at the 
 games
  
  SOUND;
  Sound is avrage, theres nothing realy wroung with it, the sound from the speaker sounds great and 
 does'nt disort and the original sounds from the accular games like the ball hitting the bat, and 
 pretty good music that suits for the sport your playing
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall Wii sports is an enjoyable game and is worth playing due to the fact its free and keeps 
 you fit which adds replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  After creating Miis for me and my friend, the first game I tried was Wii-sports. Just had to se 
 how the tennisgame felt after watching so many videos.. :)
  
  Tennis: Awesome. Good response without any noticable lag. More depth than meets the eye at first. 
 Learn lobshots, different spins, powerserve etc.
  
  Baseball: Ok. Batting is more fun than pitching. :) 3 innings are just enough to keep it fun.
 
  
  Boxing: Grows on you. Nice training missions where you get to work the bag! Good excersise.
  
 
  Golf: When you learn it, its great fun! Being a golfer myself, this is the closest computergolf 
 ever has come to the real thing.
  
  Bowling: Excellent! You have great control of your ball. Superb partygame for everyone!
  
  
 Training missions: Give you some nice variety. Try breaking your highscores in 3 different events 
 in every sport.
  
  Fitness thingie: Run through a series of fitness tests to see you age. Graphics: Clean and simple, 
 which makes for example the tennisballs easy to see and stuff. Great! Reaaally funny to use your 
 Miis, recommend that to everyone whos playing with a bunch of friends.
  
  Sounds: Great. Authentic sportssounds. Overall: Great partygame and an awesome introduction to 
 the Wii. Have played it quite a lot and still haven&acute; t gotten tired of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  While Wii Sports in any sense isn't a bad game, it isn't a great title either once you get used 
 to it. From the get go the feeling of taking part of the game by actually playing the sports is 
 great fun. And it become even more fun when you have friends to play together with you!
  The downside of Wii Sports isn't the graphics, although a bit dated, they do just fine and your 
 own created Mii fits like a glove in the setting. The problem with Wii Sports is the motion sensing 
 capabilities which can in fact be reduced to just tiny wiggling with the remote. Sure tennis is 
 most fun when trying to actually swing with the remote, but the game dosen't force you to do it. 
 In other Wii titles this can be a good thing. In Wii sports where the feeling of the sports and 
 the fabulous Wii controls are the foundation, it can throw you a bit off balance.
  Considering Wii Sports is packed in with the Wii console itself it makes for great fun whitout 
 costing any extra money. This is a great game that you can take out and play no matter what guests 
 you have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  In Wii Sports you play 5 different sports using the wii-mote and nunchuck (for boxing) . The game 
 puts the wii-mote and nunchuck to very good use to create a fun and somewhat frustrating game, 
 (mostly fun) .
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in Wii Sports is very different to any other game on any other console which is good 
 in some ways. For me, the first time I played Wii Sports, the wii-mote was spazzing out and moving 
 everywhere and sometimes just dissapeared off the screen. Luckily I fixed the sensor bar and it 
 started to work just fine. The wii-mote senses every single movement in your hand. This is good 
 and bad. It senses if you put spin on the ball in tennis or bowling just my twisting you wrist 
 a little bit which is bad for begginers, but soon you will get used to it. Anyways, the controls 
 are very easy but can take some getting used to. I give the gameplay an 9/10.
  
  Graphics
  
  Well what can say, the graphics in this game are mediocre. The graphics are worse 
 than the gamecube and are slightly, just slighlty better than the nintendo 64's graphics. I was 
 expecting the graphics to be much, much better than this. I give the graphics a 4/10.
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds and music in Wii Sports are good, when coming out of the TV, not the wii-mote. 
 The sounds which come out of the wii-mote sound scratchy and the volume cannot be adjusted (on 
 the wii-mote) . If you try play the wii and everyone else is asleep it will be very hard. The wii-mote's 
 volume is LOUD, too loud. The sound in Wii Sports is at a very high quality when coming from the 
 TV, but is let down by the sounds from the wii-mote. I give the sound a 7/10.
  
  Overall, I didn't expect the controls to be so responsive and easy, but... I did expect the graphics 
 to be a lot better. Same with the sounds from the wii-mote. Overall Wii Sports is a fun game to 
 play and is even better to play with 2 or more people. I give this game an 7.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best launch title, to come with the console game since Super Mario 64. Its fun, 
 addictive , and can be played with friends. I really liked th Boxing and Bolwing especially. They 
 both had such a real feel to them just as well as Tennis. All the games were fun though. The graphics 
 is the down side, but the game wasnt designed to be graphically powerful. The sound was good. One 
 of the highlights is the multiplayer, which is so much fun. You could throw parties that revolve 
 around this game. Its so simple, yet so much fun. This is one of the games people will be playing 
 for a long time. It has so much replay value. You can do the same sport over and over again. Its 
 a blast. It is game anyone can play, its so simple. You also get a full workout doing these especially 
 boxing. This is the game to play next to Twilight Princess on the Wii.
  
  The downside is the graphics, they arent good, but the game isnt focusing on graphics, but on gameplay 
 which is fully accomplishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysfan87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The Wii Sports bundled with the US Wii is not a mind blowing graphics game for the must have HDTV 
 crowd. Wii Sports is your introduction into the Wiimote and how it works. With the ability to play 
 up to 4 players at the same time on some games, Wii sports will become a hit at your next party, 
 you'll just need to make room for all those people waiving their arms around trying to hit or throw 
 the ball. Wii Sports includes the following 5 games: Tennis, Bowling, Golf, Baseball, and Boxing.
 
  
  Tennis is neat in that you can play 4 player at the same time. There is a front and and a back 
 position on the court for each team. Hitting the ball is fairly easy to do and the Wiimote does 
 sense how hard or soft you are trying to hit the ball. Bowling and Golf allow for 4 players, with 
 each taking their turn. The weird part about these games are if you have a hook (bowling) or a 
 slice (golf) you most likely will have it in the game as well. The Wiimote again detects your wrist 
 twist and translates that onto the game. Finally, Baseball and Boxing allow for up to 2 players, 
 each against the other. Again, each game teaches different aspects of the Wiimote system and before 
 you tackle Zelda, a few hours of practice with the Wii Sports game will give you a good understanding 
 of how the thing works as well as get your back side off the couch and moving around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GC4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  When you first grab your hands around your new Wii you'll aready have one game in the bank! Not 
 since the SNES has Nintendo pakaged a game with it's hardware, but I'm not talking about the SNES 
 I'm talking about Wii baby!
  Wii Sports is a collection of five games all in one disc. You will get to play baseball, tennis, 
 golf, bowling, and boxing. All have their different way to use the Wii Remote and nunchuk contorller. 
 First of all, the sports are pretty simple to play. Tennis has you swing for the ball while your 
 Mii atuomaticly runs for the ball. All you have to do is use your forehand or back hand. If baseball 
 is you thing its a little more hard but not by much. You swing your remote with the buttons facing 
 you to hit the ball. And to pitch you can just swing the remote forward to pitch for a fastball. 
 You can also use the A and B button to bake a combination of three other pitches. You have to hold 
 the button (s) all the way forward or the sensor will just read a fastball. This is one of the few 
 things I find annoying about the game.
  
  Bowling is my hands down favorite. All the is needed to do is hold the B button until you want 
 to let go of the ball and swing forward like you would for a real bowling ball. If you let it go 
 too soon it will fly back into the crowd that watches you and they will yell at you! You can also 
 move with the D pad to either turn your throw or move your Mii body. For some reason I always hook 
 my throw a little to the left, but I got over this when I knew how much I was off. I'm sure you 
 will too! Golf is second in line as my favorite. I never knew the only sport that can put you to 
 sleep could be so much fun! Golf along with bowling carry this game. Golf is pretty simple if you 
 know the sport or have played anyother gold game. You choose your club with the D pad (the game 
 already does this for you so unless you want to be risky you don't have to do anything) , hold A 
 to ready your Mii and just swing forward to hit the ball. Also with the D pad you can move your 
 shot to have the best possible swing with or against the wind! It is very, very hard to hit a Hole 
 In One, but I made ONE and all my friends have come close but thats it!
  
  Boxing can ware you out!!! Forget DDR Wii Boxing will leave you sweating and out of breath. This 
 is the only sort to use the nunchuk. It is also the most intense!! Play this game with friends, 
 playing the computer just doesn't cut it when you can have bragging rights!!! All there is to boxing 
 is use the nunchuk and the remote for you lefts and rights. Move them around for uppercuts and 
 body shots. You can also hold the A button for power hits, but that doesn't always work. This soprt 
 can also be twitchy. Not all your swings or movements can be read by the sensor. This is the biggest 
 complaint I have with the game!
  
  Wii Sports may not have the best graphics or have all the sports you would want to play but it 
 is still a very good game to have along with your Wii. Play this with friends to make them shut 
 up about you buying a Wii and not a PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  i didnt get a wii on luanch because i was broke at the time, luckily my freind did and invited 
 a group of us round to playtest his wii all day.
  being a ninty fan since before i could walk i jumped at the chance, and the first game we tore 
 out the wrapper was wii sports, so we put iton the edge of the drive as it was pulled in on its 
 own by the disc drive and we began to play. and play we did.
  for the next 3 and a half hours. out of all the games we played that day we spent more time on 
 this than even twilight princess, yeah im as surprised as you.
  wii sports includes boxing, golf, bowling, tennis and baseball minigames and we spent a good while 
 on all of each, including our freinds mother who royally wupped our grouped ass on bowling.
  so heres each game in turn.
  
  bowling: this was easily the most fun we had out of all the 
 minigames, basically you swing your arm like your bowling, though we preffered to add our own flair 
 and run up, which meant the only time i scored a strike i almost broke my ankle.
  as you do.
  the games take around 15 mins and can be played with only one wiimote for all the 
 players taking the roll of there bowling ball. though its fairly boring in single player in multiplayer 
 it shines and is little more fun than actual bowling since you dont need to wear someone elses 
 shoes and its accepted that your making a prat of yourself i give this minigame 9/10 only becuase 
 it may drag after a few weeks of play.
  
  tennis: whilst fun its a little wierd to control, they angle of your controlller makes your 'mii' 
 run to or from the net across the court and this was hard to controll and a little frustrating, 
 whilst fun it gets old very fast and this was easily the worst of the minigames that i played only 
 3/10 for this one.
  
  baseball: a cracking, if a little long game, though the control is a bit fiddly to get used to 
 and in more lesuirely gamers it may induce a temporary form of touretts syndrome. you hold the 
 bat like a lightsaber and swing batta-batta-saaawing!, or swing over your shoulder when piching 
 its a little fiddly and at first you will get nothing but strikes and fouls, but once you get used 
 to it, its easily one of the best baseball games ive played and implements the wiimote exceptionally, 
 8/10, on account of the steep learning curve.
  
  boxing: while complex i found it simple to merely hammer the wiimote and nunchuk around till you 
 opponent doesnt get up again, and while fun at first the novelty wears thin very fast, especially 
 since this is the only one we found played just the same sitting down rather than standing, i dont 
 feel it utilises the controller very well adn found this lacklustre boxing seemingly rushed and 
 added on the end soon before launch, easily the worst of the minigames bar tennis, 5/10.
  
  golf: this is pretty much a full game in its own right, think mario golf but with mii's as the 
 characters and thats it, this was also the prettiest game with some impressive water effects and 
 overall the bright and colourful natur was on par with the 360's kameo: elements of tower, and 
 while this game does take its time, much like the real game, its very relaxing and definatly one 
 for the 40+ wii owners as my freind's dad has his mates from work playing this till dawn, its evenly 
 paced and the control is well balanced and simple enough for anyone to grasp, though not my cup 
 of tea i am confident many will fall in love with golf so thats why it gets 9/10.
  
  overall the graphics are simple, but pleasing to the eye and there was no lag or glitching of anykind, 
 wich is the kind of workman ship we have come to expect from nintendo, and the mii's being intergrated 
 was great fun for the party game element, nothing beats having a small cartoon version of yourself 
 beating up one of your freinds in boxing.
  
  then theres the trainign and wii fitness, which is a great idea to get people to do a little exercise 
 rather than sitting on our fat gamer asses, it entails bowling a full set of lanes ,returning 50 
 tennis serves and 10 baseball hits, which does work up a little bit of a sweat, though it was after 
 3 hours of gameing ,that might have been a factor, but its interestingly thought out, my results 
 were a wii fitness age of 63, with a gauge showing i had low speed but stamina that was to the 
 max of the chart ,and a healthier freind, albiet a freind who smoked, played this and got low everythign 
 and a fitness age of 75, so its either very accurate or very innacurate, depends on how you look 
 at it, add that to the playablility and appeal to all ages groups and this is more like a work 
 out tape in desguise, and a barrel of laughs with freinds, no matter what your age.
  so my first experince with the wii was as impressive as the one on my 360, its a great game and 
 great innovation and i hope to see more gameing of this calibre in the future.
  
  my eyes on wario ware in particular.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Yea this is the second time Ive reviewed this game. My first review got deleted because i was labeled 
 as a 360 fanboy and apparently many people complained about my low score and the things I said 
 bad about the game. So I went back AGAIN to try to figure out why so many people are defending 
 this game, and I did raise my score a little bit.
  
  Lets start off wit gameplay, I said before and I will say again, its boring. At first I have to 
 admit I was hooked because it was unlike anything I had ever played before. But with in a hour 
 I had played pretty much all the game had to offer and it started to get stale, quick. The game 
 seems to hold your hand to much, it does everything for you in most games besides, swing your racket, 
 or pitching the ball. I no this game is meant to show what the wii can do and bring in new gamers 
 but it really is boring to experienced people. The graphics are pretty bad. Nintendo was going 
 for the kiddy, cartoon look and feeling. While there is nothing wrong wit that it could have looked 
 a lot better. More colors, just a tad more detail wouldnt have hurt. There is little sound in the 
 game, just your basic crack of the bat, or golf swing. Nothing next gen about the sound, pretty 
 bland and boring.
  
  The value of this game isnt bad considering it comes free with the system. Besides that the value 
 could be a lot better, considering it had online, or just a little bit more depth.
  
  Nothing wrong with the Tilt of the game.
  
  Overall this is a free game that plays like a FREE 
 GAME. Thats all it is, for a couple people there might be a lot of fun to be had. It can be a lot 
 of fun if you play some multiplayer, could be a lot better with some online and a bit more depth... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilidan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  its a perfect way to learn how to use the controller. Just as my interest in games was leaving 
 me this gem has come along and actually made gaming fun again... very happy... i must add that i 
 like the graphic style its so smooth and colourful... the sound is good and does the job while its 
 the gameplay that really gets you enjoying... while it lacks real depth in single player the multi-player 
 is pure FUN and its free with Wii ;-0 happy days and oh yeah i must agree it totally tires you 
 out after a few hours so if you have chubby kids or have a spare tire round the belly this system 
 is for you... loose weight and have fun = great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm splitting this review into 7 sections: The introduction (what you're reading now) , one for 
 each of the 5 games, and an ending. First, this game is great. Not only does it come free when 
 you buy a Wii, but it gets even more fun if you have people to compete against.
  
  Tennis - I suck at tennis. But it's fun. I like how you can play with two of the same Mii on one 
 team, or have all 4 the same, and play both sides of the court. Sometimes, though, it's hard to 
 determine where and how far you're hitting the ball.
  
  Baseball - FUN. The end. (But not really) . You don't have to worry about people stealing bases, 
 getting hit by a pitch, getting injured, getting knocked off your feet by a take-out slide or anything 
 like that. You only need to worry about two things. Having Kentaro on your team, and someone dropping 
 a pop fly (two things which are usually closely related) . Took me a while to figure out how to 
 throw faster pitches, but I did.
  
  Bowling - The best game on the disc. Although it ALWAYS curves to the left. There couldn't be a 
 simpler game. Just roll the ball. And somehow, it's fun as hell.
  
  Golf - Fun, but when Nintendo makes a Mario Golf for the Wii, no one will play this anymore. The 
 two things I don't like about this game are: A: It's way too easy to slice the ball and B: If your 
 ball is right next to the hole, it's about a 99.99999% chance you'll overshoot it.
  
  Boxing - The most interactive of all the games. And somehow, the most addictive. Right hook to 
 your %*$#ing face, b*#&amp; h! You can lean from side to side by, you guessed it, leaning side to 
 side! The game registers where your hands are and whether you do a hook punch or a jab.
  
  In closing, one of the best games I've ever played. I gave the graphics an 8, because... well, 
 because of the Miis. I was going to give it a 5, but then I thought about it. What graphics did 
 you expect from a free game? And, Nintendo never was one to try and make a game as realistic as 
 possible. Plus, I think that was the way the Miis were supposed to look... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports
  1-4 players
  Developed/ Published by Nintendo
  
  Pros:
  + An absolute blast to play and best of all this is the kind of game that you can pick up and play 
 for 5 minutes or for an entire night. The mere definition of gameplay should be Wii Sports. The 
 controls feel great in every game and the first time you play the Wii using this game you will 
 be instantly surprised at how responsive it is
  + Using your created Miis is just plan fun and I love the way the Miis look. Yes, they are simple, 
 but come on they're a comical representation of yourself or the people you know and it can be just 
 down-right hilarious
  + A Superb multiplayer game
  + Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing are all included + Training mode which gives you 
 different types of task/mini-game versions of each sport
  + Fitness mode allows you to play 3 games (apparently random) and gives you a Fitness Age (think 
 of Brain Age but for fitness) . So far the highest I have gotten is 23 (highest you can get is 20) . 
 The game tracks your fitness age by associating it with your Mii so you can keep an ongoing record 
 (shows up as a line chart in the game) .
  + You can obtain Pro status in each sport
  + The CPU adapts its difficulty to your ability helping to keep the game challenging yet enjoyable
 
  + Graphics, though not detailed, are very smooth and pleasing.
  
  Cons:
  + Boxing can feel a bit awkward just because of the way you have to move your character. It's not 
 too bad though.
  + Other than the Miis there's not much else you can customize
  + More options and control schemes wouldn't have hurt
  + Why did it have to come in a cardboard 
 slip with the system? I really would have rather had an actual game case so that it can be placed 
 with my other games without looking like a cheap demo.
  
  Final Thoughts: This game comes with the system so if you're looking at this game you're looking 
 at getting the Wii. This game alone is a great example of what the controls on the Wii are capable 
 of. This game delievered far beyond my expectations, hence the higher score. Whenever I have watched 
 others play through my games Wii sports always gets the best reactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  It's both a good and a bad thing that Wii-Sports comes as a pack in. It's good because there isn't 
 enough in this package to make you buy it at retail price, and it serves as a nice exposition of 
 what the Wii-Mote can do for sports games.
  
  It's a bad thing because, of the two minigame collections Nintendo is giving away this Christmas 
 with its hadware, this is the worse one, and US Wii owners don't even have Wii-Play packed with 
 their controllers.
  
  The main feeling I get from Wii Sports is that's nice, but I want more of it . Why can't I play 
 singles or move my character manually on Tennis? How about a real career mode for Boxing? Not too 
 complex, something in Punch-Out's level. A better interface and more holes for Golf (the game's 
 highlight, with Boxing) ?
  
  This game is a bit like a EA Sports demo disc. After a couple of games and multiplayer sessions 
 (admitedly a lot of fun) , I'm itching to play a Virtua Tennis, a Fight Night or a Tiger Woods game 
 on Wii. The Wiimote definitely has the level of accuracy and ease of use you need to make real 
 analog controls for sports games, and proving that is Wii Sports greatest merit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Not many of us expected a whole lot from Wii Sports, but if it's a freebie, why complain, right? 
 So, we didn't and so we won't. But as far as games go, Wii Sports is more or less just a selection 
 of minigames taken from Wii Play and given to you to have. Ah, thanks Nintendo. But for as fun 
 as it is, it doesn't offer a whole lot of depth or potential. But for this game, that doesn't really 
 matter.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Simple, intuitive, and near realistic. Well, kinda. Some of the games respond very well and are 
 quirkily fun, but the same can't be said for others. For the Wii, the game is all about control 
 and the golf and baseball mini-games are beyond difficult, they're frustrating. I mean, I myself 
 am a golfer normally and I have a ten handicap, which isn't nearly so bad. But when I drive it 
 into the water and off the green on nearly every shot can get frustrating very quickly. Now, whether 
 or not that's as a result of poor programming or bad hardware, I dunno. But baseball and golf just 
 aren't the games you should be playing with the Wiimote. But, if you play with a bunch of friends, 
 bowling, boxing, and tennis can give you and some pals a good ole time and can even entice those 
 who don't know games at all. And that's an accomplishment worth mentioning.
  
  OVERALL.......7.5/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Uh, no. Graphics, as will usually be the case for the 
 Wii, are not going to be a big deal ever. Wii Sports let's you play as your Miis, which is really 
 cool at least, but not really worth spotlighting as a selling point. At least everything is recognizable 
 though, but everything seems like a mini-game and if you were to compare each mini-game with an 
 actual video game dedicated to each of those sports, it's laughable. But it does offer enough to 
 make you say, Cool, but not enough to make you say, Wow! 
  
  OVERALL...............6/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Good enough. Wii Sports offers good crowd noises, sound effects, and times them 
 well with what occurs. So, overall, it's a very competent job, but it obviously isn't a standout, 
 nor was it intended to be.
  
  OVERALL..........7/10
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  Here wo go. Yeah, you think I'm just bashing Nintendo's litlle pack-in buddy at this point, but 
 that's not so! Alas, I will praise the game mightily here. For being a very limited pack-in, Wii 
 Sports gives itself enough of an experience to make you want to play it again and again. And when 
 somebody new comes over, you want to spin it up and show it them. It's just an addictive party 
 game that's remarkably easy to pick up and play with no lessons required. Everything is simple, 
 intuitive, and worth playing hundreds of times. Get a good old fashioned game going with some friends 
 from the yard and you'll find yourself not worrying about anything else but the gameplay in Wii 
 Sports. And that's where this game really shines.
  
  OVERALL........9.5/10
  
  CONTROL
  
  It's on and off with certain mini-games, as I addressed above. But games like bowling, 
 tennis, and boxing all do remarkably well and that's enough to warrant that this game is worth 
 playing. But accurate controls aren't what make this game, it's knowing that actually making movements 
 makes this game. So, for all sake, control is just another facet of the gameplay experience and 
 especially with the Wii. As far as fun goes, it gets a 10/10, but as far as function goes, it gets 
 a 6/10. So, I'll split it down the middle.
  
  OVERALL.........8/10
  
  Not bad for a pack-in, eh? Have a good old time with your buddies with this one and revel that 
 those extra fifty bucks for the $200 Wii were for this. Actually, just consider it was for free. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEITH1437
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Put some boxing gloves on, call your caddy, and hit a HOME RUN! Probably one of the funnest and 
 most easy pick up and play game ever. One game stands out and everyone who has a Wii has it, literally. 
 Wii Sports might just be one of the funnest experiances you'll ever have. I know I had fun. In the 
 game there is Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, And my personal favorite Boxing. Instead of uing 
 buttons you actually, for instance, while Bowling you actually sing the Wii-mote. I know I'll be 
 playing this game for a long time to come. The only flaw is one of the five is't as fun as the others. 
 Tennis. If you like tennis you'll prehaps like Wii Tennis, but I found It a little challeging and 
 a little boring for my taste. But if you want a Wii you'll be bound to play this for a long time 
 and will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexJesus90
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game. I think nintendo did a great job on the game. This game that came 
 with the nintendo wii was a great introduction of other games. I first would like to say this game 
 makes you very active. Second I would like to say a good competition game. Finally, I would like 
 to say this is a very addictive game. Every sport in the game makes you active. Tennis, you have 
 to move you arms to hit the ball and keep up with the computer. If your a high rank believe me 
 it gets hard. Bowling is like just being at the bowling ally. This shows how sensitive the controller 
 is. The ball is thrown actually how you throw. Boxing is the most active game on the system. This 
 game actually made me sweat from fighting and dodging hits. Golf and Baseball are not very active 
 but you still have to move around a bit. Baseball I do not recommend. This is the only game that 
 hurts my arm. Even when my family was playing and they were not swinging the controller hard either 
 to hit the ball their arms hurt too. Thats one negative about the game. Once your skill level goes 
 up, the harder the computer gets. When I first played I did not like it. But that was the only 
 game I had. But the skill level was getting higher and higher and the computer was getting harder 
 and harder. Then when your friends come over and play and you play against each other it gets very 
 intense. This is where the game gets very addictive. My friends were always over and we went against 
 each other. The first day I was playing wii sports I played for 6 hours straight. Then took a 10 
 minute break and played even more. I think this was a very good game, and a great way to get your 
 family and friends involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArkansasBoy91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  2 words GREAT GAME!. This is one of those Games you can set around with and have fun with for hours. 
 But there is a few problems with it though, i'll get to that later. The Good things are .
  
  Baseball is just true fun the swinging motion you can do with the Wii Remote is just Amazing. 
 When your up to bat just simply swing your arm and bam the ball goes flying, or uhh it barelly 
 goes anywherew and it gets caught, and yeah you guessed it OUT!. The pitching is fun but when you 
 throw your arm, it takes a second and a half for the Mii to throw it... But its all good.. A cool 
 thing is, if you throw your arm slow to pitch, the ball goes slow, if you throw your arm fast, 
 the ball goes fast.. So Yeah you catch what im saying. ITS AWESOME!
  
  Tennis, Well i do feel the Tennis Motions are kinda off Because you can swing your arm at times 
 and its not detected or something so that means you miss the ball and get Frustrated but no big 
 deal there.
  
  Bowling, You couldnt ask for a Better Replica for Bowling, its like playing the real thing with 
 the Wii Remote but the only diffrence is IS that the Wiimote dont weigh 10-15-20 pounds lol, so 
 in that case its much more fun, For the most part i feel as Bowling was almost smack on the dot 
 with the Motion sensoring. Just simply play this game like your playing the real sport and everything 
 goes smooth.
  
  Boxing, Its fun, its my favorite Wii sport, It gets harder and harder as you progress but its fun 
 though. Sometimes when you swing your arm it dont get detected so that means it gives your opponet 
 a chance to pop ya straight in the face, which causes to lose allot of health depending on the 
 type of throw, but like i said its allot of fun.
  
  Now we are getting down to the spot where its time to tell ya all the mistakes with the next game. 
 GOLF. Well its fun at times, BUT the motion sensoring is WAAAAYYYY OFFF.. like if your right next 
 to the hole and you want to Putt the ball, well if you swing your arm to slow, it dont read it 
 . If you swing your arm to fast, the ball goes right on top of the hole like its ground like the 
 hole isnt even there and then it goes about 20 yards off , than this just keeps repeating intil 
 eventually you get it in the hole, if your lucky.... i have spent hours with this game and its 
 like this everytime so i dunno..
  
  So yeah the set of games Wiisports Offers cant get any better in which there all good games but 
 a few mistakes on a few of them but thats not really a big deal i guess. The graphics is Totally 
 aweome they look real through the whole game. The gameplay ive already explaines so yall can guess 
 what yall think about it, but imo there a 8/10
  
  This game is Totally great, And we are all lucky this got packed in with the Wii. And if whoever 
 is reading this and you havent got your Wii yet, You Will be lucky to get Wiisports Packed in.... 
 I do have one Thing to warn you about Something, YOUR ARMS GET VERY SORE and it last a few day, 
 and in fact im Recovering from a Arm sore as of now, but does that stop me??? HECK NO. I got to 
 say. out of all the Game reviews ive written, This one has been the Most fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthadji
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Playing this game made me realize how fun video-gaming can be. This game is amazing. It takes advantage 
 of the Wii's revolutionary Wiimote and the Mii system. Put simply this game is addictive. If you 
 play it once you just can't get off it. A brilliant strategy move by Nintendo to provide this game 
 for free with the Wii. It definitely advertises the Wii's uniqueness and will attract more people 
 into buying it. Well done Nintendo!
  
  Tennis
  This sport is amazing in this game. You can make backhands, down the lines, it's everything you 
 could dream of. Definitely one of the better sports on this game.
  
  Baseball
  Not my favourite. It's difficult to swing the bat at the right time and it's not fun to pitch the 
 ball. Golf
  One of my favorites. It's brilliant. Especially when it comes down to putting the ball in the hole 
 with the putter. Brilliant stuff. Although the controller did become non-responsive on certain 
 occasions, it still didn't ruin the fun that this game have to offer.
  
  Bowling
  Again I love this sport. The physics of the ball seem realistic and it's amazing how you can give 
 the ball swerve. So exciting when you get a strike or spare :P
  
  Boxing
  In my opinion, not the best of the sports in this game but fun to play nonetheless. Overall this 
 game is amazing. It really shows off the Wii's amazing capabilities. Thumbs up to Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stejmatty
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  To be totaly honest with you, I thought that this was a game that would let the wii down. I was 
 fratanisingly mistaken. In 3 words that describe the game. Get a wii !!!
  Although I have only played it once, because its for christmas, its all packed away now, I was 
 heavily addicted to this game. It is great fun, and brings people together for a fun social time. 
 Whether its tennis you prefer, or just a round of golf, both of which give you a realistic feel 
 to the game, the wii and wii sports is fun for the whole family!
  
  My Story.
  As I opened my wii box, the first thing to catch my eye, was the wii sports case. I set it all 
 up, inserted wii sports disc in the wrong way. (because I didnt read the dam instructions) then 
 put it back in the right way, i was instantly hooked on baseball.
  At first, you think that it looks simple as, but it is quite challenging.
  After I played some 
 tennis, i went onto the fitness age. Did all the tests, and came up with the fitness age of 76. 
 (although I am 17, i was quite offended.)
  After I played around with the rest of the game, I called up my mate, told him to bring his controller 
 (lucky bugger doesn't have to wait till christmas) and wii played some boxing, golf, and tennis.
 
  I must say, that this game is very challenging, and it sure goes well with the wii remote.
  It is realisticly fun to play, and to spend time with family and friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about what they were planning with controllers for the Nintendo Wii, I was flabbergasted. 
 As someone who has been a Nintendo fan since the days of the NES, I wanted nothing to do with Nintendo's 
 little Wii. But I decided to give it a chance upon hearing that it was cheap, came with a game 
 packaged in it and it would allow me to download all sorts of games on the Virtual Console. Now 
 I have to admit defeat; Wii Sports has sold me on this system and I am back in full support of 
 Nintendo. All this in a simple little game that is barely more than a system demo.
  
  Almost all of the charm inherent in Wii sports comes from two simple things; the ability to use 
 your Mii's in the game and the simple and intuitive controls. For those who aren't aware, a Mii 
 is a little figure, almost a bobble-head looking one, that you can create from the main Wii menu. 
 There are oodles of customization options for them and its fun to watch them playing a variety 
 of sports or just as spectators.
  
  However, the controls are most definitely what sells this game and the system. While you will hear 
 of many people talking about how you only need simple little flicks of the wrist, I find myself 
 getting way more into the sports games as I play them. Taking up batters position and doing full 
 out swings, actually moving my body as I swing my tennis racket or having to stand up so I can 
 have proper form while bowling; it is all fun and I cant bring myself to slow down and simply sit 
 and play. I want to get up and actually get into it, moving around and actually going with the 
 game. All of the controls are nice and intuitive and the learning curve is very small, leaving 
 this as a game for the whole family. I fully intend on getting my sister and mother to play this 
 the next time that I visit them and they want nothing to do with video games.
  
  There are some minor snags to the enjoyment of these games. I found the boxing game to be very 
 hit or miss during my time with it. But then again, I've not played it with another player and 
 I hear that this is the games largest appeal, so perhaps Im missing something. The golf game is 
 also somewhat suspect at times. While moving my hands to take a swing, I sometimes found my Mii 
 taking the swing before I was prepared, costing me points and the controls for the putter are very, 
 very touchy. Also, with the other games, it is sometimes hard to control the ball in bowling, but 
 some of this has to do with the somewhat different physics of Wii Sports itself. For example, the 
 pins have minds of their own, sometimes taking out other pins that were nowhere near them, but 
 never being able to pick up a 7-10 split. Annoying, but not enough to stop the fun.
  
  In the end, this game is exactly what Nintendo meant it to be. It gives us just enough to have 
 fun and to get a bunch of friends into the Wii with us, but not enough to only own it. Its a great 
 primer for those like me who are on the fence about the Wii. But whether you are testing yourself 
 in the games Fitness mode or just goofing off at tennis with a buddy, this game is great fun and 
 as an inclusion with the Wii, it comes at the best price; free.
  
  Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alonesoul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  this game make me tired, but this was most happiest tired of mine :)
  by the way be careful about ampules and chairs tables sofas in the room etc.. etc.. :) you've got 
 to play it in almost empty room.. at last the game is a fun bomb :) :) :) :) : besides if you have 
 2 wii remote this is the real fun.. (especially with your girlfriend ;) ) it's funny the watch, 
 dad's first experience with wii tennis.. he is 52 year old and he don't understand about this type 
 technology, but he learned very quickly and very good at the tennis but he broke saloon's ampule 
 :) this game packet nothing a graphical bomb but about being funny wii and sport pack is number 
 one absolutely... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Freakin awesomeeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeee eeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeeee eeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeee eee eeeee eeeeeee ee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeee eee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeee eee eeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeee 
 eeeeeee eeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeee eeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeee eeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeee eeeeeeee eeee eeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeee eeee eeee eeee eeeee 
 eeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeee eeee eeee eeee eeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eee eeee eeee 
 eee eeeeeeee eeeee eeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeee eeee eee eeeeee eeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee 
 eeeee ee eeeee eeeeee eeee ee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samhickman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is just pure fun and easy which is what I like. On game spot they say the learning curve 
 is about half an hour, but when I tested this game in the shop it took me about 1 minute. The tennis 
 is great fun but the cpu does most of the work all you have to do is move the wii mote in the way 
 you want to hit the ball, everything else is done for you. Wii baseball is a great multiplayer 
 game and is obsessive. One person is pitching and the other is bating. Wii tennis, wii baseball 
 (pitching) and wii bowling gives you the opportunity to show off your skills with a ball because 
 of the sensor in the remote you can spin the ball. Wii bowling is just like real bowling only you 
 don't have to wear stupid shoes. There is nothing else I can really say about wii bowling. Wii 
 baseball is a good game but make no-one is behind you when you bat. It is simple like the tennis 
 but this game has two different sides to it, one person pitches and the other bats. Thats it really. 
 But when you are playing this you are doing totally different things so if you are playing with 
 a noob and you have some tricks up your sleeve they can't copy you. Wii golf is a suttle relaxing 
 game and it can take up to an hour per game. If you are bored on a rainy day play a bit of wii 
 golf. Finlay we come to wii boxing. This is a obsessive game and you can't stop playing it. You 
 feel like you can take on the world when you beat somone at this game but when somone beats you, 
 you want to commit suicide. Nothing much I can say about the gameplay except for, it is badass. 
 All the games have nice graphics and are fun to play which is the important part.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Many people will disagree with me on this review. But, it is a opinion and it doesn't really matter 
 all that much either. Because, you get Wii Sports whether you like or not. I have to start with 
 the graphics. I know Nintendo's goal with the Wii is gameplay over graphics. But, I can't help 
 but feel that Nintendo could've made the graphics better. There's also the matter of gameplay. 
 I was throughly enjoying gameplay until I came upon Wii Boxing. I have to admit it's very unresponsive. 
 I found myself wishing that the Wii would better sense my motions. That's why gameplay is brought 
 down to what was actually originally a 9 to a 7. Sound is quite decent you get that same quirky 
 feeling with it. That you get with every Nintendo product. Value's decent but is brought down to 
 a 7 because of Wii Boxing's unresponive control. What must be taken into account however is the 
 matter that the game is packaged with the Wii. Bringing value from what was my plan of a 6 to a 
 7. But, all in all Wii sports is a good game that could have used some minor patching up before 
 it's release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  What can I say it is a sports package and it is very simple. It has 5 sports wrapped into 1 game 
 along with a fitness and training modes that mix all the sports into 1 combined exercise system. 
 You can't go wrong with this freebie at all. It is fun, enjoyable and gives anyone all ages alot 
 of exercise. So a little review of each game available on Wii sports:
  
  - Boxing - Fun, boxing game but not many boxing moves along with bad responce from motion sencing. 
 But it gives you your first chance to use the nunchuck - Score: 7/10
  
  - Golf - Fun way to improve your golf game. Game too hard though. Not able to fully swing or you 
 easily go over the guage making your shot either slice or fade. Best to wait for a real golf game 
 to come out. - Score: 5/10
  
  Baseball - Boring, too plain. Looks like they spent the least amount of their time develpoing this 
 game. Looks like the Oblongs are playing baseball. It should of been more of a homerun derby thing 
 than a baseball game. - Score: 4/10
  
  - Tennis - Good exercise as you go from forehand to backhand. But also repetative. Good for the 
 trainging and fitness modes. - Score: 6/10
  
  - Bowling - This is what motion sencing was made for ladies and gentleman. This takes in exactly 
 what your arm swing, tilt and hook on a bowling ball. Not every shot reacts the same, big time 
 pin-action. And comming from a 20 year bowling veteran it is great. Hopefully a full bowling game 
 is made, cuz if so, i so will own it. - Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ianmaitland
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a perfect game to start your wii experience. Each of the games are simple to learn 
 but will take a lot of training to master, this means that no matter who you are you can have a 
 go on wii sports and be able to get instant enjoyment from it. My personal favourites are bowling, 
 boxing and tennis. These are the games that to me have most lasting appeal and boxing is definetly 
 the most physically intense.
  
  The only game I found lacking somewhat was golf. The swinging mechanism is perhaps a little too 
 erratic for my likeing making consistant swing strengths almost impossible.
  
  This game probably wont be played forever but at least for the next 3 months I wont need many other 
 games to get enjoyment from my wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  the nintendo wii. the revolution of gaming. it comes with wii sports 1 wiimote and a nunchuck. 
 if you break down the price the console probably is around 180.00 which is amazing. now onto wii 
 sports.
  
  this game should be included in all nintendo's wiis i know japan didnt have it. i think its the 
 perfect game to kinda guide you through the use of the wiimote. i myself found the controls to 
 be wierd at first. i wanted to recalibrate my controls.
  
  the training mode on wii sports is quite interesting. showing the basics of the game and gameplay. 
 the thing lacking here is a faster downtime between failures :p
  
  what is great about wii sports it allows you to showcase your mii. that alone is awesome.
  
 
  wii sport fitness thing w/e is also a bit lacking. i was wondering how they could tell your fitness 
 age with those games.
  
  onto the actual sports.
  
  wii tennis is quite the odd one. with auto run to the nearest landing zone of the ball. i left 
 myself just swinging away. sometimes it felt real but when you can control where you run to its 
 like ugh. controls on this game are a bit hard to pick up i guess its all about timing of you hit 
 mainly.
  
  wii baseball. well this is really about swining and pitching. you dont run bases or field balls. 
 which also leaves you wanting more. you can play like a homerun tpe of derby or just play 3 innings. 
 your hit determines if you get a single double triple or homerun. i found hitting homeruns to be 
 a tad easy not requireing a full swing at most times.
  
  wii bowling now this one is fun im a terrible bowler in the real world as well as in wii bowling. 
 i noticed the same things i do in the real bowling alley happeing here. like slicing the ball and 
 getting countless gutter balls. this one the whole family loves though.
  
  ahh wii golf um i didnt touch this game much i found myself feeling weird looking at the screen 
 to see if i am hitting the ball or not.
  
  wii boxing is the only game that allows you to use the nunchuk which is sad i would like to have 
 had at least 2 more games that did. however this game is a bit of fun i still have issues throwing 
 upper cuts and sometimes my right arm doesnt even move as fluid like as my left arm.
  
  the sound in the game sounds like a snes or something silly elevator music.
  
  hearing tones 
 on the wiimote is quiet a feature but sometimes annoying.
  
  all in all 2 days of wii sports and im exhausted i like the game and really like to put more game 
 time in :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diamond-Diaruga
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  There are 5 sports. Bowling, boxing, tennis, baseball, and golf. At of those 5, none of them you 
 can get tired of. They are just fun! I wouldn't say this game is the best I've played, but it was 
 close. I don't know what sport is your favourite (On Wii Sports) , but mine is Baseball. I can't 
 get enough of it. Pitching and hitting, it's very easy and fun. My least favourite is bowling. 
 Probably because I don't like bowling. This game is fun for the enitre family as well! Got three 
 wiimotes? Then play againest your family in three-way golf! Two wiimotes? Play one-on-one in baseball. 
 While you pitch, your sister (Or whatever) swings. To wrap this review up, I just have two words 
 for it: Simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brimasra
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Wii sports brings a new flavor to the sports games. The Wii sports features your favorites game 
 that you can't even find in the stores. There is Tennis (my  
 last but no least boxing. While having your Wii-mote, you will actually feel like your playing the 
 games yourself (credit to Nintendo) ! For Tennis, this is my favorite game of all, when coming to the 
 Wii-mote, I can't stop playing. Baseball.... I don't watching it on TV..... but I love PLAYING IT for 
 a videogame, it's too fun swinging the ball and getting homeruns. Bowling and Golf are fun, a little 
 difficult in mastering but you get the hang of it. Then there's boxing, the controls are fantastic, whenever 
 you feel like you just want to PUNCH someone, play BOXING. Overall my favorite Wii game and Sports 
 game, it's excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canopener1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports, That fun game you saw celebrities having great fun playing at Wii conferences, now 
 with the release of the Wii, it's the general publics turn to try.
  
  This game is incredibly fun from the word go, with everyone being able to pick it up easily. It 
 consists of 5 minigames : Tennis, Baseball, Boxing Bowling and Golf, Ill review each one separately.
 
  
  Tennis: This game is definitely the best of the multiplayer games, You basically swing the wiimote 
 like a racquet and play like a regular game of tennis. The wiimote responds well and you have to 
 choose what kind of shot you want to make , be it Smash, Forehand, back hand or Volley.
  
  Baseball:
  I found this the most difficult at first, but once you get into playing it it's a 
 lot of fun. You use the Wiimote as your bat and timing is key in this game. Swing to early and 
 it's a strike, swing too late, it's often a foul ball. Pitching is another feature where you use 
 the wiimote like your hand throwing the ball.
  
  Boxing: This game involves you using the nunchuck along with the wiimote. you use the nunchuck 
 as your left hand and the wiimote as your right. This game is very easy to pick up and i found 
 this one pretty enjoyable.
  
  Bowling: Bowling, along with tennis is the best game in this package. It has very realistic physics 
 and you won't find yourself bowling strikes every time. It's good in multiplayer as you go one 
 by one, so you only need one Wiimote.
  
  Golf:
  I found golf to be a letdown. It's long, boring and quite monotonous. It doesn't provide much fun 
 - even to my friend who loves the sport. The one big letdown in the package.
  
  Wii sports also provides a nice Fitness age option. You take part in 3 training exercises and it 
 works out your fitness age, which is determined by your performance.
  
  Overall this is a very good game and is great fun in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoxer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a game that comes with the Nintendo Wii system when you first buy it. When seeing 
 it you may take a quick glance and say oh it's just for getting used to the controls. Well that 
 is true yet the game play is highly addicting. Wii sports is a game that will keep you coming back 
 when you need a quick fix of Wii fun.
  
  The game offers 5 different games Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. All of these games 
 use the Wiimote in different ways to show you how innovative the Wiimote and system really are. 
 The people you play as are the Mii's you create in your Mii channel in the Wii Homepage. And your 
 Mii's can level up and maybe with a little hard work reach the Pro level in all of these games. 
 Wii sports also gives you a workout mode which much like brainage for the Nintendo DS Offers you 
 multiple challenges to give you your fitness age. The better you do the lower it is, the worse 
 the higher. Also next to workout mode is training mode. In training mode you can train better at 
 the different sports Wii sports offers you. There are 3 challenges in each sport and not too hard 
 to unlock and master. Now going back to the 5 games I will review them each giving them a score 
 out of 5.
  
  Tennis: One of my favorites in this game. Playing this little sport will offer you hard moves to 
 pull off trying to stay in court and making your opponents mess up. While you start off the CPU 
 is really easy to trick and beat in a game. But as you level up they become harder and start really 
 thinking about what they will do next. This game is highly addicting because of these things and 
 it scores a 4.5/5
  
  Baseball: One of the fun ones but will leave you shouting at your Mii's when it's over. The game 
 is fun... when you get really and I mean really good. The CPU that you start against is extremely 
 hard to beat and often seems that they never can lose. They seem to always catch the ball scoring 
 an out even when you think it is impossible. Another thing is when trying to hit the ball A foul 
 is common, but when you do hit that Home run you feel great and want more. Baseball gets a 3/5
 
  
  Bowling: This relaxing yet competitive sport is fun when you need a break from the other ones. 
 It's very much like how you would bowl in real life just on a TV. The game works well with the 
 controls but also has a few minor issues. The game is really sensitive to how your arm is when 
 letting the ball go. Even the slightest twist will send your ball in the wrong direction. Other 
 than that the game is just perfect with a relaxing and great way to pass the time. 4/5
  
  Golf: My least favorite of the five. The game is just flat out boring. Now Don't get me wrong I 
 loved games like Mario golf but this is just too plain. The controls really don't work to well 
 for it either. Really hard to hit as well. It's just something you need to try and see what you 
 think, but I give it a 1/5
  
  Boxing: My favorite one of all! This is the sport of all the sports on this game. It is very accurate 
 with your punches and dodges and never seems to fail when you put your heart into it. While starting 
 off it may be a little challenging but noting compared to when your around Pro level in the game. 
 It offers a great difficulty and will leave you either very displeased or bent of success. But 
 there is something with this sport that even if you win you can still level down... but one way 
 not to do that... follow the rules of boxing. Do not hit below the belt, if you do it will cost 
 you... big time with level points. Overall this game is the one you want to check out when you 
 get the system and game. 5/5
  
  Well there you have it. My Review of Wii sports. This game like I said before is something that 
 you can't believe they just tossed in as a extra. While the graphics are simple they are very well 
 done for this type of game. Really this game alone can support you until you can get your next 
 game for your new Wii system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxglazer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Wii sports has a variety of games including baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, and boxing. They are 
 all very fun and very addictive. There is also the daily Wii fitness test to assess your wii skills 
 . It is also good exercise and can help your technique in real life. It's the first game to come 
 out for wii and is bundled with it. It is the first and so far best wii workout you can have. This 
 game isn't suppose to have amazing graphics or sound, but it is a great game! You can use the Mii's 
 you create for your wii as your characters in this game. Everyone will enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knuxman100
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game. Everysingle sport in this packet (tennis, bowling, baseball, boxing, 
 and golf) are worth playing and becoming pro. Everysingle game involves simple motion sensing. Here's 
 my opinion on them.
  
  Tennis... Tennis is probably my favorite out of all of them. It is a lot like real tennis; you 
 can even put some spin on the ball. The one thing that I find strange is that you can't do singles 
 games (only 2 on 2s) . Otherwise, this is a awesome game. This is the one game that you can actually 
 play on a team with a friend, which means (if you are not completely anti -social) , you will be 
 getting the most play out of this.
  
  Baseball... This game is O. K. The main drawback is that there is no outfielding and commanding 
 your Miis on base. Pitching I beleive is the only activity in this game that really uses the buttons 
 (i'll explain later) . If u hold A and pitch, you get a screwball. Hold B and you'll do a curveball. 
 Hold both and a splitter will sprout from you glove. Batting is fun, but i'm not sure you have 
 that much control over where you strike. Homeruns are pretty simple to get, which means the batter 
 will usually get atleast one run per inning (which by the way, there are three innings) . Overall, 
 this game is fun, but within it's limits.
  
  Golf... This game is plain hard. You have to pray if you want to get a birdie, and I think it's 
 impossible to get a hole- in- one. You have a lot on control of the ball minus spin. You have four 
 clubs: putter, wedge, iron, and driver. You can aim exactly to where you want to hit the ball, plus, 
 with the hit of the 2 button, you can see all of the hills and slants on the course. It is fun, 
 just hard.
  
  Bowling... Bowling is probably the least like its real sports. In other words its the most video 
 game like. In real bowling, without bumpers, i would get a ton of gutters. In this, you have to 
 be a retard to get a gutter. The spin has a good sense, and you have a lot of control over you 
 stance and position. This is the third four- player game, but the multiplayer, like golf, isn't 
 really interactive with other people. This game is just repetitve.
  
  Boxing... Awesome. This game is really fun, and the only one that uses the nunchuk. The controllers 
 really are just like your gloves. You can do anything; low blow, head shot, right hook, dodge, 
 duck. It is jus tplain fun... Nothin more.
  
  Overall this is a really fun game. Like other Wii launch titles, this consists of mainly mini games, 
 just to present the Wiis capabilities. The use of the Miis is a great idea, which hopefully other 
 games will follow. I would give it a rent or buy rating, but it comes with the Wii, so it has to 
 be a buy. Either way, I would give ti a buy... Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMAN95
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Probubly the greatest multi player game nintendos ever had you get to create your player switch 
 beween 5 different sports teness bowling boxing golf and baseball you can play this game for hours 
 with your frindes and never get board of it. BUT for one player its OK when you frist star its 
 great but as you progeres into the game and you get more skill points and you get better and better 
 and the computers get harder and harder well of coures until they cant get harder thats when the 
 games value drops way down for the single player but multi player will be fun. The one other good 
 thing is the fitness test that makes you keep playing for a wile then you drop the game buy a new 
 one and only play Wii sports when a friend comes over so yes its a great game and I think that 
 nintendo made a good chose to have it come with the Wii but it wont last for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto166
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I love it it is so must fun to play it now i can play and exercise and I don't need to hear my 
 mom telling to play out side and all I can say is that i can play on my Wii and then can she be 
 quiet a while ;D
  
  So play Wii sports and you will have your mom not on you back in a while.
  
  Gameplay . why 
 I don't give it a 10 its because when I play of the boxing I
  am not a great boxing fan so thats why I give a 9.
  
  Graphics . Well I don't to need to explain 
 i hope 8 it what I give.
  
  Sound . Well it is ont great but not bad either so it get a 8
  
  that is all
  
  *sign out* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  There is a reason why nintendo decided to pacage this free with its new wii console. because its 
 the difinite what can wii do? game. it shows what you can do and how with your new wii, and gves 
 you the entertainment and relaxing break you could use after several hours on twilight princess. 
 i reckon they missed something out on this though- a calorie counter. why? because this is a game 
 that could use it. it tires you out, its a workout playing these games. you'll enjoy it every time, 
 but a calorie counter would have made an innotive good idea. You cant go wrong with wii sports 
 if you have a friend over who challenges you to a rivalry at a game. and its brilliant in single 
 player. AND it keeps you playing, cause you want the pro rankings. of course you do. who wouldnt? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammaren
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game was great. it's not what all wii games should be like, but very fun.
  i thougt the boxing or baseball was funniest. the miis are funny. baseball is kinda hard cause 
 i almost never do a homerun. I don't like golf because it's kinda weird j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j ja a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLEEBS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I've seen some pretty low scores for this game, but it's so much fun. It's definately not perfect, 
 but an excellent showcase of the hardware. I think that all the games have their merits, but some 
 are better than others, especially bowling. If some don't think the game has depth, just try the 
 training sessions. Training opens up some great fun multiplayer, even single player. Sometimes 
 the controller does not react exactly to the motions you do, but you get used to it and control 
 mostly feels natural. Graphics aren't great but they get the job done in a fun manner. Obviously 
 the value is great because it comes packaged with the hardware. If you haven't played it with friends, 
 do so because I'm sure that is how it was intended to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaceTheShado
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This wii launch game that comes with the system is a breif taste of what you'll get on the wii, 
 and surprisingly it isnt to bad.
  
  Good: Some games have excellent Motion sensitivity, presents realastic gameplay, exciting, and 
 new.
  
  Bad: Boxing, Golf have bad motion sensitivity, I found that swinging my wii remote backwards actually 
 made it swing better than trying to swing the original way, also boxing when I would make the punching 
 notions, it wouldnt always recognize when I punched, so some punches happend as i was actually 
 not moving my hand at all.
  
  Overall, it seems that there is more bad stuff but there really isnt, this game is fun, and for 
 it being something thats in every wii box, its pretty fun, the reason there isnt to much to say 
 about it being good is because there really isnt much to say, you see what you get, and you get 
 alot with this fun and innovative game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  You might want to diss this game, complain about the average graphics or even the lack of depth. 
 Both factss are true. But consider these facts:
  1. it is loads of fun to play
  2. it comes ffree with the console
  3. the game comes with free workouts.
  
  Tennis was fun 
 and Golf was cool, and then there was baseball.
  
  Yes, even though iit is a basi approach the games offer a small form of addiction, and together 
 with the console it is a perfect gift to impose player confidence.
  Add a second controlerset and you will be of to the races.
  
  I found that at this price and 
 at what it offers the game puts Nintendo more then just on the map. It is the cheapest gaming solution 
 ever offered.
  
  You get so much for this money, the old N64 without game was more expensive. This reflects to this 
 game and it's abilities as an essential part of the Nintendo experience. It feels impossib le to 
 think of this game separate of the console, they came together, they grow together. The game offers 
 playability, and that is what any game can ever aspire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChudWarrior
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Fun fo all ages. REALLY! Ultra realistic feel for most of the games. The only ones that felt kind 
 of off were the baseball and boxing game. Though the boxing game is still fun and hilarious. Aside 
 from those two though each of the other games alone would be worth buying by themselves, but you 
 do not have to! For the first time in many years all of these sports games come with the system. 
 Do'nt like sports games? Fret not friends for I do'nt really like them either, but these are unlike 
 any sports games you have ever played. It's a whole new world, a new fantastic point of view. Bowling, 
 golfing, and tennis without a wiimote in any other game does not even come close the the majestic, 
 free wonder that is Wii Sports. So put down that 360 controller, do some stretching exercise's (trust 
 me) and strap in for the ride of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renger6002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first setup my Wii -and making a Mii of myself of course- I popped in Wii Sports and started 
 to play, thinking I would start Zelda in 5 minutes. This game however, had me tied in for at least 
 45 minutes even though the Zelda disk was right in front of my face!
  Wii Sports is the best showcase for what the Wii is capable of, It would be the smartest thing 
 Nintendo did in a long while, to pack-in this game.
  Wii Sports offers a selection of five games:
  
  Tennis ----- One of the funnest games in WiiSports. 
 Tennis shows best how sensitive the Wii-mote is to the twists in your wrists, or the fade-out movement 
 of your arm. The slightest change in your movement will move the ball in a different way. When 
 playing one player, you have the choice of swinging as both players on your team. This game is 
 posssible to play with up to 4 people
  
  Baseball ----- One of my favourites. Even if you don't know the rules to baseball, it is possible 
 to play this game, havefun, and know what is going on. You will either swing at bat, or pitch. 
 The characters will run and catch on their own. This game is possible to play with 2 players.
 
  
  Bowling ----- Another great game. This game might even be better in tennis in showing the sensitivity 
 of the Wiimote. You will basically play a game of bowling, but like never before. You will rase 
 the remote to your face, hold the trigger, then swing down and release the trigger as if releasing 
 the ball. One of the most competitive games, available for multiplayer of up to 4 people.
  
  Boxing ----- This would be the most tiring game. Although very fun. The game will not mimick 
 your hand's movement directly, just the aiming and when to punch. There are uppercuts, leftand 
 right hooks, jabbing the body, and jabbing the face. you will hold the nunchuk and Wii-mote as 
 your hands, and lean by holding them together and leaning. Available for two players.
  
  WiiSports ----- This game could have easily been a standalone game for 20 or even 30 dollars (as 
 is the case in Japan) , but is packed in you nintendo Wii. It is easy to cheat at things like baseball, 
 or tennis, but if you try to play it correctly, it will be the most fun you've had in a long time. 
 Wii Sports will keep you coming back everyday, with its fun, intuitive games, its simplicity, and 
 something i haven't talked about yet, Wii Fitness, and skill points.
  Wii fitness is a Brain Age kind of game that could only be completed once a day with each Mii. 
 after a series of special minigames from each sport, like returning as many tennis balls as possible, 
 or getting the most homeruns, you will be given a fitness age, with 20 being the youngest. Skil 
 points are points you get everytime you finish a game. The better you play during a game, the more 
 points you will get, this will get you to keep playing untill you reach 1000 points, at that time 
 you will be considered a Pro .
  
  Wii sports is a great Pack-in, with sometimes oversimplistic, and easy to cheat in games, but it 
 will still keep you occupied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkage_5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I like WII sports. At first it was challenging but not hard to get the hang out. the boxing was 
 awsome had my MII bob'n and weav n that game is was fun and a real work i was winded afterwards 
 didnt think i would be. but i was. it doesnt compare to difficulty of real boxing but it is dam 
 good for a video game. great fun to have with friends, or people u just met and started playing 
 the WII with. cant wait until finals are and i can get one. the graphic were hilarious im so galdthey 
 look so comical and funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffstaJones
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  So you just got a wii and you're totally exited to try it out. Well you're in luck. You won't even 
 have to spend an extra dime before you can experience a game that really demonstrates the capabilities 
 of the wii's famous controller. The five sports games included in the package (tennis, baseball, 
 bowlling, golf and boxing) are all very fun and amusing. Each of these games makes for great muliplayer 
 moments and it's the best way to show a non-gamer what the wii is. Although the sports are made 
 in a simple, easy to play sort of style, the skill points add some depth to it. There is also a 
 training mode and a fitness mode similar to brain age (best being 20 years old) . Training offers 
 medals for great performances wich keeps you playing to try and get all 15 gold medals.
  
  Although this game is not an actual reason to buy the wii, it will will show you WHY you should 
 buy the wii. In order, the sports I enjoyed most were: 1. tennis, 2. bowling, 3. Golf, 4. Baseball 
 and 5 boxing, although each game fun and none boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadSnake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great way to utilize the maximum effects of the brand newly released Wii Remote. 
 Not only do you bowl by pulling your arm back and releasing forward, but to put a spin on it, you 
 tilt the remote itself! This control scheme makes you feel completely into the game. Not only is 
 this game extremely fun playing one player, but it is an excellent party game too. Play it with 
 aunts, uncles, cousins, grandparents, parents, brothers, sisters, and everyone else because you 
 do not have to be a hardcore gamer to enjoy the full effect of this game. There are also hidden 
 gems within the game. One is the training which allows you to get better at the game and learn 
 all new techniques. One more example is the fitness age test, which is similar to the tests in 
 Brain Age where you take a series of test to decide how old you are in fitness years ranging from 
 20 to 80 years old. The only drawbacks of this game are the short gameplay in various sports. The 
 only full length games are tennis and bowling. In baseball you play three innings, in golf you 
 play either three or nine holes, and in boxing you only go three rounds. But you also have to keep 
 in mind that this game is free with the Wii, so it is a good value no matter how you look at it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_3D_Warfare
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The N just don't give you a good game for free, and this is a prime example. Poor controls and 
 abysmal graphics highlight the completely unintineristing package. I liked the tennis better when 
 it was called Rockstar Presents Table Tennis. Don't get me started about the sound, since when 
 does the hitting of a tennis ball sound an effect akin to that of the Atari 2600? These Nintendo 
 folks can talk about innovation all they want, but they sure can't bring their actions into clear 
 view. One would think that this would be one of the best games for the system to showcase the Wii's 
 power, but instead it ends up as one of the worst in the library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCRCPBXBOXFAN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive. You will be like i'm gonna warm up with Wii Sports then go to Zelda. Ha, 
 you'll start playing then want to go pro or at least get farther. Then play another sport. By now 
 an hour and a half has passed and you are like s***. Then you will play Zelda for two hours and 
 your like awesome then you look at the clock and your like ***k and well that is what time I am 
 writing this. The games are fun but can be difficult when you start over trying. Wasn't much of 
 a review but the number saus it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBassXUmbraX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Back in E3 2006 when Nintendo blowed everyone away with a surprisingly good first impression for 
 their latest console. The Wii, Nintendo showcased a tech demo that teaches you how to use the remote 
 in various ways. Before TGS '06 however, Nintendo revealed that Wii Sports would be a pack in title 
 and contain boxing, bowling, tennis, baseball, and golf. And now the Wii is finally upon us. And 
 after playing Wii Sports, it may be on the simplistic side but it's still a solid pack in game. 
 The first sport to choose from is tennis, which was shown at E3 06. You use the Wii Remote similar 
 to how you would in tennis; you can make motions for basic fore-hands and back-hands, and which 
 one you should use is based on where you are relative to the ball. However, a simple flick of the 
 wrist is all that is necessary if you play at a high sensitivity setting. You are always playing 
 in a double and you can choose best of one, three, or five matches. You will play as a Mii, your 
 personal avatars that you can create on the Mii channel. The game moves your Miis for you, so all 
 you do is serve and return. It takes away some of the depth but it is still a fun game to play 
 none the less. Next is baseball. This game is also on the simplistic side, you merely emulate swings 
 as you would in real baseball but a flick of the wrist will also work. There are five innings and 
 all the fielding is done for you as in tennis. Again this drains some of the depth, but unlike 
 tennis, it feels slow and not very fun. Pitching though requires some depth as spin and direction 
 are detected through the remote. It is interesting but doesn't really make the game better.
  
  Golf had a steep learning curve. You hit the club by holding the Wii Remote sideways like a 
 golf club and holding A. It sounds easy but golf really is challenging because it takes time getting 
 used to. In fact trying to swing the remote like a real club would not only hit the ball too hard 
 but hook and slice it. To be fair you can practice your swings without holding the A button until 
 you get it right, you can tell thanks to the power meter on the left. You have a limited number 
 of clubs though so it isn't going to be a matter of choosing the right club but swinging correctly. 
 There are also only nine courses but three difficulty modes which are challenging. Bowling is the 
 next sport and although it is the simplest sport at a first glance, it is also simply the best. 
 To bowl, you simply hold the B button and roll the ball back, and release the B button to roll 
 the ball. The Wii Remote can detect the amount of power you put in your shot as well as spin. You 
 can use A and the D-Pad to adjust the angle of your ball and the location of your player. Even 
 the physics of knocking the pins down feels right. The only thing missing? Weight. But imagine 
 the day when controllers can stimulate not only motion but force. Now that would be revolutionary 
 indeed.
  
  Last is boxing. This is the only game in Wii Sports to require the nunchuck. The controls are pretty 
 simple. You use the Remote to do a right jab and the nunchuck to jab to the left. You can hold 
 the controller back to block and tilt them left and ride to dodge, and it works well. You see a 
 pie bar which determines health, and depending on how excessively you waste your opponent will 
 determine how many times you'll need to knock him down to win. How high the controller is above 
 the sensor bar determines the location as to where your punch lands but sometimes it is difficult 
 to hit your opponent correctly. Boxing has a few kinks and can be exhausting but it is still fun. 
 However, Wii Sports really is meant to be played with other people. In some games, the AI can be 
 a total push over. That's why games like boxing are fun but tennis is a lot better with other players. 
 Wii Remotes are hard to find but luckily, you can play some of the sports with more than one person 
 with a single remote for golf and thankfully, bowling. It is even more fun when you have other 
 people to play with, and luckily, the game design can get your non-gaming family members to join 
 in. It's called Wii after all.
  
  But the best features of the game are not the sports themselves. The other two modes are training 
 and fitness test. Even though it's called training, they are really mini-game versions of each 
 sport that made even the boring ones like baseball fun. But bowling has the best. One bowling mini-game 
 involves knocking down as many pins as you can but each stage gets progressively harder as another 
 row of pins get added, eventually becoming 91 pins on the last stage. Another game is spin control 
 which places barriers in the lanes forcing you to spin and angle your ball to come out supreme. 
 Or you can try tennis and see how many shots you can return. Each game is scored and you can earn 
 medals based on your performance. But don't forget you can play these challenges with more than 
 one player too!
  
  Fitness test will be pretty familiar because it is brain age, Wii Sports style. You will participate 
 in random challenges from training mode in succession and you will earn a fitness age score at 
 the end, with 21 being the best as though you were as energetic as a 21 year old.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, there isn't a large soundtrack but its solid, and the speaker from 
 the Wii Remote doesn't sound as bad as it does in other games. Environments are clean and crisp, 
 though a little jagged, and the Mii models are simplistic, though charming. It isn't Xbox 360 quality 
 but it is pretty wrong to judge a Wii game's graphics on that basis.
  
  Wii Sports is a free pack in title that can be a blast to play with others. It doesn't have an 
 online mode, which is disappointing, but it makes up for it with a simple interface that will allow 
 non gamer friends to join in, even with a single remote! On top of all of that, it is free, so 
 you will be playing this when you have a Wii. Although not all the games are winners, Wii Sports 
 is certainly fun and easy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  It's weird to review a game that everyone gets with the system they buy. This review, then, can 
 only help people on the fence about the system itself.
  
  Out of the box, wii sports is accessible and pretty intuitive. Everyone who first tries a wii sport, 
 including me, feels awkward at first, but the fastest way to get a handle on how to work it is 
 to PRETENT you're playing the actual sport. Swing like it's a real raquet in your hand; bat like 
 it's a real bat; raise your dukes and punch for boxing. Once you figure this out -- in about two 
 minutes -- it's a delight.
  
  It's also very simple, and maybe a little tiring. There's not a lot of complexity here (though 
 most of the training min-games are actually fun in themselves) , and it's easy to get a little sore 
 if you play this game for too long a time.
  
  Having said that, I think wii sports is about as perfect a come-with-the-system game as I can imagine. 
 The wii is going to sell you on its graphics or next-gen, multi-media capabilities. Its CONTROLS 
 will lure you in or they won't. For pretty much everyone who's tried them among my circle of friends 
 and family, the controls are extremely fun (and funny -- can't wait for more party games for the 
 system) . Wii sports not only shows those controls off, though; it sort of trains you how to use 
 the controls in general. I find that the more wii sports I play, the faster and more accurate I 
 get with Zelda controls and Monkey Ball. There is no multi-player, though with the miis, multi-player 
 on-line would be to die for. But I am way more addicted to this game than I would have guessed, 
 and FIVE sports will definitely keep you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidchicken
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is absolutely fantastic. Since launch, I have hardly played anything other than Wii 
 Sports. Every night, my wife and mother take the Wii Sports Fitness Test, then we hit the lanes 
 in Wii Sports Bowling! We shake it up a bit too, by playing all the other sports as well, but Bowling 
 is the sport we can't seem to get enough of.
  
  Wii Sports makes for a perfect pack-in and is a great introduction as to what the Wii-mote can 
 do. The game also servevs as a great look at things to come, while setting a standard in the fun 
 department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazer3800
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports, which comes packed with the system is a great introduction to the handling of the wii-mote 
 and shows the future possibilities of the system. Although some of the games controls don't react 
 as you think they would it's still a fun experience. Bowling and baseball controls are perfect 
 and even with hours and hours of play, it doesn't get old. Golf is a little tough because sometimes 
 the swing won't register correctly with the wii making for random swings and putts that go flying 
 off the green. Boxing is another game where the controls are a little iffy, especially in the training 
 mode. Training games require you to land a specific punch and it's very tough to land the punch 
 you actually want to throw. Nintnedo was smart and allowed for one controller to be used for multiplayer 
 bowling and golf, so out of the box multiplayer can be achieved. It's great firing up the system 
 for the first time and instantly being able to play a 4 player bowling match. All-in-all the game 
 is a whole lot of fun and shows the potential for highly developed games like Fight Night, Tiger 
 Woods and MLB baseball to be absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanball
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports...
  At first glance this game seems like a cheap knockoff of some sports games packaged together. But 
 really this is a treasure of a game that is luckily packaged with the Wii or else no one would 
 know of it. Though the graphics are below par compared to the rest of the nex-gen games. The gameplay 
 makes up for it. Wii sports offers 5 game modes. Bowling, Baseball, Boxing, Golf, and Tennis. Each 
 is very unique and uses the wii-more very nicely. All are easy to learn and master but it keeps 
 you busy for many hours. The mii's from the wii menu offer fun customizable gameplay which make 
 it a game that you can laugh at it while you play. Besides the sports mode, which can be played 
 in anywhere from 2-4 players. There is the wii fitness and training levels. The training gives 
 you small aspects of each sport to work on while the fitness tests your skill levels every day 
 so you can moniter how you progress.
  This game is a great new innovative product and is the perfect addition to the wii-package in north 
 america!
  Chances are you have it and played it if you have a wii in N. A. But if not definetly pick it up! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vtime
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When you first open your box with the brand new Wii inside, you will also find a neat gift from 
 Nintendo. That gift is Wii Sports. Wii Sports is a great introduction to what the Wii is capable 
 of and what lies in the future. Everyone should take note that it is not perfect. It has its pros 
 and cons but still loads of fun. The experience you get when you pick up your wii mote and start 
 playing 1 of 5 sports (Tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, boxing) , iis nothing you've ever experienced. 
 As you start getting use to the games, you find out which are sports are your favorite.. as well 
 as which sports are not so great (boxing is unresponsive at most times) . To truly enjoy this game, 
 you must have multiple wii motes/nunchuks. The multiplayer aspect is where you'll get the best 
 aspect of the game. Wii sports is great for the non-gamers as well as the gamers alike. The game 
 is easy to pick up and addictive. Family and friends will enjoy what Wii has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJC3317
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is mostly included with the Nintendo Wii to help new players get a feel of the Wiimote. 
 That said, the game is rather fun, and can be addicting. There are five games: tennis, baseball, 
 golf, bowling, and boxing. Also, there is a training program to help hone your skills in each of 
 these sports, as well as a place to put your skills to the test and find out your Mii age. The 
 latter changes everyday so it's something you can pop in for a few minutes each day and find a 
 new challenge. All in all the games are pretty simple and don't require much skill, but have an 
 addicting quality about them. You won't want to overlook them just because they were included free 
 in the package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  It's been ages since a game has been bundled with a system at launch. Yes there have been cases 
 where Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo have bundled a game with their units but that usually happened 
 months after the system's launch and included a game that has been out for sometime (except for 
 the PS2 when it was bundled with the then new-release Gran Turismo 3) . Nintendo has brought back 
 the 'free' game with system idea by packaging Wii Sports with their new system and I must say it's 
 a great addition and definitely a helper in selling units.
  
  First things first. Wii Sports is a demo title. While it does contain 5 varied sports (Boxing, 
 Tennis, Baseball, Golf and Bowling) the game's main function is to help people get familiar with 
 the Wii's control scheme by having them play active sports with the unit.
  
  All 5 sports offered varied experience and use the Wii controller differently. With Bowling, the 
 Wiimote is your ball and the speed in which you 'thow' the ball and the motion you give as you 
 release affect the balls travel down the lane. WIth Golf, the Wiimote is the clubs and you need 
 to position as such in order to get a shot through. Pull back too much or put too much on the ball 
 and you're going to slice/hook your shot. In Baseball the Wiimote acts as both your bat and the 
 ball as you position the Wiimote accordingly for each motion. Tennis acts the same way, with the 
 Wiimote acting as your Raquet. Lastly, with Boxing, this time you're using both the Wiimote and 
 Nunchaku for each hand as they 'act' as gloves for the box, mimiking your motions as your spar 
 with your opponent.
  
  In all, depending on the sports you enjoy playing in real-life, you're bound to spend more time 
 on that mini-game. Of the 5, my favorite is the Boxing mode which can get really intense once your 
 character's skill level gets high enough. While the Tennis mode can be a bit of a problem if you're 
 not properly aligned with the the Sensor Bar. But overall, regardless of the sport you play, you 
 and your friends will enjoy the time they spend.
  
  Considering this is a tech demo, Nintendo could not release this game at Full-Price if it only 
 contained the five sports. If the number of sports was increased to 8 or 9, then a larger asking 
 price might have been more justified. Since Nintendo has released this with the system, people 
 can try the system and show it off to friends without worrying about purchasing a game that might 
 not be that good.
  
  In the end, the game doesn't sell the system, but helps to establish that the idea Nintendo has 
 of having the gamer actually 'play' ends up being a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPER-CAZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  So we have been waiting for the Wii to come out for a long time now and the game we get for the 
 Wii is Wii sports. like we know the Wii won't compete in the graphics department with the other 
 Console's but will outshine the other Gen's with the innovative game-play. And wii sports does 
 exactly that. With outstanding games like Bowling and Tennis Wii sports really shows the player 
 the full potential that the Wii Mote will have on future games. In this game Boxing, Golf and Baseball 
 have a tough learning curve for the player that involve's some practice on getting use to the new 
 controls but once done the game gets very addictive. If you play this game enough you unlock different 
 gear like a new Bowling Ball that has stars and bright colors depending on your favorite color. 
 Overall Wii sports may not be very flashy but you will forget about it once you start playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treep78
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Nintendo pitches a perfect game by bundling this with the wii. This game works best as a tech demo 
 if you want to show a friend how the wii remote works. Some of the games like tennis and bowling 
 work almost perfectly, while others like baseball and golf take some getting used to while boxing 
 falls somewhere in between. Training mode and daily exercise add a few more fun challenges but 
 unlocking the extra practices is a little to easy (all you have to do is try the previous one) . 
 All in all this game shows what what the wii can do and since it's free you really can't complain. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyvp925
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  To me this game is more of a work out game rather then for fun. in no time anyone can get in shape. 
 Nintendo has come a long way in life to satisfy gamers. and now it looks like there satisfying 
 health to. if someone was to really try this game they will bee able to get used to it in minutes. 
 almost every sport you can play such as running and basketball, all has to deal with the movents 
 of your body. i dont care what other people say, this game kicks booty lol. i mean sure i can work 
 on the attribute a little but theres always that one person thats a kiss up for games lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  For a next-gen game this game is a complete disapointment. It's way too simplistic. Can't control 
 the movement of the players, is a game designed for the controller, wich is IMO a bad idea. It 
 supposed to be the other way round.
  This idea of having to innovate sometimes leads to this.
  If this game has a good point is of 
 letting me know that Wii is not for me. Although I have no problem of playing little kids games, 
 Wii-mote is a bit too childish. Skill doesn't matter, it's all about moving your arms. Accuracy 
 took a vacation on this gen N's system.
  This Wii is going to my nephew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  With a lot of the Wii games coming out that haven; t met everyones expectations, Wii sports has 
 far exceeded what most thought on it. The perfect group game so far. 4 player tennis, and bowling. 
 2 player baseball and boxing will have your friend and family playing for hours. The best 4 player 
 game on wii. Nothing better then using your mii to go against other friends mii. Ever wanted to 
 play your virtual mom in tennis or golf or boxing? You can do it with this game. Has to be the 
 best decision nintendo has made for its release. The first game playable by all age groups and 
 game levels. The perfect family game for the house. The graghics are the expected graghics but 
 the presentation is prety good. Boxing and tennis has mii; s on the sidelines who cheer. Sound is 
 preety bland but compliments all the sprts pretty well. The game seems to have no end. you'll spend 
 hours and hours with friends playing the game. I; ve put in around 20 hours atleast and stil enjoy 
 every part. Since your not playing team or players from special sections in sports the game well 
 never die out. The perfect fallback if your other games on wii were not what you expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Space1
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since a game was packed in with a new system. It used to be a common practice 
 back in the days of the Genesis and Super Nintendo. Well Nintendo is bringing the practice back 
 with Wii sports.
  
  Wii sports is a group of five simple sports games that use the Wii's unique motion sensing capabilitites. 
 You have tennis, boxing, golf, baseball and bowling. Some of them work better than others but they 
 all still work.
  
  Tennis is probably the simplest of the games. The characters movement is entirely controlled by 
 the computer, you only control the swinging. You control both character's swings and simply give 
 the remote swing whenever either character gets close to the ball. Its simple but still a lot of 
 fun and will last you even longer if you manage to get four people in the room at once.
  
  Bowling is the second simplest of the games. You hold down the B button on the underside of the 
 remote and hold it down until the end of the swing. You can also add spin by twisting the controller 
 during the swing. It works quite well and is very fun, but its still bowling.
  
  Baseball is one game that dosent offer much. All the fielding is controlled by the computer. You 
 only control pitching and batting, and you trade off between the two. One player can pitch while 
 the other bats, making it viable multiplayer game. It needs more depth though.
  
  I have some problems with golf. The game is almost fully dependent on the speed of your swing rather 
 than on other factors. If you swing to fast the ball either slices or hooks. It works to a certain 
 degree but just isnt very friendly to non gamers. The last game is boxing, which dosent work all 
 that well. Hitting specific body parts is impossible and guarding specific parts of your body isnt 
 any easier. The game also dosent mimic your movements well at all. Its still fun, just not up to 
 the quality of the other games.
  
  The graphics and sound are very simple as is the presentation. The menus are very simple and bland 
 though highly functional. The graphics follow the same route. The one plus is the Miis which are 
 highly customizable and just plain cool looking. The graphics are not a high point but they still 
 work.
  
  In the end the game is a fun game but one lacking depth. Its controls work well for the most part 
 but not all the time. Still, its free so you cant complain too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkItZo_SkYlInE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how else to say it, its just amzing. What i love about the Wii is that with Wii sports, 
 u dont just play like you would by yourself. No, you can play with ur family with Wii sports bowling, 
 theres much more things you can do besides bowling, but what im trying to get at is that, if i 
 got on a Xbox and started playing halo, my parents wouldnt want to play. But if i got a Wii and 
 started playing bowling, i could have like a family night. My parents enjoy bowling, but my parents 
 wouldnt enjoy halo. and its amazingly cheap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerale22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very good game for the Wii. It comes with the system, so everyone will have it. 
 The 5 sports include Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing.
  
  Tennis is..... alright. It is a blast to play with others. Not very fun alone. The cpu is annoying 
 and usually hits it back always. The control works pretty well however.
  
  Baseball is my least favorite of the 5. It consists of 3 innings. The max is 2 players and one 
 bats and one pitches. The control with pitching is great, and with 4 different pitches to throw 
 it has variety. Batting is very boring however. If you dont swing at the PERFECT time then it is 
 either a foul ball or a strike. Also, if you do manage to hit it infield then another system goes 
 on. If your hit is near any bases or is caught fast after cathing the ball, then your out. The 
 amount of bases you get to run pretty much is determind by how long it takes for the other team 
 to pick it up. So you could still be out even if it hits the ground.
  
  Next is Bowling. Bowling is my favorite sport. The motion control works extremely well and you 
 can put a great deal of spin on the ball. There arent really any flaws except sometimes after you 
 hit the pins it will kind of freeze up for a second then resume. Not big. Also, you can play with 
 4 people with only one controller which is cool.
  
  Golf is next and can be very enjoyable. There is 4 different modes. There are 3 sets of 3 holes 
 called Beginner, Intermediate, and Expert. There is also a 9-hole option where you play all 9 of 
 the ones mentioned above.
  Putting is very easy in Golf. Driving isnt. Uusally there will be a big wind that will maybe knock 
 you off course if you havent aimed right. Also, you can really judge how hard you have to hit it, 
 you just have to pretty much guess. Golf is my second favorite game. You can also probobly play 
 this with one controller like bowling, but I havent tested this out.
  
  Last is Boxing. This game uses the Wii-mote and the Nunchuck controller. It is pretty simple. You 
 hold both controllers to your chest and moves side-to-side to dodge. Push forward to do jabs, make 
 an uppercut motion to uppercut, make a hook motion to hook.... e. t. c...
  A problem however is that sometimes the Nunchuck will not respond as good as you want it too. Also 
 it is a little hard to aim your punches sometimes.
  
  It also has 2 game modes called Training and Wii Fitness. Training has 3 minigames for each sport 
 that train you in it. And Wii Fitness is like Brain Age but you play the sports and determine your 
 fitness level. You can do it once a day and you must do the same minigames over and over again.
 
  
  In conclusion, Wii Sports is a fun game with good multiplayer gameplay. The graphics are not very 
 good, but I understand that Nintendo wanted it to be a simple, pick-up-and-play game.
  
  This is my first review and I hope you guys like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmpastor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports has a smart selection of games to choose from. There is a game for practically every 
 demographic and something just about anybody would love to try.
  
  The fact that you get to play as your Mii avatar is great. Beating the face of your opponents Mii 
 avatar in boxing is lots of fun. Raising the controllers puts up your guard; lowering the controllers 
 puts down your guard. Simple. In tennis you simply swing the racket. In baseball you swing the 
 Wii-mote like a bat and make a throwing motion to pitch. In bowling you just make a bowling motion. 
 Go figure. In golf, you guessed it, make a golf swing motion. Its just plain simple. Just what 
 Nintendo wanted to do with this launch. Get everybody and anybody playing. In addition to being 
 simple its lots of fun. My wife has never played video games but she has played Wii Sports and 
 loves it. Shes pretty much addicted. As far as she is concerned Nintendo has succeeded in reaching 
 new gamers.
  
  Not a marathon type game where you play all night but a great game to play to kill time and have 
 fun. It works on a points type system that will keep you coming back to be the ultimate player. 
 The setup allows you to change the controls for left-handed (me) and right-handed play for each 
 game.
  
  It was a great choice for a pack in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtremestriker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for a game that comes with the Wii. Wii Sport has about 5 sports in the 
 game to play. The best part about that is you are are like really the person playing! When you 
 move in real life the person in the game is moving! Although the graphics of the game do look bad 
 since it looks to cartoonish. Not only is the game very fun but the sound is awesome since if you 
 hit the ball you can hear the ball's sound. I recommend this game to every one because not only 
 is it fun but this game keeps you active. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplayt 9: The gameplay on Wii sports is a lot of fun. All the movements in the game are controlled 
 with the Wii remote, like in tennis you can swing the wii remote to hit the tennis ball. In Wii 
 sports there is Golf, Baseball, Bowling, Tennis, and Boxing, all a lot of fun except the Golf. 
 The gameplay is kind of simple though, yet is a lot of fun. Grapihcs 7: Simply dated graphics, 
 that look like they were off the original playstation. Sound 8: This game has great sound effects, 
 and music that are very nice to hear. Value 9: There's not a lot to do in this game, but since 
 it comes with the Wii for free it's certanintly worth it. Overall 8.6/10 Wii sports has great gameplay 
 ,that anynoe can enjoy, and is really nice that nintendo included it for free. You should like 
 this game when you get your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Wii console has been suffering from complaints about people injuring themselves or passing 
 out due to this game, Wii Sports. Well, those people are morons. Wii Sports combines easy gameplay 
 with revolutionary technology to create the most accessible video game in history. But all of this 
 accessibility comes at a cost: depth. The only depth in Wii Sports is unlocking training modes, 
 getting your Wii age to 20, mastering a sport, and becoming and maintaining a PRO status. Everything 
 else plays in quick, short bursts. Mii's, little playable characters made to look like people, 
 are really fun looking and unique at first, but you'll eventually see the same Mii's as AI over 
 and over again. It will eventually become annoying and you may grow to hate them. Additionally, 
 some of the AI is really stupid, especially in baseball. Some easily made plays in baseball are 
 messed up. While the ease of being good at a sport makes people feel good, it may also make people 
 feel bad when a tough opponent suddenly walks by.
  
  OVERALL: everyone will find this game easy. Those who don't are probably not used to standing up 
 and moving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteman24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  well i had my mom play this game and unlike in other games, she beat me ! Now this is her favorite 
 game! This game is very good and keeps you coming back! In Wii Sports, you play boxing, tenis, 
 golf, bowling, and baseball with your friends or alone. Using your Mii makes you feel close to 
 the game! When playing bowling, you feel like you are really bowling! The only problem i had with 
 this game was in baseball, if the ball rolls and then a person catches it, you are out. Besides 
 that , this game was extremely well done!!! I have not seen a better sports game out there... You 
 really need to get a Wii for this and another game... (you choose. theres so many good ones out 
 there) You will not be dissappointed with this one!!! Even a non-sports player would love this! 
 So remember, you will never go wrong with this one! I hope to see Wii Sports 2 out there soon! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango7192
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is probably one of the best games ever. Revolutionary controls and great replay value 
 will keep you hooked for a long time.
  
  Out of baseball, golf, bowling, tennis, and boxing, bowling is definetly the best. Though each 
 has great, revolutionary controls. Baseball is great and realistic, the game even mimics you spinning 
 your bat around right before the pitch.
  
  Tennis is probably the weakest of the five games, it would of been much better if you were able 
 to move your characters.
  
  Boxing is a bit harder than the rest of the games, and takes more time to get used too.
  
  
 Golf is very fun and realistic, one of my favorites in the game.
  
  Overall, I highly, highly recommend this game (though it comes with the wii :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thordain0011
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is the very first one I played when I got my Wii. Then I focused on Zelda. But whenever 
 I got stuck, I came back to Wii sports to think. Wii Sports is a perfect game for Birthdays, Thanksgiving, 
 Christmas, or whenever a member of the family comes over. Because they want to play. This is Nintendo 
 best chance at bringing in non-gamers.
  
  Game play: It's so simplistic it's easy and fun. This is what brings in non-gamers. Other games 
 require you to press 20 button a second. This game is slower and easier. A nice change of pace 
 for me.
  
  Graphics: Nintendo went for cutesy over graphically incredible. It's fair enough.
  
  Sound: 
 You don't hear much of this during the game. It's mostly just basic little tunes that you think 
 are a bit annoying.
  
  Value: This is the game your going to be playing even after you've beaten all your Wii game because 
 you want to improve your score. You want to do better.
  
  Tilt: I have never had so much fun in my life, playing these games
  
  Final score: 8.1, a perfect 
 game for those rainy days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  For the first time in a looooong time a launch system comes packed with a game. Not just any game, 
 but a collection of several games... Well, sort of. Wii Sports is a low budget, low tech way of 
 showing off some of the unique things that the Wiimote can do. The presentation overall is solid, 
 but I don't think anyone would have bought this if it didn't come with the system.
  
  The game itself is broken up into several mini-games of sorts. You can choose from tennis, golf, 
 bowling, baseball, and boxing. Out of those games, the only that uses the nunchuck attachment is 
 boxing... But more on that in a bit. The way that I saw this game pan out was that the guys and 
 gals at Nintendo made this as a way to show off some possibilities of what the Wii can do, then 
 based on the positive reaction and how much fun they ended up having decided to polish it up and 
 make it a full fledged game. Mind you, that isn't a bad move, but it's not the same as packing 
 in a Mario game.
  
  The graphics are sharp, but the simplistic character models will fool you to think otherwise. There 
 aren't arms, only blobs of hands, and only several characters have legs. This isn't a bad thing, 
 just kind of freaky looking. After initial impressions, it ends up making the characters look cute. 
 If you spent anytime making a Mii avatar, you'll find that it's the same model, and your Mii is 
 who you play as unless you choose otherwise. Okay, now on to the games themselves.
  
  Tennis is either really hard or I'm just really bad at it. I'm lucky if I can hit the ball and 
 have it land in bounds. Serving is fine, no problems there... It's the returns that kill me. My 
 girlfriend had much better luck at this, so I'm not going to say the game doesn't work right... Even 
 though I can't get it to work right. The controls act like you would expect them to. They are responsive 
 and change depending on speed and angle and such. While they do change depending on your actions, 
 they aren't totally independent based on your movements. There are only a few ways you can hit 
 the ball. You can also add spins by pressing buttons, but I honestly can't say I have figured that 
 out entirely. Overall, it's a fun little game even if I'm terrible at it.
  
  Bowling is my favorite on the disc, hands down. It's easy to play, but challenging, and it's fun. 
 Lots of fun. There isn't much to say in the way of controls. You hold down the trigger on the Wiimote 
 (button B) and go through the typical bowling motions. You can add spin the same way you would 
 in real life. Once you get a feel for how you toss the ball, you should have no problem getting 
 strikes. Since I hate bowling in real life I can honestly say that this is more fun than reality.
 
  
  Baseball is really fun, but kind of disappointing at the same time. You can only pitch or hit, 
 the fielding, base running, etc is all done for you. This makes for a quick game, but it also takes 
 some of the fun out of a baseball game. That said, it's probably my second favorite to bowling. 
 Hitting the ball is way fun and quite responsive. You have to hold the Wiimote like a bat and actually 
 swing it. Based on your speed and timing you will hit it far or not so far, or just foul. Pitching 
 is a mixed bag. You can change up your tosses with button combinations, but you don't have to act 
 like you're throwing to get the best result. I found that holding the Wiimote at waist height and 
 flicking it towards the TV resulted in a quicker toss. I also can't tell if you have control over 
 the pitch aside from the style of toss. I'm hoping they kept it simple because a Mario Baseball 
 game is in the works...
  
  The golf portion of the game is pretty weak, in my opinion. It was fun to swing the Wiimote like 
 a club but I honestly couldn't get a good feel for how much power to use or where to aim or anything. 
 I just hit it and hoped it would go in. I'm sure there's a lot more to it than that, but I didn't 
 have the patience to stick it out and master it like I did the others. Probably the weakest of 
 the five, but you may enjoy it if you enjoy golf.
  
  Boxing is fun. It's simple, addicting and fun. You take the nunchuck in one hand, Wiimote in the 
 other and you swing them to punch and hold them up to block. Not only are the controls responsive 
 to your motions, but also varied on how you hold them or where you swing them. You only have one 
 opponent to face, which is disappointing, but again, more of a tech demo than a game. If this is 
 any resemblance of a Punch Out game for the Wii, color me excited. There are two additional modes, 
 training and fitness age. Training is pretty self-explanatory, but fitness age is unique. If you 
 have played Brain Age for the DS, you'll know what to expect. Several games are given to you and 
 you perform them to the best of your abilities and you're given an age, where 20 is the best. It's 
 not the most advanced system in the world, in fact, Brain Age is more complex, but it's fun.
  
  Overall, as a pack-in game, Wii Sports delivers. Since you can play some of the games with 
 more than one person to a Wiimote, it makes a good party game, too. If nothing else, gives naysayers 
 something to chew on when they are wary of the controls of Nintendo's new system. Personally, I 
 have awakened muscles that have been dormant, and I'm still aching two days after a three hour 
 marathon session. If that's any indication of the systems capabilities, expect a total shift in 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The Wii is a revolutionary system and Wii sports is a game that ideally fits those who wish to 
 begin using it.
  
  Gameplay- Beautiful. The Gameplay of this game is extremely fun. It uses the motion sensor technology 
 quite well. You can play tennis, baseball, box, bowl, and even golf with the power of the Wii remote 
 and it works incredibly well. In boxing, you can do all sorts of high and low punches with a simple 
 hand movement. In baseball and tennis, you can it the balls with varying levels of intensity depending 
 on how hard you swimg the controller. It's a wonderful experience. The multiplayer also works wonderfully, 
 you and your friends will have a ball with it.
  
  Graphics- Average. The graphics in this game are nothing special, but they get the job done.
 
  
  Sound- Average. The sound of this game is basically a bunch of hoots and hollers from the crowd. 
 It's pretty good.
  
  Value- Valuable. This game comes with your Wii and it's a great way to get used to the controls 
 of the remote. It's awesome.
  
  Tilt- Nine. I really like this game, it's definitely worth playing.
  
  Go Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember the last time you bought a system at launch that actually game with a game? If 
 you do, congratulations! You're old! Not since 1991 when the SNES launched with Super Mario World 
 has there been a system launched with a pack-in game. Wii Sports is a collection of five different 
 sports games that utilize the Wii's motion sensing remote and nunchuck attachment. The games are 
 as follows: Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing. Each game also includes training mini-games 
 that helps you practice your skills, so you can get better and reduce the risk of embarassing yourself 
 in front of family and friends. Wii Sports also contains a mode called Wii Fitness Age. Similiar 
 to Nintendo DS's Brain Age, Wii Fitness Age gives you three random mini-games that tests your balance, 
 stamina and speed. The lower the score, the better your fitness. Your goal is to score a Wii Fitness 
 Age of 20.
  
  The first thing you'll want to do is before you even start is create your Mii, the digital avatar 
 that will represent yourself and keep track of your stats. You may also want to take the time and 
 have your friends or familiy create their own Miis, because Wii Sports will use those avatars as 
 the players and if everyone uses their own digital self, they will enjoy the game that much more.
 
  
  Tennis is probably one of the more popular games out of the batch, as it should be since it was 
 the game that showcased what the Wii could do back at E3. You start off by selecting how many games 
 you want to do per set. 1, 2 out of 3, or 3 out of 5? Next, you select how many players. The game 
 only has doubles, so any player not selected by a human will be controlled by the computer. Once 
 you start the game, you'll serve by either swinging the remote up or pressing A, and then mimicking 
 the slam with an overhead swinging. To return, simply make a corresponding backhand or forehand 
 motion. If your timing is good, you'll hit the ball back. The computer will control your characters' 
 movement across the court allowing you to focus on hitting the ball. My only gripe is I seem to 
 be completely unable to control exactly where I want to hit the ball. Baseball is extremely simplified, 
 and I'm not saying that loosely. For starters, you can only play three innings - there's no option 
 to play a full game. Batting is fun, as it has you holding the remote like a bat and will mimic 
 every little swing you do. I like to twirl the bat around a bit as I get in anticipation for the 
 pitch. Once the ball is pitched, simply swing. As with Tennis, I don't feel there's any control 
 you have over where your hit is directed. Either time it well to get a hit or a homerun, or don't 
 time it well and strike out . Pitching has you throwing the remote like a baseball (just don't 
 let go of the remote!) . With no buttons pressed, you'll throw a fastball. Pressing A will throw 
 a curveball. B will pitch a slider and pressing A+B will deliver a splitter. The faster your motion, 
 the faster the pitch. Again, there is no control over where you want to aim your pitch. About fielding 
 control, there is none. You'll need to land the ball in the outfield to at least get a single. 
 If it lands anywhere in the infield, you're automatically out. They don't even throw it to the 
 base.
  
  Bowling is arguably the best game in Wii Sports. It's probably because it's the only game of the 
 five that feels complete. Anyone can pick up the remote and mimic the motions to throw the bowling 
 ball, but like real bowling, it takes practice to get the motion and timing right to start producing 
 those strikes on a consistent basis. Unlike the other games, this is the only game that I feel 
 I'm completely in control of. I've bowled a 300 by nailing the throwing motion and timing each 
 time, and when I feel I'm out of whack, it shows on the screen. It's also the most popular game 
 of the house for multiplayer. You can even get a laugh or two by letting go fo the ball in your 
 backswing and have it land behind you to a crowd of cheering Miis.
  
  Golf will probably be the most difficult of the bunch for people to play because, well, it has 
 you swinging the remote like an actual club. This means you determine the power, and you determine 
 the swing. This is going to be a wakeup call to those virtual golfers so used to timing bars. As 
 with everything else, the game's oversimplified because you can only play nine holes. The game 
 also only has just those nine holes. You also only have four clubs; a driver, an iron, a wedge, 
 and a putter. When you start, you're given a meter that will show you the strength of your swing, 
 which you can practice however many times you like. When you're read, press and hold A and your 
 golfer will move up to the tee. Take your swing and get prepared to cuss as you're probably not 
 going to hit it the way you'd like in your practice swings. You don't have any control over your 
 archs or spins, Putting is actually kind of hard, as the usual grids that represent the grade of 
 the green are replaced with a topographic map. Some players may like it better than a grid, but 
 it didn't help me at all.
  
  Boxing is the only game out of the lot that uses the nunchuck attachment. The nunchuck is your 
 left glove, while the remote is your right. You pretty much move your fists the way you want to 
 punch in the game. Pulling them back has you blocking, while moving them side to side in conjuction 
 has you dodging left or right. It's most likely because I suck, but I have the damndest time trying 
 to throw body blows, hooks and uppercuts. I just don't feel the controls are as responsive as they 
 should be. This is also the only game that will physically tire you out after you play several 
 rounds, so make sure you take needed breaks when you feel your arms fatigue. The last thing we 
 need is a bunch of lazy consumers trying to sue Nintendo because they don't know how to exercise 
 moderation.
  
  Each game also ranks your character's skill level. You'll start off at zero, but will gain or lose 
 points depending on how well you do each game. The goal is to get your Mii to advance to Pro by 
 getting 1000 points. The only sport I achieved Pro in was Bowling, and I got a new shiney ball 
 for my efforts. I'm not sure if you're awarded anything in the other games, but I'm sure you would 
 be. This is another reason why it would do your friends and family good to make their own Miis 
 before they start, so everyone can track their own progress.
  
  It's quite easy to see that Nintendo had no intention of impressing anyone graphically with this 
 game. That's not to say it's an ugly game - it just has a simplifed style to it. The outfielders 
 in baseball don't even have legs! The golf courses are relatively nice looking, though. The grass 
 textures really stand out well. I honestly can't think of a better, more accessible game to pack 
 in with the Wii besides Wii Sports. There's already a slew of people giving their testimonials 
 about how they weren't into video games before, but now cannot spot playing Wii. You could probably 
 argue that Nintendo should have included Zelda: Twilight Princess, but I can guarantee you this. 
 Your parents wouldn't be begging to play your Wii when you aren't using it. Mine can't leave Bowling 
 alone. I only wish Nintendo wouldn't have gone overboard on the simplification, because for one, 
 I would have at least wanted to play a full nine innings of baseball. I think they also should 
 worked harder on an online strategy, because this would have been the perfect title to play online. 
 Simplified as it may be, it's just plain fun and hey, IT'S FREE! (purchase of Wii required) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenBassford
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I had higher expectations for this game... I expected to be able 
 to control the running in tennis, the stepping in boxing, and the fielding in baseball... but the 
 game woundn't let me do it... however, I realized that I had the wrong expectations... Wii sports 
 isnt meant to be played for hours at a time... The most I've played mine is an hour.... That being 
 said, let me touch the different attributes of this game...
  
  Gameplay: Every game, besides golf and boxing have amazing gameplay mechanics... My buddy who plays 
 tennis played like he really does on the court, and the ball reflected his moves exactly.... Some 
 reviewers say that it doesn't go in the right direction... etc.. ect.. but maybe they aren't hitting 
 the ball right?... or maybe they blew off the training?.... Baseball reads swings (nearly) perfectly 
 and bowling is simply flawless.... By far the best game... You can control your spin, speed, and 
 even lob the ball in the air halfway down the lane if you'd want to... Boxing however is embarrassing... 
 it rarely reflects what you are actually doing, however, the computer is so easy (until you get 
 to pro) that it won't even really matter....
  
  Graphics: People complain that the graphics are cheap and doll-like... Well let me tell you, those 
 are some shiny dolls... The Mii's uniqueness and originality make up for it's uncomplicated textures 
 and polygons... The graphics in all the games are nothing to frown upon, while they are not spectacular, 
 they are notably better than the GCN's... The bowling balls are really shiny also... :P
  
  Sound: Three words.... Cute little jingles... although they seem annoying at first, you'll be humming 
 them before too long... the tennis racket hitting the ball sounds like it should, and so does the 
 pins hitting each other after bowling at them... Same as the graphics department... far from groundbreaking, 
 but the sound fits perfectly with the kiddish mii's and simplistic gameplay...
  
  Value: Although this game can't be played (literally because you'll be sweating so hard) for hours, 
 it is perfect if you get stuck in a dungeon in Twilight Princess or if you have some friends over... 
 I'll still be playing this game as long as I play my Wii... and because it's free, it gets a 10 
 in this category... I'd pay for this game if I had too...
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 8.5 rounds to a 9 :P ... People seem to forget that Wii sports isn't an all out 
 game (only 3 innings in Baseball, 3 rounds in Boxing, and 9 holes in Golf) , however it isn't asking 
 for an all-out price either... It is the perfect way to learn how to use the wii remote...
  
  
  Hopefully Nintendo will follow up with a Wii Sports 2 with online play and full fledged 
 games, but if not, I'll still enjoy this amazing game for months to come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clownofpoetry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is one of those few titles you can bring home to your family and they will be grateful 
 that you did. Instead of being left out, they too will be able to enjoy the thrill of playing this 
 game. With simple controls and great use of the Mii characters, this game shines magnificently. 
 As the game can be played by just about anyone, gamers who want something more can work themselves 
 up to being a pro at any of the sports that are available at their disposal. They can also test 
 their Wii Sports ages, which is similar to Brain Age for the Nintendo DS. Instead of testing your 
 mind, it will test your physical fitness. With numerous activities to test your skills each day, 
 you'll master each sport individually. This is a great addition that will tack on more hours for 
 the hardcore gamer. There is 5 sports within this title which fundamentally uses the Wiimote in 
 its own way. In tennis the Wiimote acts like a racket, in golf it acts like a club, ect. The only 
 Wii Sport that involves the Nunchuck is Boxing which the controllers act like they are your fists. 
 This is the most strenuous sport of this game since it comes down to timing your dodges, blocks, 
 and punches. Overall, Wii Sports shows exactly what the Wii is capable of and proves that Nintendo 
 is out to make fun games for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an 
 awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. 
 All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports 
 are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports are highly 
 addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and 
 really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun 
 to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This 
 is an awesome game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome 
 game. All the sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the 
 sports are highly addictive and really fun to play. This is an awesome game. All the sports are 
 highly addictive and really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Consmiths_Angel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for anybody who loves sports, two player action, or just plain loves games. Wii sports 
 can be played by anyone (except for a person who is completely paralized) lol. My bro's girl friend 
 cannot use her right hand to play video games (I honestly do not know her condition) , but she can 
 use her left hand, also on Wii sports you can choose on your option for left handed gameplay, pretty 
 handy if you ask me! Another cool thing with Wii sports s you Mii, your little vritual you, you can 
 creat a Mii and put it in there instead of playing as a character that you get, instead of playing 
 as one you created. They're is unlimited time since you can play with anyone, anytime. So go on pick 
 up a Wii play it and love it!
  
  
  *WARNING* You know that little sign at the screen that says fasten your strap? Well you better 
 do it!!! It's a warning telling you you better use it to play or else you will damage your Tv or 
 even something else. Please people you're gonna make the Wii look bad! FASTEN YOUR STRAP I DO NOT 
 CARE HOW STUPID IT LOOKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilanky64
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports...
  
  When I first saw Wii Sports on Gamespot with their E3 previews, I thought, Hmm, this game looks 
 really cool, but I don't know if I'd buy it. 
  
  Then Nintendo announced it would be packaged with the Wii... SCHWING! =)
  On November 19th, I 
 found it to be my new favorite game (other than LoZ of course, but that's another story) !
  
  After a while, my little sister, who played alot of Gamecube but is still only an intermediate 
 gamer, picked it up and fell in love too, calling my parents to come down to the basement in out 
 house. They fell in love too, and during a family get-together for Thanksgiving, everyone played, 
 including my 70-year-old Grandmother, who had a wonderful time and picked it up easily.
  
  Now, why am I saying this? What does this have to do with the review? It's just a little antecdote 
 that honestly embodies everything Nintendo wanted for this game and the Wii: A console that doesn't 
 prove too complicated that anyone can pick up at any time and make every kind of person, gamers, 
 non-gamers, girls, boys, parents, grandparents, and everyone in between want to say, Hey, give 
 me a try. Thats why this game is amazing.
  
  Now on to the gameplay (finally =] )
  
  The gameplay is very good, but handles almost like a tech demo, the only problem. I still to this 
 day would not pay $50 bucks for this game, but honestly? It's a great gaming experience. Lets break 
 it down by sport:
  
  Tennis- Fun as heck, the first game I played on it and arguably my favorite. Doubles tennis with 
 four players is one of the greatest gaming experiences ever.
  
  Baseball- Despite the fact that you can't field, and that leads to odd calls, (like one hit into 
 the outfield and only a single) its still really fun to play with friends.
  
  Golf- The only game I haven't really gotten into. Honestly? This is my least favorite game so far... I 
 love Golf, but this game is hard to control.
  
  Bowling- Fun fun fun. That's all I can say.
  
  Boxing- Insanely fun to fight your friends (and 
 beat them)
  
  So yeah, if you've got a Wii, don't chuck this aside when you open the box and start playing Zelda.... give 
 Wii Sports a shot. You won't be dissappointed.
  
  Till later,
  Skilanky64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -1gamemaster1-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  I believe this game is highly addictive. It has a lot of different games that introduce new control 
 schemes. The only game in Wii Sports that disappointed me was Wii Golf, it did not work as well 
 as the others. Sometimes it worked when would put my Wii Mote, but most times it would delay or 
 not work. Still, this game is very fun and addicting! The thing I like most about this is because 
 if you do not have a game, it would most likly satisfy you until you buy your game. I do not know 
 for sure, only because I bought TP right when I got the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  It's a good thing Wii Sports came bundled with the console for two reasons:
  1) It's a perfect demonstration as to what the Wii is all about. It ideally represents the type 
 of games that are/will be released, and utilizes its unique control schemes to the max.
  2) It's not NEARLY worth a $59 price tag. Despite being fun, it's not THAT fun. For the most part, 
 the controls are pretty bang-on, except for some awkward putting in Golf mode, and unreactive controls 
 in Boxing. Bowling is very realistic and a ton of fun. You'll keep playing until you bowl that 
 perfect game! Tennis is downright awesome; you'll serve as if you were actually throwing the ball 
 in the air and swinging at it, and you'll swing the Wiimote as if you were holding a racket, and 
 it's dead on! Baseball can be a tad glitchy, but pitching is too easy, and when you decide to throw 
 a curveball or fastball, it's almost impossible for the batter to hit. Nevertheless, it's a ton 
 of fun. Easily the best feature about it is the Fitness tests; like Brain Age, everyday you can 
 take a fitness test, to see your Fitness age. Right off the bat, my Fitness age was 49.. I clearly 
 need to brush up on my Wiimote skills. The graphics are very simple, and, well, look like they 
 could have been a DS game.. But honestly, when you're busy boxing the crap outta your buddy, that 
 just doesn't matter! It won't be too great by yourself, but with a crowd it's a total blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornpops310
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are good on HD TV. Gameplay is good too. It's like you really are bowling or golfing, 
 or whatever you're doing. It's just like the real thing. Boxing is fun too, especially two players 
 if you really want to knock them out, hahaha. Golfing is so realistic too. You do the same exact 
 movement as you would do in real life. Tennis is cool too, you move the Wii control in the direction 
 you want it, and the ball goes in that direction. It has good graphics and gameplay. Bowling is 
 one of a kind. It's like you're holding a real ball, just that it doesn't weigh anything. Baseball 
 is pretty cool too, it's like really playing baseball. Wii Sports is just amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelsephiroth2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is probaly the 2nd best game on the wii ( #1 is zelda : ) cause the entire family can 
 play it from age 6 to 86 they will have fun playing this awesome game. i need 100 words so im just 
 gonna type random words a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a be be be be roll roll roll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixhasyou2k4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Wii sports isn't just some touchy alternative to the button mashing sports games of our former 
 generation of consoles. It provides a smooth interface that feels exactly like playing the sports 
 represented in this game do! If you know how to swing a tennis racket, if you have ever rolled 
 a bowling ball down a lane, if you have ever punched someone in the face, hit or thrown a baseball, 
 or played putt-putt/swung a club, than there is no reason on earth that you will not understand 
 how to play this game! To get my parents off the couch to play video games is something that I 
 have always thought was near impossible. This is the first time ever that I have been able to introduce 
 my family as well as myself into such a simple environment for playing video games! And it is dreadfully 
 addicting... The most addicting video game ever! ~Steven Colbert... Definitely one that Nintendo 
 will help the Wii's popularity with purchasers. There is not doubt that nearly everyone who plays 
 this game will think, Wow.... Am I really doing this? I saw prototypes of this kind of thing in 
 the future exhibits of Disney! ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  I'm sure you've all heard how fun this game is, so I'll just focus on the everyone part.
  
  I brought the Wii with me when I visited family over Thanksgiving. All we pretty much did was play 
 this!
  
  First, after my older uncles and aunts were finished with their wow! of the Wii's controller and 
 making their own Mii's, we started playing. All of my cousins got the hang very easily. What was 
 more suprising was my aunts and uncles, all in their late 40s. None of them play any video games 
 at all, but they were the most addictive! Two of them play bowling in leagues and LOVED the game. 
 We had lots of fun and they loved it.
  
  The Wii and this game is what it's all about. This makes a great party game for people of all ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOXking525
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a fun game. no doubt bout it. u've all seen the videos from E3 and all, and yes. 
 it does live up to the hype. but like every game, there are minor issues as well. first off, one 
 of the best things about the game is that its comes free w/ the wii. no question. also, its just 
 a plain fun thing to do WITH your friends. not so much of a great game to play alone. fun, but 
 not great, because when your with your friends, u get more into it. Personally, i liked tennis, 
 bowling, and boxing the best. tennis just plays the best and bowling is just plain fun and realistic, 
 and boxing, dang is also just fun. especially against a friend. the only problem i have w/ boxing 
 is that sumtimes if you punch to quickly, the punch on the game will respond about 1-2 seconds 
 after you made the punch with the remote. or sumtimes it wont do what punch you did. but rarely. 
 i love golf, during the summer, its my sport. but i was kinda disapointed with how its played. 
 it doenst seem as accurate as it was presented. probably the worst thing about golf was the fact 
 if you swing too hard, you will automatically hook to the right or left. i dont understand why 
 you have to hit it a the right mark to get a good shot, isnt a more powerful shot better than a 
 lighter one????? also in baseball, it just seems, TO easy. like you hit the ball, and depending 
 on how long the balls in the outfield, they will randomly put a single, double, triple, etc. so 
 it seems to easy. but hitting the ball and pitching is quite fun. overall wii sports is a great 
 game. personally, again i think this is better as a group game instead of playing by yourself. 
 because theres nothing to win in the game, so the purpose is to play with a friend. it has some 
 great aspects, as well as some bad ones. so if ya have a wii, and you have a friend over.... go 
 ahead and start playing away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMafia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I didn't get to try out all of the games in Wii sports because I tried it alt a mall but I got 
 to play Tennis and Boxing part of it. I say there pretty good games if your with some friends and 
 just trying to have fun, not hardcore stuff. But its a good start to show off the Wii's capabilities. 
 It might lag for a split second when you swing the controller for tennis or lunge the controller 
 forward in boxing but it isn't that big of a deal. Its a good way to learn how to use the new Wii 
 controller and a good game to learn how to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotamale
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports est le jeu parfait pour avoir une bonne impression du nintendo wii. Les controles sont 
 super facile &agrave; comprendre. Bien que simple, les graphics sont d'une bonne qualit&eacute;. 
 Une chose que je n'aime pas beaucoup de ce jeu est que l'on se tanne tres vite et c'est pas mal 
 frustrant. C'est &eacute; vidamment un jeu qui est meilleur &agrave; jouer en multijoueur qu'en solo. Il 
 y a par contre wii fitness et les **** entrainnements que vous pouvez faire si vous etes tout seul 
 mais on se tanne facilement. Je conseille &agrave; tout le monde qui veullent esseyer la wii de 
 jouer &agrave; wii sports en premier car vous vous abiturez beaucoup plus vite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gator08
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Many where expecting Wii sports to be a sub par game, because its just another Pack in title, but 
 thats simply not the case.
  This game showcases what the Wiimote and nunchuck controllers are capable of in future games. The 
 gameplay is solid and may get slightly repetitive at times, but the multiplayer and many different 
 sports to play keep it fresh and exciting. The ability to get your Miis skill up is an immersive 
 feature and combines perfectly with the ability to load your Mii onto your Wiimote and take the 
 challenge to your friends house.
  
  This is the ultimate party game and is sure to be a hit with everyone no matter what age. The graphics 
 are sub-par but look surprisingly fresh and colourful when in motion. I couldnt believe it when 
 I was playing tennis with my brother. The gameplay is always getting more and more challenging 
 in single player because the computer is constantly learning and becoming smarter as you progress 
 your skill. When I first started playing boxing I was a little disapointed because it was a pushover. 
 But then my skill was only 200 and the computer had not yet had a chance to fight me. Now my skill 
 is slightly above the PRO line and Im actually working up a sweat while fighting the computer.
 
  
  All in all this is the best sports collection I have ever player and I am extremely excited about 
 it, its fresh and innovative. the solid multiplayer adds hours upon hours of playability making 
 it one of the best launch title the Wii has to offer. and its just another Pack in . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jynxedu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast, competitive for kids of all ages. Hardly any learning curve at all for the 
 new controller and the movements become second nature after just a few games! I have found my new 
 favorite gaming system! You just pick up the Wii remote and swing it like a baseball bat to whack 
 the ball out of the park, or gesture an underhanded rolling motion to toss the bowling ball down 
 the lane! One thing we found out is that you have to make sure you have plenty of space to swing 
 your arms (one broken picture frame) and keep a hand towel at the ready for those sweatty palms. 
 Overall a great piece of work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports symbolizes Nintendo's goal of getting games to the masses, gamers and nongamers alike. 
 Overall, I think they do a great job of establishing their philosophy.
  Bowling, Tennis, Golf, Baseball, and Boxing. Such are the sports featured, and overall they stay 
 true to their likenesses. Bowling, aside from occasional curve issues, is as close to the real 
 thing as any game has gotten so far (in the opinion of a 12 year league bowler :) ) . Tennis, although 
 unwieldy at times is wicked fun for the majority of play time. Boxing, a few of the punches are 
 hard to sync up, but it's always great fun beating up a rayman-eqsue character customized to your 
 liking, often times friends. Baseball is the most disappointing for me, as it is so simplified 
 it loses some of its value, but it's still enjoyable. You can swing it in a quick downward motion 
 and hit a home run every time, as opposed to swinging it like a bat, where you get mostly fly balls 
 to the outfield : (. Golf has been nerfed a bit too, but overall it's good fun. As an experienced 
 player of 4/5 of the sports, less boxing, I'm impressed at their likeness and enjoyability. The 
 fitness age (similar to a brain age) and training options are fun too. The addition of a pro status 
 for each sport makes things interesting, too.
  Each sport supports from 2-4 participants, depending on the sport, and its great fun.
  Since 
 Wii Sports came FREE with the Wii, it gets a perfect 10 for value, of course.... it's free! That 
 said, I've actually spent more time playing it than Zelda as of writing this. That will change, 
 but Wii sports is a great break from traditional games. It maintains most of the realism of each 
 of the sports and it's accessible to all, great preview of things to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  There isn't really much to write about Wii sports, since it's just a mini game to show of what 
 the Wii can do. With saying that, it does a great job of that. Some mini games are better than 
 others, but they're certainly all good.
  
  In Wii sports the best game has to be tennis. It actually feels like you're on a court playing, 
 and if you have someone there to play with you, it's certainly a lot more fun. Baseball's a nice 
 game, it uses the Wii mote nicely. Bowling, and boxing are also great.
  
  It's obvious there isn't much to write about Wii sports, but it does give you a sense of what the 
 Wii can do, and where it's heading. As simplistic as it is, Wii sports delivers a fun experience 
 and you can only imagine what Nintendo will do in the future with their Wii mote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwiley35
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome compilation of games that gives wii and edge on Sony and Microsoft. Accuracy 
 is dead on in the games, boxing a bit off but nothing to complaim too much about. This proves fun 
 wins over graphic ability. Also this should really open up possibilites for game publishers as 
 the sky is the limit on for creative game using the motion sensing abilities of the wii. By the 
 way the graphics are very good on this system. I will have to add that I own a Playstation 3 and 
 an Xbox 360 however I have been playing with my Nintendo Wii some 75% more than the other systems. 
 On wii sports I play bowling and golf the most as too me they are more immersive and lifelike. 
 Add 2 or more players and get ready for some serious fun. Good work Nintendo as you once again 
 change the way we gamers play. All I can say is Thank you............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inteligencia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Wii sports is a compilation of five games that comes packed-in with the nintendo Wii system (except 
 in japan) . This games are tennis, golf, baseball, bowling and boxe. The gameplay is amazing, the 
 remote responds quickly to our movements. The graphics are the down side, they&acute; re simplist 
 but you can use your Mii&acute; s so thats not that bad. The only word I could get to discribe the 
 musics and sounds of Wii sports is: Nintendo, the games has that kind of musics that are catchy 
 so you&acute; ll be wandering arround whistling the musics. In conclusion Wii sports is a fun, highly 
 addictive game that comes packed with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  To the Quick!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Perfect use of the Wii-Mote in Every game. From a Racket to a Bat to A Club to a Bowling Ball to 
 your Fists!
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Nothing to write Mother about But they work, simple and very cool.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Great 
 VO and every sound is perfect and were it should be. Crisp and Good use of the Speaker in the Wii-Mote.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Its Free, What more value could you want?
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I Love this Game to death! Even my Parent's love it
  
  Rent or Buy?
  N/A, because if you 
 have a wii you already have this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kentare
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Ever feel like creating your own little character and going on a sports rampage? Maybe have a little 
 fun while playing some tennis or knocking in the face of an opponent in boxing? Enter Wii Sports, 
 a great time-waster that comes with the Wii right at the beginning. Overall it's a great game that 
 focuses more on gameplay it does then graphics. The graphics are still rather smooth, but the gameplay 
 is definitely where it's at. Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing will keep you and friends 
 laughing for hours. As far as playing single-player, it's an all right deal. It's more of a short 
 burst kinda deal. Play some now and play some more later, but never a five hour crusade. But don't 
 push out single-player as of yet. The feature of giving you points for every victory or well-done 
 performance gives you the sense to continue towards ultimate domination. Even reaching pro status 
 in a sport will give you a small, but neat perk. Plus Training Mode is a nice little deviation 
 from just playing the games. In Training Mode you can choose from several mini games that focus 
 on improving certain aspects of each sport. For example, the Baseball's Batting Practice will give 
 you a better sense on when to hit the ball to place it in a certain spots. Also it gives off a 
 competitive feel making it even better for parties. More on that later. The next little add-on 
 is Wii Fitness. If you remember or have played Brain Age for the DS, every day you could take a 
 few tests to see what your brain age was. Well now it's back in a different manner. Wii Fitness 
 gives you a series of three training mode games in which you play and do the best you can in. After 
 evaluating your performance on the three games, it'll give you your body age. If you do this every 
 day you'll essentially be able to see a line graph giving your performance value for up to three 
 months. But you've probably been wondering about the multiplayer. Needless to say, it delivers. 
 Wii Sports gives off that healthy grab a buddy and have a friendly competition feel. And it delivers. 
 Nintendo had the right idea in mind to send this with the Wii. Even if you're unable to find a 
 second controller or more, it's still fun to face off in Bowling or Golf. Better yet the training 
 games. That's where you might be to put up or shut up and ultimately decide who is better. Tennis 
 with three other friends is a level that's never been reached before. Just make sure to stay a 
 considerable distance away from each other when you swing. Multiplayer is one of the best features 
 in this little gem. All in all you should find a fairly addictive game in this. Be it with the 
 Wii Fitness and going pro, or whooping up on friends in one of the five sports offered. Countless 
 hours of enjoyment can be found for all in this wonderful little package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports provides a really nice introduction to the Wii controller and all it's in's and out's. 
 All of the games offer something that I think anyone can enjoy and get into. I personally find 
 bowling to be the most enjoyable although I think Tennis is the best multiplayer game with a group 
 of friends. Baseball is also fun, trying to pound out a few when you swing for the fences. Boxing 
 is fun too but I find gets a little boring if your not playing against a friend and only the computer. 
 Golf is something you either love or hate and I love how Nintendo did Golf for the Wii. the swing 
 mechanics and putting register very well and feel natural. There is something for everyone here 
 in this little sports package that you can enjoy. Even if you don't, you still got this game for 
 a pretty good price so there really shouldn't be any complaints... . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, even though that i only have one controller, it's possible to use it for multi 
 player. The swinging and actions are similair to ours and the wiimote. Faster you swing the bowling, 
 the faster it rolls. Faster you swing the remote, the harder the bat hits. Faster you serve, faster 
 the ball flies. Swinging the racket to make shots varies on how you swing. The faster you swing 
 the golf club, the harder it flies. The slower, the shorter!
  This game introduces new mechanics to new and old and a msut get!
  
  Grahpics- standard and 
 nothing to special, but the reflection on the bowling lane is so beautiful and well made.
  
  Sound- it is great and well heard, the cheerful music when you win to the sound from your wiimote.
 
  
  Gameplay- Its fun, its revoloutionay and easy. You will be actually playing sports in your house 
 after all.
  
  Value- It comes with the game! not only that but it will quite be a rememberal experiance.
  
 
  Tilt- This game is good, but of course not perfect, it is worth your time to play and enjoy a 
 while iwth your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmerariu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the truth is that Wii sports is not actually a simulation game, it's a simple and fun way 
 to learn the commands of the Wii controller.
  
  For those looking for golf simulators, you might want to wait for the Toger Wood game from EA sports. 
 Wii sports it gives you 5 nice games with different level of difficulties that kepp increasing.
 
  
  I'm a Tennis fan and I play it for real every sunday night. The wii did not help me be better or 
 improve my skills, but it certainly give me the opportunity to play against my kids and my wife 
 (they do not play real tennis) . It has been a lot of fun for the whole family for the whole last 
 week. I'm glad I waited 3 hrs in line on Friday to get 1 Wii from my local Best buy dealer.
  
  We have also drew all my family in Mii (Wii characters) ... They look extremelly fun!!!
  
 
  Thanks Nintendo once again... I own all of your consoles and I'm a super fan.
  
  Congrats.
  
  Giba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports will most likely be the first game that you put into your Wii console. Mostly because 
 of the fact that everyone will get this game free of charge. When looking at reviews and gameplay 
 footage, you will probably think you'll play it for a little while, then put in Zelda or something 
 and play that the rest of the time. This couldnt be further from the truth. Wii Sports is a great 
 game for the whole family to play and it is the first game that i have ever gotten my mom to play. 
 And after a minute or two of learning the controls, my mom was getting strikes and spars in bowling 
 left and right. Wii Sports games are very fun but are even better when played with friends. While 
 tennis is kick ass with a group of four, it seems a bit off playing by yourself, mostly because 
 you control both characters at the same time. Golf is also a bit strange at first, with how to 
 determine how hard to swing, but once you get it you will be fine. All in all, Wii Sports is a 
 great game and at $0.00, its a great game that will keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akai_reaver
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports really does do a great job of showing even just a little bit of what the Wii is capable 
 of. And it shows that anyone, any age, can still enjoy video games and this game really does hold 
 true to that. I have had many people, all different ages (even some that haven't been into video 
 games before) try this game, and enjoy it. It comes with the Nintendo Wii bundle, you can't complain 
 about that. Heh, and suprisingly, it's actually pretty darn awesome. With 6 games in the package; 
 Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golfing, and Boxing. Also does a great job of showing the Miis. I have 
 logged a bit of time in this game. Although, I have not played multiplayer. I've logged about 12 
 hours into the game, not by myself, but with sisters, uncles, my mom, my dad, cousins, etc. I've 
 given every game a fair chance. Now for the review.
  
  Gameplay; 8/10
  
  This game again, truly does a great job of showcasing what the Wii is capable of, and also allows 
 you to have fun, be active, and apply to nearly every age. And all of these games in my opinion, 
 are very fun and enjoyable.
  -Tennis; Basically you swing your arm and hit the tennis ball, the way you swing the WiiMote determines 
 the way you hit the ball, how hard, and where. Timing also plays a big factor. But, one thing I 
 beleive annoyed me, and this applies to most games- Is that you don't get to move your character. 
 Your Mii just moves towards the ball on his/her own. Although, they do a good job moving towards 
 the ball and such. It'd just be so much fun to actually control them yourself with the nunchuck 
 or something.
  -Bowling; In bowling, you hold the B button and move your arm like you were throwing a real bowling 
 ball to throw the ball, and then release B during your throw. Like the real thing! The physics 
 are pretty darn amazing, too. As they're beleiveable, and it controls accurately. -Baseball; You 
 swing your WiiMote to hit the ball and to throw it. Controls well. But, my only problem with it 
 is that you can't control exactly where to move your characters when you're on the defense. Because 
 sometimes your characters screw up alot on catching the ball. Controls work very well though.
 
  -Golf; I must admit. I didn't play golf too much. But, one thing is for sure. The controls in 
 golf, are plain annoying in my opinion. Even the lightest hits are hard in game. Way too sensitive.
 
  -Boxing; One of my favorites. People complain and such. But, this has been one of the biggest 
 games played in my family and such. I truly do enjoy boxing on the Wii. It has a slight learning 
 curve, because if you don't know the right movements, your attacks aren't going to come out right, 
 causing you to be a bit frustrated with the game. But, once you learn how to control your Mii, 
 how to do which punch, and how to block. This game truly gets enjoyable. And I've yet to play it 
 multiplayer! Heh. I'm a pro at boxing. And once you get to learn it, the controls are perfect, 
 gives you a great workout, and is just enjoyable in the end. My only person dislikes about boxing 
 is that when you get knocked down, there is no motion you can do to help you get up faster, you 
 have to sit there and wait. And that there are only 3 rounds, and you can't edit the rule for the 
 3 Knockout rule. Graphics; 7/10
  I know, I know. 7/10 seems a bit high when it comes to a game that is capable of pulling off 2x 
 as much as GameCube is capable of pulling out. But, the game again helps showcase the Mii feature. 
 In which you create your own little avatar, and you get to use him/her in the games! They also 
 store your little player profiles. But, in all of the games, the graphics are pretty much primitive, 
 but it's enough to pull it off. Sound; 7/10
  The sound is decent, not much to note about it. There barely is any music, the sound effects are 
 good. And the Wii Controller does make decent quality sound as well. The use of the speaker in 
 the Wii Controller works just fine in the end. Just lower it down to the lowest setting, and it 
 sounds much better.
  
  Replay Value;
  Yes, there is much replay value to this game. Even by yourself, and moreso I believe when you get 
 more than 1 controller. Overall; 7.6/10, GameSpot average. And a 7.8/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshowtime23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Wouldn't last too long in single player but overall, easy game to get hooked with friends. The 
 game is a great way to show what the Wii can do in the future. Nintendo is going to get people 
 really involved in they're games. I have been playing this game with my brother everyday since 
 we got it. It grows on you pretty fast. The fun factor is up there, and it isn't too hard to learn. 
 Another great thing about this game I would have to say is that there isn't any cheap way out of 
 anything. When you think you have a pattern down to always get strikes in bowling, guess again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is so addictive and generally fun. This is a great primer for the Wii's controls and 
 a great introduction to the Wii itself. Just play this in front of people and they'll ask to get 
 in on the action. Great for families and groups of friends. Awesome party game. Kinda childish 
 in graphics, but simple does'nt necessarily mean bad .
  
  Achieving pro status in the games is surprisingly addictive. I personally play golf and bowling 
 daily. Wonderful fun!
  
  (And you can't beat the price... FREE.)
  
  Now I want more sophisticated golf, bowling and fishing games!
  
  Super Swing Golf and Rapala 
 Tournament Fishing may do the trick... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bottomdollar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I love bowling. matter of fact, it all. Yeah the graphics aren't grounbreaking 
 but as we all know, it was about introducing the Wii Mote and what better way to do it then playing 
 some good old fashion sports. And as for you people passing out while playing this game, please 
 take this as a hint, use the Wii to do some sort of work out, yeah you probably got sore because 
 you're not use to the motions, but for a video game, who is?! Its just plan fun, the more the merry-ier 
 here but it not bad to sit back and do some relaxing golfing once you get the hang of it. Just 
 stick with it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arno33
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is very simple and easy. It is always fun to play, I never get tired of this game. Perfect 
 Multiplayer, great when having friends over. The fitness test is also fun. One of the great thing 
 that is also in this game, that you can be your own Mii. Tennis, Baseball, and Boxing where excellent. 
 I was not to impressed with Golf or Bowling. Tennis has the best multiplayer. Baseball is so fun, 
 but your Miis can't run. It is ether a single , double, triple, or home run. Still very fun. Boxing 
 gets you tired out , but also again very fun. Golf is ok, can get very boring sometimes. Bowling 
 kinda fun the controls sometimes don't work, so it is ok. This game is perfect if you have lots 
 of friends over. This game is great. I rate it a 8.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzorro
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  First lets completely through out the whole graphics we know they're bad but the gameplay of the 
 game far out does the graphics. I completely agree with and article I read where it said that Wii 
 Sports was to Wii what Super Mario 64 was to N64. The game is simple and addictive and if you have 
 at least another wiimote, and another person to play with then you should really play the hell 
 out of this game. I know writing the review is somewhat useless since everybody who bought a Wii 
 should technically have one but still I have to show how great this game is. Everyone I know I 
 have gotten to play and those who don't play just like to watch and stare in awe of how cool it 
 is to replicate real life movements on to the screen. I have gotten my brother a Sony fan to play 
 and he honestly likes it and it's just a great party game. The controls work incredibly well and 
 are almost flawlessly with the exception here and there and not to mention you get quite a workout 
 which is nice especially since it is the holidays and all of us could stand to lose a little weight. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  It's a good thing this game comes bundled with the Wii because I'm sure it's helping inspire people 
 everywhere to buy one. The thing that's so great about this game is the multiplayer and the fact 
 that you use your mii as a player. If I could rate a game simply on multiplayer this one would 
 get a perfect score. It's got five different sport events: baseball, tennis, golf, bowling, and 
 boxing. Every event is pick-up-and-play and requires no foreknowledge of video games. My mom loves 
 this game and she HATES video games. So, like I was saying, great fun-a worthy pack-in for Ninty's 
 budding new system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  For a while Wii Sports was my most anticipated game for the Wii. Then came the news that the games 
 were really simple. My heart sank. I no longer anticipated the game and that was that. This may 
 be the reason why I find it to be so much fun. Yes it has it's share of problems, but overall the 
 game is so much fun that you just don't care.
  
  As a game there isn't much here. Wii Sports has the traditional exhibition modes that are more 
 for multiplayer and hi-scores than anything else. You can do a training mode which unlocks more 
 training games. All of this can be done in less than an hour. That leaves the Brain Age style Workout 
 mode. Like Brain Age it's not really too much of a game. What makes all of this work even for single 
 player is the amount of fun it is to try and best your hi-scores in some of the better games. This 
 all owes much to the Wii controller and how unique it is.
  
  There are a total of 5 games included in the package. All of which are multiplayer and have fun 
 training/minigame style modes. These games are Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Let's 
 start off with the best games.
  
  Bowling, Golf, and Baseball was where I had most of my fun. Bowling is probably the best example 
 of how fun the Wii can be. You can pretty much do everything that bowling has to offer. Golf is 
 another game that has many of the features that you would expect, and can be very competitive among 
 friends. The swing mechanics are very interesting and fun. There is a little problem with putting 
 softly since the remote doesn't detect really soft hits. For many people Baseball is probably a 
 throw away game. It's one of the games that has been simplified probably too much. You cannot control 
 your fielders or runners. It's basically a pitcher vs hitter game. And in my eyes it's a pretty 
 good one. It requires patience to get your pitch (against a real person) , and when you do it feels 
 amazing. Almost like the real thing.
  
  Then we come to the lower two. Tennis can be fun, but not being able to control your character 
 makes you feel helpless to hits that you are sure you would otherwise get. Boxing however is just 
 bad overall. It is the one game that could benefit the most from the two motion sensing controllers, 
 but in the end it just doesn't work well. The controllers are unresponsive which just turns into 
 a waving your arms in the air fest.
  
  All of these games have graphics that aren't amazing, but they work. Work enough to where I don't 
 have an opinion one way or the other. They certainly aren't great, but they don't detract in any 
 way from the game. The same goes for the sound. It sounds fine and the effect and music is memorable. 
 Especially after hours of playing the same sport over and over.
  
  What really keeps Wii Sports from being just a tech demo is the multiplayer. There is nothing like 
 bowling with 3 friends in your living room. Or the tension when it's the final inning and your 
 down 1 run, and of course the trash talk about how you swing cannot be replicated on any other 
 console. It is a downer that there are not as many options for the different games as one would 
 like. For example you can only play 3 innings in Baseball.
  
  Wii Sports is a great pack-in game that shows just how much fun the Wii can be. It's not the kind 
 of game one would want to become the standard for all Wii games, but it is great fun, and a great 
 first step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomdood123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I was actually really supprised by this game. when i looked at it in previews and stuff i was dissapointed 
 by the graphics, and still kind of am, but after playing it.... wow... just wow. This game is an 
 absolutely wonderful demonstration of the power of gameplay, which i feel nintendo trys really 
 hard on, so i gave some leeway points to that. I am very glad that nintendo realized that you can 
 only go so far with graphics and started on reality. That aside, it also has mini games, wich are 
 alot of fun. it has training mode wich is so much fun, trying to get high scores and gold medals 
 in everything is extremely challenging. overall i was impressed in the ammount of gameplay this 
 game offers, so it will always be, for me at least, a turn back if i wanna just play a virtual 
 game of golf or bowling.
  
  -mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincoley
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  the game was awsome straight out of the box. im glad that this game came with the wii.
  
  I love how that you can actually play baseball, boxing, bowling, tennis, golf
  within the comfort 
 of your living room and use the wiimote to repicate there actions. gamplay, sound are awsome just 
 i dont think the graphics did that well because when the mii's played baseball they didnt appear 
 to have legs so thats why i gave it a 9. but this game was totally worth the wait and once again 
 i said im gald this is bundled with the wii ----happy playing ---- ~~CaptainColey~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo-b
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports has got to be one of the simplest games I've ever seen, yet it still manages to be a 
 blast to play. The collection of sports in the game include Golf, Boxing, Baseball, Tennis, and 
 Bowling. I'll tackle the games as seperate commodities. First off, let's start with Golf, the black 
 sheep of the five. Golf is hard, not only in real life but now also on the Wii. The most significant 
 problem of Wii Golf is the motion senser. It seems to have problems detecting the motion when you 
 swing the club, and obviously that's the main part of Golfing. The golfing portion of Wii sports 
 is definetly the weak link. I give it 6 out of 10. Boxing is next, and this one gets pretty fun. 
 To box you hold the wiimote in your dominate hand and the nunchuck in the other. To guard your 
 face you hold both of the controllers up, and to guard your body you hold them down. You can also 
 lean left and right by tilting the controllers. Sounds simple doesn't it. And it is, but also takes 
 some practice to become a pro. Once you get the controls down, you'll be knocking opponents out 
 left and right. 8/10. Baseball might just be my favorite one of the five partially because it's 
 so rewarding to sit back on that curveball and drive it over the right field fence. Hitting in 
 Wii Baseball works really simply; you just stand with the Wiimote held like a baseball bat and 
 swing. Pitching works just how you would expect, you make a throwing motion and can press different 
 buttons to throw different pitches. Both work well and successfully striking out an opponent is 
 almost as rewarding as smacking in a grandslam. 9/10 Tennis, nothing like tennis. In order to work 
 this game, you just swing the Wiimote like a tennis racket. Timing is really key, as the Wii controls 
 where your player goes on the court. A fun and cool aspect is the spin you can put on the ball, 
 making it do wacky things. 7/10 Bowling plays just like real bowling. Spin and physics all work 
 well; a really basic bowling game that takes skill and is fun. 8/10 Wii Sports, all in all, is 
 a great package-in featuring good controls overall, and fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Highs: Simple games with lots of replay value create a solid base for a game with strong lasting 
 appeal and great re-playability. Excellent multiplayer. Well presented. Persistent characters.
 
  
  Lows: The controls are a bit spotty at times, until you get a perfect feel for them. It is less 
 rewarding without friends to play against.
  
  Wii: Sports is for everyone. There is not a gamer in the world that will not enjoy everything this 
 game has to offer. Wii: Sports is composed of five simple games that can almost be classified as 
 mini games because of how short they are, though they represent a direction in gaming that is getting 
 stronger, quick games that are satisfying and require skill to surpass in. Each game is radically 
 different enough that it is worth going over them one at a time, Tennis, Bowling, Golf, Baseball, 
 and Boxing.
  
  Tennis has controls that are simplistic enough for a child to have fun with but complex enough 
 to perfect and master for anyone who loves it enough. There is an uncomfortable middle ground after 
 the first several sessions of play where the player gets deep enough into the controls that it 
 gets hard to get precise enough without running into the few issues that the controls have. After 
 a period of adjustment you come out with a deeper understanding of the mechanics and more control, 
 but the illusion of this game is lost forever. And yet that does not stop it from being fun.
  
  True to form, and lacking any illusions in game-play, Bowling is as simple as it appears on 
 the outside and as complex as it is in real life. All the challenge of learning how you bowl, and 
 compensating, as well as exerting just enough control to do what you want are present. However, 
 unlike Tennis, there is a learning curve, the Mii representation of the player will begin its downswing 
 automatically, and the instructions fail to adequately communicate how to swing. Once the initial 
 learning curve is passed, this game just does not get old, and like Tennis, and all other games 
 in Wii: Sports, is infinitely better with family and friends.
  
  Similar to Bowling, Golf provides a very straightforward and hard to fake with small gestures experience. 
 Not an uncommon theme, though, Golf is lacking important instructions to the player in the manual 
 or in game. It was only by accident that I discovered that you could change the direction of your 
 shots and the club you are going to use. After all the subtleties are learned, it is a refined 
 game, though not as much so as offerings on other systems. Somehow, though, the controls make up 
 for the oversimplified version of Golf.
  
  Baseball is probably the most difficult game. Foul balls run rampant, no control at all over basing. 
 If you fail to hit a home run, the best you can do is hit the back stands and bounce around long 
 enough for your player to make second base, or go from second base to home. All base running is 
 automatic and anything else, grounders, bunts, anything at all that gets caught is an automatic 
 out, which I seem to remember being contrary to the rules of baseball. There is no point in mimicking 
 real batting motions as all the skill is when to swing and not how high, etc. Follow through is 
 important for distance, but all the rest is speed. Throwing the ball different ways is done exclusively 
 with buttons, while throwing the ball is done with the simplest gesture, the slightest swing, leaving 
 no skill at all to it. As a multiplayer game, there is not a lot to Baseball on Wii: Sports.
  
  Similar to Tennis, Boxing has that similar moment where you realize that your movements are 
 not accurately modeled and when you want to win you start wondering just what you have to do to 
 get the game to do what you want. As awesome as the idea is, it just is not executed well enough 
 and is probably the largest hole in Wii: Sports. Lots of effort will yield some fun, lots of fun, 
 in fact, but the long lasting appeal is not quite where it should be. With enough effort, it is 
 potentially one of the most directly competitive and combative games on Wii: Sports, but it is 
 also the only one that requires the nun-chuck. Similar to Baseball, it is only two-player, obviously. 
 As awesome as it is at times, the controls really need more accuracy.
  
  All the games share a few common themes, incomplete instructions, but lots of quality re-playable 
 fun. There are two other modes that add some single player value; the first is a mode similar to 
 Brain Age. You are tested in three different areas, Baseball, Tennis, and Bowling, each one a different 
 challenge mode as opposed to regular play. After you finish all three, you are scored on the average 
 of three areas giving you an age of 20 and up. The practice mode is a set of three challenges for 
 each sport. Most of them can become extremely difficult and cultivate genuine control over the 
 game, and tend to be the first place that control flaws will show up.
  
  It really is amazing; it is clear why Nintendo packaged it with the Wii. The design of Sports really 
 shows off how much fun the control system can be at its best, and is a fun use of the Mii. Without 
 this titles glowingly fun qualities, it would have been hard to recommend other titles along the 
 same lines. It is a free shot at a whole type of game that hardcore gamers might pass up so easily, 
 a taste of what similar games could be like if they gave them a shot, and a perfect game to start 
 with for people who have never played games before, or simply have not played them for several 
 years. To be fair, as a hardcore gamer, playing Wii: Sports was like playing games again for the 
 first time, myself after so many years spent on games that work on a totally different experience.
 
  
  Verdict: It is fresh, exciting, and it is downright awesome in every way. If this is a vision of 
 things to come, Wii is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  I have been wanting to Wii IT UP for about a month now and i couldnt wait to get a Wii. So last 
 night at Toys R Us i was able to buy a Wii. I set it all up and i am ready to play the wii sports:
 
  
  My Review will be done by games and then the overall score will be submitted.
  
  First Impression: Just a fun interface and friendly inviting game. great colours and invinting 
 me to play
  
  TENNIS!!!! ~ Tennis is allot of fun. You dont move your character but you have to use the remote 
 and swing it like a tennis racket. To do a forehand you have to swing the remote like a forehand 
 swing and the same with a backhand. Its fun and fantastic. The graphics are great. They are not 
 Mind blowing graphics but they just fit the game just right. Nintendo has done the right thing 
 and made gameplay the #1 priority again. I havent learned any special hits yet but it fun to learn 
 this game and play it. BOWLING!!!!!!! ~ Bowling is one of my favs in the Wii sports package. You 
 have to press the B button and swing your remote back and then swing it forward again and let go 
 of the B button. Basically if you have ever bowled before its the exact same. Swing your arm back 
 and swing forward and let go of the ball. If you want to spin the ball do the same wrist action 
 in real bowling and the ball in the wii will do the exact same. AMAZING!!!!!
  
  BASEBALL!!!!! ~ Baseball is another amazing action paked fun game. In batting you have to hold 
 the remote it on its side and then hold it like a baseball bat and swing the bat when the ball 
 is coming in. If you doing a gary sheffield and wiggling the bat around the mii will jiggle his 
 bat as well. To pitch you have to take the Remote and pitch it like a ball and the mii will pitch 
 the ball. The faster you do the remote the faster the ball will be pitched.
  
  GOLF!!!!!! ~ The Golf is authentic as well. You have to hold the remote down and the swing back 
 while holding A and the sing forward. If you do it to hard or curve the swing the ball will curve 
 as well. To do chip shots you have to swing part ways. You can choose you golf clubs as well. Lots 
 of fun.
  
  BOXING!!!!! ~ Boxing is so much fun as well. Your Arms get tired you start to sweat and its so 
 worth it. You have to hook up the nun-chuck and hold the remote in your strong hand and the nun-chuck 
 in your weak hand and you have to punch up at the face like you would in real boxing and the same 
 with punching in the stomach. OVERALL ~ Overall the Wii spots package is top notch. I love it. 
 So much fun. Its been along time since i have had this much fun. I would have to say the last time 
 i had this much fun was Mario 64. Since then i have owned Xbox, DreamCast, PS2, gamecube and i 
 havent had this much fun. If your wondering if you should get a wii..... DO IT!!! Even if Wii sports 
 is the only good game and we all know that its not it is so worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lefund
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Usually I am not one who enjoys these simple games. I have tried out many on the DS and turned 
 out disappointed, but this is an exception. Wii Sports is a great, fun game that really shows off 
 the Wii's potential. In Wii Sports, as you proably know, you can play Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, 
 Golf, and Boxing using your Wiimote and, in the case of Boxing, the nunchuk, to simulate actions 
 that take place in those various sports. In Tennis, your Wiimote becomes the racket. This is one 
 of my favorites, widly swinging the controllor to hit that darn ball. The AI controls your players 
 for you which at first had me worried, but really it just gives you less to think about as usually 
 your Mii will get to the ball in time for you to swing your Wiimote for it. Not much else to say 
 about this sport
  
  Baseball is a little duller. You start out and bat. Your Wiimote becomes the bat.... not much else 
 to say about batting. When you hit a ball the AI takes over. You don't control your guy going from 
 base to base which I find a dissapointment. Once you get 3 outs, you begin pitching... Also a disapointment. 
 It doesn't take long to master pitching and you can make some nice quick shots just by swinging 
 your Wiimote into your hand. Once the batter hit the ball you don't control the players catch or 
 throw the ball to bases... once the AI gets the ball it all stops which cna be quite dull.
  
  Bowling is better than Baseball though. Its simple and like the sport in some ways. You hold 
 the B button and swing your hand just as you would a real bowling ball though the game does a little 
 bit ove the movement for you, that dosen't bother me. Its not hard at all to grasp, within an hour, 
 no matter how bad you are at real bowling, you'll be knocking down strikes and spares at each frame. 
 Frankly there isn't anything else to say about it.
  
  Golf is the hardest of the sports. At first it gives the apperance of any other golf sim but hey, 
 this is Wii Sports, so it has to change in some way. Your Wiimote now becomes the golf club and 
 the harder you swing, the further the bar goes up and the farther you shot, unless you hit it too 
 hard and it silices and hooks. Unlike in the previous games, you have COMPLETE control over what 
 happens, except envermential factors such as wind and when you hit it too hard, but hey, at least 
 you control the guy, which I like. I at least became engulfed with all the action going on, while 
 playing focusing on how to hit my next shot. It does take some time to get a hang of all of it 
 and control it all, or maybe I am just a newb at golf games who knows. I find it the most relaxing 
 of the sports on the disc, just as real golf is.
  
  The final sport on this disc is boxing. You use the nunchuk in this sport. The Wiimote and nunchuk 
 become your fist. This sport is very easy and very exausting. Just start swinging the nunchuk at 
 your opponents face... he'll be down eventaually. Great way to exhaust your anger really. Not much 
 else to say
  
  There are also various mini-games in Wii Sports in Training Mode. They are kind of fun, I didn't 
 really get into them so I can't say much about them.
  
  The graphics in the game are simple, but thats okay the game is simple. The sound is simple too 
 but goes along with whatever sport your playing. This isn't a game that I would buy for $50, its 
 too simple which I am glad it comes with the system as it does what its ment to do, show off what 
 the Wiimote can do. I know every person I have showed the game too has become facenatied and addicted 
 to Wii Sports wanting a Wii themselves. Enjoy it, thats all I can say... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno636
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  What I always say is before you play any Wii games you should play Wii Sports. This game has such 
 basic gameplay using the Wiimote it's just easy not to love. Every single game has a great set 
 up of how to play. And skill level is what really makes you want to pick up the remote and try 
 over and over again. The point of becoming a big pro is a great idea since it makes you want to 
 get great achivements and play hours on this game. This games graphics might be simplistic but 
 that's pretty much the fitting mood of the game so the graphics are cool looking but it more like 
 fits the basic mood of the game. The sound is superb all the way from every strike you get from 
 every tiny putt in the course. And the replay value of course is great since you can just call 
 some of your friends or keep on leveling up in every game you play. Overall this game is solid 
 from every perspective and will keep you lasting through the holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_monsta12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very fun game that will keep you occupied for a long time. It has 5 fun games, 
 will keep you and your friends busy and has a revolutionary twist. You can even use your Miis! 
 Some of my only problems are that it has no online, the fielders in baseball have no legs (and 
 when you're running) and.... I think that is it. The sounds that come out of the Wii remote and 
 TV are very, very good. They match whatever game you're playing perfectly. The gameplay controls 
 are very simple, though I would like the ability to actually field in baseball and move in tennis, 
 but, it is made for simple non-gamers. Overall, Wii Sports is a very innovative and fun game, and 
 best of all, IT S FREE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix81092
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Good thing it comes with the wii a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good title to be included with the Wii. It makes nice use of the Wii Remote, and 
 is simplistically fun also. You could play this game for hours, and still have fun. This game does 
 have some problems though, and those problems are that the game is very simplistic, and doesn't 
 showcase the Wii like a launch title should.
  
  The Good:
  Very addicting, fun gameplay. Game records all stats and keeps track of your progress. Not only 
 a fun game, but also a nice way to get excersise. Controls are very responsive. This game makes 
 a very good first impression of what the Wii Remote is capable of, and does not really seem buggy 
 at all.
  
  The Bad:
  The graphics. The graphics are very simple (same could be said about the sound) , and it doesn't 
 seem very much work went into this game. Although the Miis are cute, they are simplistic, and Nintendo 
 could have done so much more as far as possibilities of Avatars that are used. The fact that this 
 game has no online play is a huge letdown. This is the PERFECT title for online play, yet is completely 
 missing. Sometimes I will never understand the decisions Nintendo makes regarding online play. 
 That is probably the biggest problem with the game.
  
  Overall:
  Although the game is pretty shallow, with not many games, and no online play, it is still an addicting 
 title that makes good use of the Wii Remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has a Wii has Wii Sports (as it did ship with the console itself.) Wii Sports is a simple 
 and awesome demonstration of what Nintendo's new console can do.
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of games that take full advantage of the Wii remote/nunchuck attachment. 
 All of the games work very well and are fun to play, from casually swinging the Wii Remote in a 
 tennis volley, to going crazy punching at the screen in boxing. These games are all very simple 
 and won't take long to learn and they all feature great multiplayer. The objective of each of these 
 games is simple, to play enough to reach pro level on each sport, this can make the game ramp up 
 to get a little more challenging, but it is always a blast to play. One problem I had was when 
 you remote goes off-screen and not noticing it, which can potentially leave you open in boxing, 
 or make you miss in tennis, but its not that big of a problem.
  
  The graphics in Wii Sports aren't truly next-gen, in fact, technilogically the graphics aren't 
 even as good as what can be offered on the Gamecube. But what it does offer is a great cartoony 
 style, the ability to import your Miis to play as and your characters movements really match what 
 you are doing.
  
  The sound in Wii Sports is great as well. You can hear the crowd cheering after doing well, and 
 all the sound effects in general sound very clear and are very good. The music is also pretty catchy 
 and the addition of the sound from the Wii Remote really adds to the experience.
  
  You'll be playing Wii Sports for a while trying to get to pro level on each of the 5 sports, in 
 addition you can also do the fitness tests and workout excersizes and plus the great multiplayer, 
 this is a game that you can get very addicted to.
  
  Wii Sports all in all is a great title, especially since its included with the Wii console. This 
 is a game that makes great use of the Wii's motion sensing technology, but it still lacks a little 
 bit in making good use of the graphical technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslash1718
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  A very simple, very fun, and very easy game that comes with the purchase of your Wii. Although 
 it may look kiddish it will suck you into playing on for hours, with yourself or a couple friends. 
 Great to get Non-Gamers into trying something out. Also good for Gamers as it poses a challenge 
 with point totals and who can win, etc.
  
  Some of the games can get tiring if your semi-out of shape, or even if your in shape. Such as boxing. 
 I suggest to either do bowling or Golf for new-comers, and Boxing, Tennis and Baseball for more 
 experienced players.
  
  Learning curve takes a few minutes for each game, making the already simplified game simpler.
 
  
  So get going and get non-gamers sucked into the addicting world of video games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likuid3lementz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  definitely the most fun you'll have 3 friends on the wii
  It can get pretty competitive in a game like tennis and all of the games really grab your attention 
 and interest very quickly. Not sure about boxing tho. Where's the online feature tho? I think that 
 would've done it for me and pushed this game into a 9 lol. The reason why i'm scoring this so high 
 is cuz you really cant get this sort of experience with any other game except if you actually play 
 these sports literally lol. Plus it's free with your wii and it totally does not suck. I actually 
 found myself playing this and enjoying this waaaay more with my friends as opposed to the other 
 wii games we had our disposal (red steel, dbz)
  
  But yeah, i think this would've rocked if it had online capabilities, maybe they'll add it later 
 if possible? I haven't tried single player tho so I'm not sure how good that would be. haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, if this isn't the polar opposite of another game on the Wii I will fail to mention right 
 now. This game is fun in short bursts, a blast in multiplayer, and features some of the worst looking 
 graphics this side of the 3D accelerator. And you know what? Its more fun that most of the launch 
 titles.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Five sports torn down to their very basics, let me review them individually, in order of my favorites. 
 The Wiimote is pretty good in every sport, if there was problem with it, I noted it in the individual 
 reviews.
  
  Bowling: This is the most fun of the bunch with no competition. Its very basic, but thats the best 
 part. You bowl, get your score, try to beat it. Thats it. With a friend, you fight for every last 
 pin, until its over. Its too much fun with an entire family too. You'll enjoy this no matter what.
 
  
  Baseball: Its a bit boring, Pitching is crappy, but I do love hitting the ball with the Wiimote. 
 Its just that alone which makes this worth while. Homerun derby mode also has a bit of fun to it, 
 so try that out too.
  
  Tennis: Not really fun, but with two or four people can be worth a play or two.
  
  Boxing and 
 Golf: Golf can be fun, but both are too buggy and sensitive for their own good.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game looks like crap. The Mii are so annoying that it detracts from the overall 
 game. I mean, this is the next generation, and we are seeing SNES quality 3D that probably could 
 have been seen in Star Fox. There are some nice environments, but not enough to save the score.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The game sounds pretty poorly too. But, its family friendly and stuff, compliments going all around 
 whenever you do good. Its mediocre with the music not being intrusive on the action .
  
  VALUE
  
  Multiplayer can be fun for a while, but in the end its just not going to last more 
 than a week or two of limited use.
  
  TILT
  
  Well, this game just has a strange grab to it that kept me interested while it was fun. I can't 
 feel that it deserves a bad tilt, so I'll give it a good tilt.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Just a family friendly fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokemonluver556
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  all the sports in the game give you a good look at the way the wii's game play will completely 
 revolutionize gaming. my personal favorite is boxing, because it puts you right in the game. it 
 also gives you a little practice run, so you can get used to the new style of gaming, it gives 
 you a rundown on what you will be using the wii remote for in all the sports. all in all wii sports 
 is a good game, for being free. i mean its a good thing to have, because in order to rent some 
 games for the wii you need to put down your credit card, so its pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justsomeguy112
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Anyone with a wii knows how fun this game is, it does not however, provide hours of gameplay and 
 eventually it will get old. But sometimes, when you are bored.... there is nothing you would like 
 to do better than play Wii sports ( especially with friends) . This game is definently fun for all 
 ages young or small. Sports include: Boxing, Golf, Tennis, Baseball, and bowling. Anyone with a 
 Wii should consider getting this game. This game does not have a lot of material in it, and you 
 will definently find that some of the sports are not as fun as others. This game does do an awsome 
 job of using the WIi-mote/ Nunchaku as fun and new tools for gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Wii Sports is a very fun game that closely mirrors your actual movements. In tennis, 
 you usually have swing on the correct side of your body with the right amount of tilt and strength 
 to get the ball where you want it. It would be a big plus however, if you could actually move the 
 players. You can actually swing in baseball like you're really playing which is very impressive 
 to me since I haven't played on a team since high school. It feels very much like a demo though, 
 but still fun. Bowling feels very real because you can give the ball as much tilt as you want, 
 making it spin, and if you can give it as much strength as you want. Boxing is great, but doesn't 
 match your movements as well as the others. Once you get the hang of it, it IS pretty fun. Golf 
 is better than expected and plays pretty realistically. You have to swing like you're playing for 
 real but if you give it too much tilt, then you'll end up in a bunker or in the water. Only problem 
 is... you can't swing it as hard as you want or it curves crazily. The extra mini games also work 
 well and use the Wiimote to their full advantage. Also, being able to use your own Miis and getting 
 their fitness done is very cool and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics- Not much to say here. The graphics are passable, mostly because this is just a game to 
 give you a feel for the Wiimote. Since you're using your Miis anyway, the graphics shouldn't be 
 expected to be great. It looks nice and bright on my HDTV, and the textures are decent. It doesn't 
 take from the experience, so I'm fine with it.
  
  Sound/Music- Once again, not much to be said here. The sound effects are about what they should 
 be, but there aren't very many. Once again, that's about what you would expect from this type of 
 game. The music themes are nice and pleasant to listen to. They match the feel of the game, which 
 is a big plus.
  
  Difficulty- This game is very easy to get into as you are just swinging the Wiimote the way you 
 would with your arm in real life. It doesn't take long to get used to and playing against the AI 
 isn't very hard. It's not a challenging game, but you don't really need one. Sometimes, the fitness 
 for your Miis can be a bit difficult. You should be able to figure this game out quickly and dive 
 in without much trouble.
  
  Multiplayer- It's very fun to get with some friends and/or family and start a quick game. Everyone 
 should be able to get a feel for it and be playing competively within minutes. Tennis is probably 
 the best multiplayer game because everyone is getting fast-paced action and lots of fun. *comes 
 back from daily fitnes* Anyway, the other four-player games are also great, but the the two-player 
 games (baseball and boxing) are much better. Taking down your friend in boxing or having a slugfest 
 in baseball have been some of the best multiplayer experiences I've had in a while.
  
  Overall- Wii Sports isn't the best game out there by a long shot, but is still very addicting and 
 very fun. The multiplayer games can get exciting while giving you a good feel for the remote. Playing 
 with your Miis and finding out there fitness age is neat and enjoyable for day-to-day fun. This 
 game really shows what the Wiimote can do for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howrudoooing
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Well I'm sure most if not all of you have Wii Sports so I really don't have to say too much. The 
 game is exciting. You can have friends or family play quick tournaments. Each time choosing a different 
 character, or keep using the same character and increase that characters experience level. I really 
 enjoy this game! It's very exciting for the simple fact that you are doing all the movements with 
 the remote, so it's like your'e the one there in the screen playing the game. I've only had the 
 system hooked up for about 5 days and I am already hooked. Have fun as a loner or with your group. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Majority of people were speculative of the wiimote, and its accuracy and effectiveness, even I 
 was. When I first set up my Wii on launch day (waiting 7 hours for the darn thing) I even set up 
 the sensor bar wrong and then got really worried (thinking to myself **** **** ************!!!!!) 
 but I read the instruction manual and set-up, and finally got it right. Then, before I even put 
 in Twilight Princess, a game I had been waiting 3 years for, I popped in Wii sports to check out 
 the controls. I was amazed, and relieved, because the Wii was accurate and truly amazing, even 
 better than I had previously anticipated.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  How could Wii sports get anything below a 10 in this category gamespot? Honestly, have you ever 
 played a game where you actually swung the controller and it simulated a golf club? No, and neither 
 has anybody else, because this is the first time it has been done. It's virtual reality, or as 
 close as it can get as of now. The movements are amazing, the golf may not be the best demonstration, 
 but the bowling, tennis, and especially boxing are. The movements correspond to your actually movements 
 almost exactly, which is just purely amazing.
  
  Graphics: 6
  
  This game runs at a smooth 60 FPS, which is fairly good, so no complaints. It's not like the environments 
 look bad, they're just not detailed at all, which isn't necessary considering this game is just 
 used to demonstrate the controls.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Pretty good, not amazing, but some sounds could get annoying. You gotta love the speaker in the 
 wiimote though. The music, or lack of, annoys me sometimes, I'm sure they could have a little something 
 playing the the background, like they do in mario golf.
  
  Value: 10
  
  The game is free, need I say more?
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  Everyone I know who has never even played 
 video games before loves this game. My parents are even the slightest bit interested in it, which 
 is a surprised considering they hate video games. For a free game, this is a lot of fun, and when 
 I finally get another controller, it'll be a blast playing with friends.
  
  Overall: 9.1
  
  Superb, really solidified my speculative thoughts of the controller, but now I'm not the least 
 bit worried of what the Wii has in store for the future. I'll be expecting great things, really 
 relieved now that i know the wiimote is successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's goal with the launch of the Wii was to get everyone of all ages playing games. The controller 
 was their main source to try and achieve this goal, but it had to be put to use. To do so they 
 bundled in this little title called Wii Sports. Wii Sports is a collection of sports games including 
 bowling, golf, baseball, tennis and boxing. Except for boxing you only need the remote to play 
 these games. They are all simple to control; much like doing the real sport. When looking at this 
 game the first thing you may notice is that it isn't graphically very impresseive. Who cares though? 
 It's a blast to play. While your swinging at pitches or rolling strikes with the Wiimote who cares 
 how many polygons are on the screen? The controls feel fantastic. It's pretty obvious there is 
 a fairly large amount of effort put in to make these games feel as realistic as possible. Also 
 to make them available to any one. I can personally vouge that I had everyone in my family (young 
 siblings/cousins to my parents/uncles) competing in bowling tournaments or tennis face offs. Wii 
 played for hours on end after that turkey feast. Out of all the games I think that tennis and bowling 
 turned out the best, golf is a bit lame and baseball seems to have a few flaws in its designed. 
 Boxing is just a straight up work out. But overall this game not only is a lot of fun to play but 
 it gets me really excited for future sports games. Not to mention Mario sports games; I can't even 
 imagine what Nintendo will come up with those.
  
  Being a free game Wii sports is a nice addition the Wii package. It really shows off what the system 
 is capable of doing (control wise with the Wiimote and also in respect to Nintendo's goal of having 
 a system for everyone) . Hopefully Nintendo keeps up with the foundation they've built here because 
 this is a great game to start off the Wii legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, the second you open the Wii box, there will be the Wii Sports disc right in front of you. 
 This disc houses some fun games that you can improve upon and challenge some friends to. Wii Sports 
 follows your achievements and mails them to your message board.
  
  In Wii Sports there is a training mode where players can use there created Mii's or preloaded ones 
 to learn the basics of Tennis, Bowling, Golf, Boxing, and Baseball. The training mode exposes you 
 to different scenarios or hones your technique in each sport.
  
  There is also a Fitness Test mode which in a sense is a Brain Age for your body idea. You will 
 participate in various activities where you must complete a challenge to the best of your ability. 
 When its all said and done you are giving a skill rating. You can do one of these tests per day. 
 This system is pretty fun and promotes you to improve.
  
  Golf is great in Wii Sports. Though there are only 9 holes in the game, the wind plays a really 
 good variable to keep the fun level up. Motion sensing in this game is pretty straight forward 
 although if you get to fast with your practice swinging or your back swing, sometime you may hit 
 the ball incorrectly. Otherwisse this mode is really good and is worth it.
  
  Baseball is really good. Motion sensing is bang on. Expect some modifacations to the rules of baseball. 
 Pitching and batting is really great.
  
  Tennis is really straight forward and can really be the flag sport for Wii sports. You've probably 
 seen Reggie playing this with various gamers in North America. Its really easy to pick up and is 
 serious fun.
  
  Bowling is there, nice game to chll out to and throw a few frames with your buddies. Thats a fun 
 mode, with pretty good Wii Remote support.
  
  Boxing is exremely fun, nothing beats upper cutting your best friend in a friendly bout. This utilizes 
 the Nunchuck and controller for various blocks dodges and punches.
  
  This game is just great. You will spend some time in this game after play other Wii titles. This 
 game for what it is is pretty solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrduckyrisin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is the pack-in game for the Nintendo Wii. Of course, it's the first time there's been 
 a pack-in game for a console in about one million years, but how does it stack up to the rest of 
 the Wii launch line up?
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of 5 games- Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Boxing, and Golf- all naturally 
 based off each respective sport. Now while you won't see Curling or Shot Put on this collection 
 (and how fun would that have been?) , the games are plenty diverse and no two games feel the same. 
 Each motion with your controller is different, and you won't really feel like you're playing only 
 the same game, with a different loading screen.
  
  Also important is that none of the games ever truly feels like a mini game. The Baseball game, 
 for instance, isn't simply a homerun derby- you hit singles, doubles, triples, etc, in a real game 
 setting. It's only 3 innings, but that never feels like a handicap. And if you're really concerned, 
 play the game 3 times and it's 9 innings. The game employs auto-fielding, but even that isn't truly 
 concerning. So while it's not a mini game, it's not really a baseball sim either- but that works 
 just fine.
  
  Personal favorites include the Bowling and Golf games. The Golf game only features 9 holes, so 
 is perhaps a little underfeatured. No one was expecting several courses, but perhaps one full course 
 would have made Golf a little easier. Contrary to several reviews I have seen, it is easy to get 
 adjusted to the power bar, and putting is not really too difficult.
  
  I happen to be a competent bowler, and the Wii Bowling simulation is the best yet. That said, spin 
 is not as important as it is in the real thing, but this fits in well with the pick up and play 
 attitude of Wii Sports.
  
  Graphically, the game is simple, but the graphics are clearly superior to most on the Gamecube- 
 these characters and backdrops have flavor, if not realism. The effects presented- the very shiny 
 Wii Sports logo, for instance- is actually well done and is something I never saw on Gamecube. 
 The graphics for Wii are exactly as expected- good, but never quite on par with PS3 or XBox 360. 
 All in all, the graphics get the job done.
  
  The sound for this game is not truly a strong point, as it is sometimes lacking, but the sound 
 of a golf club being swung, pins falling down, and the sound of a tennis ball being hit are all 
 nice touches. A lot of sound effects come from the Wii remote itself. It doesn't really add much 
 to immerse you in the game, but it is a nice touch and is never badly done. The music for the Baseball 
 training is one of my favorite video game songs to date, but there's not much to support it.
  
  The games overall never feel like they're broken, and the Wii Remote picks up each action very 
 well. Surprisingly, the Nunchuck controller- used only in Boxing- also works decently for the purposes 
 of that particular game. Tennis and Boxing are probably the two worst of the games, however. Boxing 
 matches seem to be hardpressed to track every single one of your punches- a potentially serious 
 problem- but the game is still playable and only misses an occasional punch. Tennis has no major 
 tracking difficulties, but it's sometimes a little too sensitive- when you switch to perform a 
 backhand, you may accidentally swing.
  
  Baseball works exactly how you'd expect- you throw with the Remote, and you swing with the Remote. 
 You can even- sort of- bunt, but don't expect success with it.
  
  Also included are a training and Wii Fitness mode, which are both fun but feel underdeveloped. 
 The training mode is fun for a couple of plays, and the Fitness mode tracks your Fitness Age which 
 is a nice concept, but it's hard to imagine that bowling with a Remote will really put you in shape.
 
  
  In all, the games do their desired function- they get the user used to the Wii controller and do 
 very well. Even Boxing and Tennis are fun and, as a party game, Wii Sports excels. I can't truly 
 reccomend it, because it is a pack in game and you have it anyway, but I would have to say give 
 this a shot with your friends- it's the perfect introduction to the Wii. And if Wii Sports is ever 
 no longer a pack in, I would recommend buying it as a full game, anyway. 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes with the Wii right out of the box. Not bad, eh? Five easy to learn sports on one 
 disc. Wii Sports features tennis, golf, baseball, bowling, and boxing. Wii Sports also takes advantage 
 of the Mii chanel in that you can play as any Mii in your system. The game keeps track of each 
 Mii's skill points for each sport. When your Mii's points surpass 1000, he or she in considered 
 a pro in that sport.
  
  Tennis
  The Good: -The controls are very easy to learn and are very responsive. -Tennis requires no buttons, 
 but using the A button to serve is optional. -Matches can be played in single, best of three, or 
 best of five games. -There are two playable courts -If you have your Mii as both of the players 
 on your team you can make them both swing at the same time.
  The Bad: -The differences in the courts are only visual and the material doesn't affect gameplay. 
 -If you don't use you Mii as both players, your team mate won't do too much unless he or she has 
 high skill points. -You can't use two different Miis. -Your players run to the ball independently. 
 You only control their rackets.
  
  Bowling
  The Good: -Bowling is easy to learn. -You can use four different colored balls. -Single player 
 games go by pretty quickly. -Gaining skill points is easy without opponents to affect your game.
 
  The Bad: -Sometimes curving doesn't go according to plan... or motion.
  
  Boxing:
  The Good: -It's fun to watch your Mii pummel the games characters. -Dodging skills are pretty fun 
 to use.
  The Bad: -Dodging skills may be fun but I never find them to help in a fight. -Punching controls 
 aren't always responsive. -If any Wii game will tire you out, it's this one.
  
  Golf
  The Good: -I personally have never enjoyed golf games. Maybe someone who does could find some pros, 
 but I don't see any.
  The Bad: -It's so easy to overpower a shot, making less accurate. -Putting's difficult because 
 there's a very small power range. I either swing so softly it doesn't register or overdo it. Grr...
 
  
  Baseball
  The good: -Your entire team consists of any Miis you have on your system (if you have less than 
 nine Miis, empty roster slots will be filled in by players from the game) . -Normal games are only 
 three innings long. -There's a five-run-lead mercy rule. -There are four different kinds of pitches.
 
  The Bad: -Once you start playing pro teams it becomes really difficult to get on base, let alone 
 score. -Sometimes you pitches go right down the middle when you want them to go outside the plate.
 
  
  All in all, Wii Sports a simple game with modest graphics and a few problems but that doesn't stop 
 it from being loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports comes boxed in with every Wii console in North America, and its easy to see why. Providing 
 five different sports  tennis, baseball, bowling, boxing, and golf  that you control with simple 
 gestures using the remote, Wii Sports is a great way to get acquainted with the Wiis unique control 
 method. Although some of the sports are too oversimplified to make them worth coming back to more 
 than a couple times, Wii Sports shows that Nintendos new system can definitely handle fun gameplay 
 thats accessible to just about anyone.
  
  The game makes a great first impression by making use of the Wiis personal avatars, the Mii. Basically, 
 youll get to choose from a variety of different facial features and color schemes to create a 
 digital person to represent you. Your Mii will earn points that represent your skill level at each 
 of the different sports and generally keeps a good sense of cohesion to the game.
  
  As mentioned earlier, each of the sports makes use of the Wii remote, typically in a simple but 
 fundamental gesture. These are generally very natural, and the controls are emulated as youd expect 
 them to be. In Tennis, for example, youll need to swing the remote like a racket to rally back 
 the ball. In Baseball, youll need to either swing the remote to bat or make a sharp arching motion 
 to throw pitches. Golf has you using the remote as a golf club with guidance from a power meter 
 to make proper swings. Bowling emulates the back and follow-through motion of the sport with the 
 remote and lets you throw spin on the ball by twisting your wrist for good measure. Finally, Boxing 
 has you using the remote and the Nunchuck attachment to emulate your left and right arms as you 
 take swings at your opponents. These gestures are typically very simple to perform, but nonetheless 
 make for interesting gameplay. This is mostly due to the high degree of control you have over your 
 remote in the games. While batting in Baseball, for example, making small circular motions with 
 your remote will cause your onscreen Mii to twirl his bat in exactly the same fashion. Little touches 
 like this really help sell the idea of the Wiis motion-sensing controls.
  
  Unfortunately, not all of the sports are equally represented here. Some sports, like Bowling and 
 Baseball  with its accurate and detailed motions fitting the controls perfectly  feel more or 
 less entirely complete. Winding up for a big shot in Golf also feels appropriately visceral, and 
 the putting is appropriately subdued over the long-range driving.
  
  However, others feel needlessly limited. For example, the movement of your player in Tennis is 
 handled automatically, leaving you simply swinging at the ball. Its unclear why the game doesnt 
 allow you to attach the Nunchuck and move around manually. And while Bowling allows you to twist 
 the remote to put spin on your shot, Golf allows no such option. Boxing, sadly, feels scaled back 
 in a big way due to the fact that the controls just dont feel right. It rarely registers the swings 
 of the remote and Nunchuck properly. And because the lag between moving your controller and the 
 appropriate action on screen is noticeable, its just not very satisfying at all.
  
  Wii Sports matches its simple gameplay with a clean and streamlined presentation that works nicely. 
 The game is laid out very well, with clean menus that feature large buttons that are easily selected 
 with the remote. Well-drawn pictures also help you learn the different sports quickly. The game 
 uses your Miis as the character models, and although they have a very simplistic look to them, 
 they fit the nature of the game well. Overall, though, its a bit low on details. The audio is 
 a relatively bland mixture of inoffensive jingles and stock sound effects for the sports. Some 
 nice touches do shine through though, like the ring that comes through the controller when its 
 your turn, or the swell in the crowd noise as your ball approaches the hole in Golf.
  
  Although Wii Sports wont wow you with its presentation or deep gameplay, this collection of simple, 
 pick-up-and-play sports makes great use of the Wiis remote. This is definitely one of the best 
 options for getting comfortable with this new systems controls, and since it comes bundled with 
 it, theres little reason not to spend some time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheater777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  So, the one game every gamer who buys the Wii is going to get. That's Wii Sports. Included in the 
 game is Wii Boxing, Golf, Baseball, Tennis, and Bowling. The best by FAR is Tennis. The controls 
 are very tight. To serve, swing the remote up, then slam down. You can also hit the ball forehand, 
 backhand, lob it, or smash it down (respectivly front, back, down to up, up to down) . Alright, 
 the power and direction help to choose the shot, but you play doubles, right? Well, hook in another 
 Wiimote and you each control one team (red or blue) . Add another two, and you have a full-doubles 
 game going! Moving on, Baseball was a hard game to play, becuase the batting was a little klunky, 
 and there wasn't any particular way you could change the pitch. The other games are also very good. 
 All together, this is a good package that really shows off the Wii. If you live in a house with 
 non-gamers, or are having non-gamers over (for some holiday) , then this is a good game to introduce 
 to them. In every game, the controls make sense. They move like their real life sports. Overall, 
 excellent game. 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan20
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a simple game which many people at a time can enjoy playing, and even solo playing 
 is fun. I don't think there's any other game out there that can help you learn how to use the Wii 
 Remote quickly and easily. You learn the basics about how to use the remote, such as swinging in 
 Tennis, or that you're going to need to hold the remote in certain positions, like in Golf and 
 Baseball. The training mode is also excellent for practising your skills, and learning how to play 
 each sport properly, so that you can improve. It's great for parties because 4 people can play 
 at once. Wii Sports has attracted the non-gamers quite quickly. Friend's of mine had their parents 
 pull them away from homework to teach them how to use the remote to play this game. They seemed 
 to enjoy it because the controls were simple and easy to get used to. They were not intimidated 
 by a controller with masses of buttons, so the game is quite inviting. It's simple graphics and 
 sounds help back that up. Overall, a great game for all ages, and one that you can enjoy with your 
 family, even if they normally are not into games, this one might spark their interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoBaby
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Thanksgiving just past and my family decided to spend it over at one of my sister's house (I have 
 five sisters and no brothers... I was the second youngest... I know... rough childhood) . I decided 
 to bring over my consoles (currently only have an Xbox 360 and a Wii) . After we ate we decided 
 to hook up the 360 and play some Gears of War, Rainbow Six and Need for Speed Carbon (I brought 
 all of my games but those were the only games that got the guys in the family excited to play) . 
 I popped in Gears of War first and of course everyone was amazed at the graphics but actually got 
 bored in an hour (Mostly the women in the family were complaining that they didn't understand what 
 was going on and who was who) so we started playing the Wii. Wii sports was already inside the 
 console and i had made Miis of the family prior to coming there so everyone had a blast laughing 
 at their Miis, even trying to spruce them up a bit and trying to figure out all the other Miis 
 (I made Miis for celebs as wells like I had a Mii for Beyonce and Jay-Z) then we finally started 
 playing Wii Sports. We probably spent about 8 hours playing Wii Sports... no one wanted to put 
 it down. It was interesting that more time was spent on Wii Sports than Gears of War... not to 
 put down Gears of War but Wii Sports was a perfect game for that situation because I know if I 
 was home alone I would probably have more fun playing Gears of War than Wii Sports... but all in 
 all, though Wii Sports has simple graphics and can be passed off as a tech demo for the Wii it's 
 the perfect game when it comes to playing with friends or family. We also played Rayman's Raving 
 Rabbids and was hooked on the dancing mini game but it was getting late (it was around 4am) and 
 a lot of us had to be at work the next morning :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterXCYN
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Im playing this game for a few days now. I enjoyed it but it gets old fast. The gameplay is very 
 innovative and fun too. It lacks graphical marvel but it works somehow. If you want real next gen 
 gaming, go for PS3 or maybe X360. But if you're looking for unique gaming, go for this game. This 
 game is recommended for everyone, you can throw a party with this kind of game, its really fun 
 when played with your friends and loved ones. Its the real deal for casual gamers. Personally its 
 an ok game, dont get me wrong. But it could be better. Nintendo should have made this game better 
 because it really doesnt appeal too much at a certain point of time, aside from the gameplay, the 
 other aspects lacks the A grade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainalpha1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  When I thought of wii sports as I waited in line for the wii, I was optimistic, but really didn't 
 expect much. After a an hour with the game, I was very impressed.
  
  Tennis: Tennis for the wii is very immersive, giving you the option 1,3, or 5 games. With a simple 
 flick of the wrist, or swing of the arm, you can hit the ball in a number of different ways. The 
 controls are very responsive, but not so much that it's too sensative. In tennis you play doubles, 
 which can have up to 4 players.
  
  Baseball: Baseball can have you pitching, or batting, working on a turn system. When batting, you 
 can hold the remote with one hand or two, either in the traditional batting stance, or simply swinging 
 the remote. depending on how hard you hit the ball will determine how far it goes, just like real 
 baseball. For pitching, you simply swing the remote just like a baseball. Though you can push the 
 A, B, or both buttons to add curve, a break, and more. The controls are sensative, though not so 
 much for pitching. I often throw hard, and it goes pretty slow. This game also features 2 players.
 
  
  Golf: Golf is probably the simplest of the sports. You just swing the club, and the ball goes. 
 Though swinging is pretty sensative, you have plenty of time to practice before you swing. This 
 game features 3 difficulties, and 9 holes. The controls are great for the most part, accept for 
 putting. You'lll fingd yourself swinging, but your character doesn't. This game features 4 players, 
 and can be addictive at times.
  
  Bowling: With Bowling, you hold down the B button as you swing, and then let go, as to let the 
 ball go. The harder you swing, the faster the ball goes. also, with the simple twist of the wrist, 
 the ball can go left or right. The sensativity for this game is perhaps the most impressive. You'll 
 often find yourself trying to higher your score, so you can keep, or get to Pro status. This game 
 also features 4 players.
  
  Boxing: This game showed the most potential, but didn't live up to expectations. You use the remote 
 and the nunchuk attatchment, holding each in one hand. You have to swing to hit you opponent, though 
 most of the time, you're not even swinging. This can get pretty aggrivating after a while, watching 
 yourself frantically swing to get no result, though this doesn't happen all the time.
  
  Overall, Wii sports is an amazing game, turning the foundations in a sports game. Though there 
 are a few mishaps here and there, Wii sports still turns out to be simply a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  wii only 190$ in japan? thats because it doesnt come wii sports, so not only are you forced to 
 buy wii sports but its adds 60$ to the final wii price when ii games are 50. the game is fun but 
 not something you would buy if it didnt come with the wii. the discs includes golf, bowling, boxing, baseball 
 and tennis. the games are simple and unrealistic but pretty fun to play for like 20 mins but after 
 you play it for the first time you not really gona wanna play it alot. multi player is fun but its 
 not something you play alot with your friends. one cool thing is that you can take your mii ( you 
 make a mii thatsupposed to be you) and play him in the game. but hey they force you to buy it so 
 why not give it a try? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgrawgamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is an excellent way to get non-gamer family and friends into gaming. The use of the 
 wiimote and easy pick up and play interface is welcome addition to any gaming genre. The variety 
 of sports titles makes it a game that should easily appeal to all people. Also the ability to play 
 as your mii (your wii avatar) gives the game another level of realism and immerses the gamer into 
 the game unlike any other game to date. All and all this game will bring hours of fun to any gamer 
 and will also help gamers introduce family and friends to the new generation of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Long story short everyone loved it. The ages ranged from 4 to almost 80 and literally EVERY SINGLE 
 PERSON LOVED IT. Many of whom want to get it soon.
  The others may in time look into it and everyone was joking about this one guy in his late 60's 
 coming back early the next morning to play more.
  The kids couldn't get enough of it, and the people who actually knew how to game couldn't either.
 
  
  This is the best game for Wii even though the review score may not indicate it. Graphics are actaully 
 quite nice on the open golf courses and the lighting effects give a nice easy going atmosphere.
 
  Music is litereally perfect lounge music that nails the complements the laid back atmosphere and 
 is enjoyable in and of itself.
  Gameplay is where this shines though. You could flick your wrist a little and just mess around 
 with it, but you play it and you like cooler then most games like this but not quite immersive 
 and to be honest it doesn't feel right.
  So then you stand up and play the sports the way they'er meant to be played and hit a backhand 
 at the tennis ball when its to your back side, etc.... OMG!!! There's never been something like 
 this before soooo much fun, endless fun, multiplayer especailly. Matches of all kinds of sports 
 went on all through Thanksgiving.
  
  I could write a more precise review on the elemets of the game or I could review it the way it 
 was meant to be reviews by telling stories of how great this game is in a crowd of gamers or non 
 gamers. Honestly its as close to perfection for a party atmosphere as games have come.
  TOP NOTCH GAME.
  
  BTW the wiiremote senses everything basically perfectly no problems to be 
 had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManX9101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Wii remote works wonders for Wii Sports. Rather than the old fashioned pressing of 
 buttons in rhythm or at certain times, You actually swing your racket, bat, or fists. Every once 
 in a while there's a hick-up here and there, but Overall the controls feel wonderful. Golf seemed 
 a bit rushed, and Boxing is a bit hard to get used to at first, but this is definitely a good game 
 to get you started with your Wii-mote.
  
  Graphics: The graphics go hand in hand with Nintendo's Game play over Graphics campaign, and playing 
 as your own user created Mii is really fun. Not only does the controller drag you into the game, 
 but the character you control can even look like you! Not only do Miis bring you more into the 
 game, but it also makes it easier for newer gamers to spot their character amongst other participants.
 
  
  Sound: Though the music is all midi, the compositions match quite nicely with the sports you are 
 playing. The music is also catchy enough to enjoy, but not too catchy where it gets stuck in your 
 head and very annoying. The sound used in all of the sports are very sharp and clean, and the sounds 
 generated by the Wii-mote are very well placed.
  
  Value: The fact that you don't have to pay for it definately helps in the Value department, and 
 the game is definitely worth buying anyway.
  
  Overall: This game is definately worth keeping around. Not only is it fun for a quick game as a 
 hardcore gamer, but its great for a casual gamer who's still getting into the whole gaming phenomenon. 
 Wii Sports also makes for a good game with friends, even if you only have 1 Wii-mote as Wii Sports 
 contains hot-seat and simultaneous multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monty_Python656
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  As I said, this game is pretty fricken cool. It doesn't seem like much when you watch the videos, 
 but once you get the numb-chucks, or whatever, into your hands, its awsome! The games are
  Bowling
  Baseball
  Golf
  Boxing
  and, Tennis.
  Over all, I'd have to say that the boxing 
 is the best because you get to beat people up, and it takes a bit of skill with the blocking and 
 trying to hit the other guy. If you don't have friends, get some cause Wii Sports is so much better 
 when competing against your friends or going against the CPU with them. Overall, this game definitely 
 should be played (not just cause its free) but because itt comes with the Wii! And, compared to 
 the ps3, its like getting it for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a free game included with the Nintendo Wii when purchased. The game features several 
 games that were used as demos for the capabilites of the system. It features Tennis, Baseball, 
 Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. While none of these are 100% perfect, they're still fun to play with 
 friends, as well as playing alone. Tennis can have up to four players playing at a time, but the 
 game is permanantly stuck on doubles tennis, which isn't a bad thing at all. The game only requires 
 you to swing the racquet when the ball reaches your character, when that happens, you are able 
 to either smash the ball by swining the Wii-mote overhead, swing a forehand swinging with your 
 dominant playing hand, and back hand swinging from your least dominant side. At times, the game 
 can read your swings wrong, resulting in outs or swings you didn't want. Regardless, it's still 
 a fun game to play. Way more fun to play with three other friends than to play alone.
  
  Baseball is a two player game. While one person hits, the other pitches. The game is only three 
 innings, and it's hard to score. I emphasize hard by all means. You are able to pitch different 
 types of pitches, such as a fastballs, screwballs, and curveballs, depending what button combination 
 you press, but that's pretty much all you can do on pitching. Fielding is all automatic, so there's 
 really not alot to worry about. As for hitting, all you can do is swing the Wii-mote like a baseball 
 bat and hope it goes out. Occasionally, the controller might spaz out on you, mostly because you 
 they sensor bar can't read it, but it doesn't happen to often. As far as scoring goes, you could 
 hit a perfect hit, but when it looks like it's going out, most likely, the game is playing tricks 
 on you. It's usually a pop-fly and 85% of the time, the computer will catch it. The other 15% are 
 errors. Still fun though, if you're a baseball fan, you will like this.
  
  Bowling is probably the most fun out of the five games and probably the most accurate of the five 
 games. It's simplistic enough. Hold down the B-Trigger and swing your arm like you were actually 
 bowling. Depending which way you tilt the Wii-mote will change it's hook. Most of the time, you'll 
 twist your wrist unconciously, but it doesn't hurt you too much. Otherwise, the game is easy to 
 pick up and play with friends, since you can use one controller and have four people play on the 
 same one.
  
  Golf is probably the questionable game of the five. Easy enough that you swing it like a golf club, 
 but if you hit the ball too hard, the ball could either fade or draw on you. Considering the fact 
 it doesn't read you swinging it half the time, and in-accurately captures your swing, it happens 
 alot. The putting system is horrible. You could be less than a foot away, and you'd have to pull 
 the Wii-mote that far back just to tap it, but even then you might overpower it. In a way, the 
 golf portion of the Wii needs a little work. Hopefully when they release more games for the Wii, 
 they can improve upon this and tweak it up.
  
  Boxing is another fun one. You can either face the computer or another friend. You start off with 
 about a minute worth of practice and then you continue on with three 1:30 rounds. This is also 
 the only game that requires you to use the Nunchuck attachment. You can hit one of four areas by 
 performing a difference action. Punching with the Nunchuck and Wii-mote in the upright position 
 will give you a high punch, while punching with a stabbing motion will give you a lower, body punch. 
 You can hold up the Nunchuck and the remote upright to block, and the game will recognize which 
 way you lean giving you an advantage to dodge. Out of the five games, you'll probably get the most 
 fitness from this, which isn't a bad thing at all. Who doesn't like working out while playing a 
 game?
  
  Wii Sports is a good example of what the Wii has to offer as far as controls. With different scenarios 
 being thrown at you in games and given the fact that this game comes with the system, you can't 
 go wrong with it at all. The release titles didn't give an extreme amount of party games, but until 
 then this game will satisfy that void that needs to be filled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggontherocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is defiantly a fun game to play on your own or with friends or family. I've been playing it 
 all day with my girlfriend and we can't get enough of it. Bowling seams to be our favorite. The 
 Learning Curve isn't bad at all and the responsiveness is great. This defiantly shows off what 
 the Wii can do. I only wish it could be on-line multi-player so I could play with family out of 
 town. The Only game that we don't like is Golf but That's more of a personal preference more than 
 anything wrong with the game. Also the Mii feature is pretty cool as you actually play your own 
 customized character that gets better as you play. All and All it's a great game that me and my 
 family will get hours of enjoyment out of. Thank you Nintendo for reassuring me of my choice to 
 stay with Nintendo products. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vjso2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports has easily delivered a new way of gaming. This is one of those games you don't sit down 
 to play (although you could) . You are constantly jumping up and down and enjoying the pleasures 
 the Wii has given us. It is about the easiest game I have ever played and it gives players a real 
 dynamic feel of these sports. It literally took me ten minutes to learn the game and it's controls. 
 Unfortunately, with so much positives, there will easily be negatives. First, the graphics are 
 absolutely terrible. I have never been a huge fan of the spherical heads and cylindrical bodies. 
 Looking back at Nintendo classics, I really believe Nintendo could have done better a better job 
 concerning the graphics. Next, the sound is just as or even more atrocious than the graphics. I 
 hardly even recall listening to any good variety of music. Once again, other Nintendo classics 
 really hit the spot, but Wii Sports, looks like it got rushed. Is this a game worth playing? Absolutely. 
 Is this a game worth buying seperate from the bundle? Absolutely not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buuboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game really demonstrates what nintendo means when they sayd that the system is for everyone. 
 I play everyday with my grandfather and uncle! This is simply a great and fun game, and the fact 
 that it is bundled for free makes it even better.
  
  The only problem is that sometimes the controls get slightly glitchy. for example, when playing 
 bowling, it sometimes doesn't spin as much as you want it to. Also, golf is pretty darn sensitive. 
 Overall, I think that this is the PERFECT game to include as a bundle. It feels like a tech demo 
 that nobody would pay 50.00 for, but it's fun, addictive, and free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourAddictiion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is really addictive. Just had to get that out of the way. Okay, so this game really takes 
 advantage the Wii's controller. For instance, you would swing the wiimote to swing a baseball bat. 
 This game is great to play with a bunch of people. It's a great for a party. Everyone will surrond 
 your Wii, laughing at how your friend got a gutterball. The graffics are okay, but nothing too 
 special.
  
  Tennis is a ton of fun, but sometimes can be fustrating due to swinging the right way but missing.
 
  
  Bowling is also very fun, and I have yet to find a problem with it.
  
  Golfing is okay. Golfing asks you to swing the wiimote in a certain way, while you can do it whatever 
 way you want, making the game cheap.
  
  Baseball is great, but sometimes when you swing at a perfect time, and it'll mess up. Also, you 
 won't be doing any running or passing because the A. I. does everything else, which is kinda lame.
 
  
  Boxing is awesome, but alot of times it can be fustrating because you'll throw a punch, and the 
 punch won't be thrown. Overall, its a great game, but sometimes the motion sensing will be off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you think will suck really bad, but its actuallt a ggod game. It 
 has good multiplayer, along with good single player. You can play a varity of games including tennis, 
 baseball, bowling, boxing, and golf. My favorite being boxing. This games is a good game that takes 
 advantage of the wii remotes caplibalities.
  -GAMEPLAY-Gameplay went over very well with me, The games are incredibly simple to play, and qutie 
 addictive. In baseball its really just like (but not completly) a home run derby mode. and in two 
 player mode, its a very easy to learn, simple game, with one player being a pitcher, and the other 
 is up to bat. If you hit the ball, depending on how long it takes the out feild to grab the ball, 
 it will tell you how many bases the batter ran, thats all there is to it. Tennis, a easy game, 
 where all you do is hit the ball, bowling, you play a game of bowling. (all youd really expcet 
 from a bowling game) boxing, you keep hitting the other boxer until you K. O. them, then you go 
 on to the next boxer, and in golf, all you do is hit the golf ball on incredibly simple (almost 
 sadly simple) golf courses.
  -GRAPHICS-Horrid, They are Pitiful graphics using the mii you make in the mii channel on the wii 
 home. they are sad graphics. but fortunatly there isnt tons of details in the graphics that make 
 them distracting.
  -SOUND-Nothing to get excited about here, just very simple sounds coming from the wii remote and 
 the T. V. Really, the sounds are pitiful, but its still a good game. -VALUE-You cant argue with 
 free!!!!
  -REVIEWER'S TILT-Its a wii game, so the tilt brought it up a few points. Thata all there is to 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Its hard to review a game like wii sports, not only is it free, but it comes with the wii. It would 
 be worse to review this game if it sucked. Luckily, Wii sports does not suck and is a great pack 
 in with the wii, it really shows what the wii can do and what we can expect for future sports games. 
 Wii sports comes packaged in with 5 games, Baseball, Tennis, Boxing, Bowling and Golf. In each 
 of these games, you use the Wii's motion sensor remote to execute such things as lobbing a ball 
 back and forward on the tennis court, or punching you way to victory in the boxing ring.
  
  Lets start with the visuals. Wii sports has some pretty decent visuals, pretty bad for next-gen 
 though. Before you can play wii sports, you can make your very own Mii to play with in the game 
 (and in other games in the future) . Now, i can't really criticize the mii seeing that it's a feature 
 that is on the Wii but since they both kinda come with each other i guess I can. The Mii basicly 
 lets you create your own wacky character, with a decent amount of stuff to apply, however, the 
 Mii does not have enough to make it look 100% like you, but that is to be expected. Now after you 
 create your mii, you can play. The visuals look pretty much like the graphics of a PS2, or maybe 
 even a smoothed out N64 (thats only if you really want to be critical) , and this is a next-gen 
 system. Now i know that Nintendo was going for Gameplay over graphics but come on, almost every 
 wii game looks better than wii sports. But, as bad as they are, im going to have to contradict 
 myself by saying that they do suit the game, as bad as they look. I also know that they arent supposed 
 to look amazing but still, they look pretty bad, but not bad enough that you think liek omg! teh 
 graphics are teh suxor! I cant looks at tehms! or unbearable. Now onto the Gameplay. The game really 
 shows what the Wii can/could/will do with the motion sensitive remote and sports. It plays pretty 
 well, and almost anyone can pick up a wiimote and start playing with fairly good skill. Lets start 
 with the first sport on the Menu, Tennis. Tennis is very simple. Just select the amount of players 
 you want, select how many games you will play and then you are on the court. Your characters moves 
 for you, which can be good and bad. Like what Nintendo is going for, its great for non-gamers who 
 just want to hit the ball but for those looking for a great tennis experiance its not. With your 
 characters moving for you, matches are very easy and really just depend on who has the better partner 
 and who doesnt hit it out. Another bad thing is that most of the time, your going to want to move 
 for yourself, because frankly, you could do a better job, seeing that some of the time you character 
 doesnt get there fast enough and you must rely on the perso n in back or front of you to get the 
 ball. When you want to hit the ball, just swing the wiimote as you would with a tennis racket, 
 and your player hits it as well. Unfortunetly, the racket movements don't really mimic yours, if 
 you swing to the right, they swing upward, swing to the left, they go right. It may not be excact, 
 but most of the time they work well. Now onto Baseball. Baseball is probably the worst out of the 
 five sports seeing that it really boils down to getting home runs. How you play Baseball is easy, 
 when you bat, you hold the wiimote as you would with a real bat, and to swing, you swing the wiimote, 
 it works well and is fun. When you are the pitcher, you throw your arm forward and the pitcher, 
 pitches, you hold down A and B for different pitching types. Now this would be a good game except, 
 the rules of baseball dont really apply, whenever someone gets the ball, whether or not they have 
 caught it on a fly or not, your out, and there are only 5 innings. Seriously WTF? Unless you hit 
 a homerun its nearly impossible to score in this game. The feild controls are also operated for 
 you farily well.
  Next is Bowling, the one that works the most. In Bowling, you hold the wiimote like you would a 
 bowling ball and hold B, then you follow through like you would in real bowling and let go of B 
 when you want the ball to fly out of your hands. You also use the D-pad to change from where you 
 want to bowl from and from what angle. It all works well, you really have to swing like you would 
 a real bowling ball, but you start out in the dead middle of the alley, so its easy to get a spare 
 and a strike. They could have done a lot moore with this, like get different balls with different 
 weights, the heavier it is, the harder you have to swing or at least not start you out in the middle 
 where its so goddanm easy.
  Next is Golf, you hold the wiimote like a golf club and swing like you would a real golf club, 
 keeping in mind not to swin too hard or u might slice it or hit it to far, i would say that golf 
 works pretty well, it really mimics golf, you can even pick your clubs. Whether or not you enjoy 
 this depends on whether or not you like golf.
  Finally we have boxing where you use the Nunchuck as well as the wiimote. Im sure you can guess 
 how you play this, one acts as your left hand, the other, your right. The dodge punches you you 
 can pivet left or rightor lean left or right. To punch, you kinda punch with the wiimote and the 
 nunchuck, which works fine, but boxing doesnt have much appeal to it for some reason so best wait 
 for a better boxing game on the wii.
  
  The sound is fair, the music fits the game but just gets annoying. Now the sound effects are great 
 though, they sound very real, and in such games like tennis, when you hit the ball, the sound of 
 the racket hitting the ball comes out of the wiimote which is just great, even though it sounds 
 kind of bad coming out if the wiimote.
  
  Because Wii sports is package in with the wii, its not like your wasting anything except for time 
 playing this. But Wii sports only feels like a demo because they dont explore each game enough. 
 Like tennis where you cannot move for yourself, or no real rules in Baseball. But what Wii sports 
 does do is get you hyped up for full fledged versions of these sports, but untill then, enjoy wii 
 sports with your family and your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiffeh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is, in a few words, a game for everyone. Whether you're 12 or 120, you'll find something 
 to love in Wii Sports. It may lack depth, but that's just what brings in the non-gamers.
  
  I've personally only had the game since the 19th (5 days) and I've already had a mass of my extended 
 family give the game a go (I had a party) . The people who found the game really engaging weren't 
 just my hardcore gaming cousins. Oh no. My 50+ year old aunts, uncles, and even my grandmother 
 had a blast as they hit homeruns, bowled strikes and even had a hole in one. These are people who 
 have never touched a videogame controller. Some of them even despise videogames. And yet there 
 they were, flailing there arms and laughing, and having a great time in general.
  
  This is where Wii Sports really shines. It won't necessarily please those who spend masses of time 
 dissecting Half-Life 2 or collecting every last rupee in Zelda. It will, however, give great joy 
 to those who haven't played videogames before. Two of my aunts are already considering buying a 
 console for their family purely on the basis of this game. Now THAT, my friends, is what Nintendo 
 have tried and succeeded in doing. Hugely. The games purposely simplistic graphics help create 
 an unintimidating atmosphere for these non-gamers and, actually, look pretty good for their purpose. 
 The textures are colorful and with the help of my trusty component cables, look great, while still 
 being unobtrusive. This really is Nintendo's mission packed into a single game, and believe me, 
 you will have fun with it.
  
  While it lacks depth for the hardcore gamers, it's simple enough to pick up that literally anyone 
 can play and have a brilliant time doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redflagman_2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my Wii like many others I also purchased the new Zelda, figuring that Wii Sports 
 wouldnt take up much of my free time, so just to see if it was decent I popped it in first when 
 I got my Wii home
  After I got a couple of Miis all customized, I set off with a seemingly simple baseball game. The 
 game immediately shows its pick up n play ability with the simple instructions given before 
 even start the game, not that you need any considering the fact that its surprisingly similar 
 to swinging an actual bat. With the exception of a few the games for the most part all other games 
 followed suit. What also surprised me was the depth that went into some of the games. Like in boxing 
 how you lean side-to-side or the how you can accidentally hook or slice the ball if you hit it 
 to hard in golf.
  Also nice was the sound. While the soundtrack is almost non-existent the sound that comes from 
 the Wii-mote immerses you in the games just tad bit more. The graphics though, are definitely not 
 as good as the can be even for a Wii title. The developers seem too have turn their backs to the 
 graphics but the game play is still quite rewarding.
  So please, I advise you, dont just toss this game to the side when you open your Wii give it a 
 chance before you know it your parents will be wanting in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toykillaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this review simply and break down the pros and cons:
  
  Pros: Game is very easy to play and lots of fun. Most of the games are very responsive to the Wiimote. 
 Multiplayer is its strongest point. Has 6 games in total (Boxin, Baseball, Tennis, Bowling, Golf, 
 Fitness) . Cons: Graphics and sound are not top rate. Lack of online play. Many of the games do 
 lack depth. Single player mode is not very strong.
  
  All in all this is a GREAT entry level game for the Wii. You will have a blast playing Wii sports 
 with your friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Even though it's a free game with the Wii.... It's still pretty great even though it feels more 
 like a demo game. I'm not quite sure if there will be a real game of this but either way I will 
 enjoy playing this game with friends, computers, and working out. Here is my review why this game 
 is a must play.... Even though you get it with the Wii.
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Of course the gameplay is going to be different then other games... As the new controls make it 
 very compelling and ingenious. It's not that hard to swing a racket, bat, glove, etc. The gameplay 
 can be pretty edgy in some cases, such as in the Golf Mode or in the Baseball mode. Sensitivity 
 in this game is very high and you barely have to move the control to hit the ball. All you need 
 to do is tap it.... You can even sit down to play any of the modes. The most active mode out of 
 them all.... That uses both the WiiMote and the Nunchuck is the Boxing. Your most likely going to 
 need to stand up for this mode as it would be hard to laydown or even sit down, while playing. 
 Graphics-
  
  Graphics are all right and it sometimes loses it's framerate on Golf and Bowling once in awhile. 
 Tennis and Boxing rarely have framerate issues and Baseball does this only after you hit the ball. 
 Golf might be pretty blurry at some points but Tennis has probably the best graphics out of the 
 whole game as it shows the arena and has some activity going on out of the arena. The sky is barely 
 colored and there is no night time games for any mode.... Bowling might be second as it shows alot 
 of characters activily playing and some people in the background. The worst graphics in the game 
 is probably boxing for background. There is barely anyone there and it's likely to be pitch black. 
 Golf has some shaded trees in its background.... From a scale through one to ten.... Here's what 
 modes have the best color and graphics.
  
  Tennis - 8
  Baseball - 7
  Bowling - 8
  Golf - 6
  Boxing - 6
  
  Sound -
  
  The sound is very clean and is fun to listen to when 
 you swing your racket, knockout a guy, etc. You can hear the sound from the WiiMote and the TV. 
 Even if your TV is on mute, you can still here the WiiMote making sound. I'm not sure if you can 
 mute this but there is probably a setting for this somewhere on the Wii Channel. The most sound 
 you'll probably here in the game is from Tennis and Bowling. The racket and drop sounds are pretty 
 mediocre and the bowling sounds are what you've come to expect from real life.
  
  Value-
  
  Wii Sports should last you a long time if you have at least two controllers.... You can't play 
 Boxing without a second nunchunk and wiimote. The Single Player can get boring pretty fast but 
 multiplayer is the only thing that should keep you coming back for more. I'm not sure if you can 
 unlock other sports just yet. Nintendo probably will make it downloadable for you to get the other 
 sports in the future or when the real game actually comes out for 49.99! There is only 5 modes 
 in the game or 5 sports.... and it shows 10 other circles... Which might be other sports you can 
 play.... Till then this game will probably last you another week if you have company over and is 
 fun FOR ALL AGES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Houseofcary
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I knew they were going to pack this game in, but i thot it would be a cheap game just to show off 
 the controls for the Wii. Low-and Behold the wii contoller is more then just a portal for the wii 
 to actually sell, it defines the system and Wii-Sports is your first step to mastering such a control.
 
  
  After waiting in the cold for 9 hours i had my wii in my hands a second controller and a copy of 
 zelda, i was set. I opened all of the packaging, set it up ASAP, popped in zelda, and played it 
 for a few hours. I said to myself this isnt that innovative, the controller was all hype. Zelda 
 uses the free motion controller very little and when u use it it's represented the same way a button 
 would be. Well all of my friends tired of me watching zelda and not wanting to dive in to Hyrule 
 just yet, beg me to get the hell off and let them play the sports. Wow.
  
  This is what nintendo meant by anyone can play. this is why they put as little into the graphics 
 as they could, this is why they made a system that costs.... wait it only costs 250 and it comes 
 with an amazing game that lets everyone play it.
  
  I play the sports game more then i play zelda. MY FATHER played his first videogame playing this 
 sports game. It is the end all see all coolest launch title for the controller. and the fact that 
 they use the Mii's just makes it all the more better.
  
  My only qualms with Wii Sports is the boxing, it could have been more accurate, and Nintendo didnt 
 produce nearly enough nunchuk controllers, so u have a fighting game that only one person can play. 
 until they produce more peripherals.
  
  Go buy a Wii. and a few controllers. if u cant decide on a game. thats fine. dont buy one. You'll 
 still be happy with your wii. Because you have Wii Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MixMastaMetal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  If you love to just sit around and play some quick fun games with friends in between classes or 
 work, then this is it. You can easily grab a Wiimote and get in a game of bowling or a quick baseball 
 game before your next thing in life. Or if you want you can sit down and roll for hours. The fun 
 never stops and never gets old. Best of all, this game comes FREE with any Wii. If you don't even 
 get any games when you buy your Wii you won't be bored, just play this and you will fall in love! 
 I am so glad this came with my Wii, GO NINTENDO!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The5thAvacado
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I didn't even want a Wii and I somehow end up with one. Well I'm not going to just let it sit there. 
 I'll at least play it. And what better game to start with than WiiSports? It comes free with your 
 purchase of a Nintendo Wii. Hm, no wonder.
  
  WiiSports capitalizes on the Wii's featured motion sensing style of gameplay. However you move, 
 your character will (supposedly) move the same way. But that's not exactly how things work. And 
 perhaps it was never meant to. But Nintendo sure did a good job of making us feel like we would 
 have some huge revolutionary style of gameplay with hyper-realistic abilities and be able to do 
 virtually anything. I guess that's why they scrapped the name Revolution.
  
  In WiiSports, you can create a character via your console's Mii feature. There's not too much variety, 
 but it lets you differentiate players and add at least a little flair.
  
  The main purpose of the game is to feature the Wiimote by playing, you guessed it, sports. There 
 are five sports: Golf, bowling, tennis, baseball, and boxing. There is not a lot of variation in 
 them except maybe golf because it has several different courses. Other than that, they're basically 
 the same thing every play.
  
  Tennis: Tennis is my favorite sport in real life, but on WiiSports, the game isn't in its glory. 
 There are three modes: Single game, 2 of 3, and 3 of 5. So it's not real tennis. More rather, it's 
 hitting the ball over the net and seeing who does it more times. One big problem is that all the 
 games are doubles. So you can either get a friend, or use the game's absolutely moronic AI partners. 
 For some reason these guys have trouble hitting the ball when they are playing offense (at the 
 net) . So you'll be at the baseline doing all the work. Another big problem is that you don't actually 
 get to move your Mii. When I said it's just hitting the ball over the net, I really meant it. You 
 have no control over your position. This might work if the Mii actually knew what to do. For some 
 reason it tries to predict where the ball will go, but it never actually succeeds in doing so. 
 But the big problem with the aut move is that your Mii will constantly set you up right in front 
 of the ball, making both a forehand and backhand near impossible to do successfully. If you can 
 overcome this, there's one last problem. Sadly, it comes in the Wii's biggest feature, the motion 
 control. When we saw the Wii and the people playing it on the commercial, we had thought that we 
 could hit the ball however we wanted with a swift motion of your hand, but that is not the case. 
 Instead, you have two motions: Forehand and backhand. There are no scoops, not spikes, not drop 
 shots, slices, or topspins. Just forehand and backhand. What's worse is that you can't control 
 your power. You can take a huge swing (though this usually causes the game to mess up your shot) , 
 or a little swipe and you'll get the same power. The strategy lies in timing. An early shot will 
 go to the inside, a good shot will go straight, and a late shot will go outside. And that's about 
 as complex the whole movement of the game gets.
  
  Bowling: Bowling is probably the only game in WiiSports that is actually similar to the real thing. 
 This game does a better job of the motion control than some others, but it still has its problems. 
 One being that you can't really do a straight shot. No matter what, unless you let the ball mosy 
 on in, it's going to have at least a little curve. And that little curve is usually enough to mess 
 you up. Speaking of mosying for some reason strikes are extremely easy to get if you just let the 
 ball go and don't apply force. All in all, bowling is pretty good.
  
  Baseball: Baseball probably makes the best use of the Wiimote's motion. You can move your bat freely, 
 but like in tennis, there is only actually one set animation for the swing. Unlike tennis however, 
 you can control your power, and timing is once again the deciding factor in direction. I am particularly 
 disappointed, however, at the fact that the only thing that links this game and real baseball is 
 hitting the ball and running the bases (only the former of which you actually get to do) . There's 
 really nothing to this game. It takes a few minutes of practice to be able to hit the ball well, 
 but once you can, just swing as hard as you can. Home runs are ridiculously easy to get. But it's 
 still not like real baseball. If they get the ball anywhere in the infield, for some reason you 
 are automatically out. And how many bases you travel is decided by how long it takes them to get 
 the ball. Most of the time you'll just get a double to single. Again, much of this game is left 
 to the AI to do. There is also the ability to pitch. Getting a ball is ridiculously hard, even 
 if you throw the ball so far outside that it's impossible to hit. I've never gotten more than one, 
 so I don't think the batter will be getting a walk any time soon. There are a few throws: Fastball, 
 splitter, curveball, and a screwball. I can hardly tell a difference in all of them except that 
 the fastball goes particularly faster and the curveball curves (sometimes out of the batter's range) . 
 Pitching is simple enough; you just hold a button to change the type of pitch, and swing your arm 
 down. The rest is up to the batter.
  
  Golf: Golf is probably the most fun of the sports, and it definitely has more variety in it. It 
 has four modes: Beginner, intermediate, expert, and a nine-hole game. The courses are always the 
 same, so don't expect to be caught off-guard. I am utterly appalled at the way this one works. 
 You have to swing your control, but not too hard. That will make the ball hook or slice. I couldn't 
 believe it. Here I thought I'd be able to take a good whack at the ball like in REAL golf, but 
 I found out the key is to take baby swings. I can understand this system for short shots, but there 
 is no excuse for this on long drives. The game itself is quite difficult. One tiny bit off your 
 desired power mark, and the ball can go anywhere from 10 feet to 10 yards off course. There is 
 also no way to view the green when putting except with a less-than-useful topographic map. Putting 
 altogether has its problems; the ball often stops too short on the green as if it was rolling on 
 carpet... Or fairway. One letdown is that there is actually no difference in course difficulty. 
 In beginner mode, the courses are just a hard as in expert. Instead of actually making the courses 
 challenging, they decided to jack up the wind to add some sort of element of difficulty. It's difficult 
 alright, but not challenging difficult, just handicapped difficult. A wind of 18 mph can easily 
 blow your ball up to 30 yards to the left, which is hardly believable. But in all, golf is put 
 together pretty well, which is more than can be said for the other sports.
  
  Boxing: And last we have boxing. Boxing is a different kind of sport. It's the only one to use 
 both halves of the control. It does a good job of giving you a full range of motion. Unfortunately, 
 the strategy that they try to implement is somewhat lost. That being said, the easiest way to win 
 is to swing your arms like a madman, which never really works in real boxing. Your not-so-smart 
 enemy likes letting his guard down, even in the middle of being pummeled. Your Mii never gets tired, 
 so bash away. There are a few different things you can do: Jab, swipe, uppercut, block, and dodge. 
 The dodging is cool because you can move left or right and back and forth. Too bad it doesn't really 
 help you. If you lose your health, you are knocked down and given a 10 count to get back up. I'm 
 not sure if pressing buttons and shaking the control helps you get up or not, but it doesn't hurt 
 to try. Boxing is particularly fun to play with two people. As you play these sports, you can upgrade 
 your Mii and earn skill points. As you earn more, your Mii will be a little less dumb and you can 
 play better. Once you get to 1000 points, you turn Pro.
  
  Aside from playing those five sports, you can do training. The training offers special activities 
 to do with the five games. You can earn medals and set high scores, but in reality it doesn't help 
 too much, with the exception of timing your shots. There is also a fitness test. Somewhat like 
 in BrainAge, you can take this test once a day to determine your athletic age. 20 once again is 
 the highest. The test is nothing more than the training programs reciprocated with a grade on them. 
 You can chart your Mii's progress and show it off to your friends.
  
  All in all, WiiSports is an okay game. It's actually less than okay, but who's keeping score? I 
 would never encourage you to buy this game, but there's no need as it comes with your Wii. But 
 if you plan on catching the next shipment of Wiis at your local Best Buy, bring an extra $50, because 
 you don't want to be stuck with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsalltheway712
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii system, launched Nov. 19, was bundled (standard) with a Nunchuck and a Wiimote. 
 But the best (and most surprising part) of the bundle was the game it came with, Wii Sports. Now, 
 just because it is bundled with the (beloved) system doesn't mean that it is bad, and Wii Sports 
 is a testimony to that fact. Wii Sports is a fun, solid introduction game to the way the Wii works 
 and is a great multiplayer pick-up-and-play game. Gameplay: 9/10 Wii Sports has five sports games 
 (mega-minigames) : Baseball, Tennis, Bowling, Boxing, and Golf. All of these games are mainly swinging 
 the Wiimote in specified ways. Now, it may seem repetitive, but the way that it works out is amazing. 
 Baseball, Tennis, Bowling, and Golf all use only the Wiimote. The specifications of how to play 
 are in the main review, so I won't bother you with having to read it again. The Boxing game uses 
 the Nunchuck. The reason I am giving the Gameply a nine out of ten is becuase of the Boxing minigame. 
 The boxing game can be very confusing at times and is not at all responsive to the types of hits 
 you throw, only responding to an uppercut at rare times. Not to say it is not fun, it is very fun 
 and chaotic, and I have had a fun time swinging wildly at the screen with my friends. Wii sports, 
 though very rarely, is slightly unresponsive at times, but that doesn't affect the greatness. Another 
 factor of Wii sports is the training and Wii Fitness modes. The training mode is a collection of 
 minigames testing different factors of each sports game. For instance, in one of the boxing training 
 games, you have dodge balls being thrown at you, and in a tennis mini-game you have to focus on 
 landing the ball in the court. There are three minigames for each sport, ending up in fifteen training 
 minigames to improve your skills. These have helped me nicely. To test out how good you are, the 
 creators added Wii fitness, which makes a random collection of the Wii Training mode minigames 
 and tests how good you are. Like brain age, the Wii calculates how old you are in years (fitness 
 age years in Wii fitness) and the minimal age is twenty. Graphics: 7/10 Why do I bash the graphics? 
 I don't. All I'm saying is that the graphics are overly-simplified. I actually like the figures 
 and it seems very smooth, but it could have been smoother. The main downfall of this game is that 
 the graphics are so simple. Sound: 9/10 Wii Sports, while delivering great sound effects, also 
 manages to make use of the Wiimote's speaker. The speaker actually makes you feel part of the game, 
 and helps lure you into playing more. The only bad thing is that the speaker is not high quality, 
 which is expected, because it is so thin and so small (if made any better the Wiimote would be 
 even more expensive than it is now! [$40!!] ) . Value: 10/10 Wii Sports is a great basis for a library 
 of games and truly introduces you into the Immersive land of Wii. But the thing that makes it's 
 value truly great is that it's $60!!! Just Kidding.... It's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgpoesj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I played wii sports for 20 hours then I lost in a minigame to someone who never even played before, 
 or video games in general. Nintendo is great introducing new things to people way to go Nintendo 
 Bowling great, I'm addicted. Baseball great. Tennis my favorite. Boxing a great workout. Golf you 
 can't hit lightly only fault in Wii Sports besides online play. Imagine if Wii Sports was online. 
 They should make a new one next year Wii Sports 2008. i think they should have a Mii's universal 
 skill level. They should have more options for games. In baseball you should have an option for 
 innings. I think 3 is to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfsrainkiba
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I realy enjoyed this game anybody can jump in and have a blast also I had more fun making the Mii 
 for the characters that you play with in the game .Almost everybody from my family and friends 
 has a Mii.
  
  Nintendo did right buy including this game for free alot of pepole would miss out on this game 
 just for the graphics alone. This shows that it's not about the graphics only I'll admit that graphics 
 do help but that's just one part of the game I pick gameplay over graphics anytime.
  
  Plus you can have four players playing at the same time { I should warn you to have the controller 
 strap to you're hand for safety} you could knock somebody out seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurochamps2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  positives-
  nice clean graphics
  test your wii age
  tenis , bowling ,and baseball work perfectly
  vibration makes it feel as if you are hitting a 
 baseball or a tenis ball when you swing it
  good party game
  for everyone
  free
  negatives-
  boxing feels broken
  some adjusting in you movements is needed to play golf not 
 much to keep you playing for more than an hour
  
  overall its tons of fun and it should keep you occupied for a while if played in small bursts. 
 Worth taking out to show first time wii player to show them the concept behind the controler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fairly simple game, but it can keep you hooked for hours on end. Players can choose 
 from five different sports, including golf, bowling, tennis, baseball, and boxing. Each of these 
 sports uses the Wii-mote in its own unique way. Wii Sports is a great game to start off with, because 
 it really familiarizes players with the basic functions and motions of the Wii's unique controller.
 
  
  Tennis is a simple, but fun game. Its probably one of the easier games to master on Wii Sports. 
 It basically involves swinging the controller just as one would swing a tennis racket. You also 
 have to do backhand swings to hit the balls that go to the left side of you. Tennis can have up 
 to four players, which makes for a very entertaining game. A single player can also control both 
 of his players, and although that might sound difficult, it is very easy. Tennis does not use the 
 nunchuck, and the players move automatically based on the path of the ball.
  
  Baseball is an interesting game, since players can bat and pitch. Batting involves simply holding 
 the Wii-mote on your shoulder, and then swinging it when the ball is pitched to you. It takes a 
 while to get used to the timing, but once you figure it out you'll have no trouble popping a few 
 into the outfield, and maybe even getting some homers. When pitching, players just swing the controller 
 foward, at whatever speed he or she chooses. Holding B will result in a curveball, holding A throws 
 a screwball, and holding both A and B lets the pitcher throw a splitter. Baseball is a lot of fun, 
 but I would have liked to have been able to do some fielding as well.
  
  Bowling is my favorite game out of all the sports. Basically, you hold the controller straight 
 up, and then you hold B and swing your arm back. When you let go of B, the ball drops. So obviously 
 if you release the ball at just the right time, it will be more accurate. The most interesting 
 thing about bowling is that the Wii-mote will even detect the spin you put on the ball. This allows 
 players to be a bit more creative with their strategies. I did have a problem when the ball would 
 keep spinning to the left for no reason, but then I figured out that I have to stand directly in 
 front of the TV to make it roll straight. Bowling can have up to 4 players, but if you don't have 
 4 controllers, you can simply use one controller and switch off as you go.
  
  Golf is one of the more challenging sports, and I think that younger children might have a tough 
 time mastering it. You start off with your driver, and hit the ball within range of the flag. If 
 you hit the ball too hard, it goes too high and can be affected by the wind more easily. Basically, 
 golf is just a matter of getting used to the amount of force you put into each hit. It is sometimes 
 a bit hard to do a very close put, because you have to flick the controller very lightly. Golf 
 is a lot of fun though, because if you press 1, you can see a relief map of the area, which shows 
 the basic curveature of the land. This can be a very useful tool when trying to execute long range 
 putts. Believe me, you'll go nuts when you get your first eagle!
  
  Boxing is the only game on Wii Sports which uses the nunchuck attachment, which serves as your 
 left boxing glove. When you play boxing for the first time, there will be a short tutorial of how 
 to throw different punches. Players hold the Wii-mote up to their faces to block, and thrusting 
 the controller foward is how you punch. You can also dodge punches by moving your body side to 
 side, which utilizes the tilt function in the controller. There are a few different punches you 
 can throw, including body jabs, face punches, left and right hooks, left and right upper cuts, 
 and side punches. There are a variety of ways to knock the other player out; some prefer guarding 
 themselves and hitting hard when there's a good open shot, while others simply swing the remotes 
 in all directions as fast as they can, knocking the guy out in 30 seconds.
  
  Everytime you win a game, or beat your previous score, you will get points. There is a graph for 
 each sport, where you start off at zero, and the highest score is 1000 (pro) . To train for these 
 sports, you can either use the game's training mode, or the fitness mode. Training mode offers 
 some basic training for each sport. It also gives you tips, and shows you how to use some different 
 abilities in each game. The fitness mode is really cool because you will have to execute different 
 challenges pertaining to each sport. Based on how well you perform, you will get a fitness age. 
 I am 34 right now, but you can only play the game once per day. It gets harder and harder as your 
 fitness age drops. Fitness and training are basically just side games to work on if you want to 
 take a break from playing a full game.
  
  One of the interesting aspects about Wii Sports is that it utilizes the Wii's Mii Channel. The 
 Mii channel is basically a built-in mini game which allows people to create little characters. 
 Although the customization options are fairly limited, you can customize the heights and weights, 
 eyes, noses, mouths, and many other characteristics of your player. If you try hard enough, you 
 can actually make some pretty decent look alikes. When you create a Mii, it goes into a while room 
 called the Mii plaza. The more Mii's you make, the more full the plaza becomes. Wii Sports uses 
 these Mii's as player profiles during the games, and each player has his or her own stats.
  
  As far as graphics go, Wii Sports is not the best looking game out there. The characters are 
 very cartooney, and basically look somewhat like 3D South Park characters. But I think that the 
 graphics fit the gameplay well, since it is supposed to be for younger children. Though the graphics 
 may not be this game's strongest point, the game is still a lot of fun, especially when you have 
 friends over to play with you. As far as sound, I was pleased by a lot of the sound effects. The 
 announcer voice is fitting for the game, and I like some of the sounds that come out of the Wii-mote.
 
  
  Wii Sports is probably one of the better games that has come free with a console. It will provide 
 players with hours of enjoyment. I have to say that even though I had Twilight Princess when I 
 first got the Wii, I still player Wii Sports first, for about 2 hours. Despite the game's seemingly 
 simple presentation, there are plenty of good things to find in Wii Sports. It is a highly addictive 
 game, and clearly demonstrates the Wii-motes abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARASTOPHES
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  First off, Wii Sports isn't going to be the best looking game on the console, but it definately 
 is one of the best ones. Second off, I'm very fortunate to be one of the lucky saps out there to 
 receive a Wii.
  Your games are the following:
  Bowling
  Tennis
  Baseball
  Boxing
  Golf.
  In my opinion the fun level to the not-so-fun level goes in that order.
  The first time 
 you put a great spin on a bowling ball, or the first time you pitch a 95 mph fastball, YOU ARE 
 HOOKED. Plain and simple.
  Wii Sports is an excellent game, full of lots of replay value, whether you single or with friends. 
 I reccommend this game to everyone, even though you receive it with a Wii.
  Game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggydoo29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports... an unusual pack in game from Nintendo (one may have expected the likes of Mario or 
 Zelda) , but a good pack in game nonetheless. There are many things one can say about this set of 
 games, but what is most notable is that the games are simply FUN. Experiencing the Wii Remote and 
 Nunchuk is like something you have never experienced before! Playing tennis... with true back hand 
 and forehand swinging... doing a real 4 step approach in bowling, with realistic physics of the 
 ball, the spin, and pin action; the marvels of boxing, with combos, ducking, dodging (even dodging 
 backwards!) and more! Golf is a blast too, with realistic effects on the swing, and how hard you 
 hit in relation to the club you are using and to the wind, as well as the topography. Baseball 
 was the only disappointment for me, as it is just simply swinging the bat, and throwing over hand 
 fast pitches. Cracking a home run can be fun though. Graphically, these games won't knock you on 
 your knees or anything, but they are quite effective at conveying what you are supposed to be seeing. 
 In some ways, the graphics work best this way, as the games tend to concentrate hard on the physics, 
 and the controller actions, which is what the Wii is all about. Sound-wise, the games are right 
 on the money. Not alot of music during the games to irritate, but just normal sound effects, as 
 you would expect from the given locales. This set of games is among the most addicting I have played 
 in awhile. Score one for Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superion74
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about a free game that bundles with the console system when it's launched? In 
 Wii's case, you can say that it's quite possibly the most fun game in its lineup, at least for 
 multiplayer. Wii Sports is not only a terrific game, I think it will convince more people to give 
 Wii a shot than their franchise title, Legend of Zelda, could muster.
  
  Wii Sports is a collection of 5 sports games: tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. It is 
 a great introduction to Wii's revolutionary motion-detecting techonology, utilized nicely with 
 its Wii remote (and nuk-chuk) , and it comes with each Wii console. Its graphics are simplistic 
 and doesn't demonstrate Wii's capability as a next-gen system, and seeing players waving their 
 Wii remotes around might elicit more snickers than attentiveness. But once you try it, it won't 
 matter if you were a teenager or a mother of three, you will be engrossed by the simple and intuitive 
 controls, and gameplays that will keep you occupied for hours upon end. Wii Sports' mission was 
 straight-forward: deliver a good game that showcases this new technology, with a gameplay that 
 is addictive and fun for whole family. I'd say this is Mission Accomplished. Go get a Wii, and 
 even if you purchase other titles like Zelda or Excite Truck, you will find yourself spending more 
 time with Wii Sports than anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiFreak1993
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a game that comes with the Nintendo Wii, and I do not think Nintendo could have chosen 
 a better pack-in with its new console. This game will get you familar with the new controls, and 
 it will be a fun game for years to come. There are five different sports. They are tennis, baseball, 
 bowling, golf, and boxing. They are all fun, and you use your Mii that you create in the Mii Channel 
 when you play. All these games defenitly get you moving. These are also all great multiplayer games. 
 There is also a Wii Fitness Age, similar to your Brain Age on the game on the DS. You take three 
 tests then you get your age. You can then boost your age by playing games and then testing it again. 
 Like in Brain Age, the best score is a 20, so people younger then that might get inaccurate results. 
 This is a great party game, and only boxing requires the Nunchuk attachment. This is a great game 
 for the beginning gamer, a seasoned veteran gamer, or an Olympic champion. This game will always 
 give you a new test. This is a great game, and it is included when you get the Nintendo Wii Console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-Unit456
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Love the gameplay, wiimote sounds, sensors, wiiconnect24 enabled, and sooo much more that you couldn't 
 possibly imagine! Worthwile game to be playing, worth the wait, and an extremely addictive game 
 that will keep you on the strap of your WiiMotes! One of the best sports games to date I have ever 
 played so far. I recommend you play with a huge group of friends and party because this will be 
 an awesome game to be holding on to for a long time! Though I really wish it was online... OMG I 
 am running out of things to say about this game!!!! I have the Wii and I love it OK! 8.8 From ME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Each one of the games are really fun to play, and some games are more fun to use the controller 
 for than others. The best games to play on Wii Sports are probably baseball, bowling, and boxing. 
 Tennis and golf aren't as fun, even though they can be pretty fun to play in any spare time that 
 you have. It's impressive to see (especially in baseball) how responsive the controller is to your 
 hand movement, and can even pick up the shakiness in your hands.
  
  Graphics: 6
  Gets what it needs to done and makes pretty decent use for your Mii, which really is all of what 
 they are used for other than mingiling . The graphics can sometimes get a little weird in spots 
 such as the bat going through your characters in baseball, not to mention the fact that the outfielders 
 don't have arms or legs.
  
  Sound: 7
  Not much sound to be heard, an impressive thing to note are the sound effects that come out of 
 the Wiimote while you're playing. Boxing is probably the most impressive game sound wise.
  
  Value: 7
  Basically the only thing to say about this game is that it is incredibly fun, but 
 the fun that you will have with the game will probably only be had for a few months until you forget 
 all about it whenever you're playing the other games the Wii has to offer.
  
  Final Words:
  Takes a fantastic use of the Wiimote and the Mii characters and is a lot of fun 
 to play. If the game hadn't been free with the Wii, the value may be lower but it is definetely 
 worth to play. The only thing missing in the game is online play, which would be really fun to 
 have. Maybe we'll have Wii Sports 2 someday? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkiller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has brought out most of the Wii's full potential. Using both the Wiimote and Wiinumchuk 
 whatever it is. This game has alot of great value especially when playing with friends and family 
 you will discover how fun it truly is. Though at times the Wiimote could get frustrating such as 
 in gold where it is very sensative and really hard to have a good shot.... but after a ton of time 
 practicing you should be able to get the hang of it. Tennis is one of my favorites its a game which 
 is simply easy to get into and easy to get out. Then theres bowling which I didn't like at first 
 because I would only hit 1 or 2 pins but after awhile I became the KING PIN. Baseball is simple 
 and easy but at times the Wii characters can look cool and just plain stupid. Finally gold my least 
 favorite and takes the most getting used it is well though out but at the end it might not be the 
 game to play with family or friends. With such a great game coming right out of the box when you 
 purchase a Wii who knows if there could be a new Wii sports in year a so but until then this one 
 will last for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  As the gs review says, this is the perfect game to box with the wii, with exception to zelda perhaps. 
 People love this game and people get into it. Be sure to at least give this game a try, especially 
 with some friends when you open up your brand new wii :D It comes with tennis, baseball, boxing, bowling, 
 and golf. Golf is almost too hard and the wiimote too sensitive to work well and the boxing seems 
 to have issues. Tennis, baseball and bowling are all great fun though!
  
  Unfortunately the wiimote doesn't seem to register very well at times, particularly with the boxing. 
 This is probably my least favorite of the included gametypes, largely because its 2 player only, 
 so I overlooked it for the most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  A game that is surprisingly addicting and will consume much of your first few days with the Wii. 
 Instead of a traditional review im going to review each sport within the title.
  
  Tennis - While its very difficult to hit it in the direction you want, this game is well rounded 
 and fun. Difficult at first but once you get the hang of it you'll have a great time. .
  Bowling - The deepest and most fun game on the title. This one will probably have the entire family 
 wanting to play. My only disappointment with it is its unrealistically easy. To the point everyone 
 will get strikes and spares at ease. .
  Boxing - Sloppy. Its obviously rushed and doesn't detect most of your motion. Its more or less 
 a throwaway game, although it will impress you at first.
  
  Baseball - Extremely fun. Although being just a hit and run game makes it quite shallow. Its funny 
 to see your characters go after the ball and such. The pitching is completely shallow and lacks 
 any skill requirement however, so the hitting is the only real fun part.
  
  Golf - This game is probably done the best. It has a lot of polish and is surprisingly deep. It 
 can be quite time consuming but its a satisfying and fun addition.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  So much diversity and its an excellent showcase of the Wii's capabilities.
  
  Graphics - 7
 
  A crisp and sharp simple feel. That is a good thing to introduce people into the Wii and it does 
 give the game a more light hearted feel.
  
  Sound - 8
  The menu sounds coming from the Wiimote are cool and the sound effects are great, espically hearing 
 them run.
  
  Overall - 8.8
  A wonderful addition to your Wii library. My only problem is its overall lack of polish and depth. 
 Though in certain areas this is redeemed by training and fitness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmappblarg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Recently i have been playing Wii sports for you guessed it, the nintendo Wii.
  It comes with a collection of 5 sports games each with their own training minigames, 3 per game. 
 There is even a worout program that runs basically like brain age for the DS. You do 3-5 training 
 programs a day and it gives you a fitness age based on your performance in speed, power, and balance. 
 The training programs are simple enough, with time trials and stamina tests, but the real game 
 here is in, no surprise, the 5 main sports games. First of all, there is golf, a perfect fit for 
 motion sensors right? Not really, the only thing in your swing that matters is how hard you swing 
 and that is way to senitive, a tap becoming a grand slam. Overall, annoying and not that fun. There 
 is also boxing, which turns out to respond well, but the aim of your punches tends to drift around 
 and miss more than not. Baseball, the only thing you control is swinging and pitching, it is very 
 responsive and works overall, its just not my thing. Tennis is good, but you often have to swing 
 a little earlier than the ball or you are going to miss. Finally, BOWLING, the best game on this 
 collection in my opinion due to its perfect control and the ability to add spin easily with a twist 
 of your wrist. The pins have great physics except for the occasional pin just missing falling over 
 somehow. It will tilt like this / and then straighten out. Other than that, it is a very solid 
 game that saves the collection from 6. x territory in my opinion. Overall, a very good collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiocranium
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  It's truly a pleasing compilation of games. Its a blast seeing all my miis do amazing things like 
 this. The motion sensing wiimote works perfectly almost all the time (although some times a swing 
 or punch goes undetected) . This is still a great game to have and you don't even have to buy it! 
 A great family game, but an added extra for those who play these actual sports. I find myself loving 
 tennis and baseball. I've honestly played this more than other games I bought for the Wii. I recommend 
 this one for anybody that even feigns interest in sports, because its about al ot more than that. 
 It's a blast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiefEricson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is simply a great introduction to the Wii, as well as a great game by itself. The innovative 
 control scheme puts a completely new twist on sports games, and I can only hope that future Wii 
 games will explore all of these games in more indepth ways. Tennis is probably my favorite. It's 
 simple, but still fun. Great multiplayer. I can't wait to buy more controllers so I can play some 
 2v2.
  
  Boxing is fun, though the controls are sometimes whacky.
  
  Golf is pretty good, though I'm not really a golf fan in the real world.
  
  Bowling is great, 
 though I need more practice.
  
  Baseball is amazing, though, once again, I need more pratice.
  
  The graphics, I really like. 
 Sure, there's no advanced shading or bloom effects, but the cute style of the game more than makes 
 up for it. Other reviewers speak of the graphics as if they're an eye-sore, but in my opinion, 
 they're just right. The sound is pretty good, though nothing amazing. I do like hearing the THWACK 
 of a tennis racket against the ball though. Very immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's properly named Wii Sports is the perfect pack-in title for the sleek new Nintendo Wii 
 console. Which is a nice and enjoyable game that delivers a decent amount of options, and a simple-yet-charming 
 style. While there are some that still wished that the Wii could of had a more traditional Nintendo 
 game like Mario . it still needs to be said that there couldnt have been a better game to embody 
 Nintendo's Playing-for-the-Masses mantra.
  
  The game is essentially a sports compellation, ( hence the name Wii Sports ) consisting of Tennis, 
 Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing. Each game does a decent job introducing the player to the new 
 Wiimote in a simple and easy to learn way. Before each game you are prompt by a short tutorial 
 to teach you have the controller works for the game. And before you know it you are playing like 
 a pro. The entire game has enough meat on its bones to warrant extended play for its single player 
 aspects. But the game without a doubt works best as a multi-player game.
  
  Each game uses the Wiimote in the ways that you may expect. In Baseball, you use the controller 
 as a bat, and in Golf you use the controller as a Golf club. It works simple-and-easy. Each of 
 the different games works differently:
  
  In Tennis, you use the Wiimote as a racket. Your character on screen automatically follows the 
 ball no matter where it goes on screen. Leaving you to focus on hitting the ball wherever its direction 
 it comes to you is. The technology on the controller is rather interesting, as wherever you move 
 the racket on screen is the same as you move in real life with the controller. And it really does 
 a nice job giving some simple and enjoyable fun that shows off the controller.
  
  Baseball, on the other hand works very well as on one hand and kind of bad on the other. The entire 
 game is made up of two parts batting and pitching. Batting is done quite well, and works much the 
 same as you may think. You use the bat to hit the ball that is pitched to you. The bat on screen 
 emulated the movement of the controller nearly perfectly. However, the correlation of your force 
 of hitting the ball and your character doing the same isnt completely there. But it still works 
 well enough in the end. The other half of the game is you as the pitcher. This part of the baseball 
 form of Wii Sports is rather terrible. No matter how hard you throw the ball or curve it, it never 
 does so perfectly on screen. Completely devoiting the game from depth or realism that the batting 
 form clearly has.
  
  The Bowling part of Wii Sports is the absolute best part of the game. As it nearly perfectly emulates 
 real bowling. The Wiimote essentially becomes a bowling ball. You hold down the B button, and follow 
 threw with the controller and release the B button while the controller goes under you to role 
 the ball. It feels like your really bowling, and the action on screen gives a perfect rendition 
 of what really bowling is like. If you put more force into the ball, the ball will role faster 
 and have more force upon impact of the pins. If you put a curve on the ball either way down the 
 lane it will do that one screen in a realistic fashion. In the end, the bowling aspect of Wii Sports 
 works very well, and will keep you coming back if you like bowling in general or want some simple 
 fun.
  
  Golf, works kind of badly. The Wiimote becomes a golf club as you hold it down by your side and 
 follow threw to hit the ball. You start off with a few practice swings and then you hold down the 
 A button to move up to the ball and swing and hit the ball. The problem with Golf in Wii Sports 
 is that the act of hitting the ball slightly is very difficult. Its very easy to over-power the 
 ball and hit it in the ruff or in the water or so on. You are forced to hit the ball with about 
 half to power of you would in real life to get a good feedback from the ball and keep it in the 
 green. And in the end, it doesnt feel like real golf by any means.
  
  Boxing, also doesnt work very well. Though it works much better the golf. It is also the only 
 game to use the nunchuk peripheral. You hold the Nunchuck and Wiimote up and essentially they become 
 you boxing gloves and so on. You can hold them up next to you to guard and punch to hit the character. 
 It works feel, yet is in some ways over simplified.
  
  And that comes to the only really problem with Wii Sports , is the lack of depth. While most of 
 the game work very well. They do have a real lack of depth and are far too over-simplified. While 
 this works very well to ease the player into the act of using the Wii controller. It does take 
 a bit away from the overall game. But the game does have a nice amount of replay value in getting 
 your score's for each game high enough to rise in the stats. And each game has there own set of 
 training modes. But still thee could have been more to this package.
  
  However, with that said, what does add a whole lot of replay value to the game is the Wii Fitness 
 feature. Which is essentially a series of fitness modes that test your endurance and such. The 
 game keeps your stats and gives you an overall grade, but you can only do this once a day. Which 
 is good, considering that you will want to came back day-after-day-after-day to raise your scores. 
 There is also split-screen for each game on Wii Sports and each game works better as a multiplayer 
 game also. So while Wii Sports does have its downs in the depth department, it does add a good 
 amount of options and comes free with the Nintendo Wii system. Which is enough to warrant this 
 game the privilege of spinning in your system for quite some time.
  
  The presentation of Wii Sports is simple. It uses the Mii's as the characters in the game. And 
 the overall levels and so on look pretty decent in some ways. What the game lack in the technical 
 aspect it makes up for it with charm and is simple and enjoyable for the eye's. The sounds is a 
 decent collection of music that fits each game decently, and in the end works much the same as 
 the graphics.
  
  In the end, Wii Sports is a really enjoyable. While the game lacks depth in the game play department. 
 It add a decent amount of options and has enough meat on its bones to warrant extended play of 
 the game. And the fact that the game comes free with the system is just more reason to keep you 
 playing.
  
  Wii Sports is a decent and enjoyable game, that perfectly embodies Nintendo's Playing -for-the-Masses 
 mantra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irot
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports may be tech demo for the new Nintendo system, why it lacks in depth, it doesn&acute; t 
 in development and fun. For every sport you will choose your very particular Mii, and, while playing, 
 he will be developing an experience according to your results (win and you will get more points, 
 lose, and your experience will go down) , which makes the game addictive, once you get to Pro (managing 
 to get 1000 points in a particular sport) will guarantee you harder rivals. It &acute; d be necessary 
 to get 1000 points on each game to finish it , but it&acute; s just damn addictive, in Box, for 
 example, you&acute; ll get more and more crowd supporting your Mii as you get more experience.
 
  
  Now the sports: Baseball: It cost me some work to play this one, but it&acute; s very good once 
 you learn how to bat/pitch, the controller works nice in here and there is no more gratifying satisfaction 
 than making the ball go out of the park.
  
  Golf: I just use it to relax, very nice and fluid game, I&acute; ve had some issues with the controller, 
 but it seems to be because I was playing too close to the TV. The fields are just creative and 
 will make you use all of your logic to defy wind direction, speed, traps, and the force you will 
 use to get that ball in the hole.
  
  Tennis: My GF&acute; s favorite, just pick up the wiimote and play, no explanation needed, very 
 addictive, although sometimes the Mii won&acute; t do exactly the same movement you are trying to 
 do in real life.
  
  Bowling: In my opinion the most addictive game, takes sometime to master it and avoid getting the 
 bowl going to the left lane, but once you get it, it&acute; s pretty interesting, I haven&acute; t 
 been able to get more than a strike turkey (3 strikes) .
  
  Box: Nice game, if this is just a preview, we could expect a nice Punh out sequel for the Wii with 
 this gameplay perfected. The punches sometimes react later, and it depends on how you hold the 
 wiimote to punch.
  
  After 3 days of having my wii next to my tv, I&acute; m happy with this game, not getting tired 
 of this one yet, trying to get to the pro level is fun and challenging, The first day I did had 
 sore arms, but I&acute; m just the kind of guy that like to be standing up and chasing the ball 
 so I get just too excited. Give it a try, and if you have, then try to get your Mii to Pro level, 
 it will keep you busy sometime and it&acute; s a nice alternative to other Wiii games of different 
 categories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i say about this game is oh my god this is so much fun. Wii Sports really in my 
 opinion shows off very well how the Wiimote works. Wii Sports comes with the Wii for free, but 
 it is so addictive and so much fun that i would actually buy this game for $40 or hell even $50. 
 Wii Sports is the perfect game to play with your friends, family, husband/wife or boyfriend/girlfriend. 
 Its very easy so really anyone can play no matter their gaming experience. Wii Sports includes: 
 tennis, baseball, bowling, golf, and boxing. Tennis is so much fun if you play with two players 
 it actually feels like you are on a double's team. For tennis all you do is flick the wiimote up 
 to serve and then just swing the wiimote to the side to hit the ball like if you were actually 
 holding a tennis racet. Baseball is my favorite. I have many reasons why its my favorite but if 
 i listed every reason this would be a very long review so i will just list some reasons. I played 
 baseball for 9 years but i had to stop due to a wrist injury, i always got the urges to play again 
 but i couldnt. Wii Sports baseball made it feel so real that now i can play baseball without actually 
 playing it. For instance you hold the wiimote like if you were actually holding a bat and then 
 you swing it to hit the ball. And then you be the pitcher and all you have to do for that is just 
 pull the wiimote back then swing it foward and it pitches the ball. The whole game is very realistic 
 it feels like i am actually playing baseball. Bowling is super fun, you line your mii avatar (which 
 you create on your wii) wherever you want them to throw the ball and you can even make them curve 
 the ball for a better shot. Its very realistic, you get strikes, spares, and even gutter balls. 
 In the training mode it has fun bowling mini games. Golf is interesting, for me it took me a couple 
 times to really get how play but once i figured it out it was so much fun. Its not miniture golfing 
 but it is still really fun. Boxing it was ok but some of the moves you try doing dont always come 
 out the way you want them too. It's still kinda fun though when you are competing againest someone 
 but like i said when you try to pull off a move it doesnt always do the move you want which is 
 annoying. And when you knock someone out it takes them 3 times intill they dont get up anymore. 
 But overall i love this game, it is one of my favorite Wii games yet. I can play it for hours and 
 never get old of it. And its even funner when you are playing with someone else. Wii Sports is 
 awesome check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo Wii is a fantastic console, and at such a attractive launching price it is easily one 
 of the most accepted console launches in years. What more the system ships with Wii Sports for 
 free! Read on to find out how this compilation of sport games adds up.
  
  Graphically the game is looks very basic with smooth looking environments and nice lighting and 
 what not, but the game overall looks very last gen. However the Nintendo Miis that you create are 
 fun too look at and its fun playing with your virtual adivtar that you created on your Nintendo 
 Wii, so in that extent the game has a fun whacky look to it.
  
  The Gameplay is what the Wii does best, and this is a perfect example of the Wiis interesting and 
 innovated control skem works. There are 5 different sports to play through. Tennis is basically 
 what you would expect you flick the Wiimote up to serve, and whack it to hit the ball, plain and 
 simple but very effective, fun and intuitive, plus it boosts 4 players which is definitely awesome.
 
  
  Next up is Baseball, which allows for 2 players, basically this mode really utilizes the controller 
 as the bat, and as the pitcher. Its really interesting and cool how you can actually hold the controller 
 like a bat and even spin it above your head before you hit the ball. The controls and sensitivity 
 work mostly great and its one of the funniest baseball sims ever. Bowling is without a doubt my 
 fav of the compilation, basically it works just as you would imagine, but the actual feel it, really 
 simulates the sport very well and its easily the best bowling game ever.
  
  Golf plays really fun as well but the fact that you have to actually stand up for this one kind 
 of puts more effort into it, and the touchy controls and sensitivity make this one to tone your 
 skills at. Finally we come to the last of the sports which is boxing. This is easily the worst 
 out of all the sports, basically because its very misleading, and the controls really dont work 
 as good as they should. This is mostly noticeable in the training sections of Boxing, where you 
 have to hit certain areas exactly which is very hard to do perfectly due to the modes very wonky 
 controls. Overall Wii Sports is a fantastic addition to the Wii launch lineup and the fact that 
 it comes packaged free with the console makes it an even better deal. Overall its a great use of 
 the Wiimote, and its fun whacky style, and multiplayer addictiveness will have you coming back, 
 even after the novelty of the game wares off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryan220
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  First is first: Wii Sports is a good game. Period. It doesn't go beyond what we would call a beautiful 
 game ; it barely even touches homebase as a good-looking game. But it does look good.
  
  Really, I believe Wii Sports is a family game. My mom, dad, and sister were all instantly drawn 
 to this simple yet different game. You ARE the game, in a way. You control what you do. You don't 
 just push a button to hit the racket, you swing your arm to hit the ball. You don't push random 
 buttons to box; you actually jad at the TV.
  
  Though the graphics are lacking, everything else makes this seem like nothing important at all. 
 The only thing I could have wished that Wii Sports would have included was Online Play. But who 
 knows; the WiiConnect24 is very mysterious... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike360xoxo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  A very good game clearly showing what the wii has to offer, it goes pretty in depth with the wiimote 
 and shows the wii's awesomeness, thought it is lacking lots, it's worth a play (it's free soo...) 
 and if you don't get it free, stay away froms it. not the best game to spen 30 bucks on.
  
  Bowling- awesome, even if theres a bug that the ball curves left ALL THE TIME, it' alright, it's 
 very in-depth with when you release it how fast you go and where you spin it, very awesome.
  
  Tennis- BEST GAME ON wii sports, it is fun for thje whole family ! you is awesome how the wiimote 
 reacts to your swings, not much more to say about it... Golf- fustrating, boring and needs to die, 
 hate it ! it is so hard to do anything on that, really glitchy too, one of the worst games.
  
  Boxing- ugh, it's hard to do anything on it, hard to explain, lets just go with it sucks 
 
  
  baseball- very very fun, not as fun as tenns or bowling, but fun, i like how you don't hjave to 
 field, always found that annoying, so yes on of the better sports. anyway i have to end this review 
 for the Zelda tp review ima right, imo gamespots greg rating for zelda was wrong... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a compilation of sports games all using the Wii remotes functions. The game demonstrates 
 the versatility of the Wii's motion sensing technology. Wii Sports comes with five games, Tennis, 
 Baseball, Bowling, Golf and Boxing, it also gives you training sessions for each game, 3 sessions 
 per game, and a fitness test, which lets you test the fitness age . You may perform this test once 
 a day for each Mii. Its basically taking after the Brain age games, but testing your physical ability 
 instead of wits.
  
  Wii Tennis puts you in a doubles match of tennis, the game is one to four players and you use the 
 Wii remote to do backhands and forehands on the ball. I've heard the controls allow you to put 
 various spin techniques on the balls. Including speedy serves and spins to cause the ball to go 
 an unexpected direction. I'm still getting the hang of this one, as most of the time I just end 
 up hitting it out of bounds. But I have noticed that out of dumb luck I am able to throw a spin 
 onto the ball. In time I should get better.
  
  Wii Baseball pits you in a 1-2 player game. You take turns at the top and the bottom of the inning 
 to either pitch or bat. Pitching allows you to throw 4 different pitches and at various speeds 
 depending on the speed you swing the remote. Batting involves precision in hitting the ball, if 
 you can time it right it isn't hard to hit a home run.
  
  Wii Bowling, this is by far my favorite. The game allows you to play 10 frames of bowling with 
 up to 4 players. You can control the speed of the ball by the speed you swing the remote and you 
 can put various spins onto the ball as its going down the lane. The sound effects in this one especially 
 give a very satisfying effect to how you threw the ball. The noise sounds like you are actually 
 in a real bowling alley.
  
  Wii Golf, Wii golf is also a blast, the responsiveness to the amount of power you put into hitting 
 the ball is very pleasing. Wind also plays a factor in hitting the ball and it is a challenge to 
 get the ball in the hole, this is by far the hardest game to master, it all comes down to angling 
 the ball and hitting it just right.
  
  Wii Boxing, the game is by far the most tiring out of the 5. I found my arms sore after a round 
 of doing it, you have to really move your body to punch, block and evade while facing either a 
 computer or human opponent. The game has a well balance to it I just wish you could move around 
 the ring a bit.
  
  All in all the game is a blast to play! And better yet, its free in the box! Wii sports is a great 
 title that puts the wii remote into good use, great for the new owner who is eager to see how the 
 wii remote performs in action. you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Master
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the intuitive design of the wii mote and puts it to the song of sports. The games 
 range from tenis, baseball, bowling, golf and boxing. This is one of those games that you get to 
 use your Miis, a wii created person, to play with. Your Mii will get to become stronger and maybe 
 even become a pro at a sport. The info on your Mii will be posted on the Wii board, if you have 
 wi-fi set up. This game in my opinion is good as far as I really care. The only things I have a 
 problem with is the ball in bowling always goes left, and for boxing I cant find a nunchuk anywhere 
 but the hopfully will change with time. In the end get this game not that you really have a choice 
 it comes bundled with the hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opiumbrl
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Summary: I played this game the whole day I got the WIi. My friends and I sat around or should 
 I say jumped around for almost 8 straight hours. If you're looking for a good time to hang with 
 your friends this simple 5 game collection is worth buying the Wii alone. Not to mention that you 
 get to actually move around when you're playing a video game. After about 20 rounds with the boxing 
 game my shoulders were sore for two days. Graphics: Not that great. They're sharp on a big screen 
 but this is a game which they seem to have just designed to show people how the controllers can 
 be used on the Wii. They did not spend much time on the graphics for this game. Sound: Ok. It's 
 your basic sports sounds with a lot of repeated statements which gets a little tiring after a while. 
 But overall not bad. Gameplay: Awesome. The controllers are responsive and fun to get to know. 
 Tennis and bowling I thought was the most fun, while I found gold to be very hard to get the swinging 
 correctly, which I think I will play the least just because it was so hard... But on the other 
 hand, gold is pretty dang hard. So at least it was true to that. Replayability: Fantastic, you 
 can always pick it up and get a few more points for your Mii characters' skills and then put it 
 away. Finally, if you're looking for a reason to buy the Wii, this is a nice start, it comes 'free' 
 with the Wii when you buy it and it is a great time on a slow Sunday with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a very fun, very addictive, and very satisfying Wii launch title which conveniently 
 came with the system.
  
  All of the games are basically the same on the level of replayability and fun, but the ones that 
 stand out most are Boxing and Bowling. Boxing is challenging enough to keep you playing for hours 
 on end, and Bowling is just plain old fun. I mean, it's bowling.
  
  The gameplay with the WiiMote and Nunchuk is great, and shows us exactly what the Wii can do on 
 the level of interactivity.
  
  The sound is pretty basic, besides when you hit the ball, or get a good hit in boxing and the sound 
 effect comes out of the controller. To me, that gives the game a little more flare and makes it 
 much more enjoyable.
  
  The Point system for each game definetely keeps me playing trying to reach the Pro level, (which 
 doesn't seem as challenging as I though) and it's very innovative that it saves the stats to your 
 Mii, which you can save to your WiiMote and bring over to your friends house and show off your 
 skills.
  
  Wii Sports is just a great, fun game and I'd definetely reccomend it to all who didn't receive 
 it with their purchase of the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports has something to live up to, as it's the first game packaged with a console since Super 
 Mario 64. Does it equal the 64's classic game? Not in a million years, but it is a fun way to test 
 the Wii's fun controls.
  
  5 sports are included in the game, but only a few of them are fun. The tennis game is so mind-numbingly 
 basic it almost seems worthless. The ball goes back and forth, and when it gets to your Mii, you 
 move the controller. There's no moving your Mii side to side, as the game does it automatically. 
 This leaves the game very uninteresting, and leaves the player not feeling like they are actually 
 playing tennis. On the other end of the spectrum, the bowling game on Wii Sports is excellent. 
 Everything has more player controller, from your stance to the spin on the ball. All of the other 
 games fall somewhere between those two.
  
  The graphics in Wii Sports are really pathetic. Nothing is very pretty, or really special at all. 
 Everything is very basic, and almost seems sub-Gamecube. The sound for this game is just as uninteresting.
 
  
  In the few days I've had the Wii, I've come to the conclusion that Wii Sports is a good game to 
 show off what the Wii can do (control-wise) , but doesn't really show off anything else. Although 
 the bowling game is really fun, the graphics and sound are so bland that I would be pissed off 
 if I actually purchased this game separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfofastaple
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Alright, now, let me say now: by definition of todays games, this is a HORIBLE game.
  
  Hence why they bundle it with the wii.
  
  I am very glad they did not make this a seperate 
 release, but rather included it. The game (I would say) is worth $10-15. About 1/5 of a normal 
 game. But, we get it for free instead! Also, I would like to note that I do 2 summeries, 1 about 
 the game alone, and another about the game compared to every game on every system out there. For 
 the final score, it is an average of the two.
  
  Learning Curve:
  
  Alone: Amazingly short. You pick it up, you play. If you know how to play any sport out there, 
 you know how to play Wii sports.
  
  Compared: Again, Amazingly short. This is one of those few games that I can tell someone all the 
 controls in half a sentence (Swing the Wii-mote to swing your racket and the rest is like real 
 tennis) . Also, due to the shallow content of the game, it doesn't take long to learn everything. 
 The slight variations of hand gestures adjust overall what you are doing, which adds a depth to 
 such a shallow thing. Most games would represent this game with a Press A button only kinda thing.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  Alone: Some of the pictures they show you that you are supposed to hold the wii-mote in feel VERY 
 AWKWARD. So, it doesn't really matter how you hold it! The pictures are just recomendations, just 
 don't hold the remote backwards &gt;_&lt; (Black thing facing you) but feel free to twist it anyway 
 you want. Also, for navigating menus, you can use the d-pad and a, something I wish the wii did. 
 A minor thing I should add: Timing is everything. They made it so you can't Do the disco in tennis 
 or do a Whirlwind Attack in baseball. It just registers a swing (Except in baseball, you can also 
 bunt or do that little spinny thing with the bat over your head. No hitting the home plate with 
 the batt though &gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgalindo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to shipped with the wii, it gives you a nice learning curve for the wii-mote, 
 it is very responsive in some games like bowling, but it has some falls like in boxing it isnt 
 that responsive and it isnt that much fun, but box is a real work out, well all of them but box 
 specially, you have a real nice time playing it by your self and allot more if you play with your 
 friends, and the best off all it does its purpose it brings non gamers to play, my wife loved the 
 bowling game, and I believe that if I bring my dad and mom they will love it to, the most fun game 
 is bowling then tennis and baseball both are great, then golf is good but not really great, and 
 last but not lest is boxing that is fun but not like the other games.
  
  The graphics and sound are nice, they do there job is the way its intended to be simple and fun
 
  
  This game maybe gets boring in some time if you play it alone but with friends or family its a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, I enjoy this game. First it's free :D but also it is undeed fun. 5 diferrent games as 
 you must know: Tennis, golf, baseball, bowling and boxing. I'll review them all.
  
  Tennis: I think this is the best in the 5 games. It is interactive, fast-packed action, 1-4 players 
 simultanously, etc. The game can be short or long as you wish, but normally don't go more then 
 10 min. Controllers work pretty well, and make you feel IN the game. If you hit hard, the ball 
 wil go farter, and your service might be ''special'' (some sort of delay behind the ball ''matrix 
 style'')
  
  Golf: Good, but hard. It is hard to swing the right way. Its often to much or to less. Overall 
 is easy to do, it's just swigging. Putting is even harder and lacks a lot.
  
  Bownling: Another one I like! The game can be long, but it is really fun. The way you can make 
 curves in the ball, set where you lauch it, make it go slow or fast... Its great! Often the ball 
 seems to have a tendency to go left, but this can be fixed with practice. Baseball: I don't really 
 enoy to much this one, for one reason, when you hit the ball it always seems to go as a foul ball. 
 hard to hit the ball because of the view, and no controle over running around the terrain. A ALOT 
 of practice might be needed. Glitch, you can make your bat go trought your head. its funny... but 
 dumb.
  
  Boxing: I didn't played the multiplayer on this one, but it must be really cool. I played vs a 
 computer and it was just sooo easy.... But i like the way you can feel the pain when the other 
 person get punched right on the face with the slow motion effect.
  
  Overall, nice use of the avatar from the mii channel, recording stats for your characters. I must 
 admit the voices become boring and to repetitive. YOU GET SICK OF HEARING ''foul ball''! excapt 
 that, it is a good game to come with the wii even tho later, it might look more like a test for 
 controle then a real game when new sorts games will come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneandonlyboss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a perfect introduction to the Wiimote for all of us wii newbies. It makes an excellent 
 use of the Wii motion sensing capabilities and it is probably the game to introduce Nintendo's 
 targetted non gaming audience to the simplicity and fun of the Wii. It is also freat for all the 
 already gamers and is fun for all ages. There is also nothing really needed to learn since it is 
 very simple and straight forward... your wiimote is your racket, your club, etc....
  
  This game is also free with the north american consoles making it worth it since the Wii is $250. 
 This game deserves 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimepirate
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a great game that shows what the Wii can do. From basebal to bowling, Wii Sports 
 features 5 games (along with training and fitness test) . Baseball is not an actual baseball game. 
 When you hit a ground ball and an infielder snags it, your out. No throw or anything. Pitching 
 is ok, the faster you swing your wii-mote, the faster the pitch. Push the D-pad for the location 
 of the pitch and a combination of the A and B buttons do the rest.
  
  Bowling is probably the funnest game out of all the games. You actually bowl with your wii-mote. 
 Twisting the wii-mote while getting ready to release the ball will cause the ball to curve, whether 
 it being left or right. It features a full length bowling frame.
  
  Tennis is ok. It is nothing like Mario Tennis which I bet will be a blast if it is coming to the 
 Wii. The shots are softly hit and the volleys tend to be a little tedious, but fun.
  
  Golf is solid. Your wii-mote is your stick and that explains that.
  
  Boxing features your 
 nunchuk controller as your other hand. You jab, hook, or uppercut by moving the controllers in 
 a certain motion. Moving them infront of your face or in front of your body will block your opponents 
 shots. Wii Sports is a must keep for all wii owners. It comes packaged with the Wii and clearly 
 shows what direction Nintendo is going. This game will surely keep you and your friends entertained 
 for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Sports in the game industry have grown to a wide audience and has become one of the largest types 
 of genre in gaming. Football, Hockey, Tennis are some of the biggest leading sports game to hit 
 the market, which has made gamers realize that games arn't all about shooting and blasting stuff. 
 EA is one of the companys that has been making large amounts of sports games like madden 07, NHL 
 07, and they have intense gameplay. Now that the nintendo wii is out with innoative gameplay for 
 sports games. Wii sports is a game that will change sports game and take it to the next level in 
 gaming.
  
  Wii sports is game developed by nintendo that can demeonstrate what the wii mote and ninchuck is 
 capapable of. This game is packaged with the wii console when you purchase it from any retail stores. 
 Unlucky for the japanese people, they will not get this game bundled with the wii when they purachse 
 the system. Wii sports is free game that has 5 different types of sports developed all into one 
 disc. Boxing, Bowling, Baseball, Tennis, and Golf are games that will show the wii motes capabilites 
 and what its future can promise to gamers in the sports franchise. Considering this game is free, 
 gamers should respect the idea that this game is a free game and its a 1st gen launch game for 
 the wii.
  
  Wii sports is a game that has no plot just like other sports games, but have the most innoavtive 
 and creative ideas ever created. When you arrive at the menu of wii sports, there are 5 different 
 types of games you can choose from. 4 out of the 5 games you will be using the wii mote and the 
 last game will be using the 2nd part of the wii mote aka the ninchuck . Boxing is the only game 
 that will take place and use both of the ninchuck and wii mote. Games like tennis, bowling, golf, 
 and baseball will only be used by the wii mote.
  
  Tennis is a basic game that uses smart ai and simple gameplay to make this game fun. You can have 
 up to 4 players to play depending how many wii motes you have. The games level design is very linear 
 so you can't expect the best out of it, but has some of the greatest gameplay ever invented. You 
 basically jsut swing the wii mote any direction the ball come to your miis. The Ai that has been 
 developed is simple, because the miis will target it self at the ball and its up to you to swing 
 the wii mote to hit the ball. You can choose up to 4 miis depending which ones you created or you 
 can just go for deafult miis. Bowling is almost similar to a reality bowling alley. All you have 
 to do is raise the wii mote while holding down the b button up to your face like you were aiming 
 the bowling ball. Next thing you do is just swing the wii mote in a downward direction and let 
 the button go to see the bowling ball roll to the pins. You can also curve the ball when your swinging 
 the wii mote by twising your wrist a little bit while letting go of the b button down. There is 
 about 4 people that can play and using different miis which ever you like.
  
  Golf and baseball play similar ways just like tennis. In wii golf, you play as any mii character 
 you want and depending how hard you swing the wii mote, the golf ball will fly in that direction. 
 You can select diffferent types of clubs for your interest on hitting the golf balls. There are 
 about 10 diferent types of golf courses and more for you to play with. Wii golf is playable with 
 just one wii mote and can play up to 4 players. Wii baseball is even more simpilar game then the 
 other ones, because one person is the pitcher and the other is the batter. You switch after a certain 
 amount of out and strikes depending on how you fast you take your opponent out. Once the batter 
 has hit the ball the Ai will be in motion and the catchers on field will automatically catch or 
 miss the ball depending on how you bat. The harder you swing the wii mote, the farther the ball 
 goes.
  
  Boxing is one of the more complicated games, and uses more then just the wii mote. You have different 
 options depending on how you hold the wii mote and ninchuck. You can weave left, right, front, 
 and back depending which motions you give the wii mote and ninchuck. These are good evasive moves 
 to deflect or dodge your opponents punches. Depending how fast and where you strike, your mii will 
 hit that direction on screen. You can hit top, middle, or lower parts of the body giving you a 
 wide selection of moves. One thing bad about boxing is the response is sometimes not quick enough 
 for your quick jabs that you give. It may effect some gameplay but not by alot to make you want 
 to give up, instead it jsut makes you more intense in the game.
  
  We gamers all know that graphics is something that also mixes with gameplay. Wii sports maybe look 
 like a childs game but you as a gamer know that sports game is for everyone. The miis that are 
 used in the game graphics engine are simple guys that look simliar to pac man with legs. You can't 
 expect this game to look great for many reasons, some reasons are because this game is FREE, most 
 games that are free on the web, on your cellphone, or anywhere dont always look there greatest. 
 Another reason is because this game is 1st gen title for the wii and just demonstrates what the 
 wii is capable of. Wii sports lets you choose your miis and play with them depending on how you 
 created them. The linear game levels are really smooth and have great colors that are vibrant, 
 this makes the miis and level design stand out a lot.
  
  With having the greatest gameplay, smooth graphics, there is also another addition to the game, 
 Music. Music in wii sports are very relaxing with tunes like classical to some catchy up beat songs. 
 These music are only played during the menus or before you start a game. There are no music during 
 gameplay which really should've been put in, but there are sound effects that make this game have 
 some good laughs. You will get a simple announcer during the games of wii sports telling how you 
 did or where your points are standing at. Now some of the sound actaully hits the wii mote also, 
 making your tv make sounds and the wii mote. The wii mote still has the rumble function and makes 
 good use of it during game play. From hitting a ball with the bat to telling you which player is 
 next up, the wii mote has a rumble feature and sound effects implanted on the wii mote. Making 
 wii sports one of the most innoative games to play.
  
  Wii sports is for free, so dont expect superb graphics that most people will expect. You can get 
 this game when you buy the wii console. This game is great fun for everyone espically at parties 
 or even with friends that just want a good work out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAGE_OF_FIRE
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a fun little game that comes at the best price, which is free when you buy a Nintendo 
 Wii. Though it feels like a their and done that experience after a while. But where this game really 
 shines is its' addicting, revolutionary gameplay. You can use the wii mote as a bat, a boxing glove, 
 golf club, racket, or use it to pitch or bowl. In the game you use your miis, which are avatars 
 you can make on the mii channel. Though when you watch this game being play you may say to yourself 
 man that looks tiring , well it isn't (with an exception of boxing but its frantic and fun so I 
 didn't care much) . And there you have it... my review :)
  ~Sage of Fire~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; Bowling. 'Nuff said.
  &middot; The tennis game is very addicting and the best 4-player game you can find anywhere, if 
 you have a big enough bedroom / living room.
  &middot; All of the games (excluding the boxing) plays great and will give you tons of time to 
 get used to your Wii. Even if you don't have another game, this will keep you busy for a long time.
 
  &middot; Stats are accumulated towards your Miis, which is a cool concept.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; Graphics and sounds are generic, but it shouldn't really bug you. It's more 
 built towards fun than trying to be the next Gears of War.
  &middot; Boxing feels a bit unfinished since some of the moves don't really appear to work as well 
 as you'd hope. Probably the worst of the sports package.
  &middot; The only way to make the game a little less of a couch sitter is to set your sensitivity 
 down a lot, otherwise you don't even have to move.
  &middot; No online multiplayer is a bummer.
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; It's free, so don't even 
 complain. The multiplayer in most of the games is a blast, and although the graphics and sounds 
 are pretty overall generic, the game is meant just for showing off what the Wii can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a great game to pack in with the wii console. Its really easy to pick up and play. 
 Some of the sports in this game are better than others. I will list them in order from best to 
 worst, with my main complaint with the game.
  1) Bowling - no complaint
  2) baseball - ground balls shouldn't be counted as an out
  3) Tennis - Too much precision needed 
 to return a ball.
  4) Golf - Putting can be difficult at close distances.
  5) Boxing - Sometimes the punches don't land where you want them to.
  
  This is still a fun 
 game, and a good multiplayer game, but there isnt enough depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candyman4x
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports is a one to four player sports game that makes you feel like you are right in the action. 
 for what its graphics kind of lack, the smooth and fantastic gameplay makes up for. There are a 
 cuple different modes to wii sports. First of all you can make a mii (a person that is based off 
 of you our your friends) a challenge computer generated miis and move up in rankings as you beet 
 them and face harder computer miis. Next is kind of a training mode wher you can parctis at different 
 skill leves and sharpen your skills and compete at a higher level. The last one wich is pretty 
 cool is like an age test were you do different challenges like picking up different combos of pins 
 hitting homerunns and hitting as many tennis balls in as you can. At the end of all of this it 
 gives you a age to wich you preformed on. I think two player was fun but kind of dificut if you 
 don't have a big room and the split screen is hard to get use to in boxing. I thought the game 
 was realy fun and addicting, but wouldn't be as fun unless you were up out of your seat and actullay 
 playing not siting down and flick of the wrist actuly swing it like a bat or golf club or actully 
 dodge and move your feet. I would say this game hade great value and is one of the better games 
 of the launch (must buy or get with the system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I'd have to say that once I opened my new Wii and popped in this game it kept me coming back. Simple, 
 fun, and innovative gameplay makes up this great packaged game. Boxings motion sensitive controls 
 are generally responsive, and accurate. Golf is simple to grasp, but hard to perfect. Tennis is 
 responsive, and makes the game alot of fun due to the simple control. Bowling is just as fun as 
 real life .... nearly. Baseball is the least favourite of mine, though i don't have much experience 
 in the sport. In ending this review i'd have to say this game makes good use of the new controls 
 of the Wii, its alot of fun especially with 4 people playing, and it keeps you coming back for 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandontek
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Wii Sports is a great way to have family fun. Also if you are bored and stressed you could 
 always play the boxing game instand of hurting someone. Also its pretty sick with the sensor remote 
 (Wiimote) and the numchucks. Also for a free game that comes with that Wii, They have pretty good 
 graphics and really good sound. also theres no lag with the sensor remote. Nintendo did really 
 great with this Wii Sports package! Good Job Guys! Nintendo Pwns Your Pants! (so does wii sports) 
 ITS A MUST BUY SYSTEM FOR THE WII SPORTS!
  
  Thats my review for the Wii Sports! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustintv
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the gamespot we got a Wii or whatever they were sitting down the whole time 
 almost trying to make it look like it wasn't fun.
  
  Well I was lucky enough to pick up a Wii yesterday and I have to say it's just plain fun. Also 
 it's surprisingly accurate.
  
  I played with 4 people (with only one remote) for a good 8 hours and had a blast the whole time.
 
  
  I don't see how anyone could play this game and not have a good time (unless you are the rather 
 fat GameSpot lazy type)
  
  Here's a hint on how to have fun on Wii sports and the Wii in general
  
  - Get off the couch 
 and actually use the controller like it is meant to be used. Play golf like golf bowling like bowling 
 ect
  
  GameStop is not doing very good in the reviews lately. Seems like some of them have some weird 
 thing against the Wii. Kind of annoying...
  
  How much fun can you have playing Wii sports while you sitting on couch? -Not very much. How much 
 fun can you have in Wii sports while actually playing the sports with friends? -A lot for a long 
 period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  You can't beat the value category with this game (free) . Anyone with a Wii in the US is going to 
 have this game and I will say it is worth playing for a while before you get into your other Wii 
 games, because it does a great job of familiarizing you with the Wii controller. There is a very 
 clear tutorial on what to do with the controller, and it will quickly get you used to using it. 
 This will make using it with more complicated games a little less confusing.
  
  There's a couple of addictive, very fun games here, namely Bowling and Tennis. Both make excellent 
 use of the Wii controller, and you quickly feel that the Wii controller is much better suited to 
 these games than the old push a button system on other consoles. I want to note that in the Tennis 
 game you are always in the front court. You don't need to worry about the irritation of being stuck 
 in the harder-to-play-from back court, disoriented, like on some other Tennis games. It doesn't 
 look as slick as other Tennis sims out there but frankly, thanks to the controller, it may be more 
 fun.
  
  Boxing is surprisingly tiring. I almost felt like I was doing aerobics while playing it. You could 
 probably burn some real calories if you play it enough, but I can only take it in small doses. 
 I don't generally turn on videogames with the desire to get a workout, but some people will appreciate 
 this feature.
  
  The golf is very dissapointing, in my opinion. Maybe if I didn't also have Tiger Woods PGA Tour 
 07 for the 360 in my collection I would like it more, but I couldn't stomach the lack of precision 
 and ability to control or the graphics here. I doubt I'll ever play it again. Reminds me of the 
 old school golf games.
  
  The baseball is okay. Not particularly great or particularly bad. It's only about hitting and pitching. 
 Don't expect to really play a game with baserunning.
  
  I was sure, seeing press conferences about the Wii before it came out, that I'd hate the mii s. 
 Being used to seeing such realistic looking people in games I thought it would be too childish 
 for my taste to see these Playmobil-type toy people. The verdict, now that I've used it, is that 
 I would have preferred to play this game with more realistic looking people, however, it doesn't 
 bother me as much as I thought it would and it was actually a little bit fun creating a mii.
  
  The price is right on this game and since, if you have a US Wii you've already got it, it's 
 definitely worth some of your time. It's of great tutorial value for the Wii control system, a 
 good way to get your feet wet with the new controls so you're used to it once you try more complicated 
 games. The bowling and tennis are fairly addictive but I can't see myself playing this for hours 
 on end or pulling an all-nighter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quistoman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I still had fun playing it. The best part about Wii Sports is they are games your family will play 
 together. I have three children ages 3, 4 and 10, all of them could pick up the controller and 
 play the boxing game and had just a blast with it. You should have seen my three year old's face 
 light up when she knocked down her opponent. There are more advanced games in this pack, bowling 
 and golf are a bit too complex for the younger ones to play but are great for me, my wife, my oldest 
 daughter, and get this my father-in-law not only played them but had fun! Tennis is good too, just 
 give some people room as the swings can get wild. The one game I thought really lacked luster was 
 baseball, with only two playable positions pitcher and batter this game got boring the first time 
 I played it and takes more hand eye coordination than my two younger girls have.
  
  In the end I would have liked to see the games have a bit more depth and a little more challenge 
 for more advanced players and be a little less like demo games but Its still great family fun. 
 I would rate it a 6.5 as a game but most of the reason for the low rating is because of the lack 
 of options and the horrible baseball game. This is one of the those fun packs for partys and family's. 
 It comes free with the console and is a game you should have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I truly couldn't imagine a better pack in game... while the game may seem graphically 
 underwhelming, the gameplay here is pure fun. There are five different games on this disc, Tennis, 
 Bowling, Boxing, Golf, and Baseball. As you can imagine, some work better than others but they 
 all are fun. Tennis is by far the most fun of these, because even though you dont move your character 
 the game feels like a 21st Century version of Pong. This means that almost anyone can play this 
 game, concluding that Nintendo's strategy has worked. I have seen a few people already get into 
 Wii Sports, who would never dare touch another game or console. Next is bowling. Bowling is probably 
 the game you will get the most replay value out of. Your technique in bowling actually translates 
 to the screen, which shows off great potential for the Wii remote and teaches you to use the Wiimote 
 for the first time in an effective way. Bowling is definitely a game that will keep you busy, even 
 if you hate the sport. The third game that will probably catch your attention is boxing. Boxing 
 leaves a great first impression, just because it is satisfying to actually beat the crap out of 
 someone with a remote. After awhile it may get a little repetitive, but still fun nonetheless. 
 Fourth, is baseball. Baseball is fun and will give you a laugh, but ultimately it feels too limited, 
 especially with the pitching. Could be better, but just like boxing is still fun. Lastly, comes 
 golf. Personally, I don't like golf so you can feel free to take this with a grain of salt. I find 
 the gameplay in this particular part of the game to be a little strange. When golfing a bar is 
 displayed on the right to show the force you are using when swinging. This works, but is kind of 
 diffucult to master. Also, you will notice that the Wii remote won't always be exact with the screen 
 in golf, unlike most of the other sports in the game. Again, it is still fun but could have used 
 a little more tuning. Finally, there is a Wii fitness section of the game that is basically like 
 Brain Age only your tests consist of Tennis, Baseball, and bowling. This is surely a nice addition 
 to the game, especially if you can't always play multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: Yes, they are simplistic. Yes, the models don't have arms or legs. So? I honestly don't 
 even care about the visuals when I am playing this game because I am always so focused on doing 
 actions that I never pay attention or care for that matter. Plus, the addition of Mii support and 
 bright colorful visuals with both widescreen support and 480p help make up for anything lacking 
 in this area.
  
  Sound: I am very pleased with most of the sound in the game. There isn't much here in the terms 
 of music, but the sounds coming from the remote are well executed and not overused. Perhaps there 
 should have been more exciting sounds, but either way the sound isn't really a big factor of this 
 game anyway.
  
  Value: Five games and endless gameplay hours with friends and family will make this a game that 
 you will still be playing months or years after Wii's release. I would recommend picking up this 
 game, that is if it weren't for the fact that it already is bundled with the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HulkStillRules
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Once again, GameSpot has shelled out a bad score for an amazing game. I popped in Wii Sports shortly 
 after such much needed sleep from my Wii excurison figuring it to be lame. To my suprise, from 
 the moment I threw my first ball in bowling, I was immediately hooked. I could not put it down 
 for some time afterwards. After bowling, I tried baseball and thought it was awesome as well. Next 
 came tennis and, as much as I would have liked that you could move the guy with your own body motion, 
 it was still very fun. Golf was a little challenging, but looks like it could be tons of fun. Boxing.... now 
 that was a total workout, thats all I'll say. Overall, I am very pleased with this game and see 
 myself playing it for a long time. GameSpot needs to stop being so picky and give the game a realistic 
 score for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports gives you Bowling, Boxing, Tennis, Baseball and Golf
  
  Everyone's favorite sports will differ, based more on individual preference than the actual quality 
 of each game. In my opinion, Tennis, Bowling and Golf are the standouts.
  
  Certain Wii-mote actions can be slightly nuanced, but after a little practice I found the controller 
 to be extremely responsive. In short, if you find the interface unresponsive and/or confusing, 
 just give it time. I'd rather have to spend time figuring out something new and better (the Wii-mote) 
 than plod on with something old and worse (every other controller, ever) .
  
  Training mode splits the five available sports into three subgames (a few examples: try to hit 
 as many home runs as you can; punch your sparring partner's hands; hit the targets in golf) , all 
 of which are very enjoyable and all can be played multiplayer by trying to outdo each other's scores.
 
  
  The Fitness mode allows you to test your skills once per day giving you a Fitness age (which I 
 look forward to bringing closer in line with my actual age) .
  
  I was led to believe (largely by the seemingly Wii-indifferent Gamespot staff, whose opinions I'm 
 learning to take with a pinch of salt) that Wii Sports would be an underdeveloped tech demo, worth 
 maybe a few plays.
  
  As it is, it's a great game, including the best implementation of bowling I've ever played. It's 
 a lot of fun in single player and a hell of a lot of fun in multiplayer.
  
  After 25 years of avid gaming - the last 5 of which I've spent lamenting a painful lack of innovation 
 - using the Wii-mote is like coming up for air, and Wii Sports is a great showcase for this new 
 direction in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delessangeles
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Fun and revolutionary accurately describe this game. The first time you swing the remote to hit 
 a tennis ball in the game, you will be in awe of just how incredibly cool this new system is.
 
  
  You get bowling, baseball, tennis, golf, and boxing in Wii Sports, and I'd say the order of most 
 enjoyable to least enjoyable would go: Tennis, bowling, golf, baseball, then boxing. On the plus 
 side, they all work and are all fairly fun, but on the downside, the controls sometimes seem a 
 little buggy, particularly when you are putting. This is a minor detail though and doesn't detract 
 from the overall great impression this game leaves you with.
  
  I actually love the graphics of this game. Sure, they could have gone further with the Wii hardware, 
 but it really does have a very clean, pretty look. I had a large crowd over to check this game 
 out, and even though it's no gears of war, everyone kept complimenting the graphics, and how nice 
 and pretty it looked. The golfing in particular is quite pleasant to the eyes.
  
  Wii Sports truly shines, and has plenty of cool features, such as how the controller makes sounds 
 that go with what's happening in the game (you hear a satisfying bop when you hit a ball in tennis, 
 for example) , and how you can place Miis right into the game.
  
  All in all, Wii Sports is an excellent game with few flaws, and should be played by everyone, everywhere. 
 Do yourself a favour and give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  After hearing some less then stellar reviews for Wii Sports I have to say that I was pleasantly 
 suprised with the game. Different games have different purposes and this game fulfills it's purpose 
 to the T! This is a multi-player game, first of all. If you look at it from a single-player persepective 
 it is not all that great. However, when you get a couple of people on the wii-motes, this game 
 becomes a barral of fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay is not complex but it does give you enough control that there is still 
 strategy involved. I personally think all 5 games are fine, some people don't like one or the other, 
 but they all have their unique charm and there everyone has their favorite. My complaints are that 
 I wish Wii-Baseball had more depth (i. e. baserunning and fielding) . I also wish Wii Boxing had 
 a couple more moves. Graphics - The graphics are unimpressive, and though the artistic style fits 
 the mood perfectly, I still think they could've accomplished this style and at the same time made 
 the game more visually appealing. If you have hardcore gamer friends, it'll take them alittle while 
 to stop thinking about the graphics, and just have fun.
  
  Sound - Don't really recall the sound all that much. It was fine, and just the fact that it is 
 not being intrusive or annoying is enough for me to give this game an 8. It also makes good use 
 of the Wii-mote speaker to let players know when it's their turn or for sound effects.
  
  Value - It's free, included with the Wii, and is the perfect game to get people playing the Wii, 
 this is a game that though I won't play on my own often, I know I'll always have it in my collection 
 and will be the first game I pull out when I have friends or family over.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I really like the idea of Wiisports and I think Nintendo did a good job at executing 
 the plan. My only complaint is that I wish there was alittle more single-player depth. There are 
 some modes that look fun and might get me playing Wii-sports when I'm bored with my other games, 
 but some kind of campaign mode or adventure mode would've been awesome. Despite that, this title 
 was executed nearly to perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports isn't out there to wow you with fancy graphics and effects, it pulls you in with realistic 
 yet simple gameplay that's fun for hours. The Wiimote does a great job of letting you feel like 
 you're really playing any of the 5 sports included in this FREE package. Forehand and backhand 
 shots in Tennis work well and the height and tilt of the controller actually effects where the 
 ball goes. If you swing low and tilted down, you'll nick the top of the net and throw off your 
 opponent. If you swing higher and tilted upwards, you'll hit it in an arc over the net (maybe out 
 of bounds if you hit it too hard) . Boxing also has many different things you can do for such a 
 simple game. Depending on how you punch with either the Wiimote or the Nunchuk attachment, you'll 
 throw out different kinds of punches, whether it's a body shot, a jab, an uppercut, or w/e. You 
 also hold your controllers up in front of your face to block punches that come at you, or tilt 
 the controllers to the sides or backwards to avoid punches altogether. Playing against friends 
 is competitive yet very fun.
  
  Bowling is probably the best game in the lot. It's the game that most resembles it's real world 
 counterpart. Hold B and throw the controller forward as if you were throwing a real bowling ball 
 and release B as you throw forward. You can also twist your wrist for a spin on the ball, as well 
 as change where you stand to compensate for pin placement.
  
  Baseball is lots of fun, but very simplified. You can only pitch or swing, nothing else. Still, 
 that's lots of fun. Pitching has more to it than you'd think, being able to throw sliders, curveballs, 
 and fastballs, on top of being able to direct your pitch inside, outside, down, or up in the strike 
 zone. The only problem is it's near impossible to know whether the pitch is a strike til it's too 
 late, forcing most people to swing at every pitch.
  
  Golf is well, golf. Swinging the club in-game is done by actually swinging your Wiimote like a 
 club, and you can measure your power before you swing. It just takes time to learn how much power 
 to put on your shots, and how to compensate for bounce and roll. It is definitely a fun game, but 
 I find the others much more fun.
  
  Overall, how can you say anything bad about a free game that comes with the Wii that proves how 
 good the Wiimote motion sensing can be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokamak85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports doesn't have much to it in the graphics arena, but it makes up for it entirely in gameplay. 
 Some say that the controls are a little unresponsive, but they just haven't taken the time to finesse 
 the controls - to be observant of what your character is doing on screen when you move the Wiimote.
 
  
  You get an awesome upper body workout too.
  
  If you're playing this game alone, yeah, it's going to kind of get pretty old over a bit of time. 
 But hey, if you're with friends, this game will continue to return dividends on the $250 + tax 
 investment you made on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon_alli
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Wii Sports is a joy to play and you could literally spend hours upon hours playing this with your 
 friends. My friends and I played Wii Sports on launch day for an estimated 8 hours with very little 
 breaks in between; this absence of breaks was primarily due to the unbelievably addictive nature 
 of the game. The boxing minigame actually tires you out if you play two or three matches in a row 
 and we were covered in sweat when we finished. Tennis is simple yet intuitive and makes you time 
 your shots with enjoyable accuracy; this one really works your shoulder and arm muscles. Bowling 
 in Wii Sports may be my favorite minigame. It makes you feel as if you're actually in a bowling 
 rink and that speaks volumes. The controls react very well to your strokes and make for some serious 
 competition with a few friends. The simplicity of all these minigames enables people who have never 
 picked up a game controller before to become pretty good in just a short amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakato_x3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  it rocks it's awsome best sports game i've ever played!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome v it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome it's awsome 
 it's awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Overall Wii sports is a decent game, and being as its free, its that much better.
  
  The graphics are weak, but this game is really designed to show what the Wiimote control scheme 
 is capable of. In this respect the game shines and does a very good job of demonstrating the motion 
 sensitive controls.
  
  Wii sports comes with 5 game types, Baseball, Golf, Bowling, Tennis and Boxing (my personal favorite) .
 
  
  While all of these games are fun, some stand out more than others...
  
  Tennis is the basic of all the types, you don't actually control the players movement, just when 
 they swing. It gets old pretty fast and you probably wont play this mode much.
  
  Golf is a fun game (yes I'm serious) on the Wii, and quite sensitive which can make some frustrating 
 shots (which I guess relates to real golf well) , its also one of the games in which a single controller 
 can be shared by all players.
  
  Baseball is interesting, it involves pitching and batting, the fielding is done by the computer 
 for you. Overall its interesting, and you have the ability to throw three different kind of pitches 
 at your opponent.
  
  Bowling is also a good game, but easily mastered and probably won't prove much of a challege. The 
 ability put spin onto your ball by twisting your wrist at the end of the swing is very cool and 
 lets you pull off some pro star moves that you normally only see from the guys on TV ( Not that 
 I watch bowling on TV o. O ) .
  
  Boxing is the one game where you might actually get a workout, its also the only game that uses 
 both the Wiimote and the nunchuck. Its probably got the best control scheme in that you hold the 
 Wiimote in one hand, the nunchuck in the other and guess what... You actually box! Hold your hands 
 up infront of your face to block, and swing away with upper cuts and the like, very fun, very tiring 
 and probably the most exciting game to play against your friends.
  
  Summary:
  A good game that represents the new Wii control style well. Graphics arent great, but they are 
 appropriate for what this game is trying to accomplish. The fact that you get this game for free, 
 makes it plain awesome to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldangeroso05
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports delivers 5 games in one package: Boxing, Golf, Bowling, Baseball, and Tennis: Not bad 
 considering its free with your purchase of your new system. The tennis game is extremely fun and 
 will undoubtedly bring a smile to your face the first time you swing the sleek Wii controller at 
 your TV. Its simple, its fun and will tire your arm out. The control seems to be accurate at times 
 but also gives you the feeling your just swatting at the TV with little meaning of WHERE you have 
 to swat. Baseball is again fun but sometimes feels as if you cant control the fact that you will 
 hit 145 foul balls. Maybe Im just a bad pitch. The pitching seems very accurate , the harder you 
 swing the Wii controller the faster you throw the ball. At times you wish you had some control 
 over your outfield but I can see why they just wanted to focus on the pitching and hitting. Golf, 
 very enjoyable but yet again the controls seem to have a mind of their own at times. Bowling is 
 all and all Great! Controls work great and are very accurate, swing down the middle, throw the 
 bowling ball down the middle. Boxing also very fun with little control issues. Again, this may 
 just be me getting used to the motion sensitive controls but at time I must admit they do feel 
 strange. Graphics are fun and look great for using stick figure type characters and work well. 
 Absolutely fun multiplier. Dont just keep this in the box, give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNewSimman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is an all around good looking, solid game that you will enjoy playing with yourself, family, 
 and friends.
  
  First off, I will keep this review short and to the point with simple pros and cons lists.
  
 
  Pros
  Stable Controls - The controls in this game are very accurate, and actually imitate the real game 
 in many ways. Integration with Miis - The integration with the Mii Channel is a small little feature, 
 but it adds much more person feeling to the game.
  Graphics - Even though the graphics may be simple, they are definitely crisp and clear. Without 
 HD I still think this game has fabulous picture quality.
  
  Cons
  Limited Games - They do offer some sports, but not all, which in my case made me a tad bit disappointed.
 
  Replay Value - The replay value of this game in my opinion is mildly low, due to the fact that 
 there is only so much one can do with this game.
  
  Overall, this game is impressive and I am very satisfied with the Wiimote functionality. 8.6/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbear81
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great way to workout. You don't need to buy it, since it comes included with the Nintendo 
 Wii. There's diffrent modes of sports : Tennis, Baseball, Boxing, Golf, Bowling, This is a great 
 way to workout. You don't need to buy it, since it comes included with the Nintendo Wii. There 
 are different modes of sports: Tennis, Baseball, Boxing, Golf, and Bowling. In each game, you use 
 a lot of physical activity which makes a great fun daily workout. You can train and earn points 
 to become a prop. You an also do daily tests to show you fitness age and the lower the age the 
 better you are. Each game is just like the real one, except the people dont have arms; it look 
 like Rayman. When you go to the doctor and the doctor says Do you exercise daily?, you can simply 
 reply  Yes. My Nintendo Wii is my workout system (Just make sure you pass the eye exam) . In boxing 
 you hit the opponent down and hope he or she stays down. In tennis you hit the ball with the racket, 
 and its nearly impossible to play with an NPC on your team. In Baseball you hit the ball, and hope 
 you get on base, but you just sit and what; you dont need to catch any balls or run. In Golf you 
 can hit the ball with different clubs and get it into a hole, rough, fairway, or bunker. In Bowling 
 you take the ball and roll it to hit the pins. This game does get boring, except for boxing, but 
 its free with the Wii and has good sound and graphics. And dont forget the workout. All in All 
 I would say this is a great starter game and one that you may use daily. Better yet, ypou should 
 play with your friends since its multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jodan48
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Wii sports on a standard console would be a really bad game, since it would only consist of one 
 to two buttons and mind bogglingly easy. But this is no standard console, this is the Wii, and 
 perhaps it's lack of complexity is what really makes it stand out as a game in itself, since anyone 
 can pick up the wii remote and just start playing these games as they would if they really did 
 play them.
  
  Besides being a game, it could be considered more of a showcase of what the Wii can do and the 
 potential it has as a system, the game is responsive to everything you do, and some nice little 
 technical things such as adding spin to your ball in bowling for example. and if you have a friend 
 to play some of these games, it really adds to the fun. I would of gladly of payed $20 for this 
 nifty game, but it shipped alongside the console itself, which only makes my opionion on it stronger. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsucougar307
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that a family can sit done with each other and enjoy. When I bought my Wii I had 
 my 55 year old mother hogging the remote playing tennis. It is simple and utterly enjoyable. Everyone 
 in my familly enjoyed this game. It made my 30 year old sister want to go out and buy a Wii. I 
 think that this in the box title alone justifies buying a Wii. Even if this game wasn't packaged 
 with the system I would say that it is a must own. Pros: Simple Gameplay. Replay-ability.
  Family Oriented.
  
  Cons:
  
  Graphics.
  Too Simple at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I got the Wii today and I played Wii Sports all day! I couldn't get no games at EB because they 
 sold out of Zelda and all the good games so I played Wii sports all day long. I think it's actually 
 very good and simulates exactly how you play in real life. I get how they're trying to reach out 
 to new player and the Older Generation ... My mom was playing Tennis with me ... HA.
  
  I give Baseball a 1.5 because I didn't play it that much and I don't like how the little guys run 
 to the base for you. Sometime it's very hard to hit the ball.
  I give Tennis a 2 because it's very very fun and it really feels like your playing Tennis! Sometimes 
 yo would swing and miss the ball and it was annoying.
  I give Bowling a perfect 2 because it simulate Bowling to the Max. You wind up to throw the ball, 
 left go of the B trigger and Strike! You also can put spin on the ball ... If your you stratical 
 person. I love it ... it's my favorite game out of all of them.
  I give Golf a 1.9 because sometime you don't know how hard to swing the club and then the ball 
 ends up in the Out of Bound Territory. But, overall these game is very fun and with some practice 
 like me, you'll be unstoppable.
  I give Boxing a 1.7 because it was very fun to use both hand for a change and Box. Sometime the 
 punches you throw don't go.
  
  Well Thats about it ... I love playing this game and it's a great game to play with your friend 
 also. The Graphic were great too ... PS3 Who? Well, Thanks for Reading ... Have a Great Day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  When I first played the Wii, I found that Wii Sports was a great introductory game. It lets you 
 master the controller, play with the menu, and have a blast. There are five sports in the game: 
 Tennis, Baseball, Bowling, Golf, and Boxing. Tennis was tough at first, but once I realized that 
 you need to move the controller like you player is facing (example: your Mii is right-handed, the 
 ball is coming to the left, so you have to hit backhand) , it was a lot of fun. Your character is 
 automatically moved to a position where you can hit the ball; you just focus on hitting it. In 
 Baseball, you act exactly as though you were playing: swing the controller to swing, and act like 
 you're going to throw your controller through your $3000 HD flatscreen plasma TV to pitch. Bowling 
 is by far my favorite game. You line up your character and simply hold the controller vertically, 
 hold the trigger, and go through the bowling motions. You can even subtly twist your wrist to put 
 spin on the ball. Maybe it was just my x-treme bowling skillz, but it seemed remarkably easy to 
 pick up spares, but really hard to get a strike. Golf is tough to master, and you might end up 
 overshooting and undershooting a lot when you first start, but you'll get it eventually. Boxing 
 is my least favorite; it's a very random-feeling series of jabs. You can block your face and your 
 body by moving the controller the corresponding direction. The game is also Mii-compatible.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  Textures in the game are extremely smooth and pretty lifelike. Spheres don't 
 look like those  they look like spheres. Especially good 
 were the grass textures in the Golf game. The user interface is clean and modern-looking. The only 
 reason I don't give them a 10 is because I've played the simply gorgeous Twilight Princess.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Music is upbeat and energizing. Sound effects are realistic. The controller's 
 speaker is utilized frequently for things like alerting you when you're up in bowling and making 
 the noise when the tennis ball hits the racket.
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  This is a game you'll want to keep playing for a while, especially if you have friends. It's fun 
 to build your Mii characters into professionals at the different sports.
  
  TILT: 10/10
  Wii Sports is fun, innovative, and technologically great. It's something to play while you save 
 up for your next Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  What would you pay for a game that could improve your fitness and still manage to be a blast to 
 play? Did you say $49.95? How about $19.95? Well this fantabulous game is free of charge with the 
 purchase of your shiny new Wii console! This game like the DS's Brain Age keeps track of an age 
 here called your Wii Fitness Age. Your Wii Fitness Age can be alot or a little depending on how 
 you preform. The characters in this game are the Miis that are created in the Mii channel and pits 
 them in intese boxing, bowling, baseball, tennis, and golf matches. That's right for every shot 
 over par you miss in golf a little kitten dies. No I'm only joking! There is no death, and no kittens, 
 but what you do get is simple but near flawless graphics great sound, enhanced by the Wiimote Speaker, 
 and fun easy to learn gameplay. Wii Sports is probably the game you will play most during your 
 hours with your Wii, and they'll be some of the greatest. So what are you waiting for? Get moving 
 maggot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well when you first put the Wii Sports in the system and you see the shotty graphics and character 
 models you cant help but feel insulted. But after playing the variety of games on this disc I found 
 myself playing for hours on end. The boxing is my favorite because it gives you a nice workout 
 and the motion sensor is pretty accurate. All of these games are rewarding because everytime you 
 play you try to build up your points. The system keeps tracks of how many points you have accumulated. 
 I would probably pay $30 for this game if they retailed it. Wait till you play some bowling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I just got the Wii and I have to say that I love the Wii Sports. It's fun, it's different.. it's 
 next Gen. I was able to things with this game that I was never able to do with any other game before. 
 You can do so many things with this game and I have to say that even if your an adult, you'll become 
 that big kid once you play this. This is by far a great kind of gaming experience and you will 
 love it. I am giving this game a 8.9 because it deserves it. It is fun for the whole family and 
 who doesn't love that factor? Get this game, it is worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
