-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wing Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sim/wingisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, familiar concept for video game newcomers.
 proof for your family that games aren't just murder and porn.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Often-frustrating motion-sensing controls.
 bland, heavily aliased visuals with occasionally choppy frame rate.
 dull, lifeless everything.
 sound effects are weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 69 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Simulation
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a way to get a Wii Remote into Aunt Ethel's hands, Wing Island might work, but this is a pretty 
 dull ride for anyone with more discerning tastes. 

  Casual games are big business, and they're certainly an area Nintendo is looking to expand into 
 with its made-for-everyone Wii. Developed by Hudson, best known for its Bomberman and Mario Party 
 line of games, Wing Island has that crowd in its crosshairs. Unfortunately, it forgot to put ammunition 
 in its guns and equip the guns to the plane, which itself is too slow to make a difference anyway. 
 Really, it seems like Wing Island is just pointing a crosshair, hoping its target will come crashing 
 into it.  

          The control scheme is pretty ho-hum.     

  For a game in which human-sized sparrows spurn their natural wings for mechanical ones, Wing Island 
 comes up empty on the charm. You play as Junior, a young sparrow pilot, and after your gramps' 
 gypsy blood gets the better of him, you're left in charge of the family handyman business. Assisting 
 you is your longtime friend and mechanical ace Puffin, who isn't unlike a female Slippy Toad of 
 Star Fox fame, which is to say she's painfully annoying. Each mission is prefaced with Puffin coming 
 to you in a huff, relating the desperate situation that requires your immediate attention. Playful 
 banter or ridiculous situations that could have been incorporated to liven things up are nowhere 
 to be found, so you're relegated to canvassing the island for a little kid's lost cows or aiding 
 Fireman Gull in putting out forest fires. It's all pretty rote, and it would quite possibly be 
 one of the worst conceits for a game in recent history if it weren't for the Wii's magical motion-sensing 
 remote.  

  The crux of the Wing Island experience rests with the Wii Remote. Rather than mimicking a yoke 
 or flight stick, you'll simply hold the Wii Remote like a regular TV remote and then guide your 
 plane in as straightforward of a way as possible. If you move the remote up, you go up; down down; 
 left left; and right right. Swiping the remote in one direction or another results in a hairpin 
 turn, thrusting forward gives you a speed boost, and tugging backward activates the air brakes. 
 Occasionally, a hairpin turn will be confused for a thrust, and for whatever reason, your plane 
 will frequently throttle down. This forces you to constantly press up on the D pad, but for the 
 most part, the basics are sound, if a bit unimaginative.  

  Unfortunately, during two-thirds to three-quarters of the game you're flying in a squadron, and 
 this is where the formula breaks down. There are three different formations: a balanced flying 
 V, a speedy straight line, and a maneuverable iron cross. You'll frequently need to switch between 
 these formations to maximize your time or effectiveness in the missions. The problem is that the 
 motion required for switching these formations is too similar to the motions for turning, speeding 
 up, and slowing down. So you'll frequently be at war with the controls to get your lineup in the 
 proper formation and moving in the proper direction. The situation improves once you figure out 
 that you can double-tap the A button to cycle through the formations, but even then, it still feels 
 like you're controlling the planes with marionette wires rather than from the cockpit.  

          Passing ships beware: Shell Island is a hotbed for spontaneous combustion.     

  For 
 being an uneducated farmhand or a Podunk fireman, denizens of Shell Island certainly pay well for 
 your services. But before they fork over the money, they're going to request the job be done -- and 
 done well. Missions are timed, and how much time remains, as well as how efficiently you hit your 
 marks, factors in heavily to your overall grade. Even after you've come to terms with the clunky 
 and unsatisfying control scheme, you'll have to perform near flawlessly to see any money. It's 
 quite common to finish a mission with 30 seconds out of three minutes remaining and for whatever 
 reason be awarded only five out of 100 points, which nets you nothing other than opening up the 
 next mission. The mundane mission designs are more of an exercise in patience than flight skill 
 and will have you inadvertently, then purposefully, throttling into the mountains or nose-diving 
 into farmhouses. For the record, birds can't get caught in your propellers, and any other destructive 
 urges that may arise within you will have little effect on the environment.  

  Wing Island is one of those games where you beat your head against a mission repeatedly until some 
 unknown force manifests and you perform perfectly. So money will eventually find its way to Junior's 
 pocket, and because Shell Island's entertainment industry isn't exactly booming, you'll have to 
 funnel that cash back into the family business. Each of your planes can be upgraded with better 
 turning, increased power, or decreased weight, which can then be upgraded five times at an escalating 
 cost. As you careen into bluff mountain walls or nosedive into placid waters, your plane will take 
 damage, and the amount of total damage you can withstand before exploding decreases the longer 
 you go without making repairs. Luckily, repairs are relatively cheap, so fixing your busted jalopy 
 is not really an issue.  

  It's no wonder Gramps needed a vacation, because there really isn't much to catch your eye while 
 flying around the two islands in the game. Occupying that unhappy nebulous zone between realistic 
 and cartoony, Wing Island looks substandard even by Wii expectations. Your airplanes are typically 
 a single, solid color; mountain textures are bland and nondescript; the ocean looks like a flat 
 sheet of aquamarine; the clouds in the sky are static; and there isn't much sign of wildlife except 
 for the occasional flock of seagulls or the aforementioned wayward bovine. Aliasing runs rampant 
 as well, creating a jagged effect on darn near everything. Topping things off, the frame rate chugs 
 when you fly by one of the game's few flourishes, which is a waterfall on the second island. Asking 
 for Flight Simulator-level detail is out of the question, so this game really needed some kind 
 of zany touch to help it transcend the Nintendo 64-comparable realism on display.  

  The audio is equally uninspiring. Instead of voiced dialogue, there's a Morse code-sounding blip 
 noise that sounds off as the text scrolls onscreen. Your airplanes' engines would sound more appropriate 
 strapped to a lawnmower, and that's true for every plane you lash yourself into, whether it's a 
 zippy biplane or a hulking cargo transport. There aren't any ambient sounds, and bouncing off a 
 mountain wall or hitting the ocean is accompanied by a hollow, tinny crash noise coming out of 
 the remote's speaker. Wing Island's soundtrack is at least decent, if not particularly remarkable. 

          Ramming cows with your plane won't even make them moo.     

  Wing Island does offer a multiplayer mode, which consists of a few minigames. You and another player 
 can go head-to-head in a few short checkpoint races, see who can pop the most floating balloons, 
 or try to pop a trail of balloons affixed to the other player's craft. The balloon-trail minigame 
 is the only one that's even remotely enjoyable, and it's pretty lame that only two players are 
 supported for any of the minigames in this mode. Aside from that, there's a mode that lets you 
 fly around the various islands without a time limit, and that's about it. These extras aren't all 
 that great, and because there are only about 20 missions in the story mode, you should be done 
 with Wing Island pretty quickly. At least the game is marked down to $40.  

  Wing Island seems to be a casual airplane game designed to get anyone and everyone flying using 
 the motion-sensing Wii Remote. The precise controls on any standard gamepad would trivialize the 
 flying experience found here, so struggling with the new control scheme seems to be the point of 
 this game. That's just not fun however you slice it. Once you add in the bland visuals and frustrating, 
 menial missions, Wing Island stalls before even leaving the tarmac.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Let's just say it how it is: Wing Island sucks more than an airplane engine in a lollypop store. 
 Not only is the storyline so beneath everything, the characters so uninteresting and the mission 
 structure so ridiculous that I wanted to stop playing after exactly four minutes, but even the 
 gameplay and controls manage to disappoint. This time even the catchphrase But it's for the Wii 
 and this serves for casual gamers can't save the makers. You play Junior, a bird, who has to lead 
 the airplane business of his grandpa. That goes like this: you get a stupid mission that is about 
 nothing (a fire, delivering a box somewhere, punching some balloons in the air) , starting with 
 a 5-cent dialogue and afterwards you have to complete it within the pre-set time but flying around 
 your plane.
  
  What should make the game more interesting that scrolling around in Microsoft Word is the original 
 control system of the Wii Remote. Your plane will react on the way you hold your remote and at 
 first this is a nice idea but especially the special moves (like a boost, braking and especially 
 changing formation) are more a pain in the butt than a jump in the air. Very clumsy and totally 
 unnecessary; you'll be swearing more than once when your formation changes when you want to take 
 a turn or when you make a turn when you want your formation to change. In other words: where did 
 that good old push the button go to?
  
  Despite the very accessible looks and the arcadeish controls (you can fly straight up at 30 miles 
 an hour and passing a mountain with your plane isn't a problem either) you'll really get fooled 
 by the difficulty degree of the missions. You only have a very short time period to complete them 
 and from mission one you'll have to hurry and can't make any mistakes. If you do manage to fulfil 
 your mission within time (which is quite extraordinary thanks to the rotten controls) you won't 
 be getting too many credits as rewards as for that you have to near perfection even more.
  
  With the money you earn you can upgrade your planes with a better turning cycle, power and 
 weight or buy new ones or repair those you have. All but entertaining and the menus aren't too 
 great either. Another thing that won't make you happy are the graphics. All in all you get two 
 islands with some boring ugly water surrounding them. They're also quite empty, have ugly textures 
 and anti-aliasing is something the devs seemingly have never heard of. The planes themselves then 
 are equally brain-killing to watch.
  
  The music suffers from the same disease: some bleeps instead of voice-acting, some honking instead 
 of engine sounds and some sort of hamster with strange ambitions was present to make what's supposed 
 to be sound effects. And yes, there's some music but that isn't too bad...
  
  The multiplayer part, if you haven't given the game-cd itself a flight treatment yet, consists 
 out of several minigames. I've started to hate that crap, but apparently it's a must with any Wii-game. 
 You can race with a friend, make some balloons explode and more like that. Nope, you won't have 
 any fun here either.
  
  Wing Island is nothing more than a reason to hold your remote and control a plane with it for about 
 ten minutes. It's nothing more, really. Only people who have never ever played a videogame, are 
 younger than six or have an IQ lower than that number will spend their hard-earned money on this.
 
  Bad controls, very low production values (both in graphics, sound and presentation) , a very short 
 lifespan, unbalanced design and a health-threatening lack of inspiration, creativity and gaming 
 fun are the parts of this plane that would do best to remain in its hangar instead of being on 
 a shelf in your games collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  It really not all that bad. I think that the problem here is that the game is not for the typical 
 gamer. It is more appropriate for either the younger gamer or people that wish to play a game that 
 is not to taxing or tense. Does this mean the game is a dud? I really do not think so. I think 
 the game is limited, it does not push the limits of the Wii, but it is playable. You can still 
 compete with other players.... and the kids seem to love it I disagree with Gamespot and will give 
 this game a 6 for fair. The sounds is ok.. not spectacular, but I can't fault it. The tasks, although 
 not to compelling are still somewhat enjoyable, albeit not too taxing.
  The graphics are fine, sort of cartoonish -about a 6
  The only thing I would change is that they 
 should have expanded the world to other Islands inside the game. I would also suggest that $39.99 
 is a little steep... this game is better suited at $29.99
  I would consider this game for anyone 12 or under, or someone that wants a game to help tune out 
 the worries of the day, without getting tense, fighting bosses and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbohawk
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Short and sweet of it: There's no Wow factor in this title. Seems to be quickly put together and 
 Hudson (who the heck are they anyway) ought to aim a little higher or hire more talented designers/programmers. 
 Kids get bored of it very fast. Control scheme is, well, wiierd, although functional. Multiplayer 
 doesn't make use of the other controller, instead splits the nunchuck and wiimote between the two 
 players... Why Hudson?
  
  No voice overs, no flash. Very very basic game. Not sure I'll even play it ever again. I'm hesitant 
 even posting this review as I'll have a hard time selling it used... My advice, rent it and forget 
 it.
  
  I give it low marks for sound due to lack of voices. The rest of sound/music are ok, nothing worthy 
 remembering. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
