-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Winter Sports 2008: The Ultimate Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/wintersportstheultimatechallenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Genuinely amusing (though repetitive) announcers.
 Some events offer decent motion controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most controls are boring, broken, or outright bizarre.
 Bland, uninteresting gameplay.
 Totally skimps on visual and audio details.
 Nine unique events are actually just seven.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment
Developer: RTL
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the wait for the 2010 Winter Olympics is killing you, this ho-hum collection won't make time 
 go by any quicker. 

  If you were to look at Winter Sports: The Ultimate Challenge and see it as a shoddy attempt to 
 capitalize on the Wii's overwhelming popularity with a substandard sports compilation, you'd be 
 right -- but only  half  right. As you'll see, it's also directly based on the underwhelming Torino 
 2006, which was itself a shoddy attempt to capitalize on the last Winter Olympics. Diminishing 
 returns is the name of the game with Winter Sports, and its failure to do anything interesting 
 with the Wii's motion controls keeps it from rising above the mediocre legacy of its similar predecessor. 

           Alpine skiing makes the best use of the remote/Nunchuk combo, but that's not saying a 
 whole lot.      

  The action is spread across nine different events. You've got downhill racing (alpine skiing, bobsleigh, 
 skeleton, and luge) , plus the level-terrain variety (speed skating and cross-country skiing) , and 
 a grab bag of ski jumping, curling, and figure skating. Several of these offer additional disciplines, 
 but the differences are pretty minimal; for example, there are more laps in speed skating, and 
 you launch from a bigger ramp in ski jumping. Among the events featured in the game, the alpine-skiing 
 category makes the best use of the Wii's motion controls. You race downhill with remote and Nunchuk 
 held flat, twist them from side to side to weave in and out of the flags, and pull them back to 
 slow down. It works decently enough, but doesn't really offer any advantage beyond the analog-stick 
 steering of old.  

  Sadly, "decent" describes the level of quality where the controls reach their peak. The rest of 
 the sports are substantially worse. In the level-terrain racing events, you'll find yourself simply 
 pushing the remote and Nunchuk back and forth either as frantically as humanly possible (speed 
 skating) or in a sleep-inducing rhythm (cross-country) . Bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton require you 
 to hold the remote sideways and use it to simply avoid hitting the wall too hard. Furthermore, 
 ski jumping has you flicking the controllers up to jump, down to land, and using an oddly placed 
 mechanism to keep yourself balanced, as if there were some magically invisible rail from Tony Hawk 
 that you were trying to grind. At best, these robotically simple controls do little to engross 
 you in the sports they're trying to mimic; at worst, they'll lull you into a deep sleep.  

           Although the game touts nine unique events, the skeleton, luge, and bobsleigh are the 
 exact same in terms of controls. But, hey! At least the skeleton looks cool.      

  Figure skating is a beast of a whole different nature. Maybe they should have called it "Air Drumming 
 to a Cheesy '80s Metal Song," because that's more or less what you're doing here. You just swing 
 the remote and Nunchuk, like drumsticks, in sync with whatever beat is accompanying the sizzling 
 guitar solo you're hearing. If you do it right, your onscreen avatar will land her trick; if not, 
 she'll tumble to the ice. Its inclusion is strange, but nowhere nearly as strange as curling. We 
 say this because the curling game is quite simply broken. You can perform the same precise stone-throwing 
 motion 10 times, and 10 different releases (or nonreleases) will happen on screen. What's more, 
 you can't even see a close-up of the house (target) when you're setting up a shot. You have to 
 figure out your throwing and sweeping strategy from all the way down the lane, which is no small 
 task given the terrible visuals of the game. Even a diehard curling fan able to tell you the winner 
 of the 1983 Tournament of Hearts wouldn't enjoy this shell of a simulation.  

  Considering the poor overall performance of the events themselves, there's a lot of pressure on 
 the gameplay modes to spice things up. They don't. There's a campaign mode that's basically a series 
 of high-score challenges, and your reward is increased difficulty levels and new arenas that don't 
 look terribly different from the default ones. Then there's career mode, which has you unlock skill 
 points throughout several lengthy series of competitions. The odd part with career mode is that 
 although you don't feel like you're getting better, the judges suddenly become a whole lot more 
 lenient with their scores, and meanwhile the opposition's skill falls off the map. This robs the 
 sense of accomplishment that career mode might offer. In the end, you'll most likely find yourself 
 bypassing campaign and career altogether, in favor of using the single-event option to play the 
 sports you can tolerate the most.  

           The rare moment when the game complies with your wishes by letting the curling stone leave 
 your hands.      

  If the game features one bright spot, it's the announcer commentary. In the booth are the odd-couple 
 voices of an American and an Englishman. They frequently venture into bizarre tangents ranging 
 from Greek cuisine to stingy East German judges. Although often repeated, these non sequiturs are 
 usually good for a few chuckles. The pair also manages to tear you apart in a humorously dry style 
 when you find yourself doing poorly in a particular event. Actual sound effects are few and far 
 between, but this off-the-wall banter provides a decent overall audio experience. Unfortunately, 
 the presentation as a whole is significantly bogged down by the blurry textures and jerky animation, 
 which seem to have been pulled directly from the aforementioned Torino 2006.  

  Altogether, Winter Sports does manage to get a few things right, but these occasional moments of 
 clarity end up buried by long stretches of boredom. This is a game that will leave you feeling 
 cold, though certainly not in the way a real winter-sports enthusiast would prefer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: captaincam2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The skiing races alone are worth the price for this game. The Downhill and Super G especially are 
 thrilling and offer some of the best racing I've had in any game. 
  
  The graphics are great for the WII with a smooth frame rate. There is a great 2 player split screen 
 available for all racing events and if you happen to be playing solo there is a campaign mode where 
 you can earn the ability to race against skilled computer opponents by clearing some challenges. 
 The events do have a somewhat steeper learning curve but it's so worth the effort especially for 
 the skiing ones. 
  
  Bobsledding and other sled events are pretty fun but do not stand out as much as the skiing. Curling 
 is also very fun once you learn it but I must warn you, curling controls are the hardest to learn 
 of the bunch. It literally took me about 15 mins to actually get the stone to move the 1st time 
 and then about 30 min to master it. (it wasn't the way it is shown though) If anyone wants to know 
 how I did it I canl write a step by step instruction on the board for this game here at gamespot.
 
  
  I do not know why the reviews vary so wildly for this game but I do know it is worth a play since 
 you can tell they put effort into this game and did a commendable job with the Wii controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quenaelin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I like this game a lot. Almost all events are very fun and except bobsleigh which has annoying 
 Wii-mote rotating movement at start. In Bobsleigh you have to rapidly rotate Wii-mote which isn't 
 suitable for my hands, it feels very unergonomic and unnatural movement which gives sore forearms 
 very quickly, I don't see how this simulates pushing sledge when race starts. Controls in other 
 events are much better. Cross country skiing is just right you move controllers front and back 
 like skies and tilt for steering. Alpine skiing is very fast and you can actually imitate it by 
 moving controllers close to your chest and crouching when going faster and then rise up again when 
 slowing down. Ski jump is also fun, keep controllers close to your chest and jump and then you 
 need to jump again when you are landing. Controls feels very natural. It looks like Game-spot really 
 does not like Wii at all, almost every Wii game scores badly. I guess Wii games are really hard 
 to make because motion controlling is very new thing in video games. I think Winter Sports has 
 excellent controls in almost every event. This game isn't very easy and if you wan't to score high 
 you must have perfect accuracy and even easiest level isn't very easy, but high learning curve 
 is also very realistic. I would review this game 9/10. What more do you need for Winter Sports 
 game, perhaps more events and locations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilric
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  I really think you guys are being too much bad with this game.
  Off course it's not the best game I played on Wii, far of it, but I like it. If you are saying 
 it is abysmal, you are saying it is so bad as Game Party, for me the worst Wii game I played.
 
  I think the game is what it is intended to be. A game for you to play when you do not have much 
 time. 
  When you have lots of different competitions, some ones you like better then others, as following:
 
  Skiing is very nice and imersive, jumping is difficult, slips are easy, skatting is boring and 
 curling, well, still fighting to undestand how to play it. As I really liked skiing, I can't say 
 the game is abysmal like people are saying, but not wonderful either, as skating is very boring.
 
  Skiing is sothething you should play at least once, specialist slalon that use great capacity 
 of the motion controler.
  
  It is a fast entertainment, for playing when you do not have much time while you are waiting your 
 wife get dressed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cunnpole
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  So boring, so pointless. The challenges are either ridiculously easy (i waggled the controllers 
 a bit then went and made a cup of tea. came back to see it finishing and i got 1st place) or frustratingly 
 hard (always come last) . Wife liked the figurescating a bit but that lost fun after the second 
 go (unlike the similarly controlled dancing part in rayman raving rabbids) . I had far more fun 
 breaking my fingers on Daley Thomsons Decathalon on the old Spectrum!
  
  Nothing else to say but avoid like the plague. If you have already bought it try to take it back. 
 There are plenty of good games for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wherethegoldat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Winter Sports, The Ultimate Challenge is a bangin new title from god knows who games. So you put 
 in the game and you find yourself with 9 games. I tried going back to gamestop and explaining the 
 situation. I only bought one game, these other 8 snuck in by mistake. They said theyre included 
 and wouldnt even take the 200 dollars I was willing to pay for the other titles. First off is figure 
 skating.
  
  Figure skating (or fig skating as the pros say) might be the tightest. Remember Parappa the Rapper? 
 Its like that, except instead of rapping, you're doing triple camel spins or something. If you 
 screw up, you fall. 
  
  Curling is pretty good. I see a lot of ya'll are exciting about curling. Me too. That's about all 
 there is to say about curling.
  
  Apparently there's an alcohol or tobacco reference. I haven't found it yet. I guess its a secret. 
 Probably gotta unlock it. Maybe through campaign or career mode. Campaign mode is represented by 
 a dollar sign. Get money! Career mode ain't, but you get medals, which are kinda like gold badges. 
 Tight.
  
  The soundtrack is probably the tightest soundtrack on Wii or anywhere. The reason that Guns n' 
 Roses hasn't put out Chinese Democracy is because Axl Rose heard the Winter Sports: The Ultimate 
 Challenge and knew he couldn't make anything as tight. He's right.
  
  If you're thinking the announcers in this game are like regular announcers, YOU'RE DEAD WRONG!!!!!! 
 They're not. They're just two dudes talking and (usually) hating on you. I think I heard them talk 
 about breakfast once. Then they hated on me. I guess that's real tight or real not.
  
  Long story short, Winter Sports: The Ultimate Challenge IS the ultimate challenge. Don't hate, 
 ya'll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wproiet1
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:   is by far the worst, no thats too kind, HORRENDOUS!!!!!! This 
 is like a bad horror movie, but its real! Pump your arms while feeling intense pain may even causing 
 you to cry in pain. Ever see 300? Remember at the end when Leonidas got tons of arrows shot into 
 him? Yeah thats how painful this is to play. My younger cousin got this game for Christmas, when i 
 went over his house to say hi, he asked me if I wanted to play it. I did, then in about, oh i dont 
 know 4 MINUTES!!!! I stopped playing dropped the contoller and asked him if he knew how bad it was. He 
 dosent exactly know good games so i said hi to everyone, wished them a merry Christmas and drove 
 home. That night i had visions of the evil game popping in my head. I slapped myself looked up and 
 thought, this is the worst game ever. If superman was in a fight with this game, it would kill superman 
 reigning on its glory as the worst game ever. You dont even need to play long to review it just 
 burn it immeadiately, if anyone likes this, you have my authority to punch them in the face. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
