-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/worldseriesofpoker2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent roster of pro players.
 odds-calculating tool is a handy feature.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online play.
 The developer couldn't be bothered to try out any form of motion controls.
 Player behavior is fairly predictable.
 presentation is weak.
 bad commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 4.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Left Field
Genre: Casino
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As the first poker game for the Wii, World Series of Poker is serviceable, though the lack of online 
 play and lackluster presentation don't help its cause. 

  The 2006 World Series of Poker has come and gone, but the onslaught of World Series of Poker-licensed 
 video games hasn't quite come to a halt. Activision's World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions 
 has made its debut on the Wii, and in almost every way, this is the exact same game released earlier 
 in the year on the PlayStation 2, PC, and Xbox 360. Much like Activision's previous attempt to 
 turn the World Series into a video game, Tournament of Champions does a serviceable, if unremarkable, 
 job of emulating the event. This game does put a greater emphasis on its included pro players, 
 but the gameplay is still a bit mundane, thanks to off-kilter artificial intelligence and awful 
 presentation. On top of that, the Wii version strips out the online multiplayer, robbing the package 
 of much of its value.  

          Can't get enough poker? Neither can Activision, if World Series of Poker: Tournament of 
 Champions is any indication.     

  The focus of Tournament of Champions is its career mode. You begin by creating a character, as 
 you do in most poker games. This process is pretty by-the-numbers. There are a decent number of 
 facial and clothing customizations to choose from, and they aren't all crazy and over-the-top like 
 some poker games tend to get with their created players. The basic progression of events in the 
 career mode is simple. You start out at a home game against a few generic guys, but lo and behold, 
 your dealer for the night is Chris "Jesus" Ferguson. It seems Mr. Jesus has lost some kind of bet 
 and is now at your home game, scouting for talent to take to the WSOP Tournament of Champions. 
 Whether you win or lose this game, Jesus takes you under his wing and sets you on the path to poker 
 riches. There are four casinos with four events each for the preliminary rounds, and then there's 
 the final round at the Rio in Las Vegas. You try to earn points in the various preliminary tournaments 
 to move from one to the next. Wins give you more points and cash, but you can earn points just 
 by placing in the final table rankings at each tournament.  

  Along the way, you'll encounter a variety of pro players, including Scotty Nguyen, Men Nguyen, 
 Antonio Esfandiari, Phil Laak, Jennifer Tilly (yes,  the  Jennifer Tilly) , TJ Cloutier, Kristy 
 Gazes, Clonie Gowen, Andrew Black, and, of course, last year's champion, Joe Hachem. Each of these 
 pros provide some at-the-table dialogue, though it doesn't consist of more than a few token barbs 
 during and after a hand, as well as a few generic "check" and "I raise" statements.  

  The pros also don't play much like their real-life counterparts. Joe Hachem may say, "Pass the 
 sugar, baby!" from time to time, but you don't get the same flair from his actual play. All the 
 AI opponents play functionally the same. You'll notice that some AI players play fewer hands than 
 others, but that's about the only difference. On the surface, the player AI is reasonably intelligent, 
 if rather robotic. However, there are some issues with overaggressive betting, especially before 
 the flop. It's rare to see a table's worth of players fold around completely to a raise before 
 the flop. You'll see a bunch of reraises, even if the other players don't have anything better 
 than a king-eight off-suit. Table position doesn't seem to play into this. Once the flop comes, 
 it's easier to bully players out by raising heavily, but if an AI player makes a hand of any kind, 
 he or she won't quit unless you try to put the player all-in.  

  Tournament of Champions isn't a good poker-teaching tool in the way that, for instance, Stacked 
 was. The game's load screens do occasionally toss you some decent nuggets of info that might be 
 useful to new players, but in-game, the tips that scroll across the screen are beyond obtuse. "Poker 
 is a game of position," says Chris Ferguson. Gee, thanks, Jesus! However, one thing the game does 
 offer that might be useful for non-video-game poker play is a tool that unlocks once you've played 
 a decent number of hands. By pressing a button, you can bring up a menu that shows you a wealth 
 of statistical data, such as what your pot odds are, based on the number of people already in the 
 hand; the odds of making a specific type of hand, based on what you have versus what's on the board; 
 which cards are your outs; and the percentage of hands you have played in and raised prior to the 
 flop. For those who find the more mathematical aspects of poker dizzying, this handy little tool 
 gives you a better idea of where you stand. It won't win hands for you, but it might keep you from 
 losing a few.  

  In case you're waiting for us to get to the part where World Series of Poker takes advantage of 
 the Wii's unique motion controls, you can keep waiting. This game makes no attempt whatsoever to 
 include motion controls of any kind. It just maps all the basic functions to the buttons on the 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk, and that's it. Granted, motion controls in a poker game probably wouldn't 
 make a ton of sense. If you can actually think of a good way to include motion controls in a middling 
 poker game, feel free to share them with us, because we couldn't think of any. Maybe pushing the 
 remote forward to go all in, or something? OK, maybe not.  

  Unfortunately, on top of not including any motion-control features, the Wii version also lacks 
 any form of multiplayer. The online mode found in every other version of Tournament of Champions 
 is gone, so this version is strictly a single-player affair. Half the fun of the game is in playing 
 people online, so without it, the game feels rather hollow. Not to mention that Activision is charging 
 $10 more for this version than the other versions currently available. If that sounds like a bad 
 deal, you're wrong -- it's an  awful  deal.  

  Another huge drag is the game's presentation. It's tough to make an exciting-looking game of poker, 
 considering that players at a poker table don't do much beyond shifting around in their chairs 
 and occasionally screaming wildly when they lose or win a big hand. The basic in-game graphics 
 aren't terrible, though they're fairly bland, and the game lacks the dynamic presentation of one 
 of the TV poker broadcasts. You'll also notice some ugly clipping issues with character models 
 from time to time. Overall, the Wii version looks like a slightly improved update of the PlayStation 
 2 version, which is to say that it doesn't look like the developer did much to take advantage of 
 the Wii's hardware capabilities.  

          The lackluster presentation and periodically dumb AI are bad enough, but the Wii version's 
 lack of online play is the final nail in the coffin.     

  The audio presentation is problematic as well. Though the developer did at least go to the trouble 
 of getting both Lon McEarchen and Norman Chad this year, it didn't give them anything to do. They 
 have maybe a couple of dozen lines apiece, and both repeat often. Norman doesn't have many of his 
 trademark jokes available, and Lon's play-by-play is badly stitched together, with lots of instances 
 of horrible shifts in voice tone and volume coming at random. The pro player dialogue is at least 
 delivered pretty well. Otherwise, a lot of background casino noise and generic, slide-guitar-heavy 
 music occupies the menu screens.  

  Tournament of Champions for the Wii is the first attempt to bring poker to the system, and by all 
 accounts, it does exactly that, and nothing more. There's nothing to the game beyond a marginally 
 interesting career mode and artificial intelligence that has some significant issues. With no online 
 play, lame presentation, and not even a hint of motion-control capabilities, World Series of Poker 
 for the Wii is exceedingly hard to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Yes, I seriously need someone to wake me up after playing this. Okay the game starts off as a poker 
 champion comes and plays poker with you at a friends house to complete a bet that he had with someone 
 in Tijuana Mexico. Seriously, don't ask. If you like poker like I do and are looking for a decent 
 game, please look elsewhere. Unless you like to be bored by watching someone think for 20 seconds 
 and then finally fold. Oh wait should I say watch a computer think for 20 seconds simulating a 
 person thinking, then yes this game might be for you. This game is lacking in many categories, 
 the voice acting is horrible, there are some horendous accents in this game and they say the same 
 stupid crap over and over, at least when Madden does it you aren't watching someone think and then 
 fold. Please don't rent or buy this game it is awful all around. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
