-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms: A Space Oddity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/wormsaspaceoddity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Creative use of the Wii Remote.
 Good variety of gameplay modes.
 Multiplayer battles are great fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online multiplayer.
 Limited selection of weapons.
 Camera control can be frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 187 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The worms have set their sights on the Wii, and although it's limited in terms of weaponry, A Space 
 Oddity is still a lot of fun. 

  It's hard to believe that the Worms series began well over a decade ago, but its popularity has 
 seen the games appear across most of the major gaming platforms since. Worms: A Space Oddity brings 
 most of the fun of worm-battling to the Nintendo Wii, marrying Worms' traditional 2D gameplay to 
 a particularly clever control system.  

  Worms: A Space Oddity, like the vast majority of games in the franchise, involves turn-based fights 
 between up to four teams of worms. You're given an arsenal of weapons and tools, and the last team 
 standing wins. To supplement your initial firepower, you must collect weapons and health crates 
 all while discovering good offensive and defensive positions.            The weapon selection could 
 best be described as limited.     

  The standard Versus modes of battle are there in beginner, intermediate, and pro difficulties. 
 These modes present increasing levels of challenge by shortening turn times and increasing opponent 
 skill. Also present are additional modes, such as Short Supply, where only one of each kind of 
 weapon is available, making crate collection vital. You can also choose to play the last-man-standing 
 Fort battles, which are as much about strategic defence as skilled attack.  

  The Wii Remote is all you need to play, and the turn-based nature of the game allows up to four 
 players to share one controller if necessary. The motion-sensitive controls are used to good effect. 
 The occasionally unreliable homing missile has been replaced with a new rocket that you steer to 
 its target using the Wii Remote. It makes precision guiding eminently achievable with a steady 
 hand, and there's a true sense of satisfaction when the enemy is hit. Plunging down the controller 
 to set off a carefully placed atom pack adds that extra bit of venom as a friend watches in local 
 multiplayer as well. On the downside, controlling the camera can be frustrating because you have 
 to hold the + button and move the Wii Remote to pan. The result is a camera that doesn't move smoothly, 
 which can be especially irritating in "Pro" games where turn times are fairly short.  

  One of the criticisms from Worms fans of many of the newer games in the series is that the weapon 
 choice is underwhelming, and A Space Oddity is no exception. The entire arsenal comprises a mere 
 10 full-bore weapons and seven tools. While some of them are great fun (the drop ship will bring 
 back happy memories of the concrete donkey to experienced players) , as battles go on, it's hard 
 not to wish for the variety of attacking options available in previous Worms games. Worms World 
 Party on the PC, for example, had more than 50 weapons available. Many of the weapons in A Space 
 Oddity will be recognizable to fans of the series, regardless of the fact that they've been nicely 
 reworked in keeping with the game's sci-fi theme.            Playing through the story mode is 
 a great way to hone your skills for multiplayer.     

  The single-player story mode adds an interesting dimension. The story thread takes you through 
 a series of puzzle- and battle-based levels within each world as you struggle to rebuild your ship 
 and get back to Earth. You might find yourself outnumbered in a battle, digging your way through 
 a level strewn with atom packs or using the environment to take on an opponent with high health 
 points, for example. The story mode levels are useful as practice for the main battles or as a 
 puzzle-based diversion, but they are not compelling in the same way as battling other teams of 
 worms.  

  Completing the five levels for each world in the story mode unlocks a sixth task, which then also 
 becomes available as a stand-alone minigame. These are a nice add-on, but they are unlikely to 
 draw too much attention away from the main game, unless you have a particular liking for whack-a-mole 
 or Space Invaders.  

  The single-player tutorials are a useful place to start because they take you through each of the 
 weapons and tools, as well as their particular controls. Some of tutorials are precursors to later 
 levels within the single-player story mode. Given the limited time available in higher difficulty 
 matches later on, familiarity with the weapons and their control methods is key to success. The 
 tutorial times are saved, so as you get better at the game, you can choose to go back and beat 
 them.  

  What is missing -- and it's a real shame -- is online multiplayer. While the single-player game is 
 fun and useful for enhancing skills, multiplayer is really what Worms is all about. The local multiplayer 
 in Worms: A Space Oddity is as much fun as you'd expect it to be, despite the limited weapons, 
 but the opportunity to play online battles would really add a compelling element to the game.  
 

  As in previous games, Worms: A Space Oddity provides the opportunity to set up your own teams (of 
 three worms) and to create custom landscapes. Creating your own landscapes using the Wii Remote 
 is simple and satisfying. You draw the outline of the landscape that you want and choose elements 
 from all the different environments available. Up to 16 maps can be saved. You can choose from 
 a range of options for team basics, such as colour, flag, and audio. We liked the Yoda-esque master 
 personality ("The darkness, I sense in you") , but if you prefer the basic English/French/Spanish 
 variants on insults and battle cries, they are all available. The taunts and phrases throughout 
 the game are as quirky and amusing as ever, although a greater variety would have been welcome. 
 You can also create your own battle type, specifying such options as the number of victories necessary 
 for a win, the frequency of crates, and the timing of turns.            Killing enemy worms is 
 always satisfying, especially when there's an explosion involved.     

  Worms: A Space Oddity is unlikely to win any awards for art design, but that's not to say the imagery 
 doesn't fit within the game. Bright, colourful environments reflect the worlds they represent -- the 
 alien plant life in Tenticlia is a particular highlight. One new twist is that the environments 
 can have a bearing on the outcome of matches. Each world has its own hazards, which must be taken 
 into account during competitive matches. When playing on Earth, for example, UFOs may swoop down 
 and grab a worm, then relocate it elsewhere on the map. Given the lamentable lack of ninja ropes 
 or a select worm option, this displacement can be crucial to the result of the match.  

  It's good to see that the series' first crack at Nintendo's console is an all-new game, clearly 
 created with the Wii and its controller in mind. The single-player game contains enough to teach 
 a new player all about the game, and the multiplayer is  almost  as much fun as ever. It's a shame 
 that Team 17 didn't include a more impressive weapon selection and that the game doesn't include 
 the online multiplayer that has made it a real hit on other platforms, but there's still plenty 
 of fun to be had with Worms: A Space Oddity.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sicteliko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  The poor reviews made me write this review, because the game isn't that bad at all. I think most 
 reviewers gave the game one point less for the fact that the promised online mode didn't make it 
 to the final version. Though it is a shame that it is not included, the game itself is really good. 
 
  
  I'm not going to explain what the Worms series is about, because I guess most of you already know. 
 There are a few features that make this game different from previous games in the series:
  -A story mode, which has a simple but funny story about the Worms flying from planet to planet, 
 in which you have to defeat enemy worms or collect ship pieces.
  -Motion controls, they take a little while to get used to, but they really work very well.
  -Less 
 worms, 3 in fact for each team (in multiplayer) , while this doesn't seem much, the games are a 
 little quicker and certainly not less entertaining.
  -Only 10 real weapons, this really is a downside, also because some of the weapons are too easy 
 and they feel a bit like cheating when playing in multi-player.
  
  For this review, I'll use the IGN review system, because it's the most easy.
  
  Presentation: 
 9/10
  The menu's are quite nice and easy to navigate, and the space theme is kept everywhere. There are 
 some nice cut-scenes in the story mode, and the levels are bright and colorful.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Not really special, but not bad either. The backgrounds are a little muddy at 
 times, and their are some weird texture problems at times. The impact effects are great though, 
 as are some of the other effects. The worms are well designed too.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The sound is pretty decent, but nothing spectacular. The music is very nice and very weird (typical 
 Worms music) , and the speech banks are really funny. There are some new speech sets, like one called 
 'creepy' (which sounds like the Borg from Star Trek) , and some computer voices. They all have some 
 really funny sentences, but they get repetitive after a while.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Quite good overall. The menu pointer is a little sensitive, not to mention the in game camera which 
 takes quite a while to get used to. Controlling the worms is very easy, though it's a little weird 
 that you shoot with 'B' and jump with 'A'. For some reason, shooting with 'A' feels more natural, 
 and I have tried it a few times, resulting in some hilarious moments. Shooting requires some practice, 
 but is really easy once you master it.
  
  Lasting value: 9/10
  If you like the game, there is a lot to come back to. Multiplayer is always a lot of fun, and because 
 the rounds are shorter, you can pick it up quite easily and play a few rounds for a while. The 
 story mode is a nice addition, and features some really nice puzzle-like elements. You can unlock 
 new gravestones, sounds and flags too, which makes it valuable for fans to finish.
  
  Overall: 8,5/10
  I would really recommend this game to anyone who has played the game before 
 and loved it. It would be a shame not to buy this game only because it doesn't have online gameplay. 
 It's still a lot of fun to play with friends, and even on your own. This may not be the best Worms 
 game ever, but it's a really good game that is a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-wario-bro
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Imagine getting home from work/school and your wife/mum tells you she wants you to redecorate the 
 bedroom. She also tells you that she will add new furniture after the room is decorated.
  Now imagine that after doing a fine job painting the four walls and a door your wife/mum decides 
 that she does not want pictures on the wall and instead she wants you to nail jelly to the wall 
 as a feature. As well as this she also tells you that there will not be any new furniture.
  
  Ok, the link between the short story and the game is this....
  
  Worms never needed much 
 attention. The graphics are always basic and the gameplay is always simple too. But this is what 
 makes the game so playable on almost every console and computer ever released. It never needed 
 too much of a redecoration.
  And why would worms need to have so many wii specific motion controls. Swinging your arm towards 
 the telly is never going to simulate throwing a missile. 
  Then there is the online mode which worms desperatly needs. Players like me only have 2 wii remotes 
 and not many friends interested in Worms, so the promise to include this mode and then remove it 
 again is just criminal. Worms is a multiplayer game only (although it does have a very basic 1 
 player mode) .
  
  It seems that Worms on the wii has had a great make over, had its jelly controls nailed on instead 
 of trusty button bashing and had all of its multiplayer furniture guts removed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Great use of wii remote.
  
  Fun mini - games and cool videos.
  
  Good multiplayer games.
  
  Variety of modes.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Dreadfully frustrating 
 camera controls.
  
  Not enough weapon choice.
  
  Bland landscapes
  
  Worms is one of the most popular games made for games consoles. There is a version of Worms on 
 nearly every games console. Worms Space Oddity brings the fun of the traditional 2D Worms games 
 to the Wii.
  
  Worms Space Oddity, like the other Worms games gives you an arsenal of traditional weaponry, with 
 a slight space twist. Like the other Worms games you battle with up to 4 teams of Worms and the 
 last team standing wins the match.
  
  There are several games mode:
  Versus - Traditional Worms fight, where the last team standing wins. You have several difficulty 
 modes and you can play multiplayer, which is really fun.
  Story mode - Explore different planets with a team of Worms and unlock new items.
  Mini-games 
 - Play fun little mini-games that you gradually unlock.
  Training - Learn about moving and master the different weapons.
  
  The game does not have great 
 art designs, but each landscape had different friction levels and exclusive hazards.
  
  Worms Space Oddity is a fun game which the whole family can enjoy, it is also a great introduction 
 to Worms it is a shame that there aren't many weapons and online multiplayer. It is great that 
 Team 17 and Nintendo have set their sights on the Wii. Buy this fun little game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Worms is a long running action/strategy franchise in which, traditionally, your team of four or 
 more worms attempt to destroy opposing teams with a variety of silly and devastating weapons. This 
 new version, dubbed A Space Oddity, has the same fundamental 2D gameplay but adds waggle and a 
 space theme to the mix while limiting other features of the game. It also drops the number of worms 
 per team to three. 
  
  But a more lamentable issue with A Space Oddity is the extremely limited selection of weapons. 
 In most previous Worms titles you had a very sizable arsenal of stuff to take out your opponents, 
 however now that arsenal is about a quarter of that size. Your arsenal consists of mostly staple 
 weapons from the other games but now with a sci-fi twist on them. The sci-fi theme actually works 
 pretty well and actually tells a story through the cutscenes and the new mini-games. Not that it 
 matters, because gameplay is what Worms is all about.
  
  The motion controls, unsurprisingly, do take some getting used to but are very functional once 
 you get the hang of it. Using the Wii-mote to uppercut, smash and detonate your enemies can be 
 pretty fun and adds another comedic element to the fray especially when playing with friends. Locally.
 
  
  And playing with friends locally is the extent of the multiplayer options. Which leads me to the 
 most difficult thing this version lost, and that is the once-promised online play. This shouldn't 
 come as too much of a shock considering the Wii's less than adequate online capabilities, but is 
 no less a huge disappointment. 
  
  In closing I believe Worms fans will enjoy what this version offers as long as you're not expecting 
 the second coming of Worms. For people new to the series that own a Wii, I say at least rent it. 
 It's a solid mix of action and strategy that can be wickedly addictive. For the true Worms experience 
 we must unfortunately look backwards to Worms Armageddon or World Party. Here's to hoping that 
 Team 17 ups the ante for the next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puck82
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  It is just the title I was waiting for. Worms are a classic : no way.
  A good game that mixes a well known gameplay with powerful new features never seen before, like 
 using weapons with your Wiimote.
  This is a best title to play in multiplayer with your friends, all together but not on the internet 
 :- ( 
  Team17 took the best Worm-Factor style and adapted it into the Nintendo Wii world, obtaining a 
 really optimum result.
  
  I was waiting for Worms : A Space Oddity since it was released as preview some months ago : I played 
 all the Worms titles on every console, starting from my oldest PC and died Amiga 500.
  It's too beautiful to see some pretty worms battle against others, using a lot of weapons !
  
 At the end I will give you an advice : get it now as fast as you can. You will see that this title 
 is really easy to play and also very difficult to leave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pobusmax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Out of the shiny wrapper it came quickly like a 5 year-old at Christmas. Overall it has a nice 
 feel to it and it's a hell of a lot better than the 3D series churned out over the later editions. 
 The space theme is nice and good use is made of the gestures on the Wii, which do make the weapons 
 a lot easier to control. But it's the weapons that also bring the big disappointment. You won't 
 find much to choose from and they are all basic in effect - no hidden surprises lurking around 
 here with magic bullets and carpet bombs - just the starting set. Customisation is also pretty 
 limited but I guess that's a console conversion for you. However, this will still appeal to new 
 and old users and is still 30 well spent (but would've been a bargain if the on-line play made 
 it to the final cut) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
