-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/smackdownvsraw2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can do crotch chops with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk.
 Great character models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gesture controls are imprecise and obnoxiously repetitive.
 Missing most of the game modes and match types from the other console versions.
 Main event mode is a real snoozer.
 AI and collision-detection problems frequently pop up.
 Commentary is abysmal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 601 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In setting out to make a wrestling game for people who don't like wrestling games, THQ has turned 
 in a game that nobody will like. 

  Much ado has been made about the Wii's appeal to audiences outside the normal gaming realm, hence 
 why you often find established franchises and genres taking different approaches when developing 
 for the Wii hardware. That isn't an inherently bad thing, but when you futz with a formula too 
 much for the sake of trying to broaden a game's appeal, sometimes you end up stretching things 
 too far and destroying any appeal whatsoever. The case in point is WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008, 
 the first wrestling game for the Wii and a real downer for any wrestling fan. In an attempt to 
 simplify the admittedly overcomplicated SmackDown! game design, the developers ended up with a 
 control scheme that is neither responsive enough nor deep enough to hold anyone's attention for 
 more than a few matches. Couple that with the fact that nearly every hallmark feature of the series 
 has been stripped out, and what you're ultimately left with is a hollow shell of a wrestler.  

 
           That was supposed to be a piledriver, dammit.      

  Just to linger on that last point for a moment, let's run down the list of things that SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2008  doesn't  have compared with its counterparts on other consoles. The quick and dirty 
 list includes: the fighting-style system implemented this year in the other console versions, 24/7 
 mode (both the single-player story mode and the general-manager mode) , create-a-belt mode, create-a-stable 
 mode, create-an-entrance mode, online play, hall of fame matches, the cage match, hell in a cell, 
 the ECW extreme-rules match, the fatal four-way match, battle royals, backstage brawls, the ironman 
 match, the table match, the ladder match, the tables ladders and chairs match, tables, ladders, 
 and, in fact, any weapon that is not a chair.  

  Granted, wrestling games have survived with less in the past, but only when the gameplay was any 
 fun. Sadly, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 is missing that one key factor as well. There is a good idea 
 in SmackDown!'s gameplay design, but it isn't followed through on with any notable success. Essentially, 
 the basic wrestling system inherent to the series has been simplified so that it relies exclusively 
 on flicks of the Wii Remote that may or may not cause your chosen wrestler to do the move you have 
 in mind. Simply swinging the remote will cause a wrestler to do a striking move, and doing it multiple 
 times engages a series of canned combo strikes. Holding down the A button while flicking the remote 
 will engage a quick-grapple move. Holding B engages a strong grapple, including a rendition of 
 the total-control grapple moves from the other console versions that require you to move the remote 
 up, down, left, or right for each stage of a given move. Flick upward to lift an opponent for a 
 power bomb from the prone position, and then down again to slam him.  

  Again, this sounds like a neat idea, but almost immediately it becomes clear that there's just 
 nothing at all to this system. Matches tend to go one of two ways. On the one hand, you could come 
 out firing with strike combos, hit the same exact grapple move five or six times throughout the 
 match because the game often can't tell which way you're swinging the remote, and eventually win 
 either by busting out your finisher or just getting a lucky pin. On the other hand, you could come 
 out firing with strike combos, get reversed constantly by the artificial intelligence, and end 
 up getting destroyed by your opponent's finisher rather quickly. That's about it. There's no depth 
 to the fighting at all. You wave the remote, hope you don't get reversed a bunch, wave the remote 
 like crazy when you're getting attacked and hope that your actions magically turn into a reversal 
 of your own, and finally hope the match ends before you dislocate your shoulder from all that waving. 
 If there were even a smidgen more variety to how a match played out, the potential for fun could 
 be there. As it is, this is merely a contest of aggravating repetition.  

  Furthermore, you'll be able to experience these contests in only a handful of ways. With only single, 
 hardcore, tag, triple threat, and K. O. matches available, you're not going to get much mileage 
 out of playing different match types. There is a single-player mode that kind of, sort of, not 
 really attempts to provide a storyline, but this mode, titled main event, is just an out-and-out 
 bore. You pick a grappler, a brand, and then set forth playing match after match against the same 
 three guys until you earn enough respect from the crowd to increase your rep and take on a new 
 set of three guys, and then another set, and another set, and so on, and so on, and so on. In-between, 
 you can opt to train a bit to raise your stats in the basic strength, speed, and similar statistics, 
 or rest up to lower your fatigue rating. But beyond that noninteractive stuff and a bunch of goofy 
 voicemails from your opponents and eventual partners, there's nothing to tie this mode together. 
 It's just a long string of matches with some lackluster role-playing game elements dangling off 
 of it. We'll grant that the single-player story mode in this year's game on other consoles wasn't 
 very good, but it looks like high entertainment compared to this thing.  

  The truly sad irony about SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 on the Wii is that the things about it that most 
 closely resemble all the other console versions of the game aren't necessarily the aspects you'd 
 want at all. For instance, the Wii game is just as terrible in the AI category as the rest of the 
 versions released this year. Opponents rely exclusively on constant reversals to get by, and your 
 tag partners tend to forget to come rescue you when you're being pinned. Any time you put a chair 
 in an opponent's hands, he'll just run at you with it constantly like a bomber on a suicide run, 
 and if you happen to get into a spot where he can't reach you, he'll flail like a crazed fish out 
 of water, swinging wildly at air until you happen to step right into the range needed to get hit. 
 Collision detection is also bad. Wrestlers will periodically swing through one another, and you'll 
 constantly see body parts morph into the ring mat. If you happen to get near the announcer tables, 
 well, let's just say that unintentional comedy often ensues.  

  Then there's the roster, which is just as out of date as any other version of the game. Notably 
 released wrestlers who are in the game's roster include Sandman, King Booker, Cryme Time, Marcus 
 Cor Von, Chris Masters, and Sabu (who is admittedly in the game as a "legend" wrestler for some 
 reason) . Couple that with a few names who are currently out with extended injuries, and the roster 
 is looking a little ragged. It might not feel so off if it weren't for the fact that there are 
 less wrestlers overall than last year. It's not Yuke's fault that this is the case, considering 
 the development cycle and how far ahead the rosters have to be locked for this thing before the 
 game is finished. Nevertheless, maybe this speaks to a greater issue about the game's development 
 cycle, given that this problem keeps popping up again and again, and with greater notability each 
 year.  

  With that said, there are a few positive similarities to be had. For one thing, the create-a-wrestler 
 and create-a-moveset modes are here and mostly intact. The inability to edit entrances is a real 
 bummer, but the basic creation technology is there and works nicely. Secondly, the tournament modes 
 introduced this year are on hand here as well. They let you create different tournaments, do a 
 standard King of the Ring tourney, and also a special beat-the-clock tournament that tasks you 
 with trying to win your tournament match the fastest of all to advance to the finals.  

           Hopefully you really like using steel chairs, because that's the only weapon you've got. 

  The in-game graphics directly mimic the PlayStation 2 version of the game, but that's not a slight 
 against the Wii version at all. The SmackDown! games have always been some of the best-looking 
 games on Sony's last-generation hardware, and the Wii version looks just as good. It's a shame 
 that the game doesn't trump PS2-quality graphics in any noticeable way, but at least things look 
 basically sharp. Character models are nicely put together, all the entrance animations look spectacular, 
 and some of the move animations look great, too. Others don't appear quite as nice, but those are 
 the same questionable animations as in all the other iterations of the game. One detail the world 
 could have done without is the abysmal commentary. The commentary is the same recycled nonsense 
 we've been getting from this series for the last few installments. You've heard practically every 
 one of these lines, and you've heard them applied just as inaccurately as they are in this game. 
 Something has seriously got to give at some point, because the commentary ultimately serves more 
 to ruin the presentation of the matches than help it.  

  Although a certain degree of feature stripping is often a factor in first installments of franchises 
 on new console hardware, the degree to which SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 on the Wii cuts away at what 
 made the franchise successful on other platforms is utterly ridiculous. It's one thing to put the 
 developmental focus on the new gameplay design, but if that was truly the case, it's all that much 
 sadder that everything else got left on the cutting-room floor for the sake of the gameplay, given 
 what a repetitive slog the gameplay design turned out to be. This game is a failed experiment, 
 and with any luck THQ and Yuke's will learn heaps from it and greatly improve upon next year's 
 inevitable installment. If they don't, Wii-owning wrestling fans are in for a long console generation. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FatalityFreak
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  At first when I saw the commercials I was thinking this would be the best WWE game ever. But boy 
 was I wrong. Now the controls are fun but, there are not alot of game modes. There is only single, 
 tag team, K. O., triple threat and hardcore. Unlike the other console versions that have many game 
 modes. Then there is Main Event mode, which can be fun at first, but becomes pointless after a 
 while. Then another complaint is there is no online play, at least give it online mode, that would've 
 made up for many things. The graphics are pretty good for a Wii game, but they look similar to 
 PS2 graphics. Bottom line is that this game has alot of potential but, I was dissapointed. Hopefully 
 Smackdown vs Raw 2009 for the Wii will have online gameplay, more game modes and that it will keep 
 up with the other console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior_Swan
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  ass. For starters, the Roster absolutely sucks. I've got SvR '07, full of great wrestlers who are 
 no longer with the company who are, in my eyes, among the greatest fake athletes the world has 
 ever seen. Those guys are gone. Instead, we get left with Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Rock, 
 toting along some of the lesser men from the glory days of the WWF. 
  
  That aside, let's discuss match types, or the lack thereof. All of the awesome match types that 
 existed before are basically gone. No cage of any kind, Tables Ladders and Chairs match, gone, 
 including the Tables and Ladders, leaving us with only chairs to enjoy. (I use the term loosely) . 
 You're left literally with Tag Matches, and one on one matches. Hardcore is a joke, since the only 
 weapon in the game is a chair, it would have served better on the cutting room floor along with 
 the rest of the fun matches.
  
  Now the controls. This game doesn't seem to be friends with the Wii-remote. You're expected to 
 hold different buttons (for different grapple types) , and fling the remote in a specific direction 
 for a certain move. I found myself swinging the remote in every direction known to man, only to 
 do the same move every single time. 
  
  I expected at least a similar experience to the Ps2 games I had come to love. But what I actually 
 got was the result of the Big Show eating the previous titles, and crapping them out. By which 
 I mean, the waste bi-products of previous awesome games.
  
  I regret wasting my money on this abysmal piece of crap, and wish I had just gotten the PS2 version 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto1372
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Once you start to win, it can start to get addicting cause you just want to keep playing and winning 
 and get to Main Event status. It has all the superstars the console has, but only one weapon, a 
 chair. The controls are really really clumsy, and it can't read the direction you're waving. Typically, 
 all you do is wave the remote around and hope for the best. All the legends are easy to unlock 
 though, unlike the console versions. All in all, it's not that bad but it's not that good. . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_peter
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I have reviewed a game in this series before and I had a few particular likes in this series and 
 a few dislikes about this series. I have since got rid of my much played PS2 and stumped up the 
 cash for a Wii, and this was one of my first purchases.
  
  One of my particular likes about the series was the renouncement of health bars in favour of a 
 body targeted system. To me, this meant that it went closer to a wrestling simulation, especially 
 with the introduction of the stamina bars in SvR 07. 
  
  The Wii version takes a step back in the series and replaces stamina with health bars, and I hate 
 this. With a few well times attacks you can find yourself in lots of trouble with no chance at 
 all of a comeback. Especially on the higher difficulty levels.
  
  Also the game appears to be "stripped out" of moves, arenas, Create an Entrance, Create a Belt, 
 gimmick matches, and the engaging career mode. I am very interested to know why the PS2 and the 
 PSP versions have more options despite having a lesser storage space on its format.
  
  In short, this is the worst SvR yet. Graphical superiority cannot replace playability and it appears 
 that THQ and Yukes are getting complacent with this series, EA fell into the trap a few years ago 
 with Fifa and came up against stiff competition with Pro Evo. Despite this, it does have a few 
 interesting features, but the publisher and developer need to review what it wants to do with this 
 series before the WWE franchise moves over to EA in two years time.
  
  This game reeks of lazy programming and feels incomplete.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Dude they really screwed the game up pretty bad. I mean it sucks, just not entirely. Let me explain...
 
  
  Ok here's the good points of the game. U got some pretty awesome soundtracks. U got an *OK* career 
 mode. U got fun matches. And the multiplayer is great. Really really really great! And u got mostly 
 all the wrestlers, even the legends. And probably the best thing is the create a player mode. That 
 is totally sweet. Great customization.
  
  But here are all the bad things, this might take a while. First of all, u only got 5 freakin' match 
 types! I mean  Only 5?!??!?! Whats up with that?!? My friend showed 
 me the PS2 version and it had way more matches than that! It had hundreds! And the Wii only gets 
 5???? What the freak? And u got this career mode that ok... but its not that fun! And the only weapon 
 in the game is a steel chair! A steel chair? Oh my god! Thats sucks balls! Only a chair!? Wow... i 
 cant believe it.
  
  Overall, i know how Gamespot feels. They give it a 4.5. Not so great. I wouldnt take it that low... but 
 they do need to improve. Now when they make Smackdown VS Raw 09, they better make sure they get 
 some resources. I give 2008, 6 Roundhouses out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyrocks619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  despite the low ratings that smackdown recieved, i (being a huge WWE fan) really think smackdown 
 deserves more. it may lack all the other modes like steel cage, h*ll in a cell, and no DQ, but 
 it is a look on THE FUTURE IN wrestiling games. it is a rough beginning, but i think that in 1 
 or 2 year, they will come out with an amazing WWE game for the wii that will deliver a can of whop 
 a**. i love the interactions u get while punching someone whos on the floor, or doing signature 
 taunts using the wiimote.
  
  it is also a pain learning all of the controls because the instructions booklet is only like 6 
 pages long, so u are to figure out all of the controls by urself
  
  anyone thinking of buying the smackdown vs raw 2008 game, i recommend it. if u are still having 
 doubts about buying it, then just rent it to give it chance. dont listen to the ratings. but u 
 will be diapointed by how few the variety of match types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motorhead14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I played this game at my cousin's house for the PS2 and it had way more game modes than the Wii. 
 I have the Wii version and it's still an average game. Probly the Worst game mode is the Main Event 
 mode but the Exibition matches are pretty good for multi-player. I believe this game got a piledriver 
 by the other consoles and lost it's stuff. But still as a said, its an average game. Also theres 
 no such match called a KO Match. AND you can't hit the referee. Plus I was expecting some Barbwire 
 bats and alls they have are steel chairs which means the Hardcore Match is a real snoozer. But 
 still the Graphics are just as good as the other consoles and the create a superstar mode ain't 
 to bad. But the Create a Move-set only has about 30 Finishers which is a real let down. But on 
 the other hand. It's still a pretty fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun and addictive, to say the least, but there could of been allot more to 
 it. The only game mode there was is superstar mode ( not create a super star mode this is the name 
 of the season mode) , and you could make a superstar, and an entrance, but you couldn't preview 
 it though, whats up with that? And there where only six match types. And when you start playing 
 the game, your not going to directly know how to unlock legends. But the game play is nice though, 
 to me it's very interactive, and I like the selection of wrestlers too, and I like that you can 
 choose wich brand to be in, and it's very fun to make your wrestler. Overall it was okay but a 
 little more to do on the game would have been nice though. If you are a W. W. E. fan and are trying 
 to collect all wrestling games, then you should get this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall rating, 7.5
  You can get it if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 3
Date: May 17, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Ever since Wii Sports: Boxing was presented, it seemed pretty obvious that the motion controls 
 could be used to create very immersive fighting games. With the announcement of WWE: Smackdown 
 vs Raw, gamers thought that their ship had finally come in for a good brawler. Sadly though, the 
 Wii version disappoints in nearly every way possible and doesn't do the license justice. 
  
  For those of you who have played previous smackdown games, you'll be expecting to find many 
 of the same modes you've found in the previous version plus more, to toy around with. However, 
 the Wii version stips away many of the predicessor's game variants, such as the Career, Hardcore, 
 and several others, and doesn't replace them with anything new. Sure, you have the World Tour, 
 but it's not something to be compared to the old Career that was found in the 2007 version. Not 
 only that, but you will also find that there is NO TUTORIAL. That's right, you'll have to look 
 in the manual to figure out how to do anything. 
  
  Once you've skimmed through the manual to figure out how to play the game, you will still find 
 that the controls are practically broken. Sometimes the controls will work if you perform an exaggerated 
 version of what's supposed to be done, but most of the time what you do is completely random. The 
 computer seems to know how to do everything flawlessly, which doesn't make matters any better considering 
 you're limited as to how well you can actually fight due to the horrendous controls. 
  
  Fortunately in this one, THQ decided to scrap the stamina bar, so you don't have to worry about 
 recovering energy. However, you now have a life bar which goes down whenever you're hit, and goes 
 back up during taunts or whenever you hit an enemy. It's an ok concept, but the spirit bar in the 
 360 and PS3 versions seem to be easier to manage. Bodily damage is still here to help you weaken 
 your opponent in the area you want. 
  
  If you're one of those who took the fight online, you can forget about it in this one. The Wii 
 version of Smackdown vs Raw 2008 also leaves that feature absent. You could fight against up to 
 four of your friends, but that isn't much of an excuse. 
  
  Don't expect to be blown away by the visuals in this version of 2008 either. The moment you start 
 playing a match it is obvious that the game is either a tweaked version of the PS2 code, or half 
 finished. The environment looks fuzzy from time to time, people in the background are lacking in 
 detail, and the lighting effects seem half-baked. Particle effects, such as the sparks in a wrestlers 
 entrance, are significantly smaller compared to those found in other versions. That, combined with 
 the lacking lighting, make some reather weak effects. 
  
  The character models look alright. It's nothing to be in awe over, but they aren't terrible at 
 the same time. Some characters are well detailed, and others, such as Umaga, look like they've 
 been slapped together in a hurry. 
  
  As for sound, it's quite basic. Sound effects like mat and concrete hits, are good for the most 
 part. However, the commentary is repeditive and annoying. You'll constantly hear the same thing 
 over and over again, and there is no way to disable it. 
  
  Out of all the versions of Smackdown vs Raw, this one is quite possibly the worst. It lacks in 
 both gameplay and graphics departments, and is only made worse by broken control. If you're a fan 
 of wrestling, then go with this game on another console and stay away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDrew64
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Well lets cut to the chase, worst wrestling game i have ever played. Ever since they stopped making 
 wrestling games for the nintendo 64 it went all down hill for wrestling on the nintendo. Sure it 
 lasted me a good ten hours but there isnt anything much to do with it. you cant superplex a guy 
 off a ladder through 2 burning tables like you could in the ps or 360 version. this game has all 
 of a career mode emphisise career... there isnt a rip off story that weve come to know and love 
 like in the past games. and single matches plus tag team and a hardcore where you cant use anything 
 but chairs. they bassically ripped out all the main events and the mindless unrealistic violence 
 we all love (the fun) . the move system is also worse than the time i played 06 on the ps2 with 
 a controller that had a mind of its own... it kept moving on its own. you do a boston crab and 
 it was supposed to be a sharpshooter... frustraiting. they made specials to easy thats for sure 
 and you can win a match in like 1 minute flat... dissapointing. over all its not worth 50 dollars 
 thats for sure and any self respecting wrestling fan shouldnt touch this game because it isnt worth 
 the money... see ya in the 10-20 dollar game bin at wal-mart pal... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Well, we all know each year THQ releases a new Smackdown vs. Raw game. The only amusing and fun 
 wrestling game I ever played was WWE Day of Reconing. Sadly this game fits into one of the worst 
 games of all time. There is real story but all you have to do is suvive is the fake wrestling buisness. 
 The graphics in all 4 console versions are the same. There is no improvment to the graphics from 
 Smackdown vs. Raw 2007. Its unacceptable to have the graphics to stay the same from the previous 
 installments. The lip work is awful and characters can still walk through solid objects. The auidenece 
 still looks like cardboard cut outs and you cant see the comentaters where theyre supposed to sitting 
 at. Instead its just used as pointless decoration. The sound is mediocore. All of the stupid songs 
 the wrestlers use are here and they still suck! The crowd still keeps cheering no matter what and 
 do not react to whats going on in the matches. The commentaters keep on saying the same thing over 
 and over again! Its stupid! The commentaters are completely brainless! The gameplay is decent but 
 it can really get you very mad. When you try to manuver a specific move the can most of the time 
 think that youre trying to another one. This is terrible and no one deserves to own this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  After reading the poor reviews, I should've learned. But to my blatant ignorance I told myself 
 "it cant be THAT bad, Can it?." The truth is, this was horrible, I bought it christmas and I've 
 played it twice. I can't even play it. The controls bring nothing to the game, and are completely 
 flawed, the gameplay is useless, and the replay value is zero. I was of course expecting something 
 at least similarly as entertaining to the early 2000's releases of WWF: Smackdown! and Smackdown: Know 
 your role for Playstation 1, both games that we're released nearly FIVE years ago. However, SD 
 VS RAW 2008 is nothing like those games which we're both entertaining. It pains me to see a next 
 gen game of the same genre release a game which doesn't possess a quarter of the quality of a game 
 released five years previous, 2 generations of consoles down the list in the past. I was excited 
 for this but totally taken back with how atrociously rubbish this game was. Hey, maybe for the 
 X360 and PS3 it may be decent, but by all means, stay away from the WII version, and wait for TNA: Impact. 
 I'm not joking when I say you can't even play this game, the controls offer nothing in regards 
 to the game or how you actually create moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziant4life
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't even go to the main event mode. It's so repetitive. I hardly unlock anything after days 
 of repetitive wrestling and switching brands. I totally conquered ECW and still have yet to unlock 
 ECW december to dismember. There's no shop in this game, STILL no backstage and flaming tables 
 um.... can anyone say FALSE ADVERTISEMENT. I thought the full review made some mistakes but the 
 only thing extreme about ECW is ... a chair and falls count anywhere... (NO BACKSTAGE) . When will 
 there be some sort of diva search thing where ladies (my wife) can go through a mode without using 
 a character I create? THQ needs to look at what they had on N64 and remaster that gameplay with 
 these controls and graphics... that's it . They'll have satisfied customers and greater sales. 
 
  
  Oh and the DS version would be great for a Diva search mode. All those mini-games can be played 
 on the DS, it'd be perfect. But, no one cares bout feminist... so eh well. It seems like THQ doesn't 
 listen to any type of forums... anyone remember how to write a letter?
  
  If you like creating players this might actually entertain you... for a month or two. Oh and you 
 can't preview entrances anymore. You just gotta select general entrances... yes I kno they screwed 
 up.
  
  when your opponent is performing mounted punches absorb some good luck and swing the remote because 
 there is no way to block it... maybe by holding a rabbit's foot : - \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtslade27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  A few days after I bought my Wii, talk of this game started to appear. At first I was overjoyed 
 and was waiting for it's release with a lot of anticipation. I thought, after the playstation 2006 
 and 2007 games that had me hooked all summer, imagine what it would be like on the Wii with it's 
 revolutionary controls. As it turns out the Wii version dropped match types that i loved (Hell in 
 a cell, Last man standing, etc...) and only included 5 types (single, K. O., tag team, triple threat, and 
 a hardcore ripoff that only has 2 chairs..) !
  
  Although lack of match types (I want my Hell In A Cell!) keeps me a bit disapointed this is an excellent 
 game in terms of gameplay. The Wii controls seem like a perfect fit and with a few match types and 
 game modes added 2009 would be the next step into a new generation of wrestling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptilious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Now I'll agree, the graphics sucked, and there is really not much of a story line to any part of 
 the game. I was also disappointed to see how many of my favorite wrestlers from the real WWE were 
 missing. I was still upset to find out that there was virtually no versatility when it came to 
 match types. 
  But no matter how much stuff sucks, I was addictd to finishing the game, and I would get upset 
 every time i lost (which was maybe twice on hard) . I cant say everything about this game was horrible 
 cuz im still addicted to the game, even though I beat it already like 8 times 
  I know it's pretty pathetic since its so easy and because of all the flaws, but I cannot say I 
 hate this game. It was wierd, cuz I'm not completely sure about whether it was good or bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLeRKSfan4life
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smacksown vs Raw 2008 was released in late 2007 for the Wii as well as other "next gen" consoles 
 and handhelds. It's the first game in the Smackdown series to include ECW as a full on brand seperate 
 from Raw and Smackdown!
  
  From the moment this game was announced for the Wii I was excited. Just thinking about pulling 
 off moves using the Wii remote was cool. It just seemed to get better and better... until it was 
 released. From then on it just got blasted for a lack of match types, hardly any replayability 
 and simple gameplay.
  
  I decided to get it anyway and while it does lack a lot of stuff, it's still a great game.
  
 
  First off, yes, there are only 5 match types, Single, Hardcore, Tag Team, Triple Threat and Knock 
 Out. There's also only 3 gameplay modes, Exhibition, Main Event and Tournament. All the match types 
 are pretty self explanatory if you know even the basics of wrestling. One thing I will say about 
 the Hardcore match though, which is something you've probably heard anyway is that the only weapons 
 avilable are two steel chairs. This doesn't present much variety but if you use you imagination 
 - and the announce tables - you can do some pretty entertaining matches. Really, the only way you 
 can fully enjoy this game is by making the most out of what little you have.
  
  So, Exhibition gives you the option to play from any of these match types and lets you use any 
 match modifiers made in the options menu, like having rope breaks, give ups and K. O.'s on or off. 
 You can also choose from a wide range of different arenas to fight in. These include the standard 
 Smackdown, Raw and ECW arenas, PPV arenas for each brand as well as arenas for the smaller shows 
 like Heat. 
  
  In Main Event mode you pick a wrestler - either from the original roster or from created wrestlers 
 - and fight your way from Jobber to Main Eventer. You pick the show you want to start on and whether 
 you are a good guy or bad guy and compete in your first match. After this match, whether you win 
 or lose, you'll have the ability to increase your stats, get massages - which will boost your stamina 
 - and set up matches.
  
  There's a decent variety of things you can do when it comes to matches. Each week you be challenged 
 by other wrestlers. You can choose to accept these challenges or offer a challenge to another wrestler. 
 Yoo're also able to set up Triple Threat and Tag matches. If you compete in a few Tag matches using 
 the same partner you can form an alliance which will let you wrestle for the Tag Team Championships 
 once you reach a certain rating. If you fight any one wrestler multiple times you will begin a 
 feud with him. This means that you'll get challenged by this particular wrestler more than others.
 
  
  Overall, the Main Event mode is put together pretty well and doesn't really get repetitive, as 
 long as you vary your opponents and matches.
  The main benefit of Main Event mode is unlocking other wrestlers and arenas but it's also the onlyway 
 to get your created wrestlers stats up.
  
  Tournament mode is decent enough although I haven't played it much. You have the basic single elimination 
 tournaments where you fight various opponents in different rounds. If you lose a match you are 
 eliminated from the tournament. If you win you advance to the next round.
  
  There is also a beat the clock tournament. In this you must beat your opponent faster than other 
 wrestlers beat their opponents. If you beat the time limit, you advance, if not, you are eliminated.
 
  
  Aside from these modes there is also a surprisingly good create a wrestler mode. Here you can create 
 your own original Wrestler or Diva or make real life wrestlers who aren't in the game. The CAW 
 system is similar to previous installments although it seems less complex this time around but 
 still retains the depth and customisation options to create great looking CAWs. The only complaint 
 I have with the CAW mode is the lack of good hair styles. Apart from that it's pretty much perfect.
 
  
  Another mode is the Create a Move set, which is incredibly simple and quick this year - on the 
 Wii atleast - due to the Wii version having stripped down movestes. Here you pick an overall fighting 
 style, like Technical, Brawler, Striker, etc, Then pick Signature moves, finishers and taunts and 
 that's it, it's done. While I'm a little annoyed that the wrestlers have smaller movesets in the 
 Wii version, I'm also glad because now it doesn't take forever to make a decent moveset for your 
 own created wresler. You can also customise the moves of the wrestlers already in the game which 
 is a decent feature, although it's been in pretty much every other Smackdown game.
  
  Now on to the actual matches. When you first start playing you'll probably be surprised at how 
 simple everything is compared to 2006 or 2007. In fact, The matches play out in a similar fashion 
 to the original Smackdown game. That's not a bad thing really, it just takes some getting used 
 to. If you want to win as quick as possible and you're fairly used to the controls it shouldn't 
 take more that around 45 seconds to win a match. Basically, each wrestler has a sort of energy 
 bar similar to a lot of fighting games. The more damage you take, the shorter the bar gets and 
 it changes colour from blue to yellow, to red until it's eventually flashing red. When it's flashing, 
 you're pretty much one move away from getting pinned unless you get real lucky and hit a couple 
 of moves and build your energy back up by taunting your opponent.
  
  As you might expect, punches and kicks are done by swinging or just flicking the Wii remote in 
 different directions. Swinging the remote while standing away from you opponent will do a running 
 strike, or a running grapple can be done by holding the A or B button. To perform basic grapples, 
 like arm drags and headlock takedowns, just hold down the A button while swinging. Holding down 
 the B button while swinging let's you do interactive grapples. For example, If you held the B button 
 and swung left, you'd lift your opponent in to a suplex position. From here you can walk around 
 the ring for a small amount of time and you're given a choice of directions to swing the remote 
 to perform different moves. So if you swing down you'll do a vertical suplex, if you swing right 
 you'll do a front face suplex. These interactive grapples work for a bunch of different situations 
 like Powerbombs, Backbreakers, DDTs and others.
  
  Each wrestler has signature moves for different situations, too. Holding both A and B while swinging 
 the remote pulls off these moves.
  There are various situations for these signature moves like standing, ground, turnbuckle, running 
 and flying.
  
  Swinging the remote while holding A and B also lets you do your finisher. Each wrestler has two 
 finishers which can only be done when your stamina meter is flashing.
  
  other moves like regular flying moves, springboard moves and ground attacks are done by swinging 
 the remote.
  
  One of the best control features is the taunting. Pressing the C button will set your wrestler 
 up for his taunt. All you do then is hold C while moving the Wii remote and/or Nunchuck in the 
 correct way. For example, to do Triple H's "Suck it" taunt, just hold C and do a crotch chop. With 
 the Sandman you'd just Hold C and raise the Wii remote. Some taunts are a little awkard to pull 
 off but are great to do while you're against another player rather than a CPU opponent.
  
  There are certain environment grapples which are done by holding B and swing the Wii remote when 
 in a certain Hotspot. These include ring ropes, Announce tables, Steel Steps and the Barricades 
 at ringside.
  
  As well as taunts, the Nunchuck is used for picking an opponent up from the ground and doing an 
 Irish whip. The control stick on the Nunchuck is used for moving and the Z button is to drop Items 
 and pin your opponent. The control stick is also used for picking up chairs, leaving and entering 
 the ring and climbing the turnbuckles as you simply walk in to the Items and areas instead of pressing 
 a button.
  
  When it comes to graphics, the game is a mixed bag. The wrestlers themselves look great, overall 
 the arenas are decent but the crowd looks like crap. Overall the game seems on par with the PS2 
 version although with a clearer picture, especially when using component cables.
  The overall presentation is great. Menus are simpler and more vibrant than on the other versions. 
 The animations are pretty decent although some Interactive Grapples can look a little twitchy.
 
  
  The sound is also hit an miss. The soundtrack is pretty crappy although it depends on what music 
 you like. If you're in to generally cliche'd, commerical rock you'll love it but it's really not 
 my thing. Commentary is also pretty rubbish. A lot of it is recycled from previous games and some 
 of the lines are the same as previous games but said by someone else which is annoying especially 
 when it sounds even worse than the original. The effects are great though and seem to have more 
 of an impact than in some of the previous games.
  
  Overall, while Smackdown vs Raw 2008 does lack a lot of stuff, there is a lot of fun to be had 
 with what's there. The Main Event mode is a great feature that, while being simple provides a good 
 challenge. The controls work well although the nunchuck could've been implemented better. The sound 
 could've been a lot better as well but you can always turn the music off. If you hate the idea 
 of 5 match types and a lack of modes overall, then stay away. If you want a more involving wrestling 
 game with some fun multiplayer then this is a great purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShengLong2005
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  OK, I agree that the NDS version was abysmal, since they made a ton of mistakes, including a classic 
 mistake that Disney made with a different game, the small card issue.
  
  Now, SvR 2008 has twice the capacity of the PS2 version, and enough power to use that, but, apparently, 
 THQ don't believe that at all.
  What we get, instead of a middle-of-the-road game which is neither the PS2 version nor the PS3 
 version, We get what THQ would have given the PSone if they'd brought it out on that system.
  
  The game is trashed in much the same ways as the NDS was, complete with a control system that 
 is disastrous, a match roster which is just as terrible and a 'Story' mode. which has no story.
 
  What attempts to make up for this lackluster treatment is that you have all the wrestlers of the 
 'more capable' versions.
  
  However, unfortunately, They don't really try even remotely to disguise the fact it's a inferior 
 port of the PS2 version, tearing every scrap of life out of the game, not using the option to control 
 the game using the much more capable Gamecube controller, and not properly playtesting the controls.
 
  Effectively, what you get is a home console version of the NDS version, and, unfortunately, that's 
 not what people using the refreshingly new console want...
  
  THQ, Whatever you were trying to pull, I'm not laughing...
  Smackdown Vs RAW 2009, please, please, 
 can we have the genuine Wii Smackdown Vs RAW game, rather than you, convienently, saying that you 
 won't be doing a new game since the Wii version didn't sell well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikejosh1978
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  annoying ,repetitive, boring and shallow in terms of gameplay. dont whatever you do buy this game 
 .if you own a ps2 or any other console get it on there cus the kids will be frustrated with this 
 one within an hour .it looks ok but the random you win by a mile or get the living hell beat out 
 of you becomes so annoying that wii rage could ensue .having played these games on ps2 before thought 
 the wii could make it a more interactive experiance but how wrong was i .the random swinging and 
 pressing of a /b plus the dodgy submission stretch / escape which works once in a blue moon just 
 makes it so shallow .you pick your few moves but only to end up doing the same 2 or 3 for the next 
 2hrs .a waste of money and both my own and the kids time unless they are around 4-8 then i doubt 
 they would care about carlito beating them up 20 times in a row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammay15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  well i agree this game does lack in many areas in which is a major downfall. But, on the standard 
 of the game play this game is amazing attemping to unlock everything in which is hilarious. Well 
 there is another downfall that is gm mode but main event mode makes up for that and a lot more 
 on top. overall i would give this an 8.5 but because im a huge wrestling fan i have to give it 
 a 10. i wonder if they will put all of th things and more on what is on the ps2 360 and ps3 versoion 
 for smackdown vs raw 2009 lets hope they do or it will gt a little boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raw1995
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  In WWE SVR 2008 for wii, ( Which I just got yesturday.) your first1 look will see that there aren't 
 many matches or weapons etc... . But, however, start H palaying p and you will find it's a good 
 game. The wii's motion controls and tuants DX are fun too. Main Event mode is fun. There's also 
 a new tourny mode with things like (maybe just 1P. tho) . KOTR, svr and Beat the clocks sprint . 
 ,But you pick ps2's (360s) graphics and features or wii's awesome gameply. Can be improved. I just 
 say., just buy both (and maybe DS?) cuz there like totally dif. games. DOR3?. Good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasepit
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  The first Smackdown! on the Wii could have been so much better, but everything that make it fun 
 to play is missing in this version. That is unless you don't mind being able to not to play in 
 different match types like cage, hell in a cell and TLC. These are not present in the game neither 
 is the ECW extreme rules match, there is a hardcore match but you can only use a chair which is 
 a real let down.
  the story mode is boring because you have to keep fighting the same guys until you go up the ranks 
 and unlock more guys to fight. however there is no story, no voice over and no cut scenes, even 
 Day of Reckoning on the game cube had cut scenes.
  The control system for the game is easy to use but you never know what move you are going to do 
 because all you do is shake the Wii mote while holding a button to perform a move.
  This game could have been so much better, hopefully next year it will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown Vs. Raw 08, has good things and bad, first the good.
  
  This game has a good Create-a-Superstar with a few wrestling moves to choose from and alot of apperal, 
 also this game may not have a great Singels matches and it may not have the best graphics, but 
 it a very fun game once you get into it.
  
  Now for the bad stuff, I don't know if it's in the controller or if this is how hard it is to do 
 moves the game, the next bad thing is the Commintors, they are really repetive.
  
  All in all this game is really just ok, not the best and not the worst.
  
  I like this game 
 alot, and I like wrestling alot, so WWE Smackdown Vs. Raw 09 will most likely alot better then 
 SD Vs. RAW 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I could not agree any more this game totally sucks and i am ashamed to have a Wii. Good thing i 
 got this game from used Gamestop so i could return in 7 days because if i kept it, it would be 
 burned to ashes. The only good thing about this game is the character models and all of the graphics 
 except for the paper thin a crowd which makes me want to throw up. I guess the motion controls 
 were not a total lost becasuse they do add a little but but not to save the game from being horrible. 
 And sometimes you don't exactly do the move that you want to do, exaple i wanted to do a pildriver 
 but ended up doing a suplex. Also there is not a lot of extras in this game, lots of moves were 
 taked out, not as many weapons, there are no specialty matches ( Hell in a Cell, Ladders) , and just 
 about everything else. I think the main event mode was ok but after a while it gets boring. 
  
  If i was the WWE i would fire THQ and Yukes from making another wrestling game because it is 
 not worth the money any more. And the sad thing is WWF No Mercy is still my most favorite wrestling 
 video game of all time, which was made about 8 years ago. Hopefully the rumors are true because 
 i would love to play a WWF No Mercy remake on Wii Ware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazmanfc
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  I was so hyped up about this game and i bought it on the first day it came out I tought it was 
 going to be the best wrestling game ever but it wasnt it was the worst and most boring. where the 
 hell are the tables on fire and the extremes rule match the only best thing about this game is 
 the graphics they are crisp. But besides that this is the worst game ever [except for medievil] the 
 24/7 mode is replaced by main event mode which doesnt have any cut scenes and you kee geting the 
 same messages over and over and over and over and over again. in the hardcore matches you can onlly 
 use a steel chair. the game is nothing as you see in the adds, the old wwf games on the gameboy are 
 better. And one of the most dissapointig things in my vieve is you cant even choose youre own moves, speaking 
 about moves all the moves are the same there is only a few, but the controls are a bit fun but it 
 gets frustrating wiggling the remote to counter, get up and punch + the gameplay is as boring as 
 ever. I dont want to be mean on the game it but it could use all of the stuff that made this game 
 the best in the other platforms. but overall its ok but not even near good I think next year they 
 will make this game one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario3000
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This is my brutally honest review for Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 on the Wii. Finally THQ bring they 
 flagship wrestling game the Wii, sadly it fails on every possibly level. How could this be you 
 ask? after all this is Smackdown Vs Raw we've talking about. Have no doubt about this is a watered 
 down version of Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 and it seems to be catering for people new to playing games. 
 
  
  CONTROLS:-
  The best part of the game is the Wii controls and ever those as horrible. First off the Nunchuk 
 lets your wrestler move and lets you peform Irish whips by flicking the nunchuk in the place you 
 want your opponent to go. The Wii remote is used for almost everything else grapples, attacks, 
 taunts you get the pictures. Grappling is done by holding down A and swinging the Wii remote up, 
 down, left or right to peform a different move strong grapples are used by holding A+B and swinging 
 the Wii reomte in different directons. Unfortunately that's all your ever doing shaking the remote 
 for attacks, grapples, taunts. kicking out of a pin it can get very tiring. (they is NO run button 
 in the game!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY MODES:-
  What Gameplays modes? seriously theys not that many Single, Tag, Triple Threat, Hardcore match (which 
 is basically just two steel chairs which you can use over and over again. And they is not backstage 
 area to speak of (lame) . THATS IT!! No Hell in the Cell, No Cage, No Ladders match Not even the 
 Royal Rumble is present. They is a career mode if you want to call it that. And 2 challenge modes 
 Beat The Clock Sprint which is you basically fighting a wrestler one after the other. And the King 
 Of The Ring.
  
  Career Mode:-
  Not really a career mode as they is no set time limit on when it ends, no cut scenes in the game 
 either. When you go throught the career mode you'll get to choose which brand you'd like to be 
 on Raw, Smackdown, ECW. Doing various things in career will unlock various arenas. For example 
 I unlocked Wrestlemania and won the championship, but found myself wrestling they again for the 
 title every other week.
  
  Roster:-
  Smaller than last year even with the inclusion of ECW only 5 wrestlers from ECW. Tommy Dreamer, 
 Sandman, Marcos Cor Von, Ejiah Burke and Johnny Nitro.
  
  Unlocking Legends:-
  Unlocking the legends is back one of the few features that's really remained. Bret Hart, Rick Rude 
 etc. which is done via the career mode which can be unlocked when you advance in different stages.
 
  
  COMMENTARY
  The same commentary as last year with a few tweaks JBL just uses Tazz lines from last year on the 
 Smackdown! side how lazy!
  
  Last thoughts:- even WCW Nitro on the PSone had more features than this at least in had a cage 
 in the game would it have been too much to ask for THQ to put in at least a few more match types?? 
 luckily this is the only version of the game that sucks. Play it on the PS3 of 360 and you'll get 
 the features you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthemancross
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  What happened here??? This game feels like it was unfinished. 
  
  This version is missing like 89% of the match types that are present in the other console versions. 
 The Main Event mode is just downright boring, putting you up against the same 3 or so opponents 
 each week, and not only that but you fight at the same PPV (No Mercy) which only happens once a 
 year on the WWE's calendar. About all of the wrestlers do the same springboard leg attack from 
 the second rope, a move which only a handful of wrestlers ever execute. Moves like clotheslines 
 and punches are often times glitchy and seem to just magically connect even when the opposing wrestler 
 is like 4 feet away from the other. The only time your wrestler is ever able to run is when he 
 is on the outside of the ring (I'm serious) , and most of the wrestlers stats are just way off. (Why 
 does Shawn Micaels have a 5 for his strength stat???)
  
  Add on all of that plus the fact that there are far less moves in this console version than the 
 others (it's almost pointless going to the top rope with just 4 aerial maneuvers) , and you get a 
 game that feels like a rough draft compared to the others. 
  
  The only high points (which are very few) are having to actually perform your wrestlers taunt (like 
 the DX chop) , and having to perform certain moves differently with the Wii remote. (It's very cool 
 having to "tune up the band" with Shawn Michaels before you deliver his "sweet-chin music" maneuver!!)
 
  
  The Wii deserves much better than this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kronebusch
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun in gameplay. But does have many problems. First it has the selection of modes 
 problem. It only features KO match, Hardcore, Triple threat, tag-team, and single. The hardcore 
 only has a steel chair. Thats another problem. The weapons. I thought there would have been burning 
 tables and guitars and all that stuff. But sadly there isn't. This game kinda has a outdated and 
 small roster. I think in total theres about 50 or so people to choose from. I'm angry that theres 
 barely any ECW stars. I was also suprised theres no wrestler themes like hardcore and showman and 
 all that stuff. The CAW is Ok but not enough move and entrance selection. The good things about 
 this game are Main Event Mode. It is pretty fun and entertaining. I guess it gets a little boring 
 at times. But mainly fun. The graphics are looking sharp and like I said I think the gameplay is 
 very fun.
  And the taunting is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 2008 is quite good, and a solid first step to gold on it's wii debut. the game 
 is sort of good and a game that is hard to explain
  Svr 08 intro is quite good and has a good presentation, and when you go to play now, it will be 
 shocking as a lot of reviewers allready know that it only has 5 matches (one of the bad points) 
 and the other one ( only the steel chair can be used as a weapon) even sandman holds a kendo stick 
 and finlay with a shileighleigh, you can't use them and thats all the bad points.
  By the way, the 5 matches are single, tag, triple threat, hardcore and ko match ( just describe 
 the hardcore as a steel chair match) .
  Now the good points. The graphics are quite decent, the sounds are quite good, at the menu, picking 
 characters and entrance. the entrance still looks good and very very amusing, gameplay ( the best 
 part) is the part that makes the wii version became better than any other versions, even at entrances, 
 it's actually fun mimicing the entrances, and it really works verry well, especially the dx taunt, 
 the sweet chin music, knucke shuffle, con - chair - to, all the taunts, and it is very awesome 
 to play and the actually gives a feeling that it gives an arcade gameplay than a crappy undescribale 
 gameplay through the other versions of the game, it also gives a feel more like a WWE version of 
 Tekken or Soul Calibur or any fighting games than a confusing gameplay on the other versions, and 
 every movement works and it's easier to play than the other versions, also d-x is in the game and 
 it plays smooth, all the stables are in there and you don't need to buy them to unlock them and 
 it's easier to unlock things, and oh almost forgot, the Main Event Mode, it's not a snooze, it's 
 awesome compared to 24/7 mode, it plays legendary and it it seriously miles better than the 24/7 
 mode as you decide what matches you want, you can keep going to the same pay per view you want, 
 it has a power 25, as many people might think (including this website) that you face the same 3 
 people all the time, that part is only at the 'jobber' state, once your popularity increases, you 
 can book your own matches against any roster in raw, smackdown or ecw (if you're on all 3 brands) 
 get some tag team partners and get valets (press the 'z' button) , you can have more titles in main 
 event mode, you can rest (the rest of the versions does not have this option) and can switch brands 
 and be on all 3 brands. Overall, it's still worth buying it and what ever letdowns it had, the 
 gameplay raises the bar from dull to nearly awesome!! again, the movements work very well and still 
 can use the announcer tables, but svr 08 for the Wii is better than the rest of the other versions 
 when it comes to gameplay and innovation, but I have to admit this version will lose when it comes 
 to value, but it's still overally good .
  
  
  Good/ +
  
  Good graphics
  Legendary gameplay
  Good sounds
  Has good value
  a wrestling game that you can actually act
 
  Main Event Mode is better than 24/7 mode
  It still has extras like the K. O. R and beat the clock sprint
  A wrestling game that changes gameplay 
 for boring to legend
  Has 4 player
  A lot of roster improvement from Day of Reckoning
  easy to create player
  Most wrestlers got the rightly deserved overalls!!!
  One of the only 
 versions that has never been a downer port of svr 07 
  
  Bad/ -
  Only has 5 matches but anyway, the rest of the match won't really work
  Lack of weapons
  Lack 
 of creates
  Legends, divas, rey and cm punk and hbk should have a higher overall
  If only you can create belts
  Hulk hogan is not in the game
  Rey Mysterio is overally under-rated, 
 he should be 93
  Day of reckoning 2 has more matches and better graphics than this.
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 8/10
  Graphics - 7/10
  Sounds - 9/10
  Value - 7/10
  Presentation 
 - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  They should put better matches. The wrestlers they put were great. i think this game was okay but 
 i thought it was going to be good for the wii. mabye this game is a better buy for the ps3 and 
 the Xbox360. i was a little dissapointed when i played this game because the videos and the pictures 
 looked cool but when i played it i was like wow. this game i a better to buy for the ps3. i think 
 that smackdown vs Raw 2007 is better than 2008. the controls are a little confusing and you cant 
 do a lot of moves that much as smackdown vs. Raw 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The game needed a run button and alot more other than just alot of hand movement. Alot of game 
 modes are missing like tornado tag and 4 way hardcore. I find that they could have done alot more 
 on this and that they took out to much to try make it with all that hand movements. I find this 
 game a total waist of time and money. This was the saddest WWE i have ever seen in my gaming life 
 and that from nintedo. I am really upset on this game. It came to the piont were i nearly broke 
 the cd in 2 because of how the game play and the season mode was. It even made my friends ask me 
 what possest me to buy such foolishness for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_basic
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The Smackdown series puts in it's annual installment in Smackdown vs Raw 2008. I'm a huge fan of 
 the series and when I heard it was coming out for the Wii, I went to the nearest Gamestop and reserved 
 my copy. I was so excited. How will they do the Extreme Rules match for the Wii? What kind of minigames 
 will they put in for things like the Royal Rumble that are specific for the Wii? Does it exceed 
 the high standards of Nintendo's past Day of Reckoning series? Release day came and I went back 
 to claim the game of my affection. Turns out I was the only person who had reserved the game at 
 that Gamestop.
  
  I went home and found out why.
  
  First and foremost, there are only five match types in the entire game. One on one, Two on Two, 
 Hardcore, Triple Threat, and the KO match. This extreme lack of modes is just plain insulting for 
 Wii owners. With a game series that prides itself on releasing more and more match types every 
 year, it's a complete and utter shock that they would put out such a bare bones list such as this 
 one.
  
  There's also some weird things missing here and there. This is most apparent in the Create-A-Wrestler 
 (CAW) mode. The mode itself is your basic Smackdown series mode, filled to the brim with everything 
 to customize your wrestler from pants and jackets to changing his facial features down to where 
 the eyes are looking, so if you ever wanted to create a wrestler that looks like a horse recently 
 kicked his face in, you can do it. However, there's a couple things missing that's in the other 
 versions of the game. First, you can't put letters on your wrestler. Want to write your name on 
 your warm up jacket? Too bad. 
  
  The other weird thing is that you can't preview your entrance options. That's right, you can't 
 look at your entrance animation, video, or music before your wrestler hits the ring. So if you 
 want to know how "Superstar 9" looks with the song "Music 5", you'll have to save your wrestler, 
 go to a match, watch the entrance, finish the match (You can't pause and quit) , and then go back 
 into the create-a-moveset mode to change that animation to "Superstar 10". For people like me who 
 loves to create his own wrestlers, this is a complete mode breaker for me. This is something that's 
 been in Smackdown games since it's been on the PS2, but doesn't seem to make it to the Wii. You 
 can still preview your moves by hitting Z, which makes this oversight even stranger. It turns creating 
 the perfect CAW into an incredibly time consuming task. Oh, by the way, there is no advanced entrance 
 creation here. You can only choose the preset stuff.
  
  Okay, now that I'm done ranting on the CAW, it's time to talk about the wrestling itself. Instead 
 of going by the limb damage meter of the other versions, the Wii game opts for a fighting genre 
 life bar. Get it into yellow and perform your favorite move. Get it into red and perform your finisher. 
 Pin. Rinse, lather, repeat. There's very little strategy here to be had here, which means your 
 little brother waving the Wii-mote wildly could probably have a shot at winning. However, it's 
 actually a surprisingly fun mode. The life bar can me used more like what the past Smackdown games 
 called a stamina meter since your taunts raise your life back up. Opponent's last elbow drop put 
 you into yellow? Roll out of the ring and taunt to recoup some health, just like a real wrestler. 
 This faster paced arcade action is something that I hope they continue. As it stands though with 
 this year's game, the wrestling gets really old really fast. Even being able to do the taunts by 
 holding the C button and moving the controller accordingly can't keep you from yawning your way 
 through the majority of your matches.
  
  The Wiimote IR is relatively spot on for the game since it relies so heavily on the controller 
 motion and not on pin-point accuracy, but there are some trouble spots with how the game translates 
 it sometimes. I had to be careful around the ropes when my opponent was down next to them since 
 the same waggle to get your wrestler to lock in a submission hold could also have you go for a 
 springboard jump off the ropes, which can ground you long enough for your opponent to recover and 
 go on the offensive. I also had some trouble about four hours into my first play session where 
 it seemed to stop registering the left and up motions of the Wiimote, causing me to lose to Carlito. 
 I had to watch him spit apple in my face due to the game failing to translate my motions. That's 
 not cool.
  
  The Main Event mode is incredibly lackluster. I made the mistake of going to ECW for my session, 
 which may have hurt my chances of having fun with this mode. There are some nice things about this 
 mode like being able to pick and choose your matches and create your own rivalries and alliances 
 is done well, but with this version of the game it's really a bit pointless since the wrestling 
 gets boring really quickly. There's really very little to do in this mode and getting challenges 
 from the same people over and over again can get really annoying. Trust me, if I could block William 
 Regal's caller ID, I would have. On a side note, the Power Ranking in the mode is completely useless 
 for gauging your success. I utterly destroyed and bloodied the WWE Champion John Cena, yet he goes 
 up two spots to #1 and I go down five spots. As "Stone Cold" Steve Austin would say, "What?"
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the Wii. It's on par with the PS2, but the other next gen 
 systems completely blow it out of the water. You also still get the seemingly traditional clipping 
 issues of things like hair and ring ropes, along with some other texture issues and a really ugly 
 crowd.
  
  All the things THQ has been pushing so hard for in this year's game (things like Superstar Fighting 
 Styles and the Extreme Rules match) are nowhere to be seen in the Wii version. For anyone who's 
 played the other Smackdown vs Raw games, the Wii version of SvR 2008 is a stripped down wrestling 
 title that shows you all it has to offer in the first hour of playing. If you own any of the other 
 systems the game was released on (Especially the XBox 360 version with it's song importing feature) , 
 go for those versions. If you only own a Wii, do yourself a favor and use the backwards compatibility 
 and play a few matches in Day of Reckoning 2. You'll get a far more fulfilling experience that 
 way and and extra $50 bucks to spend on the next WWE Pay Per View. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirulino77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The bad things in the game are:
  
  -The fights are too short....... so you can lose your emotion very quickly
  .-There are too few 
 game modes: no ladders.... no cell... no cages... thats a very bad point
  
  But in the other hand there are a lot of good things:
  
  -The design of the characters are 
 very realistic
  -The controls sucks you in the game and you feel you are really fighting
  
  But maybe the game could be better
  Maybe the next year they can fix the details!
  I hope 
 so!
  The game is going to be great only for the true fans.... maybe if you are not a fan maybe you should 
 not buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  One thing I noticed in one other reviewers bashing of this game they said that the roster was bad 
 and then started stating that Ninentdo got screwed over. Well the roster is poor but its the same 
 poor roster that all the consoles have. The announcers are a nice addition from playing day of 
 reckoning 2 and having noone boardcast though after a few matches you can quote their clinches 
 before they say them but, that's true with any sports game really.
  
  The controls are flawed. I would like to see in the future THQ do what Mortal Kombat, Power Pros, 
 and Resident Evil 4 where you can use the wii mote or use a gamecube or the classic controler as 
 well. 
  
  The entrances look good and I recently found out wii has the new entrance for Bobby Lashley while 
 the 360 has his old entrance and the new one is much cooler. 
  
  I also like to see more matches. I like the main event mode and tournament mode but, I would liked 
 to have hell in a cell, steel cage, ladders, etc...
  
  My suggestion on this game is rent it first and see if you can live with its flaws, if you can't 
 and have a ps2 or any of the other next gen consoles then get it on one of them. I do see this 
 game getting better in the future though. Wii games sometimes tough to make, next time around I 
 feel THQ will put out a better effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  So, i brought this game today. My friend works at FYE and they had it and he got me a discount. 
 I come home to play it. I put it in, I get ready for probably the best wrestling experience and... all 
 i get is a season mode with no cutscenes, 4 match types, and a crap create a wrestler mode.
  
  This game actually feels like the demo from Xboxlive, but you can actually play the season 
 mode, but cant watch the cut scenes, and you have everyone unlocked, but no match types. No HIAC, 
 no Steel Cage, No Hardcore.... there is a hardcore "match" but you can only use TWO chairs. Theres 
 no ladder, no table, no kendo stick, no flaming tables... NOTHING.
  
  You will literally play it for 10 minutes and you will slowly begin to notice that you just got 
 ripped off and beat for 50 bucks. I wouldnt reccomend this garbage to ANYONE. Only thing good about 
 the game is the graphics and it looksa little crisper then a PS2. The controls suck, YOU CAN"T 
 EVEN RUN ON YOUR OWN FREE WILL. Just don't even bother with the game, Dont get this game if your 
 expecting everything that they showed you on a 360 or a PS3 because your not getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavenlyhero
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Awful. Considering e-baying it already. The controls don't work. There are glitches galore. No 
 cage or ladders even!
  
  I cannot believe THQ consistently rip off Nintendo WWE fans. This is by far the worst yet. really 
 small roster, no options of matches apart from single, tag, triple threat and hardcore. No weapons 
 apart from chairs.
  
  Worst of all the controls just don't work. It's total random what move you do, climbing the ropes, 
 executing a slam, submission move; the controls for all of these appear to be hold 'a' and wiggle 
 the remote. To get up, guess what you have to do? Wiggle the remote!
  
  Avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2008 finally comes on to the Wii but did it play well and what is the game 
 like. Before i went to college i went and bought the game for a price of 34.99 cheapest price 
 in stores to buy this game. 
  This game only has 5 modes and this is what it is Single, Tag Team, Hardcore, KO Mode and Triple 
 Threat. So i'm going to tell you about them.
  
  Single well you already know what that is but very short. 
  Tag Team this was so easy to win 
 all that happens you lay your finisher on your opponent the tag team partner will break up the 
 pin throw them out of the ring you pin your opponent 1,2,3 you have win or the computer has.
  Hardcore what is so hardcore on this all it has is steel chairs and its just boring i can't even 
 say its hardcore.
  KO Mode - all you have to do is KO your opponent simple
  Triple Threat - fight three wrestlers in the ring 
  
  This game also features King of Ring 
 and Beat The Clock Match will also smackdown vs tournament and road to wrestlemaina.
  
  The game controls lack their just is not much on them but mainly lifts like power bombs it really 
 just feels like your fighting the same match over and over. I found at least one wrestler i enjoyed 
 playing as and that was Rey Mysterio is finisher the is good with the Wii controls. The taunt system 
 is also a good idea to have in this. 
  
  But what i do like in a wrestling game is the modes the fighting i like having a pretty long match 
 but with this every match. But with the wii version of this the matches usually lasts under 5 and 
 3 minutes, the entrance's last longer then the time your wrestling you can tell that this was mostly 
 made for multiplayer. 
  
  Main Event mode is the main game 24/7 mode has been removed and Main Event mode sees you fighting 
 on Raw or Smackdown you even fight on ECW. Now the crazy thing on this game is the Pay Per Views 
 you will end up fighting at No Mercy on here weekly but in the real WWE this event only happens 
 once a year This happens on countless times. This gets boring and brings the game down to shame.
 
  
  It just feels like this game wasn't worked on as good as it could of been made this is no where 
 as good as Day Of Reckoning. What should been used on this game is the classic controller we would 
 of got a better game out of it but no we get the Wii controls which does not even suit the game. 
 
  
  Overall 
  
  Good Points 
  - Graphics 
  - Arena's (they do look good)
  - Taunts 
  - Joey Style's gives some exciting commentary 
  
  Bad Points
  - Controls are 
 limited
  - Main Event Mode is nothing like WWE should be
  - Matches are to short
  - Cannot watch your entrance during in create a character mode
  - Commentary gets annoying after 
 you played it a few times its the same 
  thing Jim Ross and Jerry The King Lawler's commentary sounds the same as last years
  
  The 
 price should be lowed down because 39.99 - 34.99 is way to much for this and it should of been 
 worked on a lot more this game.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
