-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/projecttreasureislandz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Clever and unique puzzles that are challenging without being overly difficult.
 Plenty of different stages to play through, some with multiple solutions.
 Sharp graphics with excellent art style.
 Good use of the Wii Remote.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story and characters aren't especially interesting.
 Sometimes grating voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zack & Wiki is a delightful blend of the Wii's motion-sensing technology and challenging yet approachable 
 puzzle design. 

  Zack &amp; Wiki is one of those sink-or-swim kind of games, the sort of thing that is conceptually 
 so offbeat that if the execution isn't spot-on, the whole thing could drown. Good thing this one's 
 got water wings. Essentially a puzzle game pretending to be a more traditional adventure, Zack 
 &amp; Wiki is the sort of weirdly engaging game that, dare we say it, probably could only really 
 be done on the Wii hardware. The whole thing is played solely with the Wii Remote, but unlike the 
 many games that have ended up (literally) flailing when trying to create motion controls that are 
 both intuitive and fun, Zack &amp; Wiki instead thrives, making few control missteps and creating 
 an experience that's equally challenging and accessible.  

           They might not be the most unique or memorable twosome in gaming, but Zack &amp; Wiki's 
 first adventure is excellent all the same.      

  In the game, you control Zack, a young boy in oversized pirate regalia that evidently belongs to 
 some sort of piratical consortium known as the Sea Rabbits. Alongside Zack is his trusty sidekick, 
 Wiki. Wiki is some kind of golden monkey that can use his tail like a helicopter blade, talks a 
 little bit like an anime schoolgirl, and periodically turns into a bell. More on that in a bit. 
 Anyhow, the premise of the game is pretty simple. While on expedition, Zack, Wiki, and his trusty 
 pilot Johnny Style (a rabbit in stunner shades) are attacked by the vile Rose Rock pirates, a posse 
 headed up by a mildly bipolar female pirate named Captain Rose. After ejecting from their plane 
 and crashing on an island, Zack quickly discovers a treasure chest that contains the golden skull 
 of a legendary pirate named Barbaros. Barbaros has been cursed and his body parts have been scattered 
 throughout the world. Barbaros offers to grant Zack a wish if he tracks down his various missing 
 pieces and puts him back together. Thus sets in motion a treasure-hunting adventure.  

  And by "adventure," we mean more in the vein of classic PC adventure games than in the action adventure 
 sense. This is not an action game by any stretch. You attack each of the game's levels purely with 
 the mentality of solving a lot of crazy puzzles. Each stage is a relatively small space usually 
 with only one or two areas immediately accessible to you. You simply guide Zack to any available 
 items that happen to occupy the area you're in, and figure out how to use them to get to the next 
 section of the stage. From time to time you will run into enemies, but these creatures are less 
 direct threats and more a means to an end. Remember that bell that Wiki can turn into? Just shake 
 it like crazy (by shaking the Wii Remote) and those enemies will turn into useful items.  

  With all the controls mapped to the Wii Remote, motion control does play a big factor in how you 
 solve each puzzle. Fortunately, nearly all of the game's various control mechanics work flawlessly. 
 You guide Zack around the world by pointing to a spot on the screen and pressing the A button, 
 and he almost always goes exactly where you want him to with little duress. Often times you'll 
 encounter cranks that must be turned, knobs that must be twisted, levers that must be pulled, and 
 items that must be placed just so, and each time you'll have to hold and move the Wii Remote in 
 a very specific way. Save for a few motions that for some reason just don't want to cooperate (cranks 
 that turn left when you turn right and whatnot) , all this stuff works great. And the times when 
 the game gets really silly with the motion controls are actually pretty funny. This might be the 
 first game to employ realistic baby-cradling mechanics via the Wii Remote.  

  On top of good control, Zack &amp; Wiki's puzzle designs are fiendishly clever, and in a very deceptive 
 way. Early on the game is a breeze, and you might find yourself worried that all you've got coming 
 is a bunch of short puzzles in teensy levels. The good news is that things don't stay brief and 
 easy for long. Though the level designs never grow very big, the methodology for solving each stage's 
 tricky puzzles is rarely in plain sight, and a good bit of experimentation and problem-solving 
 skill is required, especially in the game's devilish later levels. The really great thing about 
 these brain teasers is that they never feel completely impossible. Because of the relatively small 
 space you have to work within, all the elements you need to succeed are typically within visual 
 range. It's a matter of figuring out how each of the various pieces you're provided fit into the 
 frame of the level, rather than aimlessly wandering around hoping for some solution to present 
 itself magically. And if you do happen to get stuck, you can buy hints at the game's hub area to 
 use in any level you see fit. You can also buy extra lives that will respawn you at the point you 
 were at right before whatever trap or bad guy you happened to run into horribly murdered you. That 
 comes in handy, since otherwise you may find yourself restarting puzzles from the beginning quite 
 a bit.  

  Zack &amp; Wiki is the sort of game that, if you know all the solutions, you could probably blow 
 through in a long afternoon. Odds are it will take you quite a bit longer than that on your first 
 play-through, since you'll undoubtedly have to spend some time staring at all the various pieces 
 of the puzzles before things will start to make sense. Fortunately, the game does have some replay 
 value. Apart from hidden treasure and items you can discover, some of the puzzles themselves can 
 even be solved multiple ways. Additionally, there's a sort of multiplayer component to the game, 
 albeit a mostly observatory one. Essentially, up to three other players can point their Wii Remotes 
 at the screen and tap on or highlight any items or set pieces that might be relevant to solving 
 a puzzle. Only one player controls Zack, so in effect the other players are just helpers. Still, 
 it's kind of a cool idea, and an inventive way to get the rest of the family involved in the game, 
 if you're into that sort of thing.  

  If Zack &amp; Wiki has any particular failings, it's that the title characters are basically irrelevant. 
 Zack &amp; Wiki are certainly cute characters, but they're not used to particularly good effect 
 within the scope of the story. In fact, there really isn't much of a story at all. The game quickly 
 introduces all the key players in relatively haphazard fashion, then just hops right into the action. 
 The writing is decent enough in the few bits of dialogue you encounter, though there isn't much 
 voice acting beyond a few one-liners in Japanese that each character uses to emote feelings. And 
 usually what they're feeling is something rather shrill and overwrought. It's not awful stuff, 
 but it is a bit grating to hear Wiki's high-pitched exclamations throughout longer play sessions. 
 Zack's personality is to do a lot of victory poses, make comical faces when something bad happens, 
 and chew on chocolate bars. Ultimately it doesn't matter that much, since the level designs and 
 puzzles are the real star of the show. It's just a shame that the story itself is so half-baked 
 and that the characters aren't really given more endearing personalities. This is potentially the 
 start of a cool new franchise, and the characters at the forefront of it just aren't that memorable. 

           The whole game uses the Wii Remote exclusively, and nearly all the motion controls are 
 excellent.      

  One area where the game does not disappoint is visuals. Zack &amp; Wiki might just be one of the 
 nicest-looking games on the Wii, thanks in no small part to the game's sharp artwork. The game 
 is done up like a cartoon, but not with the sort of lazy cel-shading most games use. All the characters 
 and environments are bright, colorful, and incredibly crisp looking. Animation is largely seamless 
 and very well done. While the character designs themselves could have been ripped from any Saturday-morning 
 anime, everything else is so good that you can forgive that one generic aspect. On top of that, 
 the game even performs well. Loading times are minimal, and everything in-game runs smoothly, save 
 for a few minor frame-rate drops here and there.  

  All told, Zack &amp; Wiki is a winner. It might not win you over with its characters or story, 
 but it will with its wonderfully crafted puzzles and sharp control mechanics. It's just the sort 
 of game Wii owners have been pining for, the sort of game that blends accessibility and challenge 
 into one seamless whole, and does it without devolving into yet another minigame collection. And 
 best of all? This game is retailing for only $40. If you own a Wii, Zack &amp; Wiki belongs in 
 your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (73 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Every so often, a game comes from the darkness of obscurity into the light of greatness out of 
 absolutely nowhere and rises to the status of "sleeper hit". Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure 
 is most certainly one of those games. Right off the bat, its terribly hokey name gave most observers 
 pause regarding how good the game could possibly be. As the game went through development, its 
 cutesy art style made others wonder whether it was just yet another so-called "kiddy" game for 
 the Wii. Fortunately, however, Zack & Wiki defied all expectation and emerged victorious, a success 
 and a triumph.
  
  The premise of the game casts the player as the indomitable Zack, a kid with an oversized hat who 
 dreams of one day being the greatest pirate in history. He travels with his enchanted monkey-bell-thing 
 Wiki, whom he found during adventures prior to the beginning of the game. The game opens with Zack 
 and Wiki traveling by plane to the hideout of his new crew of pirates, the Sea Rabbits. The trip 
 doesn't exactly go according to plan, however, and before long Zack and Wiki find themselves plummeting 
 towards the ground, crashing on an island far below. On this island, the dynamic duo find the golden 
 head of the legendary pirate Barbaros, which comes alive in their hands. Barbaros explains that 
 he has been cursed, his body turned to treasure, and that if Zack can find every body part, then 
 he will grant Zack use of his legendary ship. Zack clearly can't turn down an offer such as this, 
 so his quest thus begins to put Barbaros back together and become the greatest pirate the world 
 has ever known.
  
  The game itself is not terribly story-driven, and is neatly divided up into bite-sized locations 
 strewn about the world map. There are a number of regions to travel to, such as the jungle zone, 
 the volcano zone, and so on, and within each of these regions dwell numerous levels. The premise 
 of every level is roughly identical: the player must guide Zack from where he begins to a treasure 
 chest located somewhere nearby. This sounds easy, but of course there would not be much game if 
 it was a trifling matter of simply walking over and opening the treasure chest. So, naturally, 
 every level presents Zack with a veritable plethora of obstacles that separate him and his golden 
 objects of desire. Zack & Wiki is a thinking game through and through, and the player must rely 
 on his or her keen brainpower to deduce how to progress. And players should not let the cutesy 
 anime graphics fool them; as the player progresses through the game, the puzzles nicely segues 
 from brain-teasers to head-scratchers to downright sadistic mind-renders.
  
  The reason why this review previously referred to Wiki as a "monkey-bell-thing" is because shaking 
 the Wii Remote makes Zack grab Wiki and shake him, which turns the creature into a bell. This bell 
 has multiple uses in the game, but its most prominent use is with regards to enemies strewn about 
 the land. When an enemy is encountered that isn't actively attempting to kill Zack, the boy can 
 walk up to it and ring Wiki to turn the enemy into an item. The exact item received depends on 
 the enemy. A centipede, for example, will turn into a saw; a snake will turn into a grabber; and 
 so on. The general idea of gameplay is that Zack must find the requisite items in a level and then 
 use them in the proper order to clear the way between him and the treasure chest. At the start, 
 this is as simple as chopping down a tree to make a bridge, but it quickly becomes much less obvious 
 what to do as the player progresses. A plus here is that many items have multiple uses, which is 
 a nice reprieve from other adventure games that load the player with a thousand items that each 
 only have one use.
  
  The player also receives a certain number of points (or "HirameQ") with each successful unraveling 
 of a piece of the puzzle. The amount of points received decreases, however, with each unsuccessful 
 attempt at finding a solution. At the end of each level, the player receives an overall evaluation 
 of how well he or she did, as well, based on the number of points accumulated. This adds a nice 
 amount of replay to the game, as players will want to go through each level again in an attempt 
 to earn a perfect score.
  
  An interesting aspect of the game is the way in which players move Zack. The game takes a page 
 from old point-and-click adventure games like Monkey Island by making players move not by using 
 the nunchuck's analog stick, but rather by simply pointing to the ground with the Wii Remote and 
 pressing A to make Zack move there. The cursor is denoted by a star icon, and a small region around 
 the icon is illuminated to tell the player exactly what the game thinks he or she is pointing at. 
 This goes a long way to eliminate any issues of depth perception that might otherwise have arisen. 
 The game makes excellent use of the Wii Remote when a player goes to use an item, as well. To operate 
 any item, the player must essentially mimic the action one would take in reality with the remote. 
 For example, to use the saw, the player must move the remote in and out quickly to simulate the 
 usage of an actual saw. There are a few items whose usage is a little awkward or unintuitive, which 
 is a possible room for improvement, but on the whole this tends to work very well, and makes things 
 much more interesting than something like "hit A to saw".
  
  One problem many have had with the game is the fact that it's possible to die in the game - or, 
 at least, to have Zack meet an unfortunate fate that renders him unable to continue his quest. 
 This requires players to either start over from scratch or to use an item (purchasable from a fortune 
 teller lady) that permits Zack to turn back time and undo whatever his last action was. An additional 
 problem is that it's not always obvious what will kill you, as sometimes merely examining the wrong 
 portion of the map will cause Zack to meet his untimely demise. There are also cases where Zack 
 has not died, but has nonetheless incorrectly used an item in a way that renders the puzzle unsolvable, 
 thus requiring the player to start over. The reviewer did not find this to be a terrible problem, 
 but many have complained that this essentially just forces players to repeatedly retrace steps 
 that they have already taken, and this complaint is not without merit.
  
  On the topic of aesthetics, the game has very finished and polished feel to it, as both the characters 
 and the scenery come together to form a very visually pleasing whole. Hardcore gamers might be 
 repulsed by the cartoonish nature of the characters, but if one can move beyond the surface, the 
 game absolutely oozes with style and charm. Zack, with his affinity for chocolate bars, is often 
 adorable, as are Wiki and most of the cast, for that matter. Even the most masculine of players 
 might find it hard to resist smiling at the game's cuteness and humor after a long enough time 
 spent with them. And if one grows tired of the characters, one can instead look at the scenery, 
 which is beautifully rendered in every level and is extremely well-designed.
  
  While there is no actual spoken dialog in the game - all dialog is told through text - characters 
 nonetheless have voices within the game in the form of exclamations or other miscellaneous utterances. 
 An interesting fact is that Capcom actually kept the character sounds from the Japanese game, which 
 might be a little odd at first - especially hearing Wiki exclaim "Zackuuuuuuu!" - but one quickly 
 gets used to it. What voice work exists is very tasteful and well done, and most certainly positively 
 contributes to the overall aesthetic whole. The soundtrack to the game is quite well done as well; 
 the musical tracks are more to the subdued end of the scale, on the whole, but they fit in nicely 
 with the gameplay nonetheless. The game's sound effects are largely unremarkable, but they get 
 the job done well enough.
  
  Zack & Wiki is a real textbook example of something being more than the sum of its parts. There 
 are many ways that this game could have been a dud. For instance, the game could have easily fulfilled 
 gamers' first impressions, brought on by the cutesy graphics, by making the puzzles way too easy, 
 and thus making the game one for children. Fortunately, Capcom resisted this urge, and all of Wii-dom 
 is grateful to them, because in creating a truly marvelous puzzle game they have brought about 
 one of the finest games on the Wii. This reviewer highly recommends anyone reading this review 
 to pick up this game without delay; beyond its excellent gameplay, its low cost - sometimes sighted 
 at under $30 - ought to seal the deal to make this game a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros's Treasure is without a doubt one of the best puzzle games on 
 the Wii. It appears to be unpretentious. However, don't be fooled, as once you get into the game 
 you will be surprised by the quality and uniqueness of all the puzzles you encounter.
  
  The game revolves around a group of pirates, known as "The Sea Rabbits." While flying to the secret 
 Sea Rabbit hideout, the plane crashes on an unknown island with a treasure chest nearby. After 
 opening up the treasure chest, a golden, talking skull appears. The skull is named Barbaros, who 
 was once a powerful and feared pirate. Barbaros asks the Sea Rabbits to find his missing pieces 
 of his skeleton, and in return he will reward them with his infamous legendary pirate ship. They 
 agree, and embark on an adventure to find the rest of his body.
  
  Zack and Wiki: Quest of Barbaros' Treasure is a point and click adventure game. You point with 
 the Wiimote to move Zack, the main character, around the screen. You interact with the environment 
 by clicking on objects to see what they do. Some objects require you to perform a certain motion 
 with the Wiimote in order to use the object, such as pulling on the lever or throwing on object. 
 Zack's side-kick is a magical floating monkey named Wiki. When Wiki turns into a bell-shape, Zack 
 can ring Wiki to turn any living object into a usable item. These items can then be used in the 
 environment to help you get to the next treasure piece.
  
  The motion controls are very well done. Since the game is controlled only with the Wiimote, there 
 is a great deal of waggle that has been implemented as well. Most of this works flawlessly, but 
 there are a few motion controls that don't seem to translate as well into real life, such as turning 
 a lever or tossing a bowl. However most of the motion controls work very well.
  
  There are many puzzles in the game (over 30) , and vary from stage to stage. Naturally, the beginning 
 stages aren't very difficult, but the last few puzzles will have you pulling your hair out. The 
 first time, these puzzles can last from 10 minutes to nearly an hour in length, and that isn't 
 counting the amount of times you fail while doing the puzzle. It can be very frustrating to die 
 after attempting a puzzle for over 30 minutes. However, there is a life-saver: you can purchase 
 these voo-doo-esque dolls that will grant you a redo of the last event that happened, potentially 
 allowing yourself to destroy or evade whatever thwarted you lats time. You can also buy hint tickets, 
 which, obviously, give you hints in any stage. You can buy these items in the hub area of the game 
 with coins you collected while in the levels. I suggest buying many of both, even though by using 
 them you do lose points after completing the level.
  
  The cell-shaded graphics done in Zach and Wiki are perfectly done. The characters are designed 
 like a stereotypical anime, with exaggerated emotions and features. The game is text based with 
 very little voice-work. Zack's crew will give a few one-liners, but not very often. Most of it 
 is when a puzzle is solved. The voice-overs aren't too great however, and Wiki can get annoying 
 whenever he speaks, so overall it is a good thing that they don't speak much. However, due to the 
 lack of story in the first place, that never is really much of a problem, since you'll be spending 
 all of your time trying to solve puzzles, and not on what will happen next.
  
  Due to the nature of the game, Zack and Wiki holds very little replay value. Once a puzzle has 
 been solved, players can go back and try to get all of the points in the game, as there are better 
 ways to beat some levels. There is also hidden treasure and items to discover in every level. But 
 is has to be said that they are very compelling tasks, and once every puzzle has been beaten, there 
 is very little to do with the game.
  
  Overall, Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros's Treasure is an excellent Wii game that should be played 
 by every Wii gamers. Don't be fooled by its cartoony outer shell, as this is a challenging game 
 that all hardcore gamers should try out. The excellent level design and controls make this one 
 of the best games on the Wii, and packs quite a punch. The low price of the game should be another 
 incentive. Capcom have given Wii owners a game to brag about -- don't miss this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiderhauser77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The game has an innovative game-play style and the graphics are spectacular, however, the people 
 in the game are kind of stupid. The concept of being able to control your surroundings and use 
 them to your advantage by actually moving the Wii remote is quite impressive from a gamer like 
 myself. They should have a less weird game, but still have the same idea. That way, people wouldn't 
 be looked at funny while playing a sweet game like Zach and Wiki. Now I am running out of things 
 to put down and I need at least one hundred words to complete this review. Oh also, if you are 
 in a jam and don't know what to do, get plenty of clue dolls or just look online at this very site 
 to find walkthroughs. They have helped me get through a couple of tough spots throughout the game. 
 I recommend this game to people who want more than just button-mashing. This game makes you think 
 and remember to think outside the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  
 
  ok u start off in a plan and u learn all the controls up there then u all most die. and after 
 that near death experience ur adventure begins.
  
 
  so the main goal for every lvl is to get all the lil stuff to find most of the time its vary challenging 
 but after u figer something out it becomes really fun. and all the lil "tools" u find are vary 
 interesting in how they are used.
  
 
  most of the time ur camera is a pain in the ass and other times ull die 5 time and still cant 
 figure out what to do and u wana through the remote but any ways if u like ALOTA PUZZLES get it 
 if not its still gota lota fighting and totally worth 20 bucks!
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovehunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Fun. Entertaining. Unique. Great story and scenes. Good graphics. Good music. Great puzzles and 
 the different tasks needed to complete to get to the main objective. Cool enemies and great environments. 
 Plenty of stages and difficulty level. Unlockables and collectables. This game will probably take 
 a good amount of your time, unless you're a natural which I'm not. You can choose to recieve hints 
 but it will cost you more and more each time you choose to do so. Unique characters, abilities, 
 and uses for varying items and environments. Variety from one level to another and it never gets 
 old. You also have to use the wiimote in a bunch of different ways to properly manipulate objects. 
 
  
  An overall great and fun game. 
  
  It's cheap to buy. Get it.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is one of the best puzzle games I've ever played and 
 probably one of the most original ones out there. You play as Zack, a pirate that loves treasure 
 and chocolate. You are accompanied by your flying monkey friend, Wiki. Together, you and Wiki must 
 collect all the pieces of Barbaros' body in order to get his treasure. It's a pretty wacky concept 
 and it totally doesn't lack originality. This game is filled with insane and humorous characters, 
 that make the plot even more enjoyable. The puzzles are also fun to solve and once you've solved 
 one, you want to solve them all. In order to solve puzzles, you shake your wii remote to turn wiki 
 in to a bell, which in turn, transforms any animal near you into a device used to solve the puzzle. 
 The game play is additive and very satisfying. You get a good feeling after finishing a puzzle. 
 If you're unable to solve a puzzle, you can get hints from the "oracle" by giving her a hint doll, 
 a payment used to obtain hints. The visual presentation is very cartoony, which makes this look 
 like a kids game but really, adults can enjoy it too. The music fits the mood of the game nicely. 
 All I can say is that it's sad that this game isn't more popular than it is. It's an excellent 
 game that anyone, even the hardcore gamers, should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Easy to say Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is one of the hardest games on Wii. I salute 
 to everyone who finished the game without help of a walkthrough of any kind.
  
  When the game works as fine as it works being hard isn't a bad thing though the game gets really 
 hard maybe a bit too quickly. But like with every game the key is to keep trying and eventually 
 you'll get to it. In the end it's nice to notice that the problem that was keeping you stuck was 
 after all very logical instead of something very cheap and illogical.
  
  Sound and music works great with this game and there's nothing bad to say about the graphics either. 
 Story is a bit been-there-done-that but it's not really that important. Characters are okay though 
 a little blank and the whole pirate theme seems a little stolen from Zelda: Wind Waker with the 
 kid that has a big snot hanging from his nose and the fact that Barbaros does look a bit like Ganondorf, 
 just different coloring on face. But none of that really matters.
  
  Only thing to really complain about this game is the controls. They work most of the time but there 
 are times when moving and picking stuff up with the same button causes problems. Also when using 
 items, with some ways you need to hold the Wii Remote, it can get frustrating to get the controls 
 to work. But it's a minor frustration and you'll get over it.
  
  That said the game offers great fun and lots of brainteasing and it's well worth the money. After 
 the main storyline you can go back and collect secret treasure you couldn't get before and finish 
 the game 100% so there's a great replay value too and the game will age slowly. Lot to collect.
 
  
  Buy it, try it, you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrdayblues
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is an easy game to overlook, a perfect example of poor localization. But, once you 
 give it a chance, it will grow on you, it will charm you and you'll remember it as one of the most 
 unique games you've ever played, regardless of age and gender.
  
  You control Zack, a chocolate bar loving pirate who strikes a pose at every opportunity, and who 
 dreams of becoming the greatest pirate ever, whatever that entails. Zack is part of a band of unconventionally 
 inoffensive looking pirates, one of its members being his best friend and partner Wiki, a flying 
 golden monkey that can turn into a bell which emits deadly dangerous tones that turn beings to 
 objects and vice-versa. The quest begins with a plane crash, literally. After minor exploration 
 of the crash site, you will meet Barbaros, a dead ancient pirate of yore. He will entrust you with 
 the heavy task of finding and putting together his body parts. On your quest you will meet a band 
 of rival pirates, lead by a hysterical woman whose mood swings like Benny Goodman. You will travel 
 across the land, exploring small sites wherein are hidden Barbaros' golden limbs. In these levels 
 you will need to use your wits and the Wii-remote to solve environmental puzzles that can be extremely 
 challenging and satisfying.
  
  The motion controls in this game are done very well for the most part, although there are a few 
 instances in which it can be frustrating and unresponsive, but there are only about two or three 
 such occurrences. Basically, you use the remote to mimic movements in order to use objects to interact 
 with the environment. The puzzles are very clever, and always logical, but it can be difficult 
 to figure it all out without carefully inspecting the level. Luckily, if you are not very patient, 
 you can obtain a hint in exchange of a purchased item. These hints are helpful without spoiling 
 the overall experience.
  
  Graphically the game is not especially impressive, but the presentation is clean, crisp and polished 
 with only minor blemishes. If you were a fan of the cel-shaded Zelda, you will surely appreciate 
 the beauty of the animations and background effects. The frame rate is for the most part solid 
 enough. The style itself can seem very bizarre and outlandish, the characters just plain weird, 
 but it will most likely grow on you in time. The music is very fitting of the whole pirate adventure 
 tone, and is pretty catchy. Voice work could have been better, but that's not a major problem since 
 the dialogue is all written in text. The VO is comparable to what you would find in a Zelda game, 
 grunts and shouts mostly.
  
  To conclude, this is a must have for any Wii-owner who likes adventure, puzzle or bizarre stylized 
 cartoons. Although this review is late in coming (the game was released just under a year ago) 
 I still strongly encourage you all to try and find a copy of this sleeper hit, somewhere
  
  Find it, buy it, and love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErnestoBananez
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Here's my only problem: If you spend half an hour doing puzzles and then get a puzzle wrong and 
 die, you should NOT have to pay in-game currency to start where you left off. What happens if you 
 don't or can't pay? you have to start the whole freaking level over. That doesn't make it harder, 
 it isn't more challenging; It's just more frustrating. I know there's a whole slew of idiots on 
 the development team who thought that this was a good idea, and I hope every one of them burns 
 in he//. Ruins an otherwise good game.
  
  So this has to be one hundred words, huh? Is this enough? No? Okay, I'll talk about how annoying 
 the monkey is, then. He's so annoying. I hate him so much. He's too hello kitty. 
  
  So, a priest, a rabbi, and satan walk into a bar. The priest says to the rabbi, 'why are you in 
 a bar, rabbi?'the rabbi says, 'is this long enough for a review?' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  It amazes me sometimes that people love to gripe about how there are no good third party Wii games 
 and yet the console is seeing some of the most creative and unique but often overlooked games around. 
 How many of you played this or Okami or Boom Blox or No More Heroes? Honestly how do you expect 
 gaming to evolve as an art form when developers go out of their way to make creative and original 
 games like this for morons like you who are too busy buying "Death Match Shooter #27?" Piss Off! 
 Close the browser and go back to "Gears of War!"
  
  Is he gone? Good! I hate that guy!
  
  Anyway Zack and Wiki represents a dying breed. The point and click adventure. One point and 
 click games ruled the PC world but have slowly faded out over the years though a few still remain 
 but many are medicore at best.
  
  Zack and Wiki tells the story of a young pirate boy named Zack and his weird pet flying monkey 
 Wiki who have joined the band of pirates called the Sea Rabbits, which is odd because neither Zack 
 nor Wiki are rabbits. Oh well, I guess you're not supposed to think about that. The story goes 
 that Zack and Wiki stumble across a treasure chest and meet the ghost of the legendary pirate Barbaros 
 who sends them on a quest to find the pieces of his treasure. At the same time they are being pursued 
 by the rival pirate, Rose and her band of goons out to beat them to the gold. Ok, so the story 
 isn't strong but moves the game along.
  
  The setup goes in each mission, a series of obstacles stand between you and a treasure chest. You 
 move Zack, not by the analog stick but by clicking on where you want him to go. For the most part 
 this works. Scattered through out the stage are the items in order for you to reach said treasure 
 chest. Shaking the Wiimote allows Wiki to turn into a bell which can transform baddies into useful 
 items. Pirate goons turn into barrels. Frogs turn into bombs. Snakes turn into grippers and so 
 on. Whenever an item is being used, a little naked guy demonstrates how to use it making good use 
 of the Wii's controls. Turning handles, using saws, fitting weird stones into their places, even 
 rocking a baby dragon so he doesn't cry. Compared to a lot of Wii games, the controls are pretty 
 tight though from time to time it doesn't always react.
  
  The hardest part of it is just trying to wrap your brain around each puzzle. Early on, it seems 
 pretty simple, but later in the game, the difficulty really ramps up and though you can buy hints, 
 their price goes up exponetially (and if you're smart, you just look it up online) Still, there's 
 a feeling of satisfaction when you figure out a puzzle that's more rewarding than teabagging 100 
 noobs in any FPS because some of us have brains capable of more than "run, shoot, kill, teabag." 
 Zack and Wiki is a game that will make you think.
  
  Visually the game is bright and colorful with cell shaded graphics reminscent of Zelda: Wind Waker. 
 The soundtrack is excellent though the annoying giggles and squeaks of the characters may annoy 
 some after a while. Despite the kiddy look the game manages to have a charming sense of humor at 
 times.
  
  The main downfall is the game is somewhat short and a clever enough person could finish it in a 
 weekend however completionists may find the urge to return to levels to up the score and the game 
 is hard on you scorewise if you don't solve a puzzle the first time. There's also additonal unlockables 
 to find either in the levels or by having a fellow crew member search out additonal items like 
 character art, sound tracks and even familiar Capcom characters.
  
  Zack and Wiki is proof that quality Wii games can be made that make good use of the system and 
 stands out among the mini game collections and crappy ports. Now, at only $20 there's no reason 
 not to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I read a couple of positive reviews on this game and everybody seemed to like it, so i got it as 
 an addition to my wii-games collection.
  this was a mistake. the characters are weird and so is the gameplay. turn animals into items to 
 solve puzzles to obtain treasure. you're a pirate surrounded by bunnies by the way. the main character 
 loves chocolate bars and it shows; he's totally AD-HD. everytime he solves a puzzle he starts yelling. 
 it really gets to your nerves. when you make a mistake you have to start a level over unless you 
 use a magic ticket which you could have bought with the coins you find here and there. the later 
 levels also feature pipe-organ music and iron maidens stomping on the floor. if you like to have 
 a headache this is your game. splitting headache guaranteed.
  the puzzles are are hard and unforgiving, while it has the looks of a saturday morning cartoon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoy53
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Now this may just seem like another piece of casual shovelware like most of the Wii's cartoony 
 games. Do not pass it up so easily. Under the odd humor and cartoonish weirdness is a truly fantastic 
 game. Zack & Wiki brings all of the excellence of most point and click games and improves severely. 
 With loads of cool puzzles, nicely animated designs, and around 20 different Wii remote gestures 
 (Don't worry, they aren't broken) this game is one heck of a ride. Zack, the main character, is 
 a pirate trying to become one of the greatest ever, and with the help of his buddy, Wiki, he finds 
 a legendary pirate skull (That is still somewhat alive) that can help Zack reach that status. Just 
 as long as they solve one simple task. Find the rest of the pirate skull's golden body. Each part 
 is scattered across the seven sea's for you to find, and each one require's you (Zack) to solve 
 the puzzle's of the area that each part is located in. There are also extra mission's that can 
 be used to find map's and such. All in all, Zack & Wiki is a great game, and the $20 price tag 
 can only make it better. I would definitely recommend it to you, although it can be sort of frustrating 
 at time's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  *** ZACK & WIKI: QUEST FOR BARBAROS' TREASURE ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Simple but fun controls
  -Great puzzles
  -Nice graphics
  -Good music
  -Awesome level design
 
  
  THE BAD
  -Weak story and characters
  -Annoying voice work
  -Some hiccups with the motion control
  
  OVERVIEW
  Zack and Wiki is a fun little puzzle game 
 that may look simple but don't be fooled by its looks because this game proves to be quite challenging 
 at times. Your main characters Zack (a kid pirate) and Wiki (flying golden monkey) are on a quest 
 to become the greatest pirates ever. To do this they need some help from some more experienced 
 swashbucklers. So, our young heroes seek out a group of rag-tag pirates called The Sea Rabbits. 
 On their way to The Sea Rabbits hide out, our heroes' airplane (flown by pilot Johnny Style) gets 
 damaged by the antagonist of the story, Captain Rose. Captain Rose is in competition with Zack 
 and the other Sea Rabbits over finding buried treasure so she does what she can to sabotage her 
 opponents' efforts. After crash landing the plane, Zack and Wiki discover a golden, talking skull 
 named Barbaros who asks them for help in finding the rest his body. At first Zack and Wiki are 
 a little skeptical but then Barbaros sweetens the deal but offering to give Zack his own pirate 
 ship and treasure. Being elated by the news, Zack and Wiki jump on the offer to help Barbaros and 
 the three return to the Sea Rabbit's hideout to start their quest together. The story and characters 
 are really weak in this game. Most of the time you'll end up skipping the conversations / story 
 parts because they get rather boring really quick. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Now don't let the terrible story keep you from playing this game because as a puzzler, its actually 
 really fun. The controls are simple and intuitive to make it easy for anybody to play. In Zack 
 and Wiki, you're just going to use the Wii Remote. Pointing the cursor and clicking the A button 
 will move Zack around and interact with things in the environment. The game switches from third 
 person view to first person view when you interact with items on the level. This game does a great 
 job with the motion control with the exception of a few hiccups. As you interact with objects you'll 
 have to perform various tasks like turning a key in a lock, returning projectiles with a tennis 
 racket, or ringing a bell. This is all done with the intuitive motion sensors, in the remote, so 
 you actually feel like you're performing the tasks for real.
  
  Each level is accessed by the Sea Rabbit's hideout. Once in the level, you must navigate Zack and 
 Wiki to the treasure chest goal. This may seem simple but in order to reach this goal you must 
 perform challenging tasks in the correct order otherwise you'll doom our heroes and have to start 
 over again. I will have to say that most of the puzzles provide a tough enough challenge that's 
 rewarding in the end. This aspect of the game will most likely keep you coming back for more.
 
  
  There are some extra things to do in the game to try and spice things up. Back at the hideout you'll 
 have a chance to talk to other pirates and do other things. For instance, there is a treasure hunt 
 mini game where you select a point on a map and hope for the best that it returns a glorious prize. 
 There are some extra puzzle levels to explore but for the most part, the extra things to do in 
 Zack and Wiki are only mediocre.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are pretty good in this game. The beautiful visuals along with the incredible level 
 design are a great plus.
  
  SOUND
  The music is good but the voice work is grueling. The annoying grunts and moans from Zack not only 
 will make your ears bleed but impede your concentration. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Zack and Wiki is good game to pick up for the Wii. Aside from the boring story and characters, 
 this game has plenty of great puzzling fun. I would recommend this game to anybody who likes puzzle 
 games. Also, you can't be the lower price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swytnezz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This is game is very unapprieciated. This game is so fun. You play as a little pirate by the name 
 of Zack and you has a very shiny sidekick names Wiki. Your role in this game is to solve all of 
 the puzzles in the level in order to get to the treasure chest that locked away. You have to help 
 Captain Barbaros (hint the title) thats under a spell. He needs all of his body parts collected 
 together in order to restore himself to normal.
  
  Graphics: This is not important in this game, but I love the style that they chose. Its a nice 
 cell-shading and it fits perfectly. It doesnt need fancy graphics to have great gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: This game is the reason why the Wii was made. They stepped up in making the Wii original. 
 You use the Wiimote in several different ways to play the game. That is one of the reasons why 
 it makes this game fun. Plus you will discover that the Wiimote can do more than what you were 
 shown. Second note, I actually enjoy the cartoony feel and the overly dramatic characters that 
 they throw in. Makes it funny
  
  Music: It fits for the level. Dont really notice it much. The most noise you'll heard is the ones 
 you make. The bell chiming coming from your remote is the sometimes annoying, but you can turn 
 it down anytime you want.
  
  Overall: Puzzles are fun to try and solve. You get graded on how fast and well you solve the puzzle 
 so you can replay the puzzles over and over again to improve them. Wiimote is the key to making 
 this game successful. Great for all ages. This game may seem extremely easy for the first few puzzles 
 but it gets harder and sometimes this games makes you feel retarded after being stuck for a while 
 on a puzzle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I didn't really know anything about Zack & Wiki until reading some positive things about it during 
 GameSpot's Best of 2007 feature, but then I got to see it in action at a friend's house around 
 the same time. I was impressed. Enough so, that with Smash Bros Brawl approaching, it was enough 
 for me to get a Wii, which I did about 6 weeks later (once I tracked one down) . Zack & Wiki was 
 the first game I got with the system, along with Mario Galaxy. It took me awhile to make my way 
 through Zack & Wiki, including a 3 month hiatus from April until about 2 weeks ago, but overall, 
 Zack & Wiki is a great point & click puzzle adventure game, making some very innovative uses of 
 the Wiimote along the way, bringing back a forgotten genre.
  
  The basic premise of Zack & Wiki is you control Zack, a wannabe pirate, who stumbles upon Wiki, 
 a little flying monkey who doubles as a bell Zack can ring, together they find a piece of the legendary 
 pirate, Barbaros. Barbaros is split into 16 pieces, and its up to Zack & Wiki to put him back together, 
 so they can obtain his ship. The pieces of Barbaros are hidden in treasure chests located in each 
 level, and you have to solve the puzzles in the levels to get to the treasure chest to obtain another 
 piece of Barbaros. Within each level, you'll find various items to use, animals that you can ring 
 Wiki to turn them into more items, and occasionally some bad guys you need to avoid or else you 
 "die" and need to restart the level. Practically every item in the game uses the Wiimote in some 
 fashion, whether its turning a key to open a door, using a fishing pole (including baiting the 
 hook) , playing the flute (probably my favorite use) , controlling a robot, lighting a torch, sawing 
 a tree, shaking stuff, answering a phone, even sword fighting and more.
  
  There are 4 main locations, with 3 additional locations that have 1 or 2 levels. In total there 
 are 24 levels. In some levels you are tasked with solving a puzzle, allowing you to gain access 
 to the treasure chest. In others, you need to avoid enemies (as aside from some small sword fighting 
 in a later level, Zack is defenseless against bad guys) and figure out a way to the treasure chest, 
 and there are others where you have to defeat a boss to get the treasure chest. All in all there 
 is a good amount of variety to the levels, that aside from some overuse of a few items, the game 
 does a nice job of keeping the gameplay fresh.
  
  The sports a cartoon-ish look that does look very nice. All the characters look good, and the environments 
 are also nicely done and varied. There isn't a ton of detail, but everything looks nice. There's 
 no true voice acting, although there are voice actors, as you do make out some words they say, 
 otherwise its random gibberish most of the time. Still, the writing is good, and the translated 
 names of some of the characters is great. Okay so maybe its just Johnny Style, but his name is 
 awesome.
  
  Zack & Wiki is not a very difficult game, but if you are not accustomed to the point & click puzzle 
 games, there are some tough levels that can be frustrating. But they are fun, and you get to use 
 the Wiimote in lots of various ways. Its not a lengthy adventure, my save clocked in at under 12 
 hours, but there's hidden treasures to be had after completing the game, plus replaying the levels 
 to get a better score. So there's a decent amount of replay value.
  
  Overall Zack & Wiki is a great addition to the Wii library. Its refreshing to see a point & click 
 adventure title in this generation, especially with how it uses the Wiimote. Zack & Wiki is also 
 fun and enjoyable, recommended to those looking for a puzzle game, a point & click game, a game 
 that uses the Wiimote in innovative ways, or all the above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0121428
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  In the beginning the game is oke, but after 2 hours of gametime it tends to get repetitive and 
 a bit boring. Not to mention the RSI-prone wii controles. The graphics are not top of the bill, 
 but acceptable. The sound is sometimes very annoying; especially the whining of Zack when you're 
 not moving the controller for three seconds. This is a puzzle game for people of all ages. The 
 puzzles are sometimes very challenging (even a bit to challenging for children under 12) and some 
 of the puzzles are very original, but after a while it just gets more of the same (this is also 
 caused by the lack of a good story) and somtimes a bit far-fetched (some of the elements in some 
 of the puzzles are just not very logical. This is not a good way to make a puzzle more difficult, 
 its just irritating and sometimes feels like a waste of time) . 
  
  If you like puzzle games this is a oke game for just 1 rainy afternoon (so just rent this game 
 or wait until its in the bargain bin) . I would not advice you to spend a lot of your hard earned 
 money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  at first, I thought this game looked kinda good so i brought it And at first it was fun, but then 
 it gets too hard and gets frustrating AND boring. IT would just be better as a adventure game what 
 I first thought it was gonna be.
  you're a pirate in the pirate team known as "sea rabbits" ( worst ... name... ever!) and you gotta 
 just find tresure or something pointless like that and the storyline isn't even good! the graphics 
 are alright to say it's a wii game but that's beside the point. the "enemies" are just stupid like 
 "goblins"that set up a camp and just dance around and people like this?! well I could go on forever 
 but last words: don't buy this unless you're a puzzle fan!
  
  P. S I only gave this a 6.5/10 because it was fun at the start, if it wasn't... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is an Adventure game for the Nintendo Wii, developed and published entirely by Capcom. 
 Saying that, it's a shame that many people will pass up one of the Wii's best third party games 
 so far because of its childish appearance. 
  
  So you basically play as Zack, who aspires to become the greatest pirate ever. He is accompanied 
 by his flying monkey companion, Wiki. They join into a pirate gang, called the "Sea Rabbits". While 
 they're on the way to the Sea Rabbit base, their plane crash lands onto an island. On the island, 
 Zack and Wiki discover a treasure chest, which contains the cursed spirit of Barabaros, an ancient 
 and famous pirate lord. He works out a deal with you; if you restore his body back together, he 
 will lead you to treasure island and promises you a legendary ship. Obviously, Zack can't refuse 
 such an offer like this if he wants to become the best pirate ever. This sets up the game's story, 
 which isn't all that engaging, but nevertheless gets the job done.
  
  After encountering Barbaros, you are sent across the land to find the rest of Barbaros' body through 
 gold pieces. You find these through puzzle filled stages, whereas your ultimate goal is to get 
 the treasure chest. The puzzles for the most part are extremely fun and are quite challenging. 
 You'll have to think about things before you do them, or you may end up facing your own demise. 
 Of course, the Wii Remote comes into play with the puzzles, offering a variety of uses. Most of 
 these work very well, but some don't respond quite as well as you'd want, or are maybe even too 
 sensitive to the controls. For example, you may be trying to pour liquid into a cup, but when you 
 try and dump it, the bottle doesn't tip down. It's those occasional annoyances that take away from 
 the overall game experience. You'll be using Wiki for the puzzles you encounter. When you shake 
 the Wii Remote, Wiki will turn into a bell. This is used to turn animals into useful items as well 
 as clear the spirits away from the treasure chests.
  
  The graphics are some of the most impressive on the Wii. Combine some crisp cell-shaded characters 
 with imaginative environments to make a beautiful game. Many third party makers have had trouble 
 with the graphics, but it seems Capcom has hit it right on.
  
  It's disappointing that I couldn't really say the same thing about the sound work. Wiki's high 
 pitched baby voice is bound to get on your nerves, as well as some of the sounds enemies make. 
 The squeal of the snake isn't exactly "pleasing" or realistic for that matter. The sound work may 
 be grating, but the music is great. The music can really capture the theme of the scene in most 
 cases. When your being chased the music is frantic and when you're in a cavern with crystals and 
 waterfalls, the music is calm and relaxed. 
  
  Expect Zack and Wiki to last you a good 8-10 hours. The isn't really much reason to play through 
 it again, unless you want to earn more points by solving puzzles the first time around. It really 
 isn't as fun as the first time around, because you already know how to solve the puzzles and it 
 isn't nearly as satisfying.
  
  Three other people can join into your adventure as well. They can serve as guides by pointing with 
 their remote on where to go. They do not play as an actual character. but it does help to have 
 another person by your side, and can be quite fun.
  
  Overall, Zack and Wiki is an immensely fun and unique adventure game, in which just a few annoyances 
 take away from it. Don't be discouraged from its childish appearance; Zack and Wiki is a great 
 game that gamers of all ages should consider giving a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is much more of a puzzler than adventure in which its 
 clas-sed in. With cartoony visuals and distinct japanese quirkiness, it feels as though the game 
 was made to die out amongst the western audience. For those who look out for these sort of niche 
 games though, they'll be treated to a gem of a game in a genre that have all but withered but has 
 begun sprouting for the Wii console. Thanks to the Wii remote pointing function, the game plays 
 and moves much like a point-click-adventure game but is infused with many motion controlled elements 
 in the puzzles; the combination is both refreshing and fun even for veteran gamers.
  
  The story of the game is summed up in the game's title alone; Zack, a young aspirational pirate, 
 is paired up with Wiki, a mysterious golden-coloured monkey who flies by spinning its tail (i'm 
 thinking of Sonic and Tales here...) . The duo, upon opening a treasure chest unleashes the golden 
 head of a legendary Pirate, Barbaros. In cartoon fashion, the head speaks; the golden treasure 
 itself is actually the soul and body of Barbaros. Seeing how Barbaros is missing all of his other 
 limbs, he strikes a deal with Zack & Wiki to restore him to form - in return, Zack & Wiki is promised 
 a legendary ship. So of you go, humbly seeking out these golden body parts across the lands.
  
  The game's visuals are not amazing, yet the cel-shading, colour pallete and quirky but japanese 
 stylings makes it all forgiving and in many ways brings out the mild humour while characterising 
 the game. After playing the game, it's very hard to imagine this game looking anything else other 
 than what it is. The sound throughout the game is also not something that is outstanding, but is 
 full of character. The music is often upbeat in the 'piratey fashion' and sound effects are done 
 well to convey clear meanings. It became clear to me that this game has recieved some 'love' in 
 its creation, the details, the cohorent blend of audio/visuals results in a piece of public but 
 personal piece of work, much like a manga artist drawing up his characters of affection.
  
  Enough of how it looks and sounds, but how does it play? Well, very very well in fact. So well, 
 that it surprises me why no other developer has looked at this game and taken notes. You control 
 your character by pointing at the screen and 'clicking' (pressing A) where you want to go or what 
 you want to examine/pickup. Holding down A, will make the character walk to wherever you're pointing 
 so there's no need for the nunchuck here. The most interesting aspect of the game comes about with 
 the use of motion controls. If you come across a tool, lever, or some object of interest, you'll 
 enter first person mode with the object facing you and a prompt of how you should hold your wiimote 
 comes up. If for example you wanted to open and hold up an umbrella, you hold the wiimote facing 
 up like an umbrella, and because upon close inspection of it reveals the number '2' at the handle 
 - pressing 2 will open up the brolly! How about using the brolly as a hook from the handle? - close 
 the brolly (press 2) and 'flip' the wiimote so you're pointing from the handle, voila! There are 
 so many variations in how to manipulate objects that this game represents how flexible the Wii's 
 unique features are and that they can add an exciting dimension to traditional genres.
  
  
  Even with all the added motion controls, it can only push the base of the game so far. Zack 
 & Wiki fortunately has a very solid base; without the enhancements, Zack & Wiki will still do very 
 well because of the variety of logical puzzles although it will lose a lot of its charm. The game 
 is split up by several locations, each location containing 3-5 levels and a boss level. Getting 
 through these locales will progress the story and characters at decent intervals. Before choosing 
 levels to play, the hub gives you access to elements which adds to the longevity of the game. You 
 can purchase voodoo dolls and platinum tickets (with money gathered during the levels) which are 
 used to gain hints or to revive yourself during a level. Other available options in the hub lets 
 you examine your collection of Barbaros' parts, review some scenarios with motion controls, seek 
 out treasure, look at your current game stats or look through your collections (sounds, art, Capcom-related 
 objects etc) . It is with the treasure seeking and object collection that the game's length is considerably 
 lengthened should you wish to do so. On top of unlocking treasures in all the levels you've played 
 after beating the story, you can seek out numerous collectible items. The game has a really nice 
 difficulty curve which is rewarding in each progressive step. It took me just under 16 hours to 
 beat the final boss and is something which will vary hugely between different players. Some of 
 those who are great at problem solving should get by quite smoothly with occasional Eureka! moments 
 while others may get stuck on one level for hours.
  
  
  Right from the start, this game oozed creativeness. The mild humour is OK, but the introduction 
 of motion sensing in this game allowed new and fresh gameplay elements. I highly recommend this 
 game as a purchase, even though the replay value is not too great, because Z&W is something that 
 deserves a place in your Wii game collection - especially since the game represents much of what 
 the Wii is about: fresh new ideas for games that are accessible for almost anyone to play, regardless 
 of skill level. The game can be considered hard for younger gamers but is just about right in challenging 
 the many mature gamers out there. If you bought a Wii for those games that offer you something 
 different from everything else then Zack & Wiki is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Positive: - excellent graphics - ingeniously clever puzzles and solutions - intuitive use of the 
 Wii remote - great music - 
  
  Negative: - gets way too hard way too quickly - hints are rarely helpful at all - early frustrations 
 hurt the game's accessibility - 
  
  Zack & Wiki is considered to be a very overlooked, underappreciated game. I thought I'd give it 
 a rent and see how it is. It's definitely a great, high quality game, but there are some things 
 that make it incredibly frustrating and way too hard too early on in the game. 
  
  Zack & Wiki's story isn't anything too special. Zack is an aspiring pirate with a desire to be 
 the greatest out there and after the game's introduction, he sets out to find all the missing pieces 
 of the infamous pirate Barbaros' golden skelaton, and in return he'll get the ultimate treasure. 
 The characters in the game are pretty forgettable, though, and the best character may well be a 
 bunny pilot named Johnny Style, who is pretty funny and has a great, entertaining personality. 
 Zack is a mute like many Nintendo characters, but that really hurts his character because he could 
 be greatly helped along by having some dialogue. Wiki is just annoying, he's always saying something 
 you don't need to know, making an annoying noise, or saying "Ding!" in the dialogue. 
  
  Zack & Wiki is a full-on puzzle game, nothing more and nothing less. But these puzzles are likely 
 the most clever, imaginative puzzles you'll ever find in a game. They take place in a variety of 
 environments and the solutions are always very clever and often funny. To solve the puzzles, you 
 need to use the items available in the level to interact with certian objects and things in the 
 level, which is always really cool because everything uses the Wii remote so well. If you get really 
 badly stuck on a level, you can use an Oracle Doll (purchased at the base) to get a hint, but the 
 hints are always either not helpful at all or tell you something you already know, but they really 
 can help occasionally. It just depends on the level.
  
  The controls in the game are definitely great, but moving Zack takes some getting used to. Each 
 item has a unique remote grip and use, sometimes it's an umbrella while other times it's a flute. 
 Any time in the game, though, you can shake the remote to make Wiki into a bell that can hurt enemies 
 to get new items. To move Zack, you point at where you want him to go and press A. This is really 
 annoying on some levels and a nunchuk control stick or even the remote D-pad would definitely have 
 been preferable. The controls add a lot to Zack & Wiki and the game definitely wouldn't be quite 
 what it is without them. 
  
  Zack & Wiki is great in the areas of graphics and sound as well. The graphics are arguably some 
 of the best on the Wii with sharp, high quality cartoon animations. The first time I saw the graphics 
 I couldn't believe it, I thought it was still the opening cutscene! The sound effects are also 
 great and add a nice, somewhat childish feel to the game (in a good way) . The music is really cool 
 too, the main theme is awesome. 
  
  While you play through the first area of the game, you will be a bit challenged to accomplish beating 
 it but you don't feel overwhelmed. But once you get to the second area, you feel like you just 
 can't do anything. I managed to beat two of the levels, though, and get to the boss level, which 
 is really frustrating and feels totally impossible to beat. Zack & Wiki definitely isn't a game 
 that eases you in with progressing difficulty, and frustration comes naturally before you can even 
 get halfway through the game. Sadly, this game really needed to ease the player in more and so 
 this really hurts the game a lot. 
  
  To sum it all up, Zack & Wiki easily could have gotten a 9/10 from me if it wasn't so difficult 
 and frustrating so early on. When I play a game like this, I want to be eased in with some easy 
 stuff to begin with and real challenges at the end, but this just didn't do that for me. I felt 
 hopelessly overwhelmed before I was even halfway through. The rest of the game, though, is a real 
 treat and all the elements create a hugely likeable game that's ingeniously clever and fun. It's 
 worth a rent, no doubt, but you will likely feel inclined to buy it later because of it's low pricetag 
 and because it is, quite simply, a really great game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  (this does not necessarily affect the overall score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platinum_Pikmin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki was a sleeper hit of 2007, although it was praised critically to be the savior of 
 the now-extinct point and click adventure genre, the game didn't sell many copies thanks to the 
 kiddy graphics and lame moniker. But if you dug beneath the surface you'd find a game that uses 
 the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities to create a wonderful little package. Let's get to the basics 
 shall we?
  
  Graphics: The graphics here are not unlike the ones found in the Wind Waker. The developers have 
 gone to great lengths to create a complete aesthetic of cell shading to suck you in even more. 
 The game is artistically great, and the game will still look good when all the polygon pushing 
 games of today are blurry and muddy tomorrow. The one complaint is that the environment textures 
 tend to get a little grainy when seen up close. 
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good as well. The musical score will yank your emotions from calm and 
 serene to excited or panicked. Some of the sounds will emanate from the Wii remotes speaker which 
 sounds a little tinny but is still a nice touch.
  
  Gameplay: This is one category in which Zack and Wiki shines. The game drops you off in little 
 areas in which you solve bite sized puzzles to claim the treasure at the end. But don't think that 
 this is going to be a cakewalk. Almost anything that injures Zack will automatically kill him unless 
 you have yourself a Platinum Ticket, the games version of an extra life. Another thing is some 
 puzzles seem to be more hit and miss than other ones, and the difficulty differs greatly from puzzle 
 to puzzle. While you are solving these, you will be using the remotes actions to do everything 
 from playing a flute to rocking a baby dragon to sleep.
  
  Zack and Wiki is an excellent game, one of the few that uses the Wii hardware to its fullest. It 
 deserves to be in any gamer's collection and is Capcom at its finest. And remember "I am experiencing 
 dja vu and amnesia at the same time, I think I have forgotten this before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puppet_Geno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  At first, one may look at Z&W and think it childish or easy. This is not so. The game has its hard 
 parts as well as many easy puzzles, but it is a delightful game to pick up and play. Zack and Wiki 
 have become two of my favorite characters, and I hope for a new adventure soon. The graphics, while 
 not being too sharp, and fun and interesting to look at, and the supporting cast are colorful and 
 funny. The bright island levels fit the game well, and the animal-made items are comically designed. 
 The motion controls are executed incredibly, and very few actions feel awkward or forced. The bosses, 
 while still being regular puzzles, manage to have a unique feel that differentiates them from the 
 rest of the game. The plot isn't too deep, and it features one of the most cliched twists know 
 to man, but it is a good vehicle for the game. In all, this i. s a great game for buying, renting, 
 or borrowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  this game is about pirates who in search or treasure. you go through mind killing (exaggeration) 
 puzzles in order to retrieve parts of the skeleton of a famous pirate barbaros. in doin this you 
 need to apply logical thinking in order to retrieve the pieces.
  
  the controls for this a very very basic using the wii remote (without a numchuk) to click point 
 zack around. clicking on things in order for him to use or break in very innovative ways. so controls 
 are perfect. the sound is very annoying if you ask me the voices are the same thing being played 
 over again which kinda made me turn the sound off at 1 point. the graphics are pretty good not 
 fantastic but good enough to bare. 
  
  it is a very good game for the wii. i wouldnt say it is a must have but it is a very good game 
 and is the best puzle game i have ever played. so if you like pirates and puzzles then its perfect 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is so great but also so underappriciated, this is smart, funny, challenging and difficult. 
 The puzzles will really have you thinking about your next course of action and the characters and 
 gameplay are so very creative. I would definatly recommend this game to fans of the point and click 
 genre and anyone who loves a good head-scratcher this game may look cartoony but trust me this 
 is a really great game!
  
  What I dont get is why I never saw it before. Never wouldve noticed it if my friend hadnt reccommended 
 it to me as an intresting game. This game is great and should be up in the top ten charts. 
  
  Zack and Wiki will have you thinking for hours but dont take my word for it go and get this 
 game and see what wonders await! Set sail on a course to your local game store! And get me some 
 rum, No not that one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I had very high expections when I got this game, because of the good score it had got on Gamespot, 
 but I got very disappointed, when I tried it. One good thing about the game is that some of the 
 quests are very hard to solve  it gives at least something to the game and also the controls works 
 very nice and smoth. The game gets boring very fast and the multiplayer part sucks big time and 
 you can't even call it multiplayer. The only thing the 2nd player can do, is to watch  and that's 
 it! Yes, the 2nd player has the opportunity to highlight helpful things in the game, but it's not 
 funny at all!
  Maybe it would be a nice game, for kids under the age of 10, but it's to childish to young and 
 older people.
  The storyline in the game is nice, but sometimes there is just enough waiting on the storymovies 
 to end.
  Don't buy this game if you would like to play multiplayer or if it cost over $5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: C-)
  Story: Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is about a pirate boy named Zack, and his transforming 
 bell monkey Wiki who go on a quest for Barbaros' Treasure. Hey, the title tells you the story, 
 who would have thought. Zack and Wiki are small time pirates who want to be rich. They meet a cursed 
 pirate named Barbaros, who makes a deal with them. He tells them if they find all of his body parts 
 (don't worry they're not real body part) he will make them wealthy and give them his legendary 
 ship. The game doesn't go in-depth with the story throughout the game but it has some humor to 
 it, even if the overall story is kind of boring. 
  
  (Letter Grade: B-)
  Gameplay: Throughout the game you will be solving puzzles, what joy. The game makes really good 
 use of the Wii remote, something I haven't seen happen since WarioWare: Smooth Moves. Whatever 
 motion it would take to solve the puzzle in real life than that's the motion you have to do. Sometimes 
 the response to your motion doesn't get received well by the game. It can sometimes be very frustrating. 
 The puzzles in the game are clever, maybe even TOO clever. Solving puzzles can sometimes seem more 
 frustrating than actually fun; unexpected deaths can occur if you make a false move and if you 
 misuse an object or do the wrong action than you can't progress farther into the level and have 
 to restart. There is a hint system requiring the use of dolls within the game, but it isn't very 
 good and you have to pay. What makes it even worse is that the price for the hint dolls increase 
 every time you buy one. You also have to buy lives in the game if you don't want to restart a level, 
 who in the world buys lives in games, that is the most ******* thing I have ever heard. Don't be 
 fooled by the cartoon atmosphere in the game, this game is as hard as a diamond, and diamonds are 
 very hard! Good or Bad? That's up to you. 
  
  (Letter Grade: B+)
  Graphics: Zack and Wiki has its own unique feel and look to it. The cel-shaded graphics are pleasing 
 to the eyes, and the level design is at it's best. Everything is colorful and well detailed. I 
 also love the characters' reactions in the game, its very funny in a childish sort of way, but 
 that isn't necessarily a bad thing. 
  
  (Letter Grade: C)
  Sound: The in-game music goes well with its designated level and the sound effects are decent, 
 and that's all the good things I can say about the sound design. Here comes the bad part, the annoying 
 little Japanese kid voices. The characters don't actually talk in the game, they talk through text. 
 Every time you "talk" to a character they make an annoying but funny sound. Every single forsaken 
 sentence an annoying Japanese kid voice pops out and shatters my ears. I feel like I want to put 
 virtual tape on each of the characters' mouths. ITS THAT ANNOYING! 
  
  (Report Card: B-)
  Overall: Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure feels fun at first, but as you progress through 
 the game the fun slowly gets replaced by frustration. This is one of those like it or hate it type 
 games. Zack and Wiki can be a fun game; you just have to search for it, kind of like a puzzle within 
 a puzzle. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot working in Zack and Wiki's favor. It uses the Wii Remote terrifically, is part of 
 a dying genre and has undeniable charm. It gives a phenomenal first impression, and stays welcome 
 a for a while. However, Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' treasure has one major appeal: it's 
 unlike anything else available. However, after about ten hours of playing it looses that wow-factor 
 and almost feels boring, despite its incredible difficulty towards those lackluster puzzles.
  
  Zack and Wiki is basically a point-and-click adventure. It uses the Wii Remote to point and 
 to click, even for movement. By all means the game is innovative, but unfortunately that's all 
 has to mask its just good main game. Eventually, you stop being wowed by how innovative it is, 
 and just submit yourself to difficult puzzles that are worth completing, if only for the great 
 rewarding feeling afterwards.
  
  The game gets extremely difficult, and is a nice kick in the teeth for gamers looking for a challenge. 
 It's a good thing the game is so difficult too because otherwise it would have been a bore. It's 
 nicely cel-shaded and cute, but the plot is forgettable and to be honest, Zach isn't even that 
 likable.
  
  All in all, Zach and Wiki is a cautious purchase. Some people will never get bored of the control 
 scheme, and those people will probably think the game is great. For other people, the awe will 
 wear off and they'll be stuck playing a good game, but not one necessarily worth its $40 price 
 tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is a point and click wii puzzle solver. It has extremely clever puzzles and offers 
 a great gameplay experience. While some puzzles are easy and take 5 minutes, some puzzles are known 
 to take the best part of an hour
  
  Pros: Quite Humourous, Very Fun, Nice sound, Very nice presentation and visuals. Extremely clever
 
  
  +/- It has a fair bit of text.
  
  Cons: A bit too short (unless you look forward to collecting concept art and soforth) , some annonying 
 and average level construction (See Mad Science) , also dosent reward any form of trial and error, 
 must be approached with deep forethought. Has a very basic storyline.
  
  So this game is a very enjoyable puzzle solver. It is very underappreciated, and will hopefully 
 be the start to a great series. I reccomend it to gamers who enjoy using their minds. This game 
 for me is my third favourite wii title ahead of Metroid Prime 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattyrock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Innovation is in the mind when it comes to the Nintendo Wii, especially if you include Capcom's 
 latest and greatest title, as a old style homage to the classic Point and Click games on the PC 
 (like The Curse of Monkey Island, Day of the Tentacle and my personal favourite, Sam and Max) , 
 with an amazing adventure feature great new uses with the Wiimote.
  
  This is the experience, you will get with Zack & Wiki: Quest for Babaro's Treasure.
  
  Story: 
 7
  A young pirate with an oversized hat named Zack is the newest recruit in the little know pirate 
 gang known as the Sea Rabbits, while flying over the sea with his compaion, a gold helicopter-tail 
 flying monkey named Wiki with the Sea Rabbits pilot, Johnny Style.
  
  They get attacked by a band of an evil priate gang known as The Rose Rock Pirates, leaded by the 
 affectionate yet evil Captain Rose, as Zack & Wiki falls to a near death, after a few tutorials 
 on the plane and such, they get to a chest which has the ghostly golden head of the legendary Captain 
 Barbaros, who was cursed for many years and Zack & Wiki make a deal by having his legendary ship 
 if they can find all the gold pieces of Captain Barbaros.
  
  The Plot is somewhat decent, but it's an fun, childlike story.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Man, The graphics 
 in this game is amazing! Nicely cel-shaded, unique anime style character designs and unique and 
 challenging level designs. It makes the Wii look like an Xbox 360 (lol) .
  
  Gameplay: 8
  It's like your tradition Point-and-Click game on the PC, you move around trying to sovle puzzles, 
 using different objects that you use to figure one thing to another. However, the challenge is 
 if that each puzzle that you do that is in or out of order effects your character, the stage and 
 chances of getting the chest in each stage, so you have to think wisely and in each puzzle you 
 solve, you get IQ points known as HirameQa, you get them of how imaginative and smart you are, 
 though if you use oracle dolls or platnium tickets from the oracle in the hideout, it'll take away 
 a few points at the end of the completed stage.
  
  You usually start at the Sea Rabbits hideout, to prepare yourself for the next stage. Like, knowing 
 how to use your Wiimote, Find info about the treasures you discover, check out your states, buy 
 oracle dolls (for hints) and/or platinum tickets (to restart at a certain point if you fail) and 
 of course, choosing the next stage to go to on the map.
  
  The gameplay isn't too original but a really nice upgrade, since this is the first attempt of a 
 Point and Click game from a Japanese game developer.
  
  Controls: 8.5
  To control Zack, you press the A button in the direction of the cursor is aiming, making Zack to 
 move. Shake the Wiimote up to turn Wiki into a bell and trust me, you're gonna need to do that 
 alot to change enemies into useful objects and excorcise cursed chests in each stage. In each puzzle, 
 you're required to do different uses with the Wiimote, like using a saw, pulling down a lever, 
 using a flute, etc.
  
  However, the controls like most Wii games may not respond at times but that usually never happens.
 
  
  Sound: 8
  The Music in the game is pretty good, it adds the adventure-feel and also atmosphere of the stage.
 
  
  The Sound Effects are mostly fun and original but not really important.
  
  The Voices: Now, I've heard complaints about the japanese voices being annoying and irratating, 
 but it never really bothered me that much, it makes it more of an anime-style game and are you 
 sure they're voices? They're more like singular voice files to me.
  
  Total Score: 8.5
  Capcom has really outdone themselves with this reimagery of an classic style of gameplay, the only 
 thing holding back the game is it's hard difficulty in the later stages, but this is a great add 
 to your Wii Collection.
  
  If you can't find anything else or still waiting for Brawl, this is an enjoyable title. But be 
 wared, it's not for the small-minded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I've been hanging around games that are a bit older as of late so let's go with something a bit 
 more fresh and hey it's another from Capcom!: Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure.
  
  Now at the time I was a bit disappointed in what the Wii library had to offer, currently, it really 
 doesn't have much to boast about. So in seeing this game several times and mulling over other reviews 
 that I saw done about the game I finally decided, hey its 40 bucks, may as well. I was quickly 
 surprised how quickly the game play became addictive and fun.
  
  Opening up on the scene we see our heroes on an airplane, suddenly they're attacked by a rival 
 pirate gang headed by the eccentric Rose, she has her moments of absurdity but by far she's probably 
 the more interesting character in the lot, but that's not saying much. Role wise none of the characters 
 really have memorable feel to them, Zack, the chocolate loving midget doesn't say much besides 
 encouraging cheers here and there, Wiki, the golden monkey does more talking than anything; it's 
 cute energetic and reminds me of the typical animal sidekick that they'd have on most T. V. shows. 
 Eventually Wiki does wear on your nerves its voice can be grating sometimes. On the first stage 
 you must get to the end by using your Wii remote to examine points on the screen by pointing and 
 clicking, Zack faithfully follows your every instruction, either inspecting the point you indicated 
 or simply standing where you instructed him to move. You come across a chest which coincidently 
 enough has a lock shaped like Wiki's head, use Wiki here to break the lock and release a golden 
 skull that goes by the name of Barbaros, he in turn sets up the rest of the game for you and sends 
 you on a long fetch quest for all his missing body parts.
  
  Utilizing Wiki's ability to morph into a bell when you furiously shake the Wiimote near a creature 
 cleverly enough transforms them into key items, like a centipede into a hand saw. This helps further 
 your progress toward completing the level, which objectively in each one you must open a treasure 
 chest at the end which contains a part of Barbaros' body, helping piece him back together. There 
 are a variety of ways to solve some stages, setting for a bit of variety through them. 
  
  It's easy to get Zack into a load of trouble, there's many pitfalls and tricks along the way that 
 just slap you in the face once you think you solved the puzzle, instead you get smashed, crushed 
 or die in some fashion, even though this is frustrating it's amusing the variety of ways that Zack 
 dies, reminding me of the arcade game Dragon's Layer. One wrong move and its comedic death. However 
 you get a choice in the matter, you're able to purchase tickets that allow you to start off before 
 the point of the puzzle where you messed up, sometimes though it's better to start from the beginning, 
 especially if you've done something irreversible. Also if you're stuck you can use an Oracle Doll 
 to receive a hint in completing the puzzle.
  
  This game with its lack of character style and development relies heavily on it's puzzle mechanics, 
 visuals and use of the Wiimote. Every puzzle is orchestrated in a clever manner that at times is 
 obvious and easy to figure out and other times may be not so obvious and mildly frustrating, so 
 it's better to play with a friend utilizing the second remote option or not, it doesn't really 
 matter, two heads trying to solve a puzzle is better than one and it makes it more fun once you 
 solve that really difficult one.
  
  The boss battles are interesting to say the least and especially fun, personally I favor the dragon 
 boss where the baby dragon follows you around during the level, this is the only game that I can 
 ever think of where you get to rock a dragon until it's happy, pull it's tail and smash it's head 
 (Abusive D: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  A worldwide quest, devilish puzzles, enemies around every corner... it may sound like the next Indiana 
 Jones (For God's sakes, give Grandpa Harrison a break) but instead it's a delightful adventure 
 called Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure. Your protagonist is Zack, the newest recruit 
 for the group of pirates known as the Sea Rabbits. Your best friend is a flying monkey called Wiki, 
 who can transform into a magical bell that can transform objects bearby objects. (I'll have two 
 of whatever the guys at Capcom smoked when they came out with this idea) . You set out to make a 
 name out of yourself by finding treasure, all the while being chased by Cpt. Rose, a poiled teenager 
 that only wants the world's greatest riches. The first treasure you find is the disembodied head 
 of the legendary pirate Barbaros. He promises to hook you up with his lost horde in Treasure Island 
 if you find the rest of his body. What follows is a clever and fun experience unlike anything of 
 its kind. The gameplay at its core is a point and click game, one rarely seen nowadays, especially 
 on a console. This makes Zack and Wiki perfect for the wii. You click on the screen to tell Zack 
 where to go and what to interact with. This doesn't always come out without a problem though. At 
 every level of the game, you are presented with an environmental puzzle you'll need to solve with 
 what's at your disposal. As mentioned earlier, you can use the power of Wiki by giving a quick 
 shake to the remote and transform nearby enemies and object into tools to solve the challenge. 
 The challenge itself is finding the best way to use your tools. For example, an umbrella could 
 be a parachute, but if you use it at the other end, it's a hook to grab things with. Completing 
 the puzzles is satisfying and really gives you a sense of accomplisshment. This is one of the few 
 games that really feel that are tryong to make the wii remote intuitive. Every tool you use requires 
 a different way to move or hold the remote. Puzzles get fiendishly hard later in the game, which 
 brings us to one of the most serious problems of the game, it can be too unforgiving at times. 
 You are punished too hard sometimes for not getting everything right at the first try. There are 
 even some parts when one fatal mistake can't make you return to where you started. You can buy 
 extra lives and tips, but their prices get higher the more you buy them. Overall, the game is a 
 hell of a good time. The challenge feels rewarding once it is completed, the art style is delightful 
 and reminds me of games like The Legend of Zelda: The Windwaker, it has intuitive uses for the 
 wii mote, and there's lots of hidden treasure for you to return too. If you find this game, don't 
 think twice about picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolz3h
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  As you can probably tell from the small introduction Zack and Wiki isn't an in-depth exploration 
 of maritime politics! However, I'm sure some of the puzzles involved could give Captain Cook a 
 run for his money.
  
  At the beginning of the game we are introduced to a young wannabe-swashbuckler who goes by the 
 name of Zack and his loyal flying monkey Wiki. They're attacked by the Rose Rock Pirates, lead 
 by the ever greedy Captain Rose. The pilot (Johnny Styles) bravely ejects from the plane leaving 
 Zack and Wiki to fend for themselves! It's a baptism of fire, though the flames have barely begun! 
 The first mission acts as a perfect tutorial introducing you to the game's mechanics and the very 
 logical style of the puzzles.
  
  After you finish the first mission you come across the legendary pirate Barbaros, (or baru-baros 
 as the characters in the game call him) unfortunately he's cursed and is just a large golden head. 
 He offers you his ship if you'll put him back together, now normally a pirate would just leave 
 him there to rot but this pirate's ship is the stuff of legends and is contained in none other 
 than Treasure Island! So naturally they grab his head and go about gathering the rest of his body.
 
  
  When you come across a centipede, or a snake (or anything alive for that matter!) You simply shake 
 the wii-mote and Zack grabs his loyal companion, she turns into a bell, and in turn turns the enemy 
 into a useful item! 
  The items work wonderfully game. If you want to get a tree out of the way you get a Centi-Saw, 
 click on the tree, hold the wii-remote sideways and begin 'sawing' as if the tree was in front 
 of you and your wii-mote suddenly had a sharp durable blade!
  
  The controls all work brilliantly but sometimes (and generally at times where time is of the essence!) 
 there are a few problems. Often resulting in a humorous animation detailing Zack coming to an untimely 
 end! These are incredibly rare though, and are often caused by player error rather than the game 
 not registering the wii-remote's movements. Quite simply (and with as much hyperbole as possible!) Zack 
 and Wiki demonstrates better than any other game what the wii-remote can be used for, and is easily 
 the best use of the wii's motion sensing technology we've seen yet.
  
  But as great as that is this isn't the highlight of the game. Quite simply the puzzles are. As 
 the game progresses the levels quickly become bigger, more complex and longer! It's hard to talk 
 about them because a lot of the joy in them really is just experiencing them for the first time 
 and then trying to work out how to solve them! I will say one thing though, be very careful when 
 mixing chemicals! 
  
  The graphics look brilliant; there are very few jagged edges in sight and all the characters ooze 
 personality. And the animations are comical to say the least! However later on in the game when 
 there's a lot going on, on screen involving a lot of characters there's some major slowdown. Thankfully 
 though this is generally confined to brief cut scenes and doesn't really affect your puzzle solving 
 ability!
  
  The sound however is not quite as good. The music is good, for the most part, and goes nicely with 
 most of the levels but the sounds the characters does get incredibly annoying! It starts out all 
 cute and humorous but when you've heard "Zakkuuu!" and other grunts and screams for the thousandth 
 time you'll be ready to ring Wiki's neck! 
  
  One other minor criticism is that I personally found the puzzles to be in the most part very easy. 
 As the game goes on they grow in complexity and length but as everything in the game is logical 
 it doesn't really make it much more difficult, it just increases the required level of endurance! 
 But that's not necessarily a bad thing. All the puzzles are an absolute joy to solve and as the 
 complexity grows so does the fun you get from solving them. So I don't really think that's a fair 
 criticism! 
  
  It should take you about 10-20 hours to get to the end defending on how fast you are, but there's 
 genuine replay-ability here. As you'll notice as you're playing through when you finish each area 
 it says you've only completed it 70%, when you've finished it you'll find that there's a whole 
 new bunch of puzzles to solve across all the levels! Not only that but when you complete each level 
 you gain HirameQ's which is a score of how well you solved the puzzles. Your score is then ranked 
 as being from 'unpuzzleable!' to 'come on, think!' the former being the best and the latter the 
 worst! And as the final incentive for you to keep playing? Your run through the levels are timed, 
 so you'll always be wanting to knock off those last few seconds!
  
  It's just a pity that I'm nice enough to not spoil the puzzles for you or I could have written 
 a few thousand words, but if you do buy Zack and Wiki (as you should) you'll thank me! Well, unless 
 you don't like it. In that case perhaps I owe you $100? Nah, if you don't like I think you're the 
 one that owes Capcom your apologies!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxostev
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Pirates these days seem to be everywhere, they have gotten three good movies in the past few years, 
 the pirate sentric anime One Piece is becoming a huge hit world wide, heck pirates started appearing 
 in the Zelda games thanks to Wind Waker and the Phantom Hourglass. Now a new pirate now takes to 
 the seas to fly the Jolly Rodger from his mast. He is the young pirate Zack; and with the help 
 of his transforming flying magical robot monkey Wiki, makes a bid to take the title Pirate King 
 away from the likes of Jack Sparrow, Staw Hat Luffy, Tetra, and Guybrush Threepwood (remember those 
 Monkey Island PC games?) . Does he succede or his he a landlubber?
  
  The Facts:
  As you may have guess you play as Zack, a young rookie pirate with the Sea Rabbits: A group of 
 wascally pirate wabbits, though they do nothing wascally at all (sorry had to get that Elmer Fudd 
 talk out of the way) . Your not the only rookie in the group, as your partnered with a robotic monkey 
 named Wiki (whose design kinda reminds me of Data from Megaman Legends/64) , who can be turn into 
 a bell and transform living animals and enemies into puzzle solving items. Not long into the game 
 your attacked by the Rose Rock Pirates led by the dreaded female pirate Captain Rose (who reminds 
 me of Tron Bonne from Megaman Legends/64) . After the attack you find a chest containing the cursed 
 golden skull of Captain Barbaros, who charges you to find his other body parts. This is how the 
 game begins and from that point on you must go around several levels solving serveral puzzles. 
 The game is pretty much a point and click adventure like Monkey Island and Sam & Max, you point 
 and click to move and interact with objects. A lot of times you have to use the wiimote like a 
 saw/lever/jar/flute (the list goes on and on) to solve certain puzzles and move the wiimote accordingly, 
 and for the most part it works.
  
  The Good:
  The graphics in this game are impressive, sharp and clean, a true showcase for what the Wii can 
 do. The music, just like in every other Capcom game, is one of the best on the Wii (right up there 
 with Zelda, Brawl and Super Mario Galaxy) . The Challange in this game is just right, It doesn't 
 hold your hand like most games these days, but no part really sets you up to fail if your not hardcore 
 enough. There's enough hidden goddies like character bios, and little trinkets that showcase Capcom's 
 game history in the game to keep you coming back (even when you beat the game it challeges you 
 to find the hidden treasure) . Most of the movemets you have to make with the wiimote work wonders. 
 You'll often find yourself saying "Just one more level" a lot.
  
  The Bad:
  The sound, it's bassically Japanese gibberish, which you hear every time a character talks. After 
 hearing the millionth "Riki" or "Zacku", it makes seem a little kiddish, and degrading for older 
 gamers to play in their dorm rooms. There is some droppage in framerate in some parts of the game, 
 which kinda takes you out of the game. The motion controls for swords and a certain action in the 
 final boss stage (not spoiling it for you) don't exactly work the rway they're suppose to.
  
  The Final Verdict:
  Zack & Wiki: Quest For Barbaros' Treasure for the Wii is a great game 
 that everyone should experience, and at $29.99 there's very little reason not to. Yes I know Brawl's 
 out now which is like the second coming to every Wii owner, but if you don't have the $50 for Brawl, 
 or you asked for it for your birthday (which is less then a month away) so you can save the money, 
 like I did; then pick up this underappeciated gem of a game, it'll prevent scurvy! (not really) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacobar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is the bee's knees for people with puzzle solving minds. This game has everything a puzzle 
 solver would want in a RPG puzzle game. Great use of the wii remote!
  This game has about 30 odd level ranging from a difficult rating of 1-10.
  (ten being the maximum.)
 
  The tutorial at the beginning is a great way to start, its not long, and not confusing, however 
 the constant how to hold the remote will annoy you a bit. The game makes you think ahead of your 
 moves to make sure that everything follows smoothly to get the maximum amount of points to get 
 yours and your hq's fame up.
  The story ends on a bit of a sad not, i dont want to spoil it for those who haven't got there yet, 
 BUT it kinda ends on a maybe a sequal note.
  So everyone who wants this game GET IT, its definitly worth the money!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Blade1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is an exhilarating intelligent, puzzle game. It makes you think of all the possibilities 
 and it is hard in many different ways. I've noticed that many people haven't played this game because 
 of its look. Well 'm telling you now that you have to play it. The graphics and game-play may look 
 childish but under its soft exterior there is a hard rock inside which is hard to overcome. Zack 
 and Wki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure makes very good use of the wii remote because you have to 
 position the item that you are using wisely and timely is sometimes key in this game. The obstacles 
 though in this game are that you have to be pretty intelligent to beat this game. I think in a 
 general point of view, Zack and Wki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is a family friendly game with 
 its widely intelligent ways of opportunity to learn from our mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is an amazing game that would make your brain hurt a lot trying to find out the puzzles. 
 Zack is a chocalate eating pirate and Wiki is a flying monkey that can turn into a bell. Zack and 
 Wiki are on a treasure hunt but these pirates capture them. But Barbarose saves them and ask them 
 if they can find all of his body parts so Zack and Wiki agree and help. Now the graphics are good 
 but not great. The gameplay is where you will get the most fun out of. You can use the Wii Remote 
 in so many ways! The puzzles are very and there is more than one way to screw up. The treasure 
 chest always is in plain sight but you have to figure out what to do to get there. You can tell 
 Capcom took there time with this game and it is one great package fo $40 and would recommend to 
 any puzzle fan or any body for that matter. I gave this game a 8.5/10 and as I said before i would 
 rcommend it to any body but try not to get mad with the puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightNui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbados' Tressure Knight-Nui Review
  
  People would describe Zack & Wiki as a "Sleeper Hit". However, that would be the small minority 
 who have actualy heard of the game. Capcom have done there best to try and promote it, (Well, probably 
 not- We've never seen Adverts for it, that's for sure) but nooooo. It's going to go the way of 
 many other gems that are underrated.
  
  We'd describe thoughs 'Gamers' as "Fools". However, we're hopnig now that they'll would be the 
 small minority that actualy don't own the game.
  
  See, Capcom may not of done there best to promote the game, but they've put there efforts into 
 the actual spinning Disc. And thankfully, it pays off. And that's why there's the Number Nine followed 
 by a Four at the end of this review.
  
  Now, we could just end this review now, with these words:
  
  
  BUY. THIS. GAME.
  
  But, 
 unfortunately, that's not quite how Reviews work, so while we hope you've bought it, now's time 
 to enter the realm of extra detail. So then, why's it brilliant?
  
  Well, let's start with the use of the Wii Remote. See, one year ago, everyone was taking advantage 
 of the Remote. (It's still going on now, actualy) Some where absolutely amazing (Warioware: The 
 Mini-Game Party was instantly given a whopping 93%) , while it's better not to mention others. (Pirates 
 of the Carabiean, we're lokoing at you) So then, a little late, Capcom decide to crash that party, 
 with what could easily be the best Remote Controls yet (Yes, even better then the ones for an R/C 
 Dalek) There hard to explain, but when you see them for yourself, (WHICH YOU REALY SHOULD OF BY 
 NOW.) you'll see what we mean. Brilliant.
  
  But wait! Theres more Brilliance! It is, at it's heart, a Puzzle game. So it helps that the puzzles 
 are cleverer the Miyamoto and more fun and addictive then a few quick rounds on Tetris.
  
  OK, let's take this example. You're in a Painting Gallery. You can see the Chest you're after in 
 front of you, only it's guarded by a Giant fish, and you can do nothing to get it out of your Choclate-Munching, 
 Tressure-Grabbing way. You wonder around for ages, Only finding more painings, a Tap, more painting, 
 the floor, and the fish again.
  
  
  You're Stuck.
  
  THEN! You spot the answer your looking for. What is it? There's a Painting of the Fish! You try 
 and try to do something with it, but Nope. Nothing. It doesn't work Suddenly- it hits you, the 
 most brilliant thing ever. You run back to find the tap you saw earlier. Pick up the Painting of 
 the fish, stick it under the tap, and Hey Presto! It's a ruined painting! Only it actualy does 
 something. It manipulates the real deal. You drain the liquid from the now-water colour Paining, 
 and their, Volia! Having lost it's water, the fish dies.
  
  This is where you suddenly jump up and yell "YES!!!!!!!!! I AM T3H CHAMPZOR!!!!11111" It's one 
 of thoughs games that makes you celebrate, noe of thoughs games that makes you feel like no other.
 
  
  Oh, and all puzzles are that brilliant. Yes, seriously. Oh, but it doesn't stop there:
  
  Graphics are perfectly stylised ; Level & Charctar design is absolutely brilliant ; It stars 
 a FLYING MONKEY ; Zack's a Choclate-Obsessed Pirate ; It's short, but not too short- Exactly what 
 Miyamoto ordered ; There's plenty to collect- We could go no all day.
  
  But we don't need to. You all own this game, right? Because if not, we'll yell again:
  
  BUY. 
 THIS. GAME.
  
  95% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Capcom are known from taking risk - some more drastic than others. This is good in the sense that 
 the majority of the time the game is in fact pretty good and provides us with a fresh and new experience 
 but in another sense this is bad as very rarely fo these groundbreaking titles actually sell.
 
  
  And that seems to the problem with this industry as the moment. Developers seem to be more focused 
 on sales as opposed to quality meaning that many modern games (especially movie tie-ins) and absoloutely 
 god-dam awful. 
  
  Not so the case in Zack and Wiki which (although a fairly daft and offputting name) will provide 
 you with good game and a new concept. But unfortunately despite how good Zack and Wiki is, it will 
 never sell as well lets say Bee Movie, or Cars.
  
  How can this be? Is no-one interested in quality games anymore or do we just want to play games 
 which feature recognisable characters? I personally never buy movie tie-ins (and if I do its half-decent 
 ones) as I can pretty safely assume that the game itself will be rubbish. 
  
  Anyway, rant over and on to my review of Zack and Wiki: Quest for Babaros' Treasure which is a 
 point and click adventure game developed by Capcom for the Nintendo Wii. The game sees you take 
 control of a young pirate called Zack who travels the world with his partner (a flying mokey called 
 Wiki) . You soon learn the story of Captain Babaros' and are sent on a mission to restore his body 
 thus collecting treasure which makes up his body.
  
  To collect treasure its pretty simple. Complete a stage and collect the treasure - easy right? 
 Well no. Zack and Wiki is by far one of the hardest games I have ever played. Forget your puzzles 
 in the Legend of Zelda this by far exceeds them. At points you will be banging your head in frustration 
 at the insane difficulty of the game. This is not nessecarily a bad thing as it does make the game 
 last longer and seeing as everyone is complaining about a games diffuculty these days better surely?
 
  
  There is a two player feature but this itself is very limited. Basically the second player can 
 pick up a Wii Remote and draw on the screen either to annoy or hint. Very basic and nothing special 
 so I'll move on.
  
  There are a few faults in this game the most annoying being the terrible voice acting (you may 
 even want to mute the TV at some points) . The other is that, whilst not nescesarily important for 
 this type of game, Zack and Wiki runs at a weak 30fps.
  
  Zack and wiki is an excellent point and click puzzle game which will provide plenty of challenge 
 and depth and dispite its small faults is a game every Wii owner should experience regardless of 
 gaming preference.
  
  Summary
  + Unique masterful in design
  + Extremely difficult
  + Beautiful cel-shaded animations
  - Voices rather annoying
  - 30fps is underwhelming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  
  Zack and Wiki is a puzzle game which uses the Wii remote. You guide Zack throughout 7 eye candied 
 levels with good music and sound. Your goal is to solve puzzles to advance the game and that all 
 works out real nice in the first 3 levels, but unfortunately the next 3 are very difficult to solve 
 and the last world is extremely difficult I wondered how in the world am I supposed to know to 
 do this next? It makes you do the weirdest thing to solve the puzzles you have to be extremely 
 creative in what you do or you have to die a thousand times that is if you don't give up. You will 
 die many cheap deaths, the point is if you screw up one tiny task you die or mess everything up 
 and complete the stage then you have to start back from the beginning. The game tries to help you 
 when you're completely stumped by letting you call the oracle rabbit but most of the time she leaves 
 you even more confused or does do jack to help. She is not helpful you're better off starting all 
 over from the beginning instead of calling for help. You will also lose points if you ask for her 
 advice and lots of it too!
  The only other thing that can be fixed is the controls, some of them are too sensitive or not enough 
 other than that nothing else is imperfect.
  Capcom's new game would have been so much enjoyable if it wasn't so damn difficult. Play it you 
 might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittenToes
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki.
  
  I finIshed this today, it took me about 22 hours to do.
  
  I enjoyed this a lot, its a great day when the WII finally decides to do a game in the genre it 
 is basically designed best for, a good old point and click!
  
  Basically you are a pirate boy with a mate whos a gold monkey who turns into a bell, and you are 
 looking for a dead pirates bones, which are encased in gold chests which you have to get to which 
 the basis for each level.
  
  Its a good game and i hope they make a sequel, the levels are so well constructed, bright , pretty 
 cartoony graphics, its a real head scratcher when you get into it.
  
  Gamespots review is correct in that it has got a weak storyline, and by about half way through 
 you start not really caring about whats going on in the story, although you keep goin cause the 
 puzzles just keep getting better the further you get.
  
  I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ALL POINT AND CLICK FANS AND PROBERLY ANYONE WHOS NOT. 
  ALL GAMES 
 HAVE FLAWS, BUT THIS REALLY IS A GOOD GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame that so many people will miss out on a very unique gaming experience like this on 
 Wii. The game has a great sense of humor, good graphics, art design, music, and good Wii controls, 
 but it's also a very challenging and engaging puzzle game. This game boils down to 2 things. The 
 puzzle designs and the great controls. The way that this game combines these things in the game 
 is great. Each puzzle is unique and fun to solve. The story is not too complex but it doesn't need 
 to be. I personally did not find the puzzles so frustrating or too easy but It's not going to make 
 you want to throw the Wii remote out the window. It sometimes forces you to "think outside the 
 box" and once you discover a solution it's very satisfying. The Wii controls add another depth 
 to the puzzles, without spoiling anything, the game uses the Wii controls in very inventive ways 
 through out the game. Sometimes it's obvious what do with the controller and sometimes it is not. 
 I have experienced in some places where the controls don't respond too well but it was never a 
 huge deal in the game. Overall, this is a unique game that is going to become a cult classic and 
 I recommend anyone a fan of puzzlers to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is one of those games you don't expect much from but end up getting a whole lot. 
 A wacky story line that does little to help the over all feeling of the game is thrown in there 
 to hold the game play together. All tho i could have enjoyed the game without the story i guess 
 they cant just put out a game without some wacky storyline or reason why everything is happening.
 
  
  The level design is completely awesome, very creative, fun to explore and see what you can find 
 and use to get the treasure. Some levels are retarded in the sense that there are certain things 
 you can do but are hard to figure out. You can buy tickets for clues but those are not always very 
 helpful. 
  
  The difficulty of the game is kind of dumb as well. As the game is open for you to figure out i 
 did not enjoy running around trying every possible thing there is to do until finally figuring 
 out what it is im supposed to do.
  
  Very sharp graphics and nice animations make this game fun to play and look at. There is some lag/ 
 frame-rate problems when there are multiple characters on the screen, which sucks because the parts 
 i experienced lag were parts that did not have a whole lot going on, i mean compared to other wii 
 games that hold a steady frame-rate with chaos on the screen.
  
  The controls were awesome, some slight problems with the point and move deal but these are very 
 slight and im most likely just an idiot. Very nice controls tho, no over use of the wii mote, everything 
 was just right.
  
  Over all this is a fun game if you really want to think and push your self in the puzzle solving 
 kind of way. Lack of replay value really hurts the decision between renting it and buying it. I 
 mean its a great game but after you complete it theres not much to do, once you know how to figure 
 out the puzzles there not as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeDeeDee-er
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure if I would enjoy this game. The characters seemed a little too childish for my likings, 
 and I'm a fan of adventure games like Legend of Zelda, platformers and side-scrollers like Mario 
 games, some shooters, you know, the games that get the most attention. Somebody at my school told 
 me that he had rented this game multiple times (I never rent) and thought it very fun, and made 
 you think a lot. I was unsure still, but I looked it up, and it was marked down from $50 to $30! 
 I bought the game immediately. Today, I started playing it, and it's nothing short of pure fun. 
 The puzzles are challenging, but definitely solvable. Unlike some games, where the incorporated 
 puzzles are so confusing that you feel stuck and get angry, if you fail the puzzle, you usually 
 laugh at what happens. Some times you'll get squished by a giant stone ball , sometimes goblins 
 will put you in a stew to eat you. No matter what, it's great fun. If you do get stuck and can't 
 find you're way out, you sacrifice a doll to the oracle lady, and she gives you a hint. 
  
  The characters are comical, making you smile every couple of minutes. Zack, Wiki, the rabbits are 
 all a pleasure to meet. This is an instant classic for the Wii, innovative and experimental, it 
 tries the capabilities of the Wiimote, and succeeds greatly. It's not the best Wii game, but it's 
 one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxybear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be just another crappy excuse to play a slew of minigames, but its not 
 at all. It has depth, for what it is, that is to say not that much but enough to keep you interested 
 and give you quite a few laughs! And the stages themselves are a mixture of oldschool point and 
 click detective work (think roger wilco) mixed with Wario Ware style action games when using items. 
 Meanwhile theres great production value with great music and beatiful graphics. If that doesn't 
 appeal to you I don't know why you own a Wii.
  
  And since I need a hundred words which I believe is unneccissary, let me just emphasize how entertaining 
 the characters are. I personally get a kcick out of how japanese they are. I don't think they changed 
 the voices...
  
  Also the game has good length in a variety of locations with a variety of puzzles, some of which 
 solvable multiple ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki: Quest for Barboras' Treasure is one of those games that looks like it should belong 
 to a seven year old. With it's cutesy visuals and squeaky voice acting, it gives a different impression. 
 But Zack and Wiki is one of the most diffucult and puzzling games on the Wii. 
  
  Zack and Wiki tells the story of Zack, a pretty useless pirate who has a taste for chocolate and 
 Wiki, his monkey/helicopter sidekick. They travel across Treasure Island completing stages and 
 trying to put the great Captain Barbaros back together. Zack's main aim is to get his hands on 
 the Legendary Ship.
  
  Firstly, one of the most noticable features of the game are the graphics. Zack and Wiki has great 
 graphics, they remind me of Zelda: Wind Waker. They are very detailed but fun and cool. Anyone 
 can enjoy the graphics used in the game.
  
  Secondly, the actual gameplay. Zack and Wiki uses just the Wii Remote to control, you point and 
 press A to move Zack and hold B and move the Wii Remote to move the camera. It's as simple as that. 
 You also use the Wii Remote to perform certain motions like cutting wood or lighting a torch.
 
  
  Another good point of the game is the lasting appeal, the game will take a while to complete fully 
 with all the items and an Unpuzzleable grade on every stage. The game is also quite challening 
 in points and is by no means easy. Stuff Brain Training, Zack and Wiki really makes you think.
 
  
  In conclusion, Zack and Wiki is one of the best games on Wii. A good plot, nice touches of comedy, 
 silky graphics and a good use of the Wii Remote. I beg you buy this game, we may get a sequel. 
 Well done Capcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Waaaay back in October, I was simply ecstatic to get my undeserving hands on a copy of Zack and 
 Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure for the Nintendo Wii. It had been on top of my 'must-play' title 
 for as long as I could remember, and ripping open the packaging and seeing the game disc devoured 
 by my Wii was probably the most exciting moment in my whole career as a gamer. From that moment 
 on, I was treated to moment after moment of magic, with each outdoing the last. I have to say, 
 there is no better way as of now to spend time with your Wii. Keep reading to find out why.
  
  Zack and Wiki is set up like one of the PC point-and-click adventures of old, with the Wii 
 remote replacing the mouse. The 'A' button moves Zack (the treasure-hungry pirate protagonist) 
 to your cursor, while the 'B' button controls your camera so you can view the area around Zack. 
 The setup works just as well as you'd think it would, akin to its PC predecessors, and uses the 
 Wii remote's technology to its full extent. Needless to say, it's also simple enough to master 
 in a matter of seconds, which is always a good thing.
  
  Since the controls are so super-easy to get a hang of, Capcom wastes no time getting players right 
 into the experience. Once you finish the tutorial, you are given access to a number of stages which 
 all flaunt Zack and Wiki's excellent level design. While the beginning puzzles are, admittedly, 
 tamer than those you encounter later on, you will still find yourself smiling or even chuckling 
 once you figure out the more rewarding puzzles. Quite often whole levels can be based off one deceivingly 
 simple objective, for example; you may find a treasure chest encased in ice in the centre of the 
 level. Examine it to find that you can punch it, although breaking it in this manner will require 
 about ten thousand punches. You don't have the time for that, do you? So to save yourself from 
 a broken hand, you turn a savage boar into a hammer and try using that on the ice. Unfortunately, 
 this is only ten times better than throwing punches, and attempting to break it with hammer alone 
 will likely result in carpal tunnel syndrome. You then notice a mole popping out of holes at random...
 
  
  Many levels of Zack and Wiki progress in this fashion, where one thing leads to another, and another, 
 and another... eventually solving one large puzzle and rewarding the player with treasure. Each 
 of these puzzle-dungeons both encourage the player to think in new ways and find creative new uses 
 for the Wii remote. Using Wii gestures to solve puzzles is much less of a gimmick than one may 
 think; it actually adds new levels depth to the puzzles which would have been impossible with any 
 other hardware. If you ever find yourself stuck on a puzzle, you can often find examining the item 
 you need to use will show a hidden use for it which can be activated with a gesture from the remote. 
 These instances are quite refreshing, and it's absolutely great to see a third party developer 
 manipulate the Wiimote almost with the same quality of Nintendo-developed games.
  
  Wrapping up each world is a huge boss fight, which takes a great deal of thinking if you want to 
 emerge victorious. My favorite thus far would have to be the World 2 boss, a colossal ice monster 
 who must be defeated by lining up mirrors so you can smack him in the face with sunlight. It's 
 the boss fights like these which make Zack and Wiki feel not entirely like a point-and-click adventure 
 of old, but also with elements of console action-adventures such as Zelda - a great feeling, to 
 be sure.
  
  From start to finish, Zack and Wiki is quite a bit tougher than the presentation would have one 
 suspect. However, to ease the pain for those less familiar with point-and-clicks, Zack and Wiki 
 offers some interesting hint and scoring mechanics. As long as you have Oracle Dolls in stock, 
 you can call up the Hint Oracle at any time to get advice on the next step to take, or recall old 
 information you may find you need again. 
  
  But no good thing can come without its consequences, and the same is true with Zack and Wiki. Every 
 time you buy an Oracle doll, the price will go up and up until you will find yourself replaying 
 levels just for extra cash. As if that wasn't enough, every hint you use lowers your score (measured 
 in HirameQs, your imaginative power) , providing more incentive to replay levels. The developers 
 have found great ways to make sure while their game is challenging, gamers should be encouraged 
 to figure things out for themselves.
  
  When you consider the graphics, it's really hard - even for long-time skeptics - to criticize the 
 Wii's processing power. Capcom accomplishes this not by making the game look technically outstanding, 
 but instead, by giving it a vibrant, colorful look which will probably remind most people of The 
 Wind Waker. Characters and enemies look gorgeous, and the varied locales (jungle ruins, volcanoes, 
 haunted houses) are all done equally well. It's evident early on that a lot of work has gone into 
 the art direction, and it shines all the way through to the endgame.
  
  I wish I could have the same glowing praise for the sound, but sadly, the game's original scores 
 and "voice-work" are mediocre at best. Part of this comes from the fact that there really isn't 
 much music to talk about; the dev team seemingly took the easy way out, adding a couple sound effects 
 that match the stage's location. It's quite a shame, really, because the game does have some brilliant 
 songs. But for every great song in the game, there are five that flop. The voice acting is also 
 nothing to get excited about; all characters have Zelda-like voice snippets, although they're done 
 in full Japanese and absolutely dripping with cuteness. 
  
  Despite any criticisms one may have for Zack and Wiki, disliking the game is not an easy thing 
 to do. The game will captivate you from the very beginning, and not let you go until you see the 
 credits scroll. All Wii owners, especially those feeling the lack of quality games for the console, 
 should look into Zack and Wiki; I can almost guarantee you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaycromer12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Zack & Wiki is the first classic adventure game on a console in a very, very long time. Apparently 
 these are making a come back, I'm thinking of Sam & Max on the pc (hopefully the Wii soon) . However, 
 this isn't quite like Monkey Island or Maniac Mansion, this game is adventure crossed with a puzzle 
 game. Each level is a single large scale puzzle that must be solved to retrieve the final treasure. 
 You'll use the Wii-mote in numerous inventive ways to solve each step of the puzzle. Gestures all 
 have to be figured out by the player, how to grip the wii-mote is given, but how to move it is 
 left up to you. A little practice and trial-and-error and you'll have it down. 
  
  The game is a ton of fun, solving the puzzles makes you use your head and it isn't always apparent 
 what you should be doing. However, once you've finished a level it leaves you with a great sense 
 of satisfaction. This is not to say that the game is flawless. The point and click interface occasion 
 makes movement a little annoying, as the cursor sometimes glitched out while playing (a quick wave 
 of the wii-mote fixed it each time) . Also, some of the gestures are difficult to register correctly. 
 You'll twist the remote the way the game seems to want, and it doesn't quite get picked up by the 
 system. These problems are only minor and rarely reach frustrating levels (unless you're stuck 
 in the level and are already frustrated with your lack of ability as I was on occasion) .
  
  Zack and Wiki is a great Wii exclusive and deserves to be in everyone's collection. Anybody who 
 can enjoy a game that requires brains rather than twitch skill should pick it up without a doubt. 
 If you're an FPS-junkie give it a rent first to try it out. Never hurts to expand your gaming horizons 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitsunitemare
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki isn't a game for everybody. If you're wondering whether or not to buy it, rent it 
 or play a friend's copy. If you want it, go buy it! In my opinion, Zack and Wiki is one of the 
 best games for the wii that nobody buys. Third party developers should be supported in their endeavors 
 for the wii.
  
  On to the review. It's not too kiddy, despite what others may say. The graphics are cute, and i 
 chuckle continuously throughout the game. The point and click control scheme can be frustratingly 
 slow to some, and extremely intuitive to others. The motion controls are slick and well integrated 
 into the game. Gamestop does mislead a bit by labeling this game as an adventure. Although the 
 storyline is an "adventure" the actual gameplay is very puzzle oriented. That being said, if you 
 like a good challenging puzzle, this is the game for you. However, if you're easily frustrated, 
 don't enjoy puzzles, or give up easily when you're frustrated, you won't be playing this game too 
 much. I found myself to be thoroughly irritated at some points, but feeling genuinely satisfied 
 when I solved a difficult level. The replay value is debatable. Once you beat a level, you've beaten 
 it, though you can go back and replay for a higher score. However, if you complete the level the 
 correct way, you achieve the highest score. So, there is a limit to replay ability.
  
  If you like puzzle games and don't mind being frustrated every now and then, buy this game.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I finally decided I better play the Wii Forums 'game to mention' when the 'Where are the good games 
 for Wii?' is mentioned. In short I wasn't overly impressed but can see why some people will love 
 it.
  
  While I thought the name and cartoony box art was getting in the way of this 'gem' I was unpleasantly 
 surprised that if you can't take the box art or the name the graphics and story won't help the 
 situation as you play through the game. From annoying animations that are repeated far too often 
 to a rabbit with snot hanging out of their nose, the graphics style sits in line with the light, 
 comic strip, appeal. 
  
  While there were so many grating animations and graphics, there were also the gems of crashing 
 a plane into a door or slowing watching the trap unfold until you are crushed, but as the point 
 of the game is to NOT die, it was unfortunate that so much of its charm existed where you weren't 
 suppose to be. Second, while you watch the whole thing unfold, why couldn't I step out of the way?!
 
  
  Graphics aside, the introduction of the Wii remote controls added a bit to the immersion of the 
 gameplay. But again, when something doesn't behave the way you expect you will wish for a controller 
 and buttons instead. Things that worked well were pouring and sawing among a few others, but levers 
 were annoying more than they should have been. All in all as much immersion as was gained was lost. 
 Point and click zooming and such did help with puzzles though.
  
  The story is weak, extremely weak. And just makes you feel like an idiot having to play it out 
 even though you can see it all coming right at you, as early as after the intro tutorial level. 
 This coupled with the animations only solidify the feeling that you are controlling Zack rather 
 than you 'ARE' Zack, finishing all hopes of wishing for the immersion feel the controls tried so 
 hard to provide. With gameplay of maybe 10-15 hours, quicker for some that are really good at puzzles, 
 it gets over pretty quick. Which might be a good thing so you don't have to watch the same animations 
 over and over for 20+ hours.
  
  To be fair, once you do figure out the puzzles though you will feel that nice sense of accomplishment 
 that comes with point click puzzle games. For those of ultimate classic games, if you liked Kings 
 Quest, you should get this immediately. A few features are added that has a method of providing 
 help without having to consult online references or play the whole level again up to that point 
 which is a nice addition.
  
  A few other complaints I have though are: 
  1) As I worked on solving the puzzles I just couldn't control everything the way I thought I should 
 be able to.
  2) You could make a mistake early on, which doesn't cause death. Thus you sit around puzzling trying 
 to think of what to do next. Only to find you messed up a while ago and have to start over. With 
 how much emphasis they put on when you die, you better die 'cool' I wish they would have extended 
 that a bit so when you make a grave mistake you always died. 
  
  It IS worth a rent though. The use of the Wiimote does show what more can be done in addition to 
 that witnessed in Wii Sports and control and responsiveness should only get better. Most people 
 will be able to complete this game in a weekend, chances are only higher for a 5 day rental. There 
 are additional things to unlock and gather for those that like the original pass through the story 
 line. Which leads me to believe this is THE perfect candidate for a rent. You will get everything 
 you want out of it in 5 days, or you will love it so much that you can't do without it in your 
 collection. Either way, you should get around to playing it sometime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Although the Nintendo Wii is an undeniable success most hardcore gamers feel like Nintendo has 
 turned it's back on them, other than Nintendo's first party titles the Wii game catalog consists 
 mainly of party games, disturbing fish petting simulator and PS2 ports with tacked on motion controls, 
 so its nice to see third party publishers working on something different for the Wii, something 
 that even the hardcore market could enjoy.
  One of the most promising third party titles is Zack and Wiki, a adventure puzzle game from Capcom. 
 I got my hands on this game yesterday and although I've only played it for around two hours I am 
 impressed and to a large extent, relieved.
  As I said I haven't played the game for too long, and much of this playtime was getting acquainted 
 with the game mechanics, how the game utilizes the Wii controls and getting stuck on one of the 
 puzzles.
  The premise is simple and from the short section that I played the story takes a back seat to the 
 gameplay. You take control of Zack and to some extent Wiki, the newest addition to 'The Sea Rabbits', 
 a lovable group of pirates. After being attacked by the Rose Rock pirates you crash land on an 
 Island where, after a short introductory puzzle, you find the trapped remains of Barbaros, a legendary 
 pirate.
  Barbaros explains that his remains have been scattered and offers his mythical ship in exchange 
 for Zack's help in putting him back together.
  The game puts the Zack into a level and then leaves the player to utilize the contents of the level 
 to solve the puzzles and get the treasure, this is where Wiki comes into use, although the game 
 does have enemies they are mainly used to solve the puzzles, Wiki is able to change into a bell 
 and turn enemies into tools which Zack can use, for example, shaking the Wiki bell while near a 
 frog turns the frog into a frog bomb, using the bell on a centipede transforms the angry bug into 
 a centisaw which can then be used to cut down trees.
  Zack and Wiki is one of the few games that uses the Wii remote creatively and accurately, at various 
 points in the game the player is required to use the motion controls to complete the tasks, the 
 game asks the player to think of the Wii remote as a physical representation of the item Zack is 
 interacting with on the screen and handle it as they would in real life, the on screen assistant 
 pops up regularly to show the player what to do, for example when using a crank the Wii remote 
 should be held horizontally with both hands, then, the player should move the controller in a circular 
 motion just like a real crank, when inserting a key into a lock the controller represents the key 
 and is to be rotated as a key would be, much of the motion controls have appeared in other Wii 
 games such as Metroid, Wii play and Wii Sports but the fact that the controls are built into a 
 fully fleshed out game as opposed to a mini-game collection makes it far more satisfying. Although 
 the controls are fun to use there are some aspects that take a little getting used to, the game 
 uses a point click interface to move Zack, clicking on any accessible area of land will make Zack 
 move there but I found myself simply holding the A button then moving the Wiimote to guide Zack, 
 similar to the way Link is controlled in The Phantom Hourglass, in this case the Wiimote acts as 
 the stylus, I won't lie though, at times I found myself wishing I could just plug in the nunchuk 
 and move him around with the analogue stick.
  As well as the intuitive and creative controls the games visuals are very pleasing to the eyes, 
 it is done in a very anime style which is appropriate since many of the characters seem as if they 
 are taken straight from an anime , this is especially true of Wiki, the solid colors create a very 
 vibrant world that is a joy look at.
  Zack and Wiki are great characters but they I don't expect them to gain the popularity of other 
 duos such as Rachet and Clank or Jak and Daxter, nevertheless they are extremely entertaining to 
 watch, even though they do the same little poses and the animations are repeated they are still 
 fun to watch, much like Link in Zelda.
  Although they are great characters Wiki can become extremely annoying after a while especially 
 when you are stuck on a puzzle, the characters don't actually speak instead they make noises to 
 represent speech and convey emotions similar to another great Capcom game, Okami. Wiki seems to 
 have been voiced by a Japanese girl, the flying monkey regularly bursts into squealing fits, for 
 the most part this is cute and endearing but when the same high pitched noises are strung together 
 in succession it can become a bit annoying.
  This game has let me breath a sigh of relief, for a while there I was starting to resign myself 
 to the fact that the only good games for the Wii would be the established Nintendo games and a 
 few rehashed third party games in between but this game has given me hope in third party development 
 for the Wii, all it takes is some care, consideration and creativity, the three C's for the Wii.
 
  So far I am having a blast with the game, the puzzles are starting to become more difficult but 
 I'm looking forward to delving in deeper into this quirky and creative game, thank you Capcom. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  With genius puzzles, great graphics, awesome controls and such an original story, Zack & Wiki is 
 one of the best games out there right now. For those who think that Zack & Wiki is just a "Click 
 here and see what happens" kind of game, then you're wrong. In addition to clicking things, you 
 can also move Zack around and combine objects. The games puzzles start off easy, but eventually 
 take real brain power to beat. The boss fights are fun, because they're more than just your standard 
 "Run up and whack" fight, they too involve some crazy puzzle solving. Everything about Zack & Wiki 
 is original, and it's all done right.
  
  I expected Zack & Wiki to be a fun game, but I expected it to be nothing special. I was wrong on 
 so many levels. The story starts out with Zack and his pals Wiki and Johnny Style flying in an 
 attempt to find treasure, when they're attacked by Captain Rose (The evil pirate captain) and land 
 on an island. After finding the skull of Captain Barbaros, he tells them that they can have his 
 ship if they find his body parts. Some might find it to be quite a lame story, but I personally 
 think that it's original. There's a lot of humor throughout the game. Zack enjoys chocolate, which 
 is rather funny. Wiki has a strange personality. That is funny as well. Standing around too long 
 without doing anything will make Zack start chewing on a chocolate bar. Don't tell me that you 
 don't think that's funny.
  
  The gmae has some small flaws, like some graphical slowdown. Zack sometimes doesn't go where you 
 want. But overall, everything runs smoothly. The load times are short, the frame rate is great, 
 and everything just works so well. The characters are very cute and creative, and the style is 
 a lot like Wind Waker. It's a lot like Phantom Hourglass, due to the fact that Zack follows your 
 Wii Remote and the style is so similar. At some point, you'll find a sword and engage in combat, 
 and this is fun, even though the sword fights are rather short and easy.
  
  It's actually really hard to find flaws in Zack & Wiki because everything works so perfectly. It 
 breaks my heart to see a bad review for this game. 
  
  Even if you're not into japanese games, you'll still really enjoy Zack & Wiki. If you feel that 
 the game is too hard, then you can use a guide. even with a guide, it's still a lot of fun to solve 
 puzzles. You can do just about everything that you can do in other games: Fly, shoot, fight, solve 
 puzzles, swim, climb and a lot more. I'm trying to avoid spoiling too much of the game for you. 
 
  
  Most of the levels are small, but there's so much in them that they can take a while to complete. 
 The level design is so great that it's fun to just wander around. You can find treasures and such 
 throughout the levels by ringing Wiki like a bell. This gives the game replay value. I haven't 
 beaten the final boss yet, (It's hard) but getting there took me about 2 - 3 days. The game is 
 frusturating at times, sure, but even so, it's one of the best games ever. 
  
  Pros: Great graphics. Everything runs smoothly. The controls are heavenly. Characters are cute 
 and original. I personally like the story. Great boss fights. The puzzles beat Zelda by a long 
 shot. Sword fighting is brief, but fun. Good length. Excellent level design. Great soundtrack.
 
  
  Cons: Frusturating sometimes. Zack sometimes doesn't go where you want him too. Characters make 
 annoying japanese noises.
  
  Zack & Wiki is a must have for Wii owners. If you don't own a Wii, then Zack & Wiki is a great 
 reason to get one. You can't go wrong getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Zack and Wiki is easily one of the greatest games not only on Wii, but for all consoles. Zack and 
 Wiki offers a unique and varied gameplay with good use of the Wiimote sensing and IR controls. 
 It offers up a challenge and the puzzles are smart, add all that with loveable characters and amazing 
 art styIe and you have a recipe for one hell of a great game!
  
  Zack and Wiki follows the adventures of the young pirate Zack and his golden flying monkey of a 
 companion Wiki. They find the living skull of the pirate Barbaro. Barbaro offers his boat if Zack 
 and Wiki find his remaining body parts and put him back together. So of course they guys couldn't 
 resist and offer like that so they instantly go off to find the other body parts in lands near 
 and far. The story isn't all the deep, but it ties the game together and it has some very good 
 moments to it's credit.
  
  The game is separated into themed worlds with a variety of different levels in each world. Each 
 level is one big puzzle you must navigate, explore, and figure out what to do next, in what order 
 to do stuff, and just where the heck does this go? O. o All the puzzles are amazing and will need 
 you to wrap your brain around it to get the puzzle. It's good that we finally have a game that 
 offers up some challenge in today's age of easy then crap games. 
  
  To explore the levels you move Zack and Wiki to different objects in the level. Once you get to 
 an object the camera will go to a close up view of the object and you can manipulate the object 
 in various ways. There are hundreds of ways to interact with the objects which is where Zack and 
 Wiki really shines. All the puzzles are set up beautifully and it's very fun and satisfying to 
 figure out how to use that item; where that went; what to do next. It all blends perfectly into 
 the environments and it's all just incredibly smooth and well thought out you will never get bored 
 of the puzzles, they are some of the best puzzles you're going to find in any game for a while. 
 
  
  To control Zack and Wiki you use a point and click styIe of gameplay. Zack and Wiki makes use of 
 only the Wiimote and they do a great job of it. You point at any something on the screen and Zack 
 will follow you there. To some this type of gameplay sounds a bit boring, but it actually works 
 quite well and fits the flow of the game. You use the Wiimote motion sensing capabilities to interact 
 with objects, which is done near flawlessly for the most part. In fact Zack and Wiki is one of 
 the few games on Wii that makes use of the Wiimote motion sensing and it doesn't feel like some 
 gimmick. The motion sensing controls feel good to use and help immerse you into the game. Besides 
 Zack you can use Wiki as a bell to turn enemies into objects by shaking the Wiimote. Using Wiki 
 to make new items out of enemies is a key part of the game and you would think having to ring a 
 loud bell all the time would get annoying after a while; but that is where you are wrong, strangely 
 enough ringing the bell to make items, defeat enemies, etc. never gets old and will become one 
 of your favorite things about the game. :lol:
  
  Another of the best parts of Zack and Wiki is the amazing art styIe and environments. Zack and 
 Wiki supports a Wind Waker like cell shaded styIe to it. This is done to such an awesome way and 
 too so much detail it's easily one of Wii's best looking games to date. Zack and Wiki isn't a polygon 
 pusher, but awesome styIe and the amazingly executed detail makes up for that ten fold. 
  
  And of course we can't skip the sound. Zack and Wiki has some good music and the sound effects 
 go along with the rest of the game quite nicely. Some people might not like the very Japanese voices 
 for Zack and the rest of the crew though. There are also musical minigames that you follow the 
 on screen indicators with the Wiimote. When you play these games you get some of the classic Capcom 
 music to listen which is pretty cool if you ask me. 
  
  Before I rap this up I do want to say Zack and Wiki isn't perfect and has some flaws that might 
 annoy some people. For one thing the later levels, especially the second to last, can get very 
 hard to figure out and might frustrate some. Also when you die in a level you must restart the 
 entire level all over again. This might seem like a big pain, but you know how to get to where 
 you were so it's not that bad. And you can also buy cards that allow you to revive from the last 
 safe area you were in. And the only other problem is it takes a bit to figure out how some of the 
 motion controls work. The music minigame for example takes a bit to get it down right, and some 
 other objects you interact with the way you control them takes some trial and error to figure out 
 how to use them. But none of these minor problems will be enough to deter you from finishing the 
 game and enjoying every part of it.
  
  Overall Zack and Wiki is an amazing game. It has great art styIe and music. The puzzles offer a 
 great challenge and are executed perfectly. The characters are very well played and have their 
 own unique personalities. And of course the game is only $40 so this is one of the best values 
 you can get on Wii. This is the best original 3rd party game to come out for Wii not to mention 
 one of the greatest and fun games on Wii. This is a must own game for any Wii owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Zack & Wiki I started picturing the great adventure games of my youth. 
 Games like King's Quest, Space Quest, Leisure Suit Larry, and Gabriel Knight. But to my sorrow 
 this was not the case with Z&W. 
  
  From the very start I felt the plot was weak and the characters were rather annoying. For an adventure 
 game that's a big no no. As I continued to play through the levels it became very obvious that 
 the plot wouldn't get much better (only slightly) and it was predictable to boot. It was like to 
 bad Japanese anime for kids.
  
  So you might be asking yourself why I gave the game a score of 8. Well, while Z&K fail at the elements 
 of an adventure game it does a brilliant job of being a puzzle game. once I accepted that I wouldn't 
 be getting what I had envisioned I was able to enjoy it for what it turned out to be, a puzzle 
 game that uses the wiimote well and has very interesting, well designed and amusing stages. It's 
 also the first puzzle game that has used the wii in all these different ways. 
  
  An interesting thing i noticed was that it seemed like it look many of the motions that were used 
 in warioware but applied them in the context of something larger, which is a great step in the 
 right direction. Now if they could only wrap this in a story with most depth we'd have a much more 
 immersive experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Like many others I thought this game was targeted to a fairly young audience. But don't let the 
 'E' rating and cartoon-like graphics on the box cover fool you. The puzzles are great fun and the 
 in-game graphics are surprisingly pleasant and well done. Nice use of the Wii controller. When 
 it comes right down to it Zack & Wiki is one of the best games for the Wii and one of the best 
 games on any platform for 2007. Lots of game time value for the dollar tool .. not because of game 
 grind .. simply lots of puzzles to solve. This game is enjoyable taken in 20 minute bites or several 
 hours of get lost in the game time. Enough of a story to drive the game without causing distraction 
 from the level design work. Absolutely recommended for ages 6-40 if they like problem solving puzzles 
 at all.
  
  .. from a mid-30s gamer .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  People complain and complain about how the Wii has crappy third party support, then when a game 
 like Zack and Wiki comes out, it's practically ignored. You even have a site like IGN who is supposed 
 to remain unbiased start a campaign literally telling their readers to buy the game. This isn't 
 as much a review as it is a rant. 
  
  I read these forums and constantly I'm disturbed by the ignorance. It's all "BOOHOO THE WII SUCKS 
 WHY DON'T I HAVE ANY GOOD THIRD PARTY GAMES" then when something good does come out no one pays 
 any attention and keeps whining about their false crap. Its either that or they'll take one look 
 at the game and deem it kiddy. 
  
  WHO CARES if it has a cartoony look, as I write this review I'm watching cartoons and I'm 19 friggen 
 years old. Do I care I'm watching a show thats for 10 year olds? No. It's entertaining so what? 
 And thats what Zack and Wiki is, it's entertaining.
  
  You have lovable characters in a pretty funny game. While playing Zack and Wiki I'm constantly 
 entertained and I'm never bored. Theres such a oldschool feel to the game's point and click mechanics 
 that any older gamer should feel right at home.
  
  Also people cry about garbage Wii controls, well garbage controls has nothing to do with Zack and 
 Wiki. The controls are intuitive and just work for all the puzzles.
  
  And speaking of the puzzles, they're challenging. This is no kids puzzle game, Zack and Wiki will 
 make you think and think hard. 
  
  SHAME ON YOU ALL, SHAME ON YOU! WHY DIDN'T YOU BUY THIS GAME!? IT EVEN IS AT A DISCOUNT PRICE! 
 STOP POSTING YOUR CRYBABY POSTS ON SYSTEM WARS AND BUY A GAME THAT IS WORTH EVERYONE'S ATTENTION! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game caught me by surprise. Looking at the box and the title I was afraid this game may be 
 too "kiddish". Boy, was I wrong! This game is great!! I can't put it down.
  
  The story is pretty decent having Zack & Wiki go from location to location grabbing treasures. 
 However, as simplistic this sounds, it is far from it. Each location or level, is a puzzle. Almost 
 everything has a purpose and an order in which to use it.
  
  I must say, I am usually great at these games, however there have been some levels leaving me scratching 
 my head and jumping on the computer to Gamespot for some help.
  
  MY +++
  
  Decent story.
  Great puzzle and challenges.
  Fun characters.
  Neat and fun sound effects 
 (from the characters) !
  Great how some levels change - they are never the same.
  Boss levels add a nice challenging edge.
  Great use of Wii remote to keep you in the action.
 
  
  MY - - - 
  
  As per Zelda Twilight Princess, there is just not enough time in the day to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful artistic graphics and soundtrack  Great puzzle design  Lovable characters 
  Superb use of the Wiimote  Fun for the whole family 
  ________________
  
  The Bad: Weak story 
  ________________
  
  
  Zack & Wiki is one of those games that doesn't 
 look so good in paper, and really what can be good about a pirate kid with a flying monkey that 
 turns into a bell as a partner? It sounds like a Cartoon Network show. But its so much more than 
 that, a surprisingly good adventure game, but by adventure i dont mean adventure like Ratchet & 
 Clank, Banjo or Mario, its a point and click adventure, and a good one at that.
  
  In the game you'll take control of Zack and Wiki (duh) a duo of pirates working for the sea rabbits 
 (which is some kind of pirate team) . One day Zack & Wiki are on a expedition and get attacked by 
 the Rose Rock rival pirate team, Zack and his partner land on an island, where they find a chest 
 that contains the skull of the legendary pirate Barbaros. He'll ask you to find all his body parts 
 and in return he'll grant you a wish, and so this incredible adventure begins. It's not the most 
 original story, nor is interesting at all, so thats one point where the game fails. But Zack & 
 Wiki are a great duo, they're not too cute for their own good like it happens in Dewy's Adventure, 
 but they're cute enough to be lovable, in addition Johnny Style (the pilot) is a really funny character 
 that will make you laugh more than once in the adventure. 
  
  During the game you'll find yourself in a set of different stages, from a volcano to an ice palace, 
 each has two different areas in the beginning, but after you beat those you'll unlock two or three 
 more and after they're finished a boss fight (if you can call it that) will be unlocked. Each area 
 is relatively small, and short, but the puzzles are so well done that it'll take you more than 
 half hour sometimes to beat it. For this one you'll only use the wii remote and just point to where 
 you want Zack to move and press the A button so he goes where you want him to go. 
  
  Interaction with the objects and enemies is crucial in this game. There are many things to do to 
 solve each puzzle, and each uses the motion controls in a unique way; to pull levers, place items 
 where they're supposed to be and such. But you dont get the items right from the start, to get 
 these items you'll use Wiki and shake the wiimote so he can turn into a bell and itemize your enemies, 
 centipedes become saws, bats become umbrellas and spiders become rackets. Good news is the motion 
 controls work great, almost flawless. In addition three other people can help you out in the game, 
 the first player controls Zack and the rest highlight items that could be useful, its not great, 
 but it does what its meant to do well.
  
  During the first play-through it could take about twenty hours, but there's a lot of replay value 
 because you always want to get a better score in each level, in addition you can also buy tokens 
 to get hints and extra lives that are very useful because they'll respawn you in the point before 
 you where killed, these are very useful, not only because you can get stuck a lot but also because 
 if it wasnt for that you'll be restarting quite often. 
  
  The graphics are beautiful, they're are cartoony and colourful, but that doesnt mean the animations 
 are not great, its quite the oppossite, plus there are also some great looking lighting effects. 
 And the music is not less good, the soundtrack is gorgeous and fits each stage very well. 
  
  All in all Zack & Wiki represents the best third party effort on the wii so far, it has beautiful 
 graphics, superb gameplay and its challenging, a must have for any wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Zack & Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' Treasure is one of Wii's latest titles, and if you happen to be 
 a fan of those old school point-and-click adventures like Myst and Monkey Island, this could be 
 right up your alley. The question though, is it?
  
  Zack & Wiki are two extremely distinct characters. On one hand, Zack is a young pirate with one 
 weird ass hairdo, aspiring to be the best in the world in his profession. Then you have Wiki, a 
 gold-colored monkey with a propeller for a tail, and the ability to turn into a magical bell. Making 
 matters more interesting, Zack has an insatiable addiction to chocolate bars, and Wiki, who is 
 a male, has the voice of a nasally Japanese girl often seen in anime, creepy! The main goal of 
 this adventure is to rebuild the body of the cursed pirate Barbaros, who promises you legendary 
 treasure and his one-of-a-kind ship. In order to accomplish this, you must complete several well-thought-out 
 puzzles.
  
  Before offering my opinion on the puzzles though, I'd like to touch upon the visual presentation. 
 While there are some aspects of the game, especially the fire section, that didn't exactly impress 
 me, most of everything else is quite vivid. Z&W actually takes on a style akin to Wind Waker, and 
 while my eyes have seen aspects that seem less polished overall, the game definitely takes the 
 cel-shaded technique a bit further. The characters are designed and animate fairly well, the environments 
 (aside from the fire) look very convincing, and the effects are pretty ok. The textures could've 
 use a little work in some instances, especially in the stone tiling, but the game's atmosphere 
 is pretty spot-on, especially in the castle stages. My favorite is the ancient frozen tundra, which 
 looks hands-down gorgeous.
  
  The audio is easily the game's biggest downfall, and keep in mind this is simply how I feel, because 
 I know other sources will tell you otherwise. Despite having a couple words or phrases that are 
 just barely classifiable as spoken, there is no VO in the game whatsoever, and this kills the liveliness 
 of the game. Zack and Wiki come up as rather static and flat characters, mainly because Capcom 
 definitely focused on the puzzle mechanics more so than the personality development. I actually 
 understand that to a degree, but it doesn't help Z&W avoid coming off as a little dead, at least 
 in that department. The music helps to save it, with some catchy tunes courtesy of the ice area 
 and boss stages. Elsewhere, it's pretty forgettable because of how much you're focused on thinking 
 of how to complete that next leg of the puzzle. The effects serve their purpose, whether that be 
 Wiki's bell ringing, the overly repetitive "You picked up an item!" audio byte and all the characters 
 grunts, groans and whatever else may utter from them.
  
  Ok, now for the part that everyone probably wonders about regarding Zack &Wiki, the gameplay and 
 puzzle aspects. Well, if you came here looking for overall praise, you're in luck. It's unfortunate 
 that in some cases, what you do with the Wii remote to translate on screen action just doesn't 
 cooperate. I actually found myself seriously frustrated with a couple things, but thankfully it's 
 too rare of an occurrence to bash the game for. Capcom really did their homework on what to do 
 for an original concept on Wii. Neither role characters are controlled directly, as point-and-click 
 means something. All you do is point and press A to command Zack wherever you'd like him to move 
 to. It's cool too, because since you can expand your view of the area by holding the B trigger 
 and pointing around, you can potentially send Zack from one end to the other with one click. Granted 
 you do have to wait for the little bugger to humorously shuffle to your intended destination, it 
 saves you having to constantly apply new directives. Sometimes where you click doesn't make Zack 
 budge, but again, it's a trivial complaint.
  
  The puzzles are truly genius and I really give props to Capcom for how they went about difficulty 
 balance. Instead of there being a static easy to mind-bending range of puzzle difficulty and complexity, 
 it's actually unique to every area. Basically what that means is when you start off in the forest, 
 complete the first couple no-brainers and outwit the boss, you run into a similar setup the next 
 time. That doesn't mean every introductory stage is easy though, far from it, but they also don't 
 force you to think outside the box as much as you might think. I would provide some examples, but 
 I think it would prove more fulfilling if you experienced them yourself.
  
  Wiki is integral to solving the game's brain busters. Shaking the remote turns shifts him into 
 bell form, which allows you to transform enemies [that don't end your progress] and random animals 
 into extremely useful items, such as totems, bombs, and saws. While the item variety isn't there 
 [which results in feeling some repetition] , how you have to use them when going toe-to-toe with 
 the puzzles is usually entertaining. Often the results are funny enough to warrant a chuckle or 
 two. Don't think you're restricted to go solo during Zack and Wiki's adventure though. Even if 
 you don't have a second player with you drawing useful notifications on screen [or wasting your 
 time] , Capcom actually insists that you work with someone to push through the puzzles together. 
 It's obviously pseudo-multiplayer, but more rewarding than you may realize.
  
  Really folks, if you sorely miss the point-and-click adventure genre and would like to finally 
 play something that offers light-hearted humor (just wait until you meet Johnny Style) and incredibly 
 intuitive Wii remote gameplay and puzzle elements, you should mark an X for Zack & Wiki: Quest 
 for Barbaros' Treasure on your holiday list in the very least. While it's obvious that I wasn't 
 as personally enthralled by the game as some others in the media have been, I certainly don't think 
 the game isn't investment-worthy. While Zack and Wiki's quest may hover in the realm of 15 to 20 
 hours of core time, there's quite a bit that you could achieve on the side in the light of unlockables. 
 Therefore, if what you've read here strikes your fancy, by all means give Capcom's first original 
 Wii IP a look. You may surprise yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Zack and Wiki, I was skeptical. The idea of a point and click adventure game on 
 the Wii? Sounds gimmicky, very gimmicky. But this game gives more reason to trust Capcom, Zack 
 and Wiki is a clever, difficult, immersive, innovative, and overall, great game. It really shows 
 what kind of games can be done on the Wii, and that there are some great third party games on the 
 platform.
  
  The most interesting aspect of Zack and Wiki in my opinion are the controls, you move the remote 
 around and press A to tell Zack where to go, its weird at first, but once you get used to it, its 
 a great control scheme, give and take some frustrating parts where you have to climb up a platform 
 or move really fast and if you misclick the staircase by an inch or so, he won't walk up it. You 
 use the remote in many interesting ways, ala Wario Ware Smooth Moves. There are tons of ways that 
 you will have to turn and twist and hold the remote, to pick up objects, put keys into doors, plant 
 bombs, obtain out of reach objects, etc.
  
  The gameplay doesn't exactly have you fighting enemies, you use your mind rather than your weapons. 
 Wiki, Zacks weird monkey sidekick, is a bell and will transform enemies into different objects 
 with a shake of the remote, like an umbrella, bomb, saw, totem, hammer, etc. Basically the objects 
 you will need to solve the games puzzles.
  
  Thats the main object of Zack and Wiki, basically Zack is an aspiring pirate with a monkey sidekick 
 named Wiki, when he finds a treasure chest after his plane gets blown up by his enemies crew and 
 he lands on an island. Zack and Wiki discover the head of Barbaros, a legendary pirate, he tells 
 them to find all of his body parts so he can get rid of his curse, and he will give Zack his legendary 
 ship.
  
  The whole game works around solving puzzles, the game starts out easy, but soon you'll find yourself 
 scratching your head and trying to figure out what to do. Its extremely satisfying when you finally 
 solve the really difficult puzzles, but the game has a good steady increase in difficulty, and 
 before every level you enter, it tells you how difficult it is, with the number of stars it has 
 under the name.
  
  The graphics and music in Zack and Wiki are both fantastic, the games music is extremely immersive 
 and every level has a fitting theme. The graphics are great, it really pulls off the great artstyle 
 that the game is going for. There is no voice acting persay, but each character has his/her weird 
 sound effects when they talk, it isn't great, but it isn't bad either.
  
  The game has good replay value, you can go back through stages and try to get a higher score, or 
 beat it faster, or try to find the secret treasure in the level. You won't find yourself bored 
 fast, theres tons of stuff to do in the game.
  
  Zack and Wiki is a great game that really shows the kind of quirky, innovative games that can be 
 done on the Wii. It doesn't abuse the remote, the graphics are great, the music is great, the gameplay 
 is difficult but extremely satisfying and tons of fun. And even if you aren't into puzzle games, 
 like me, give this one a try, because it is a great game, and its really worth a look, for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaknight36
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  zack and wiki is a game that alot of people probably look at and say oh this is a baby game they 
 are 100% wrong this game is for older audiences. You may not think it from the cutesy graphics 
 or the sence of humor but the gameplay is amazing. this game brings back the point and click genre 
 and does it really well. so you control zack a young pirate who wants to be known as the best pirate 
 ever. the elements of this game are really good some of the puzzels take you quite a while to figure 
 out. if you do every puzzel in this game it will give you a good 40 hours of gameplay! this game 
 is a great game and for any one who has a wii I strongly reccomend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murat8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Before I right the review I have to say that I did not beat the game because of the difficulty 
 level.
  
  Seriously though this is a great game i cant compare it to other point and click game because this 
 one is my first but if the rest are as good as this one then I should do some research. I love 
 how the game looks Zack is a very likable character similar to Sonic and Mario.
  
  Bad:
  1. You have to read everything the characters say no one has a voice in the game except Wiki he 
 says Zack but thats about it
  2. Not much replay value
  
  Good:
  1. Ingenious puzzles you get a very good feeling after accomplishing you goal
  2. Very hard game 
 don't let the kiddie looks fool this is not for kids unless they are very smart
  
  If you want a challenge go out and buy/rent this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo Wii, throughout its life span, has seen lots of bad games, some companies are just 
 too lazy to sit down and think about designing something new, something gamers have never played 
 before. Fortunately, for us gamers, there a few companies that actually care and Capcom is one 
 of them.
  
  There is no way to describe Zack and Wiki in a few words, since it doesn't belong to any of the 
 existing genres. One could say that it is a puzzle game, but those are usually too simple and don't 
 have any kind of storyline and a main goal to be achieved. So, you can assume it is an adventure 
 game or a platformer, but once again you would be totally wrong, because it is actually much more 
 deep and puzzling as most games of these genres.
  
  So, how can we describe Zack and Wiki? Particularly, I would say that it is a game on which you 
 have to control Zack, a rookie pirate, and its mechanical golden monkey, Wiki, on an adventure 
 filled with astounding puzzle, marvelous scenarios and a couple of interesting battles.
  
  The storyline, not compelling by any means, takes us into a pirate world where there is a legend 
 of a treasure. But this is not an average treasure, it is actually the loot of the most legendary 
 pirate ever, Barbaros.
  
  During your quest you will come across more than twenty stages. Each stage is a huge puzzle itself, 
 and it is composed by lots of smaller puzzles, each one of them can be solved by using more than 
 fifty cool items that will use most of the Wiimote's capabilities. It sounds complicated, but it 
 isn't. The game concept is brilliant, you can looks everywhere you want to, but I assure you will 
 never a game that can be compared to Zack and Wiki.
  
  The puzzles are amazing and extremely creative. On games like Zelda for example, you already know 
 what kinds of challenges you will find, there will always be a room on which you will have to light 
 all the torches, a mirror room and a puzzle on which you need to throw your boomerang at a few 
 targets in a certain order.
  
  But Zack and Wiki's puzzles are unpredictable, some of them can be solved in two or more different 
 ways. I could list at least thirty of them here, but it would completely spoil the game for you. 
 So I'll just say that, you can't even imagine what kinds of challenges are waiting for you.
  
  The gameplay is nearly perfect. The point-and-click controls work fine, but sadly there a few 
 times when you will point desperately at a certain spot and Zack will just refuse to walk there, 
 so you will have to pick another place on the stage for him to go if you want him to move. All 
 the items work perfectly and the controls are extremely responsive, throughout the game I haven't 
 encountered any problems when using them.
  
  The graphics are flawless. If you were astonished by the Wind Waker's cell-shaded look then you 
 had better be prepared for Zack and Wiki blows it away. There some really cool light effects and 
 all characters are very well designed. The art concept is impressive and the textures look really 
 good. But there is a minor shortcoming. On some stages, especially those where there are either 
 lots of enemies wandering around or a huge boss performing massive attacks, the frame-rate drops 
 from time to time.
  The cutscenes are all very cool, and the cartoony look of the game makes some of them quite funny.
 
  
  The sound effects are really nice, and there are lots of them since you will be using a bundle 
 of different items. There aren't any catchy tunes, but all of the games' songs perfectly match 
 the mood of the environment. There is no voice work, but since the game isn't driven by its plot 
 than it is not such a big problem. The characters actually call each other by their names, but 
 that's it.
  
  Zack and Wiki is basically composed of lots of puzzles, and was we know puzzle games don't have 
 such a big replay value because once you have solved them there is nothing else to do, and the 
 second playthrough is usually very uninteresting. But we are talking about an awesome game and 
 Zack and Wiki does a perfect job on this area.
  
  First of all, when completing each stage you are given a score based on what you did and how quickly 
 you figure out how to use a certain item and how you solved the puzzle, so there is always something 
 to improve. Besides, there some stages that can be completed in two or more ways, so figuring out 
 all of those paths can keep you going for some time after you have finished it.
  
  You can't let this game's appearance deceive you. If you think all puzzles here are a piece of 
 cake you will be really surprised when you play it. The games kicks off pretty easy but as you 
 advance the difficulty sky-rockets. As you approach the ending there are some stages that will 
 require your full dedication. It took me around five hours to figure out what to do on one of the 
 late stages.
  
  Be aware that while this level of difficulty may be good for some, it can also be frustrating to 
 a more impatient gamer, because Zack and Wiki is full of traps, on certain stages you may have 
 to start all over again because you did something wrong, or because you were killed by an enemy. 
 So you will have to go back to restart the level and carefully retrace your steps so that you figure 
 out what you did wrong.
  
  For those who are not so patient there are two items that may help you, one allows you to restart 
 the level from the part where you screwed up and there is another item that gives you some advice 
 as to what to do next. But those items are kind of expensive so you had better keep your wallet 
 filled with gold.
  
  In a nutshell, Zack and Wiki is simply amazing, it is one of the few Wii games that presents so 
 many novelties. On a system that has seem lots of ports and games that are gimmicky Zack and Wiki 
 is a must buy. All I have to say is congratulations Capcom and keep those coming, because the Wii 
 needs more games like this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Solid Level Design, Approachable Puzzles, Great Use of Wii Controls, Outstanding Presentation, 
 Puzzles With Multiple Solutions, Great Soundtrack.
  
  THE BAD: Poor Voice Acting and Lack There of Voice Acting
  
  FOR PARENTS: Zack and Wiki is 
 rated E for Everyone, but the puzzles can leave you scratching your head, I suggest at least 10+ 
 for this game.
  
  Since the launch of the Wii many developers have been guilty of either making cheap games with 
 no playability or ports of PS2/PSP games with tacked on waggle at a premium price. Even Nintendo 
 has been guilty of porting Gamecube ideas to Wii and adding waggle. Although Capcom has ported 
 Resident Evil 4 to Wii all is forgiven as their latest title has all the charm and ingenuity that 
 makes the Wii so fresh. Zack and Wiki is an engaging experience that you have to play though in 
 order to understand what makes this game work.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The Wii has the most limiting of all technical specifications in the current generation console 
 race. Understanding and developing according to those limitations allows the game to stand out. 
 That is where Zack and Wiki lie. The environments are cartoony with cell shaded characters. Similar 
 to Zelda Wind Waker for the Gamecube. The color palette is lush and vibrant with various environments 
 and themes playing throughout the levels. Characters come to life expressing emotion through their 
 cell shaded appearances. The main map will set you up with different locals, which all have unique 
 themes associated with it. Put Zack near hot lava and he starts to sweat, put him in a frozen wasteland 
 and he starts to shake uncontrollably. It is little touches like this that give the game a welcome 
 and seemingly more realistic personality. That with touches like light source recognition that 
 was mysteriously missing from Metroid Prime 3 and you have a really detailed world to explore.
 
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Controls are the real centerpiece of the title. The game is essentially a point and click puzzle 
 game. You spend your time using the Wii Remote like a mouse cursor and click on things you want 
 to check and explore. That coupled with a camera feature that allows you to explore the entire 
 map and zoom in at any point you wish and you have a winner. Interface is key in a point and click 
 game. Zack and Wiki gives you all the tools and hints you need to solve each puzzle without spoiling 
 key aspects of the game.
  
  Once you have clicked on what you wish to examine the Wii remote becomes you hand. You may use 
 it to shake a tree, saw a tree, turn a lever, wind a fishing pole and many other things through 
 the course of the adventure. A key thing to note is the icon on the upper right and the quick how 
 to hold picture tutorial that appears briefly before you attempt each task. It gives you enough 
 so you know what is going on, but doesn't tell you how to manipulate the object so there is a sense 
 of discovery even when examining objects.
  
  Not everything is as it appears. The Wii Remote detection is well done and good at keeping up with 
 you. The various positions and motions will have you taking tools and objects and using them in 
 different ways to accomplish a goal. There is so much to talk about with controls, but the best 
 way to sum it up, the game was built around the mechanics and never feels tacked on old or tired 
 out.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound track in the game is well done and orchestrated from begining to end. Sound effects feel 
 like they should. If you see a large boulder coming at you it sounds like it. The real question 
 mark in the game is the localization or lack of that went into the voice acting. Each character 
 says a few key words that are used over and over when they talk and it gets a bit old real quick. 
 The sounds do keep the game from feeling quiet, but a full voice acted script would have been nice.
 
  
  The voices are also very babyish. There is really now way to say it. This game gets to cute for 
 its own good in the voice acting department and because of it, you are kind of detracted from the 
 seriousness of the peril of puzzles before you. All in all its not a deal breaker but it will turn 
 off some older players.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Zack and Wiki is just plain fun from beginning to end. Not all puzzles are required to progress 
 through the game and there are times when you can have many choices if you get stuck. At he same 
 time all the puzzles are unique and don't rely on the same mechanics to carry you through the entire 
 game. To add to the complexity learning the right order to do things or that certain things you 
 can do shouldn't be done really make the game stand out. Each puzzle is well detailed with many 
 things you shouldn't do. Sometimes the obvious path is the quickest death. There are also many 
 puzzles with different order of executions or entirely different solutions altogether so you can 
 figure out your style of play.
  
  Like most point and click adventures attention to detail is critical and your deductive skills 
 will be tested from beginning to end. Never do the rules change or do you feel cheated by not knowing 
 something. But when you do fail or are stuck there is a hint and retry system in the game. There 
 are dolls you can buy at your hideout that allow you to see a brief hint at what to do next and 
 tickets you can buy to allow you to continue before you died. Although continuing is sometimes 
 pointless as you may make it impossible to complete a puzzle with choices you make. Still the options 
 are nice.
  
  VALUE:
  
  Zack and Wiki isn't a rental as it is a fun and complete game for the Wii. Its brain teasers might 
 make you want to walk away for the moment but the honesty and clues put in each level will bring 
 you back later for another go. Unlike most games on the market, when you complete a puzzle by yourself 
 especially if you got suck, you feel a real sense of accomplishment and satisfaction that keeps 
 you chugging along. There really aren't any games like this for the console market and one done 
 as brilliantly as this one deserves to be in your collection. The biggest attraction has to be 
 that this game would only work on the Wii. Even the DS Lite wouldn't be able to hold up for a game 
 like this. Motion controls are married to point in click in a seamless experience.
  
  REVIEW:
  
  Point and click adventures started and for the most part ended on the PC. Once in 
 a while a real treasure like Zack and Wiki will grace gamers who aren't afraid to venture out of 
 the norm and known. The cartoony presentation may through off some gamers as being a kids game, 
 but the gameplay is very serious and challenging. You will be hard pressed to find a more satisfying 
 puzzle game to date. A definite must buy for any puzzle fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/zack_wiki. html? var1=sc3
  
  Allow me to establish something very quickly. I don't give a damn about the title of this game. 
 At its worst, it's longer than necessary and plain literal. But why care? At least it describes 
 the game well, because if Capcom decided to stick with Treasure Island Z, the chances of ignorant 
 people knowing what the game's about would be even slimmer. Zack &amp; Wiki: Quest for Barbaros' 
 Treasure is one of Wii's latest titles, and if you happen to be a fan of those old school point-and-click 
 adventures like Myst and Monkey Island, this could be right up your alley. The question though, 
 is it?
  
  Zack &amp; Wiki are two extremely distinct characters. On one hand, Zack is a young pirate with 
 one weird ass hairdo, aspiring to be the best in the world in his profession. Then you have Wiki, 
 a gold-colored monkey with a propeller for a tail, and the ability to turn into a magical bell. 
 Making matters more interesting, Zack has an insatiable addiction to chocolate bars, and Wiki, 
 who is a male, has the voice of a nasally Japanese girl often seen in anime, creepy! The main goal 
 of this adventure is to rebuild the body of the cursed pirate Barbaros, who promises you legendary 
 treasure and his one-of-a-kind ship. In order to accomplish this, you must complete several well-thought-out 
 puzzles.
  
  \Before offering my opinion on the puzzles though, I'd like to touch upon the visual presentation. 
 While there are some aspects of the game, especially the fire section, that didn't exactly impress 
 me, most of everything else is quite vivid. Z&amp; W actually takes on a style akin to Wind Waker, 
 and while my eyes have seen aspects that seem less polished overall, the game definitely takes 
 the cel-shaded technique a bit further. The characters are designed and animate fairly well, the 
 environments (aside from the fire) look very convincing, and the effects are pretty ok. The textures 
 could've use a little work in some instances, especially in the stone tiling, but the game's atmosphere 
 is pretty spot-on, especially in the castle stages. My favorite is the ancient frozen tundra, which 
 looks hands-down gorgeous.
  
  The audio is easily the game's biggest downfall, and keep in mind this is simply how I feel, because 
 I know other sources will tell you otherwise. Despite having a couple words or phrases that are 
 just barely classifiable as spoken, there is no VO in the game whatsoever, and this kills the liveliness 
 of the game. Zack and Wiki come up as rather static and flat characters, mainly because Capcom 
 definitely focused on the puzzle mechanics more so than the personality development. I actually 
 understand that to a degree, but it doesn't help Z&amp; W avoid coming off as a little dead, at 
 least in that department. The music helps to save it, with some catchy tunes courtesy of the ice 
 area and boss stages. Elsewhere, it's pretty forgettable because of how much you're focused on 
 thinking of how to complete that next leg of the puzzle. The effects serve their purpose, whether 
 that be Wiki's bell ringing, the overly repetitive You picked up an item! audio byte and all the 
 characters grunts, groans and whatever else may utter from them.
  
  Ok, now for the part that everyone probably wonders about regarding Zack &amp; Wiki, the gameplay 
 and puzzle aspects. Well, if you came here looking for overall praise, you're in luck. It's unfortunate 
 that in some cases, what you do with the Wii remote to translate on screen action just doesn't 
 cooperate. I actually found myself seriously frustrated with a couple things, but thankfully it's 
 too rare of an occurrence to bash the game for. Capcom really did their homework on what to do 
 for an original concept on Wii. Neither role characters are controlled directly, as point-and-click 
 means something. All you do is point and press A to command Zack wherever you'd like him to move 
 to. It's cool too, because since you can expand your view of the area by holding the B trigger 
 and pointing around, you can potentially send Zack from one end to the other with one click. Granted 
 you do have to wait for the little bugger to humorously shuffle to your intended destination, it 
 saves you having to constantly apply new directives. Sometimes where you click doesn't make Zack 
 budge, but again, it's a trivial complaint.
  
  The puzzles are truly genius and I really give props to Capcom for how they went about difficulty 
 balance. Instead of there being a static easy to mind-bending range of puzzle difficulty and complexity, 
 it's actually unique to every area. Basically what that means is when you start off in the forest, 
 complete the first couple no-brainers and outwit the boss, you run into a similar setup the next 
 time. That doesn't mean every introductory stage is easy though, far from it, but they also don't 
 force you to think outside the box as much as you might think. I would provide some examples, but 
 I think it would prove more fulfilling if you experienced them yourself. Wiki is integral to solving 
 the game's brain busters. Shaking the remote turns shifts him into bell form, which allows you 
 to transform enemies [that don't end your progress] and random animals into extremely useful items, 
 such as totems, bombs, and saws. While the item variety isn't there [which results in feeling some 
 repetition] , how you have to use them when going toe-to-toe with the puzzles is usually entertaining. 
 Often the results are funny enough to warrant a chuckle or two. Don't think you're restricted to 
 go solo during Zack and Wiki's adventure though. Even if you don't have a second player with you 
 drawing useful notifications on screen [or wasting your time] , Capcom actually insists that you 
 work with someone to push through the puzzles together. It's obviously pseudo-multiplayer, but 
 more rewarding than you may realize.
  
  Really folks, if you sorely miss the point-and-click adventure genre and would like to finally 
 play something that offers light-hearted humor (just wait until you meet Johnny Style) and incredibly 
 intuitive Wii remote gameplay and puzzle elements, you should mark an X for Zack &amp; Wiki: Quest 
 for Barbaros' Treasure on your holiday list in the very least. While it's obvious that I wasn't 
 as personally enthralled by the game as some others in the media have been, I certainly don't think 
 the game isn't investment-worthy. While Zack and Wiki's quest may hover in the realm of 15 to 20 
 hours of core time, there's quite a bit that you could achieve on the side in the light of unlockables. 
 Therefore, if what you've read here strikes your fancy, by all means give Capcom's first original 
 Wii IP a look. You may surprise yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Let's get this straight: A glimpse of a kid pirate eating chocolate bars with a flying golden monkey 
 who turns into a bell isn't exactly inviting to most "hardcore" gamers. Most of these kinds of 
 gamers are looking to find their next fix to kill or pummel something.
  
  However, in the midst of all the recently debuted "shooter" and "me-too" games, some hardcore gamers 
 like myself want to take a break from all the violence and hype.
  
  Enter Zack and Wiki.
  
  Zack and Wiki is one of the most imaginative puzzle games that make great use of the Wii controls. 
 The story is downright wacky but it works perfectly into the context of the game's strengh - the 
 level design. The game begins with Zack and his golden buddy, Wiki, being introduced as part of 
 a pirate group called the Sea Rabbits who happened to be traveling by air on their plane. They 
 get hijacked by a headcase named Captain Rose and the first of many puzzles (along with obligatory 
 tutorials) begin here. As the plane plummets to some random island Zack calmly chews on his chocolate 
 bars.
  
  Shortly afterward, Zack and Wiki hook up with a gold skull named Barbaros who promises incredible 
 treasures if Zack finds the rest of his body parts. Apparently, Zack's parents didn't teach him 
 anything about strangers. And so, Zack took up his offer and began looking for his missing parts.
 
  
  The game plays like an old-school PC adventure game like King's Quest but everything is divided 
 into levels. There are no dependent items from each level nor are there quest items that chain 
 into other quests. Each level is self-contained and takes place in caves, volcanoes, and other 
 enclosed territories. Moreover, each level has a treasure chest containing one of Barbaros' 16 
 body parts. Since everything is controlled through the Wii Remote you will be doing alot of pointing 
 and clicking. Zack simply indicates which parts of the level can be manipulated by the remote's 
 rumble effects. Wiki plays a major part in your puzzle solving by changing creatures into inanimate 
 objects or tools that may help you navigate to an unreacheable part of the level. You simply stand 
 next to a creature and wave your remote several times then bam... the creature transforms into something. 
 Depending on what kind of creature it is, you can end up with some pretty useful tools. For instance, 
 snakes can turn into clamps while centipedes turn into cutting saws - a great use the Wii Remote's 
 motion controls. Zack and Wiki has some of the most devious puzzles. However, you feel that somehow 
 every level feels balanced. And if you do get stuck once in awhile, you can buy Oracle hints which 
 don't give the whole level away but will give you a direction. If you're bored, there are characters 
 that distract you with charming rhythm games which require alot of remote waving. As a bonus, these 
 rhythm games allow you to gain secret maps.
  
  In most cases, alot of the items used in the game are not out of context. The game's levels can 
 be deceptive and intimidating but you're never left sitting still wondering what to do next. When 
 a difficult level is solved without hints you become overwhelmed with a huge sense of satisfaction. 
 Herein is where that sweet spot of fun lies - the perfect pacing of difficulty. The game even allows 
 you to pan throughout the whole level. If there's any complaining, you'll mostly be annoyed with 
 the frequent dropping and grabbing objects since Zack can only carry one object or tool at a time. 
 The nice touch with this game is that it also has good replayability. Like most puzzle games, Zack 
 and Wiki measures the performance of each level through scores called HQs. These scores are determined 
 by the amount of time elapsed in solving the level including the number of attempts made to solve 
 each problem within the level. You may easily find yourself trying to figure out faster and/or 
 better ways to completing a level. Although this is mostly a single player game, Zack and Wiki 
 also allows a party of four to join on the puzzle fun. It is a great party game for those who want 
 to simply watch or provide hints to the main player.
  
  Zack and Wiki is a welcome addition to any hardcore Wii owner that wants to step outside from the 
 shooters and fighters that are popular among gamers nowadays. Zack and Wiki is one of most underappreciated 
 games on the market now. Add Zack and Wiki to your collection. It's worth the purchase that shouldn't 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baldwinc47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  If you ever are amazed with the Super Mario franchise, you sure have to check this game out! It 
 delivers ways that you never though of to use the WiiMote. Crazy puzzles that are quite devious, 
 some that are just too plain devilish that you can't beat without cheating. The storyline puts 
 you as Zack, an amateur pirate, trying to find some hidden treasure! You have your sidekick Wiki, 
 a golden monkey?, that will help you along the way. Tough to say that Wiki doesn't help much, even 
 though it can fly.... Well I don't want to spoil anything and just wanted to say If you like puzzles 
 and ways to use your WiiMote that you never thought of before, this is the game for you! If you 
 rather want to see how it is, then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Zack &amp; Wiki, or Z-Dub, is really hard to explain, and especially to review. Zack &amp; Wiki 
 looks like it would be a normal action adventure pirate game at first glance, but the game is so 
 much more than that. Z-Dub is a point-and-click puzzle game with adventure elements mixed in. You 
 point the Wii Remote to the place that you want Zack to go, and hell go there. Want to pick up 
 that rock? Point the Wii Remote on the rock and he walk over and pick it up. The game is quite 
 simple, but its not the controls, or the gameplay that really makes it such a good game, its 
 the torture you put your brain through on every level.
  
  Z-Dub works like this: first you pick a level, then a short cut-scene shows you around the level 
 before you begin. From there, the level begins, and you have to go through the stage, looking for 
 the way to get to the treasure chest, or the end of the level. There is sometimes multiple ways 
 of doing this, and some ways can really put your brain into a tizzy. Sometimes you have to find 
 a way to smash a block of ice, or maybe you have to lower the water level to grab a key. Whatever 
 the solution is, you dont know how to get it done unless you search around the stage first. And 
 sometimes, you can even do something too early, which can cause you to mess up on the whole level.
 
  
  So Zack &amp; Wiki is pretty much a puzzle game. Still though, there are enemies in some stages, 
 and the only way to dispose of them is to shake Wiki, who turns into a bell. This is where the 
 level design and Wii Remote controls are used really well. First, the enemy will turn into an item 
 after you use Wiki on them. They can turn into many things, like a frog turns into a bomb, and 
 a mole turns into a drill. Then, you must use these items to proceed trough the level. The Wii 
 Remote is also used well with these items. First of all, to shake Wiki, you must shake the Wii 
 Remote. This is also a way to rid the treasure chest of the evil spirit that protects it. The way 
 you use the Wii Remote with the enemy items are clever too. To cut down a tree say, you have to 
 move the remote back and forth.
  
  Zack &amp; Wiki starts off a little... Well, odd. You start in an airplane in the sky being controlled 
 by a bunny rabbit named Johnny. When the game introduces a new character, every time it will say 
 their name, their favourite food, and their affiliation. Suddenly, another giant airship swoops 
 down at you and you are introduced to the main villain of the game: Rose. After an introduction, 
 the ship will start hitting you with missiles, and eventually the plane will crash. After you end 
 the first stage, you will find the head of an old Pirate named: Barbaros in a treasure chest. What 
 the main mission of the game is to retrieve all of his missing pieces, which are in each treasure 
 chest you find. Each part you collect is part of his body. For example, one level you beat, you 
 get a part of his arm. Then the next level you get his ribs, and so on.
  
  The visuals in Z-Dub are some of the best graphics weve seen on a Wii game yet. Most of the game 
 could be done on the Gamecube, but the game would never be able to be on any other console do to 
 the Wii Remote controls. Still, Zack and Wiki is a beautiful game from top to bottom. It has the 
 great Cel-Shading style of visuals that the Wind Waker did on the Gamecube. Every character model 
 is designed amazingly, and every stage is well constructed, and suit the mood it has to. There 
 are a bunch of different worlds with a bunch of stages inside of them. Each world has an unique 
 theme, like a Jungle, a Volcano, and a Haunted Mansion.
  
  The audio in Zack and Wiki is still good too. Like I said before with the graphics, everything 
 suits the mood of the level. In the haunted mansion world, every level has a scary tune to them 
 with the scary organ in the background. The audio is not perfect in any way. There is no voice 
 acting what-so-ever, which is a real disappointment considering Metroid Prime 3 had it. Still, 
 there are some little sounds the character make here and there, but it does sound very Japanese, 
 and sometimes you just want to put the game on mute.
  
  Every level has a difficulty level ranging from 1 to 10, 10 being the hardest. You can also buy 
 Oracle Dolls, which give you a hint on what to do next. If you happen to mess up on a level, you 
 can also revive yourself with a platinum ticket. But, if you want to be a master pirate, dont 
 use a ticket because you will lose points. You get points by doing things correctly. Like if you 
 use the bomb in the right place, you get 10,000 out of 10,000 points. At the end of each level, 
 you have an overall score which rates you on how good you did on the level. You can also collect 
 coins in the level, which you can use to buy Oracle Dolls, or platinum tickets.
  
  Like I said before, Zack &amp; Wiki is probably the hardest games Ive ever had to explain. Its 
 not a traditional puzzle game, nor is it a traditional adventure game. Its just its own genre, 
 but its not to say that the game is bad. Zack and Wiki is a great game, from beginning to end. 
 Some levels can get a little on the difficult side, and some levels are so simple, theyre hard. 
 It just goes to show that anyone can make a great Wii game if they put their mind to it, and thats 
 exactly what Capcom did when they made this game. If you own a Wii, you must own Zack &amp; Wiki. 
 Its an original game, with some of the best visuals and Wii Remote controls weve seen in a Wii 
 game yet. Buy it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying every time I write a review for a game, I make sure I beat the 
 game, so I can review it properly and fully. The critics are right (IGN, Gamespot, etc) , and even 
 the gamers themselves are right. This game rocks. Please do not be fooled by its cutesy graphics, 
 and its kiddy-like characters. I bought this on day one, and it delivered. Let me start off my 
 in-depth review:
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous! When I popped this game in, I soon realized that it had great style with its 
 graphics. Yes as most people say, it indeed does look like The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. 
 The graphics are very clean and polished, and certainly go with the mood of the game. The zoom 
 options even deliver. Up close, and even far away, the game looks great. 9/10
  
  Sound: The sound is also great. I really enjoyed the music in the game, and the noises were also 
 good. As for the characters voice acting, they have one-liners. The catch is, they're in Japanese. 
 Some may be bothered by this, and some will like this idea. Personally, I think their decent, but 
 this game didn't really need voice acting anyway. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The Graphics are great, and the Sound is good. But this ladies and gentlemen, is what 
 the game perfects in. It's a point and click adventure game basically with action involved. Just 
 don't expect to be shooting things and killing things. As for thew actual action I was talking 
 about, you use the Wii remote to do specific in game puzzles. Whether it's shaking a controller 
 to shake a tree or even pulling the controller back to pull switches, this game has it all. 10/10
 
  
  Value: The value is also another good thing about the game. It's not as short as you would think, 
 and definitely not as long as you hoped for. I beat the game in 18 hours, without getting the extras 
 and high scores. I'm guessing it would take another 2-3 hours to get all of that. Personally for 
 me, I wish the game was a bit longer (only because it rocked) , but overall it was enough to satisfy 
 my needs. There are a lot of levels, and a lot of hard ones, so put your thinking hats on. 8/10
 
  
  Overall: This game is easily a must buy for any Wii owner out there, whether it's a casual gamer, 
 or a hardcore game. I warn you though, the game is hard, and I mean HARD. Nevertheless it's the 
 best 3rd party game on Wii as of yet. Please go out and buy it! Support the game. It deserves it. 
 9/10
  
  Cons:
  - It ended - Its Hard difficulty may turn some off
  
  Pros: + Clean and Polished Graphics
  + Great music and Sound
  + Spectacular use of the Wii 
 remote
  + Extras and high scores will keep you playing
  + Hard difficulty
  + Amazing Third Party effort + Wii exclusive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  ''Zack & Wiki'' is a nice little puzzly-adventure game similar to the old PC Sierra (and later 
 LucasArts) games...
  
  "Zack & Wiki" has some really creative use of the wiimote. This game reminds me just how cool the 
 wiimote can be in-game. The controller orientation plays a larger part in this game than ANY I've 
 seen previously.
  
  This is a cool puzzly-adventure game. If you know what you're doing, this will be an easier venture. 
 If you're used to the old ''point-and-click PC adventure'' games, this will be a shorter venture. 
 Each stage isn't large, however this helps to greatly reduce backtracking between locations and 
 items. ''Zack & Wiki'' is a very cool game.
  
  (In this game there is no sex, no guns, no gore, no real ''violence'' to speak of, yet this is 
 a good game. How in 2007 could that be?)
  
  This targets somewhat of a niche market, but luckily, I'm in that niche. ''Zack & Wiki: Quest For 
 Barbaros' Treasure'' is a great game well deserving of a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcheng
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  While I was surfing on IGN during their Tokyo Game Show coverage, I stumbled upon a trailer of 
 this game. I should say that based on that trailer alone got me really excited about this game.
 
  
  As a side note: unlike GameSpot, IGN's editors are divided into different teams, one for each console. 
 e. g. The Playstation Team, the Xbox Team, and so forth. Each team have their own podcast too. The 
 Nintendo team (Formerly the Wii Team and the DS Team, now combined) is strongly recommending this 
 game to anyone who owns a Wii at this point only because all they have seen are truly remarkable 
 and one should buy it, and buy it when it comes out) .
  
  The puzzles I think are really well thought out. This clearly reminds me of playing a similar game 
 of 'The Incredible Machine series back in 2000 and 2001 on the PC. This is one of those times I 
 have truly seen a third party really taking advantage of what the Wii can do. To be fair, i love 
 puzzle games myself. Once I get the hang of it, I could just sit there for a long time and still 
 enjoying it. The Wii-mote motions are also very well thought out and to be frank pretty responsive 
 as well. The hints are also pretty clever too. Contrast with The incredible Machine series, the 
 hints become less obvious as the difficulty goes up, and eventually there are absolutely no hints 
 in the very hard or expert puzzle category. Zack and Wiki is one of those games that I must inspect 
 what are the givens around the area and motivate me to think about what I must do to get to the 
 treasure in each puzzle, and is order of performing tasks important or not. Also, inspection make 
 the hints make sense. To be fair, I have seen at least one puzzle that the order is a factor, otherwise, 
 I won't make it through. These are really good concepts, especially in a living room setting where 
 people get together and you know, helping each other and at the same time having fun. This reminds 
 of me that TGS trailer. I WOULD recommend this game to anyone who owns a Wii right now. This game 
 is a MUST HAVE for both hardcore and casual audiences alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boo111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing. when i start playing it I can't stop it. I didn't feel bored of it. great 
 graphics, music and sounds. if you miss this game, you will miss one of the best games on Wii. 
 the control of this game is perfect also the ideas of the stages. I never played an exciting game 
 on Wii like this. even if you don't like puzzles you will love it. I only need one piece of the 
 legend pirate body. there are 17 or 18 pieces I think to collect the legendary pirate body but 
 still it will not be the end of the games. there are many secrets in this games and many things 
 to collect. you can hear musics you unlocked anytime you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is unlike any other wii game. You move Zack and Wiki with a point a click 
 scheme. Pointing and clicking an object makes Zack check it out. Shaking the wii-mote causes Wiki 
 to turn into a bell thats ringing can turn living things into tools such as saws, claws, rackets, 
 and bombs. No matter what stage your on you are always solving some part of a puzzle. What is amazing 
 is how they can put the goal of a stage right in front of your face, but you'll still have to play 
 fifteen-to-thirty minutes getting it due to all the different obstacles and puzzles blocking your 
 path. This is thee most creative pirate game hands down.
  STORY: Zack, Wiki, and Johnny Style (all part of the Sea Rabbits gang) are flying a poorly designed 
 (and really cheap) plane when their enemies the Rose Rock gang shoot them down with their gigantic 
 air-ship. Zack and Wiki wind up in some woods where they find a floating gold head of the legendary 
 cp. Barbaros. Barbaros promises his ship and Treasure Island to Zack and Wiki if they get all his 
 body parts back. Though for some reason (I know but im not giving spoilers) Barbaros thinks that 
 Wiki has something to do with his seperated golden body.
  GRAPHICS: Though they are not the best graphics ever they are very crisp and work smoothly. The 
 cell shading design really fits the games atmospehere and the look is appealing to children while 
 the gameplay is appealing to all gamers of any age.
  END NOTES:
  This is a really fun game that a lot are going to miss out on just cause they think cartooney cell-shading 
 makes a game easy. I hope anyone reading this has or will atleast rent Zack and Wiki and give it 
 a shot. In all I give Zack and Wiki an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I got excited one I heard about this game. It looked like a nice 3rd party offering on the Wii, 
 and it is made by Capcom. So, first day I had to pick this up. I was very surprised on the $40 
 price tag, as this game is just plain fantastic.
  
  *Presentation [graphics &amp; sound] :
  
  This game looks fantastic. It has the Wind Waker feel, 
 but it shows what the Wii can do. It looks better than Wind Waker, as you might suspect. I love 
 these kind of graphics, because like Okami, they are so unique that they can be called next-gen 
 graphics. 9/10
  
  This game sounds good. For every stage, the music fits it well. It is not the best I have heard, 
 nor will it win awards, but it is good. No voice acting hurts it a lot, since there is a fair amount 
 of text, and the annoying Japanese-like voices are annoying. 7/10
  
  *Gameplay:
  
  This game, in my opinion, is the best use of the Wii remote yet. There is no Nunchuck involved 
 either, which I like. The game is a point &amp; click adventure. Meaning you point at the screen 
 and you press A and they will go where you point. This kind of gameplay seems like home on the 
 Wii, and Zack &amp; Wiki proves that true.
  
  Through out the game, you will solve puzzles. There are multiple in all puzzles, and they are very 
 fun for the simple fact that it uses the Wii remote. It is very intuitive, and it is a nice challenge 
 as well. It will take you multiple times just to beat one puzzle, and after you do, you will feel 
 great that you did. 9.5/10
  
  *Value:
  
  The game is about a 14-18 hour adventure. It took me about 15 hours to beat. There are multiple 
 ways to solve puzzles, but that doesn't really extend the game much. There is a multiplayer mode 
 also, but there is no point to it. It seems like Capcom just wanted the 2 player logo on the box 
 to sell it as a family title . 8/10
  
  *Overall: At $40, you must pick this up immediately. This is down-right the best true 3rd party 
 offering on the Wii, and will probably stay for a long time to come. Wii owners take note, we have 
 great 3rd party support on the Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
