-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 101 Airborne: The Airborne Invasion of Normandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/101airbornetheaion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
101 simulates the chaos of an airborne drop very well, and the level of detail is tremendous.

 Over the past few years there have been a number of squad-based simulations, typically of the science 
 fiction variety (with X-COM being the most famous of the bunch) . But wargamers - with the Breach 
 series, Close Combat and its ilk, and Soldiers at War - have also had their share. Soldiers at 
 War, developed by Random Games and SSI, was a decent World War II tactical game although marred 
 by the single-mission format, some strange gameplay mechanics, and a few other things that kept 
 it from being truly outstanding. The same development group created Wages of War for New World 
 Computing, which suffered from many of the same problems. Now, some ex-Random Games employees, 
 under the Incredible Simulations moniker, have revisited the arena with 101: The Airborne Invasion 
 of Normandy, a really good game that overcomes some of Soldiers at War's problems.  

 The setting is a few hours before the Allied invasion of Normandy; the 101st Airborne Division (the 
 Screaming Eagles) is to be parachuted in groups all over Normandy in order to create enough havoc 
 and mayhem to disrupt and distract the German Army from rushing reinforcements to the Normandy 
 beachheads before they can be properly secured by the invading forces. You take control over one 
 such group, a "stick" or planeload of 18 paratroopers. After picking one of nine campaigns (basically 
 initial mission objectives) , you are then assigned the task of picking, outfitting, and equipping 
 each of the 18 paratroopers to accompany the mission. Forty-eight troops are available, each with 
 varying skills and abilities - it's your job to sort out which is best for the mission. This can 
 be done either individually or by an auto feature for each area, which speeds up things tremendously, 
 though players with a bit more time on their hands will probably want to fine-tune things a bit. 

 After the troops are ready and the drop arrangement is set, it's time to take off and drop into 
 enemy territory. One of the great things about 101 is that it does a very good job of simulating 
 the chaos and uncertainty of airborne combat operations. Any number of things can happen to the 
 men when they drop out of the plane: They can land safely, injure themselves on landing, get lost 
 or become completely attached from the rest of the stick, or worse, have a parachute fail. The 
 equipment bags carrying much of the heavy ordnance and supplies can get lost. The men can wind 
 up scattered throughout the entire game region. Better yet, some men can land right in the middle 
 of a patrolling German squad. Those minutes and even hours spent equipping the troops will seem 
 like a tremendous waste of time if most of the equipment is lost.  

 101 uses an overhead tactical view to display the action. The graphics are nice and functional - 
 nothing great, but they serve their purpose. Each of the soldiers is meticulously animated, and 
 the terrain shows everything you'd expect in Normandy: roads, trails, hedgerows, copses of trees, 
 shrubs, buildings, and so on. 101 uses a turn-based point-driven engine, where each soldier is 
 assigned a number of action points (APs) each one-minute turn, and every individual move (of which 
 there are 24) uses up a certain number of APs. The order in which they get to activate is determined 
 by each soldier's initiative - that's including the German troops. The sound effects are passable, 
 though a few are a bit bland.  

 Combat obviously is the most important part of a game like this. There is a number of available 
 weapons and explosives in the game, and 101 boasts one of the most accurate damage models yet put 
 into a commercially available game. 101 also uses an extensive sighting system, which not only 
 shows what the soldier is capable of seeing and how well he is covered, but how well visible enemies 
 can see you, utilizing visual icons surrounding the soldier in question. This innovative system 
 can be a bit confusing and at times can appear to be wrong when it may not be (which is not to 
 say that it isn't working properly, but that there are so many variables it may be hard to tell 
 the difference) . However, combat in 101 seems to work very well and certainly conveys a realistic 
 feel.  

 Ultimately the player will need to reunite the stick as much as possible and accomplish the initial 
 objective. Once this is accomplished, the game can go on as other missions or secondary objectives 
 may become apparent. The game ends either way by the end of the third day. Some may find this a 
 bit too short, but any one of the nine campaigns can last quite awhile, keeping track of the troops, 
 trying to reunite them, getting them some rest, moving towards an objective, and running into unexpected 
 obstacles. Unfortunately there is one prolonging factor that's a bit irritating: the hellishly 
 slow soldier animation. A map may be completely devoid of anything interesting, and the time it 
 takes a dozen soldiers to traverse it can seemingly last for hours. Equipping the men may seem 
 like a waste of time, but the good news is that you can save the equipment and crew loadouts individually 
 so you can reload them when you want to run a new campaign.  

 Success in 101 requires luck, good squad organization, team tactics, and proper utilization of terrain. 
 101 simulates the chaos of an airborne drop very well, and the level of detail is tremendous. The 
 manual explains everything, but learning the game can be done through experience only (a training 
 ground is available) . Everything is explained: how many APs each action requires, the statistics 
 behind the weapons, and how much each individual item - right down to the entrenching tools and 
 K-rations - will encumber the soldier. Throw in multiplayer games (the only way you can play the 
 Germans) and this is quite a game. There's also no way to make new campaigns, but the results can 
 be so random during a campaign that this won't be too much of a hindrance. While the scope is limited 
 and the level of detail can intimidate some, 101: The Airborne Invasion of Normandy is a winner. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Star_Gem
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  101 Airborne is a typical Strategy game which, as most of you should know, is the genre that gave 
 birth to RPGs, although most people wouldnt know that thanks to the increasing amount of Action 
 games that try to pass by as RPGs. Sadly, the newer generations of gamers have no way to know 
 any better and are helping to kill a genre, unknowingly. Regardless, thats not something to be 
 discussed here, so lets move into my review. I called your attention to this important historical 
 fact because, in a way, 101 almost feels like a RPG, not only for its turn-based nature, but also 
 for the level of customization that you can give to your units, and the freedom you have on how 
 to achieve your goals in the field of battle. Still, one or two RPG elements do not a RPG make, 
 so the Strategy genre definition is the most appropriate here.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you start a new game are the Graphics and Sound. While the former 
 is relatively impressive, especially with the amount of details, the later is a bit on the disappointing 
 side. Granted, the Strategy genre is not famous for its ominous soundtracks and witty soldier one-liners 
 (at least at this point in time) , but the feeling of "chaos" that the game is trying to recreate 
 loses something in this department. I'd expect, at least, a few groans and screams when a soldier 
 is shot or hit by a grenade.
  
  Once you get past the looks and sounds of the game, you get into what will keep you staring at 
 the screen for hours, or looking frantically for the "quit" function. If you're a patient player, 
 who enjoys spending hours fine tuning every aspect of the game, then I'm sure there's something 
 here for you. On the other hand, if you're the kind of player who gets frustrated quickly and wants 
 to get on with the action, I can't recommend it.
  
  Specifically, the game starts when you're still looking at your team's camp. Each building will 
 lead you to an area that will allow you to choose and fit your team of soldiers. You might be tempted 
 to take your best men and your best equipment, but keep in mind that some of your soldiers will 
 most likely die before they can even fire a single shot. You see, when your soldiers land on the 
 battlefield, their location is randomly chosen by the CPU and, very often, some of your men will 
 fall right in the middle of the enemy with no chance to fight back.
  
  After you've decided who to take, you have to select their equipment. There are two building for 
 this, one with general commodities, like water canteens and rations, and the other which holds 
 weapons and their respective ammunition. Now, don't go into battle just yet! You still have to 
 go to the assembly area and equip each soldier individually... or you can use the auto-equip function 
 if you want to speed things up a bit, but make sure you browse the CPU choices before proceeding.
 
  
  Finally, you can drop into battle - literally. Here you'll notice the amount of detail and realism 
 in the game. It actually feels like a Simulation. For instance, you can't do anything when you 
 land except looking around for enemy movement, and getting out of your parachute (which takes two 
 turns) . If you're alive after that, you can then start to move and attack but, beware, rushing 
 to your enemies will only get you killed faster. You need to get your bearings, choose your goals 
 carefully, and what route to take to get there. Look at the terrain, and calculate how many turns 
 you'll need to get there. Consider the pros and cons of each move - a single man is easier to kill 
 but has a better chance to hide too. A group of soldiers means more firepower, but also a sweet 
 target for an enemy grenade. You'll literally spend hours on each scenario and you'll be sweating 
 to get most of your men alive at the end, but that's the whole point of the game - survive, and 
 give hell to your opponents whenever possible. If that's the kind of game you're looking for, then 
 the value of 101 Airborne will impress you.
  
  Speaking of value, if you like the single player experience, try asking a friend to play with you 
 on Multiplayer. I must admit, though, that 101 Airborne does not need it. The random nature of 
 soldier distribution, at the start of the scenarios, changes the battle conditions greatly, and 
 it's really exciting because instead of memorizing enemy positions, you have to learn how to react 
 in the field each and every time.
  
  The game is not without its problems, however. I can't be sure if this is a bug, or just a frustrating 
 feature of the "Hide" mode, so here's some background on the situation. It happened when I was 
 down to three men and the enemy was down to one. One of my men was in panic, the second surrendered, 
 and my third was wounded to the point he couldn't move more than two spaces per turn at running 
 speed, and he couldn't climb tall terrain at all. In great effort I used this last man to try and 
 calm my panicked soldier which was on the other side of the field at this point! Yes, it took me 
 almost half an hour just to get my wounded officer to the other side but, anyway. after calming 
 the panicked soldier (hence regaining his control) , I used him to heal my wounded hero. No problems 
 so far, right? But here's where it gets ugly. I used my two fully healed - and reassured - soldiers 
 to go back to the area where the last German soldier was and... he wasn't there! Actually, he was, 
 but the soldier sprite simply failed to appear on screen for some reason. After walking and crawling 
 around for several turns, I lost patience and bombed the German's last known position with grenades. 
 True enough, I got the congratulations screen soon after. A feature of the game? A bug? You be 
 the judge.
  
  Another problem is how slow the game is. I'm talking about computing time here. Early in a scenario, 
 when there are still many enemy units moving around, you have to wait several seconds, sometimes 
 over a minute, before you get control of one of your units. A game which is slow in gameplay is 
 ok, and some players enjoy it, but a game which is slow due to poor loading times is always bad.
 
  
  Finally, a note on controls and interface. Usually, I like to test how intuitive a game is by not 
 looking at the manual and just dive into it to have a test drive. I suggest you don't do that with 
 101 Airborne because it will only make the game much slower than it already is. Most icons in the 
 game are self-explanatory, like the flashing parachute when you're removing it, but there's little 
 information besides the fact that it concerns your parachute. There are many other examples I could 
 give you, but that's one you'll face right at the beginning, so you know what I'm talking about.
 
  
  I can't say I dislike the game. I guess I'm the patient type, but I know people who wouldn't endure 
 a single scenario here. My suggestion is for you to download the demo of this game (it's quite 
 good as it gives a good feel for the overall game) , and try it out yourself. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
