-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 12 O'Clock High: Bombing the Reich
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/12oclockhighbombingtr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.7, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 49 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: TalonSoft
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
12 O'Clock High is a meticulously researched wargame that unfortunately doesn't add up. 

 Gary Grigsby is a designer well known to computer wargamers. His contributions to the genre include 
 classics like War in Russia, U. S. A. A. F., and Pacific War. Earlier this year, TalonSoft released 
 Grigsby's Battle of Britain, which can best be described as a dry run for its follow-up 12 O'Clock 
 High, a monstrous simulation of the entire air war over Europe from 1943-45. Not a flight simulation, 
 12 O'Clock High is a strategy game in which you fight for control of the European skies one day 
 at a time. While the concept has tremendous appeal, the execution unfortunately ends up falling 
 short of being a truly good game.  

 The map covers a huge area of Western, Central, and Southern Europe. Even Allied airbases in North 
 Africa are present. That's because the game attempts to simulate all aspects of the bombing campaign 
 against Germany, including raids to cripple the Reich's oil production. The British night-bombing 
 campaign is also represented, and the Allies will even find the need to divert resources to tactical 
 bombing to support the invasions of France and Italy. As such, 12 O'Clock High is a significant 
 expansion in scope from Battle of Britain and will go far toward satisfying those who claimed the 
 earlier game did not give them enough to do.  

 All the squadrons that took part in the historical battle are also represented in the game, down 
 to individual aircraft, often with historically accurate pilot names. These pilots gain experience, 
 suffer fatigue, and accumulate kills as the game moves along, which gives 12 O'Clock High an epic 
 feel. Scattered across the map are airfields and various types of strategic targets that the Allies 
 must knock out and the Germans must defend. Victory is achieved by the Allies by scoring points 
 for knocking out crucial industries, destroying German aircraft, and inflicting damage on German 
 civilian areas.  

 12 O'Clock High plays very differently depending on whether you're playing as the Germans or as 
 the Allies. The game is in pseudo-real time but is separated into two phases, planning and reaction. 
 As the Allied player, you use the planning phase to allocate your bombers to raids and to choose 
 targets, assign escorts, set altitudes, plot mission paths, and so forth. A complex planning phase 
 may take you several hours as you try to carefully coordinate multiple raids with one another. 
 Game time does not advance during the planning phase, and the Allied player may take as much time 
 as necessary.  

 The possibilities for the Allies in the planning phase are quite varied, and there are many variables 
 to take into account. One innovation introduced in Battle of Britain was the need to fly reconnaissance 
 missions to evaluate the damage inflicted by previous raids, which took the concept of fog of war 
 to a new level. 12 O'Clock High adds an abstract simulation of the ground war; it moves the front 
 line in accordance with the current phase of the Allied ground offensive. Raids must be timed so 
 as not to give German fighter defenses a chance to recover. Decoy raids must be planned to prevent 
 the Germans from concentrating on the main Allied strikes. Fighter escorts must be arranged so 
 as to give bombers the maximum possible cover. As such, the planning phase allows for richly complicated 
 strategic play.  

 The reaction phase follows the planning phase and takes place in real time. Once the planes are 
 launched, it's the German player's turn to scramble his fighters and try to meet the threat posed 
 by the Allied bombers. As the Germans, you will find yourself guessing which Allied raids are after 
 important targets and which ones should be let through to conserve resources for later interceptions. 
 The cat-and-mouse game that ensues is the heart of the gameplay in 12 O'Clock High and can be quite 
 tense.12 O'Clock High has a vast scope that will appeal to wargamers who like to see every aspect 
 of a wargame's subject matter being simulated. The game even takes into account tactical bomber 
 strikes in France and Italy in support of the Allied invasions. Some targets, such as U-boat pens 
 and V-weapon sites, will have to be attacked for political reasons. And because of the need to 
 support the ground war, the Allied commander will sometimes find that he does not have the freedom 
 to use all of his resources as he sees fit. But the resources he has are vast, which leads to a 
 wide range of possibilities for prosecuting the air war. Even the night-bombing offensive by British 
 Bomber Command is included.  

 However, the game suffers from several serious flaws. One of them is simply its length. While there 
 are a variety of scenarios, the full campaign game is 700 turns long. Because days with a heavy 
 bombing schedule will take hours to play through, it is entirely possible that even if you played 
 the game every night of the week, a full campaign would still take almost two years to complete. 
 While it's nice to have the ability to play through an entire air war, it would have been better 
 to make a game design that let you do so in a reasonable amount of time.  

 The game's structure is also a problem. The Allied player can literally take a nap during the reaction 
 phase because there is absolutely nothing he can do after his raids are launched, whereas the German 
 player must use this time to respond to the attack. As a result, the game is best played by e-mail, 
 so that the Allied player can plan his turn and send it to the German player, who executes the 
 turn. It's then sent back to the Allied player, who can view the reaction phase at his leisure. 
 Such is one of the only cases where a game with a real-time component is effectively and preferably 
 playable by e-mail.  

 12 O'Clock High's biggest problem is its interface. Battle of Britain had what can be described 
 as a DOS interface masquerading as a Windows game, and it should have been substantially improved 
 for 12 O'Clock High. While it has received minor adjustments, the game still suffers from an interface 
 that requires far too many mouse-clicks to perform an action. Setting up a single raid is a tiresome 
 series of clicks that very much resembles paging through a bunch of DOS directories one at a time. 
 Unfortunately, 12 O'Clock High requires that you repeatedly invest significant mechanical effort 
 for even the most rudimentary functions.  

 In keeping with its encyclopedic scope, 12 O'Clock High includes a detailed manual that could nevertheless 
 have benefited from a bit more explanation and better organization. Half of the manual is devoted 
 to historical background material, which is interesting, but that space could have been better 
 spent on more precise explanations of the actual game mechanics. Because the manual is fairly vague 
 regarding how the game resolves various details such as combat and bombing damage, players without 
 substantial historical background knowledge will find it necessary to experiment extensively before 
 they can effectively play the game.  

 12 O'Clock High is a meticulously researched wargame that unfortunately doesn't add up. It has scope, 
 historical fidelity, and vast amounts of detail. At times, it can be enjoyable. But whether it's 
 because of the abysmal interface or the interminable length, 12 O'Clock High never engenders that 
 sense that drives you to want to return to a game every evening or whenever you have a spare moment. 
 Instead, 12 O'Clock High feels like a giant database that needs to be accessed and run through 
 its paces. While experienced wargamers will probably find the means to enjoy it anyway, most others 
 could stand to spend their money elsewhere.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
