-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 1602 A.D.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/1602ad/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 23, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sunflowers Interactive
Developer: Max Design
Genre: Strategy
Date:     2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
1602 A. D. captures the feel of the historical period very well and carries you along without the 
 extreme highs and lows that characterize more fast-paced and violent games. 

 Ever since SimCity virtually invented the god-game genre over ten years ago, gamers have been creating 
 worlds and populating them, and then manipulating the environment to help their charges grow and 
 prosper. Taking its cues from games such as The Settlers, Caesar III, and SimCity, 1602 A. D. combines 
 god-game and real-time-strategy elements to create an interesting blend of real-time and city-building 
 gameplay.  

 1602 A. D. is the North American release of a game that came out in Europe last year under the title 
 Anno 1602, which was developed by the German firm Sunflowers. However, despite being essentially 
 the original version of the game with a handful of additions (an included expansion pack, a couple 
 of new building structures, supposedly improved artificial intelligence, and a scenario editor) , 
 1602 A. D. is not just an afterthought release of some obscure European game. In fact, Anno 1602 
 is the best-selling game ever in Germany and has sold more than a million copies worldwide. As 
 such, you might expect a radical new twist in the gameplay, but 1602 A. D. simply takes the tried-and-true 
 real-time god-game formula and applies a bit of European sensibility. That is, the game is slower, 
 less violent, and more cooperative, yet it still inhabits familiar territory.  

 Despite its historically allusive title, 1602 A. D. is set in a fictitious universe with no direct 
 connection to the colonization of the New World. However, the game has a strong historical flavor, 
 as it opens with the establishment of a small colony on an island that develops much like an early-17th-century 
 town. Adding to the atmosphere is the game's pacing, which is very relaxed. There are several speed 
 settings, but even at faster speeds the game moves along somewhat uneventfully unless you're drastically 
 mismanaging the situation. It's this slow pace that will likely determine whether you like the 
 game or not.  

 The gameplay proceeds along well-worn lines. You're charged with building and maintaining a colony 
 on a previously unexplored island. The maps consist of approximately fifteen or twenty islands 
 in a vast ocean, and competing players settle, develop, and expand their holdings in the hope of 
 building a prosperous settlement in the New World. You initially have one ship with enough tools, 
 wood, and food to get a foothold on one island. Once there, you must construct buildings such as 
 fishing huts for food, foresters' huts for lumber, and various farms for wool and cattle. The objective 
 is to eventually build as large and prosperous a colony as possible, so you'll need to build homes 
 for your settlers. As the colony expands, the inhabitants will demand such things as schools and 
 taverns to let them keep growing. Settlers progress through various states of development, up to 
 the highest level of "aristocrat." The more advanced the settlers, the more they want. Eventually 
 you'll be building cotton and tobacco plantations, churches, colleges, and theaters, as well as 
 shipyards and armories. The relationships between the colonists and their buildings can become 
 rather complex, and managing them efficiently is the point of the game.  

 1602 A. D. can be played in several modes, including continuous play, individual scenarios, and multiplayer. 
 Continuous play is the familiar, open-ended mode in which you start with a ship, settle an island, 
 and subsequently develop your colony through various stages to a thriving 18th-century metropolis 
 while protecting yourself from marauding pirates and overly aggressive neighbors. Continuous-play 
 games have no set ending point, and the mode continues essentially until you become tired of the 
 game. On the other hand, scenarios require you to reach a certain goal, such as having a certain 
 number of aristocrats in your colony. At first the scenarios seem as though they would be more limiting 
 (and thus less interesting) than the continuous game. But in fact, it's the continuous-play mode 
 that feels limited because it plays very similarly each time, at least through the opening phases 
 where the nature and order of builds are fairly predictable. The familiar opening game gives the 
 continuous-play mode of 1602 A. D. a sameness that doesn't appear in the scenarios, which place 
 you in a wide variety of situations each with a definite goal to be achieved.  

 Trade is absolutely crucial in 1602 A. D. It is simply impossible to meet all of your citizens' demands 
 with the resources of a single island, and by the time you find you can expand to another island, 
 the settlers on the first island will be in an advanced state of development and will demand goods 
 the newly settled island cannot hope to provide until much later. Thus, establishing trade routes 
 is vitally important, and managing the routes demands constant attention. If you happen to colonize 
 an island with a native population, you can trade for goods such as spices and tobacco by overland 
 routes using covered wagons. However, it is generally necessary to begin trading with other players 
 from the very early stage of the game. The interface allows for some automation of trading, so 
 that once a good source of a certain item is found, ships can be assigned to ply that route continuously 
 as long as there are goods available for purchase. Even so, the changing demands of your populace 
 will require that you restructure a colony's trading arrangements. Thus, trade is another facet 
 of the game that needs constant monitoring, especially as the inhabitants become more advanced 
 and demand more and more luxuries to keep them satisfied.  

 While there are military units in the game, combat is not the focus of 1602 A. D. Because it is so 
 difficult to invade and conquer a well-prepared neighbor, military strength becomes a way of ensuring 
 a settlement's security rather than a means of threatening other players. This is where 1602 A. D. 
 resembles a god game far more than a traditional real-time build-and-conquer game. Properly managed, 
 a powerful military might never need to be used. This is not the case in some of the scenarios, 
 where military action is the only way to achieve your objectives, but this is the exception rather 
 than the rule. Those who enjoy building a large invasion fleet and annexing their neighbors won't 
 have a good time trying to do so in 1602 A. D. On the other hand, if you're interested in a slightly 
 more mercantilist depiction of society, you will enjoy the predominance of building and trade. 

 1602 A. D. has an extensive tutorial that does a decent job of explaining some of the basic game 
 concepts, and the manual is passable, but there is a lot to the game that isn't apparent on first 
 examination. This issue is compounded by the lack of any overall summary screens to organize the 
 vast amount of information that you're faced with. There's some information on the game's web site 
 that should have been included in the documentation. And while the interface makes manipulating 
 game functions fairly easy, it's less effective for information management. Though you'll have 
 the power of an all-knowing deity, you'll be forced to work hard for your omniscience.  

 While it can't boast innovative design or unusual gameplay, 1602 A. D. has a peculiar charm all its 
 own. The game captures the feel of the historical period very well and carries you along without 
 the extreme highs and lows that characterize more fast-paced and violent games. Those who prefer 
 to play action-packed computer games will be disappointed by 1602 A. D., but if you're looking for 
 a more relaxing game, you'll find a pleasant diversion in this engaging colony builder.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I still think Anno 1602 is by far the best in the Anno series. The other games may have been more 
 fleshed out but did not feel unique anymore with games such as Zeus, Caesar III and Immortal Cities 
 around.
  
  In Anno, you take care over a small island (within an array of islands) building housing and workplaces 
 for your citizens. It is a classic strategy game. The placement of your buildings is important, 
 so is the balance between selling and buying. The problems you are facing are scarcity of resources 
 with different islands being suited for different resources (such as spice, tobacco etc.) , competitors 
 and pirates, which are the most annoying aspect of the game.
  
  There are loads of campaigns and scenarios coming with the game and many more can be downloaded 
 online just in case the open-ended game is not enough for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Anno 1602 A. D. is a game set in the times when empires were expanding their land and started building 
 colonies and start trade between many other rivals. This game uses this concept. You start with 
 a ship and go to many different islands. One of the things the player should be looking for are 
 ores, which are worth a lot as you play the game.
  
  Combat is rarely an issue, however you have an opportunity to have combat units such as ships loaded 
 with cannons and riflemen which are able to attack other foot units.
  
  However there are some weird and strange set backs to the game makes the game difficult and unplayable. 
 Firstly it that some of the islands are very small. So making a city alone can be a boring task 
 in itself. Also with the lack of combat and just management makes the game boring. If there was 
 one thing that makes the game exciting, it would make the game more appealing. 
  
  Another problem I had was building selection, sometimes I would have to place buildings, however 
 end up placing the wrong building and doing so with end up using the most useful resources you 
 will need for other buildings to advance in the game, doing this can end up restarting the whole 
 level and wasting around 5 to 10 minutes of gameplay time or an hour if you forgot to save. 
  
  However the games graphics are colour and are well done. The cutscenes during the gameplay 
 are pretty good and the sound really makes good feedback in the game. 
  
  The strong attention of building cities makes the game worthwhile and should be given a chance 
 if you like Simcity ,however if the game added a little more excitement it would of attracted 
 a lot more attention.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-lord
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I picked this up not long after it came out, and I have to say that this game is awesome. 
 It's not a fast paced game like say Age of Empires or so, but it gives you time to plan, and enjoy 
 the game for what it is.
  
  The graphics are dated by todays standard of course, but they wont hurt your eyes either. Most 
 things are very well detailed, and you can tell what youre doing. 
  
  The sound is pretty good, the game gives you all the alerts, and stuff you need. It also has some 
 good "classical" music to enjoy. The narrator does a good job of making sure you hear what he says.
 
  
  The gameplay is not as slow as a snail, but its just slow enough so you can enjoy this game. This 
 game is more about developing you city/cities than going of and conquering your foes. But if you 
 wish you can build a pretty impressive army, and navy.
  
  All in all this game is worth playing. If you need a slow down, or just want to waste some time, 
 this game here is here to do it. So, next time you look through the bargin bin, be sure to grab 
 this gem if you find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isolationist
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Having its roots in old style RTS games, 1602 is a fun game to pick up for easy playing. Though 
 not much compared to others such as the Age of Empires series, it is worth playing if your into 
 the old school stuff. Much like the Caesar series in prospective, build your city and be successful 
 in conquering neighboring lands if you so choose to. Gain prosperity in trade and watching your 
 city thrive. One can spend a good amount of time playing this under the radar game. I'd recommend 
 this game to anyone that feels like they want to try something old and outdated. Sometimes the 
 old games are the best, and 1602 certainly has its own space of classic. It can probably be bought 
 for under ten dollars or so, assuming that you can still find it. I often find myself returning 
 to play this game, but only for short periods at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game itself is pretty simple, easy, and straight foward with no sudden twists or turns. The 
 gameplay is pretty slow so if you are all about the speed of Age of Empires games you shouldn't 
 buy this game right of the bat. My suggestion would be to download the demo first and get used 
 to the gameplay and if you like it buy the full version. As for the graphics in this game it's 
 nothing Hollywood but the game is very exciting and can be used when your on long plane or car 
 trips. The game is just right on the difficulty because at one point you will have to knuckle down 
 and start earning money or risk being in debt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotdarkcloud
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about this little game? It is simply a gem of a game that many haven't tried. 
 Just look at the game's stats on the right hand side. Only 702 people owned it at the time of this 
 review.
  
  If you have been browsing through your local tech store or game shop, you may have passed this 
 game in the bargain bin. SHAME. Next time you see this, dish out the couple dollars being charged 
 and give it a try.
  
  This game is great for pick up and play, and is not a system hog. It's suited well for a laptop 
 gamer, especially those who don't have a top of the line powerhouse to keep them entertained on 
 the road. Now matter how many distractions you get, you won't suddenly lose like fast based games.
 
  
  The visuals are aged by todays standard, but are still pleasing.
  The audio is marvelous with great voice acting by the narrator. ( There is gold here )
  The gameplay 
 is slow, and as a Age of Empirse player, it took me some time to get used to the simgle button 
 scheme.
  
  Overall I can only suggest this game to those not looking for a hollywood experience, but just 
 some relaxing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BauerME
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I found 1602 A. D. in the bargain bin a couple of years after it was 'dumped' in the U. S. I usually 
 prefer building and strategy games and I frequently find myself 'between' games as these are not 
 genres that see tons of new titles. So when I do see a new face in those genres I usually take 
 notice. But in this case the bargain bin was the first I had heard of the game. I only bought it 
 for the price and the fact that I was generally bored. That was a very happy bit of luck. The game 
 turned out to be a hidden treasure. Graphically it was a little primitive, but still quite pleasing. 
 The music and sound was clear and pleasant and the game play was captivating. The inclusion of 
 a map/scenario editor, complete with the ability to designate 'random' islands dramatically improved 
 the replayability of the game and it came with a decent multiplayer mode as well. I introduced 
 the game to my skeptical friends and I soon made new converts. The military mode was a bit lacking 
 and the pathing instincts of my own troops leave something to be desired, but first and foremost 
 the game is a building game and in that sense it is a solid success. There is something to be said 
 for the strength of the design as I still occasionally find myself playing the game even five years 
 later and certainly after my purchase and sever disappointment over 1503 A. D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks7345
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  a very good game to begin with. This game is kind of hard because you can easily be near to your 
 end. Pirates everywhere trying to loot you. You start at tutorials and then you begin to settle 
 at your island and become rich. The first 1 hour is easy but when the settlers turn to Citizens 
 then comes the hardest part. Citizens demand a church and public buidings which will cost you. 
 Its gets even harder when they turn into merchants and Aristocrats. Here's a hint on playing this 
 game... dont start wars because it going to cost you money and the settlers will get angry at you. 
 well this game is fun when you have 1,000,000 gold coins with 2,000 people living in your island 
 and at least defeated a Island of your self... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuda418
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Real-time strategy should have more like it. Basically shoved in my face, I thought it looked cheesy 
 at first. The user interface is "strange" lots of left clicking, not the usual left to select - 
 right to do. This makes the learning curve a bit steep. The graphics and sound aren't the best, 
 but it isn't a first person shooter, it is a strategy game. After giving it a try for about an 
 hour, I was completely hooked. The island resource management was excellent, planning my colonies 
 became almost like an art form. Didn't play much of the scenarios, I usually just played the "free" 
 mode. Your citizens just keep demanding you for more stuff which pushes your expansion against 
 your enemies. There is always room for improvement and optimization which keeps the game interesting. 
 The combat is a little stiff, but it really isn't the focus of the game.
  The left-clicking and stiffness of combat are why I didn't give higher marks in gameplay.
  
 
  If you see a copy, pick it up. 1503 on the other hand, isn't worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game has been out for awhile but it still rocks. I bought this and really didn't think 
 I would like it but hey it was on sale. I'm not much into the battle part but I love setting up 
 the colonies . I can spend hours on this game. It reminds me a bit of the sims before the sims. 
 I would love to see them make another one of this game and improve the graphics. It's simple to 
 learn but keeps your attenction. I usually die because I don't battle well and I'm not sure how 
 you win I just try to build a alsome Island. Easy to play but still challanging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_viva_la_sk8_x
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Being into the subject of History i find this game to be, accurate. Though the military part of 
 this game is weak, the game itself is challenging without being too challenging. I have had this 
 game for at least 2-3 years now, and still find it more amusing then I did the day I got it. Thought 
 I am sure it depicts the English-mans view on how the new world was settled long ago, I do find 
 it to be accurate for most of the countries that had settled the new world, in normal climates. 
 This game was not meant for military use, but more for the use of learning about the settlement 
 history of long ago. Its really a great game for history lovers, and people with to much time and 
 nothing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirtruffles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game doesnt have much to it other then building a civilization. Going to war with the other 
 countrys is so much fun, the combat on this game is sort of hard to get used to but when you get 
 the hang of it then you can take over anything. When you build your first city you have to find 
 a way to make money which can prove to be tuff if you havent ever played the game before. I give 
 this game a 9.5 even though its not the best. For everyone who likes to play games where you take 
 over the world or well major islands or like to take care of people by growing coco, tobacco, and 
 other goods then this game is actualy good for you, unlike other games where you have the stuff 
 sent to you when ever your people ask for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkestsun
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 13, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is actually quite difficult, but not Very Hard. The great things about 1602 is that it 
 has good city building and maintaining, and adds challenge when you add more cities. Its great 
 fun to see your cities grow and help in that process. There are some flaws to this game unfortunately, 
 for military is somewhat of a waste, and on missions where you need a stronger army it takes A 
 LOT of time to build it. Another bad thing is that you cant really control individual units, you 
 can sort of control your military but you men are hard to control, because the moving and selecting 
 is not at much ease as other RTS. Another misfortune is that you cant control civilian units and 
 when a crises happens sometimes you arent ready or for example your fire department isnt in range, 
 which i found to be annoying.
  
  This game had great potential, it wasn't very buggy, it had a good gameplay by building up a city, 
 and you could select your background music, which was somewhat of a bonus (although the choice 
 of music was weak) . 
  
  The potential of the game was ruined when a military was added (and needed) and building an army 
 took away from the game. Graphics weren't revolutionary either. The lack of control on individual 
 units was also a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is similar to an early game, Conquect of the New World, in which you start out with 
 a ship and are supposed to colonize a new land. You first build a few basic structures; a few farms, 
 a fishing hut, a couple of houses for your settlers. Your settlers will eventually want more, however, 
 and in order to expand, you must give them what they want. The city building aspect is much similar 
 to Caesar III but slower, if you've played that game. 
  
  Your settlers needs will quickly surpass that which your island has the resources to produce. While 
 you can create another colony on an island with the resources, the time it would take to advance 
 that colony so they can make it is far too great. This means you absolutely must trade with other 
 players. Since the demands of your settlers will often be changing, you'll have to re-arrange trading 
 arrangements quite often. 
  
  In 1602 A. D., you can build a military, but it is not the focus of the game. You'll never really 
 need to conquer an enemy to succeed, though it might distract him for a few minutes. The battles 
 are pretty difficult when facing someone who at least knows what he's doing, so the main use of 
 military is for defending your colony. Some missions may require you to use your military, though 
 that isn't often. 
  
  There is quite a steep learning curve required to play this game. The manual and tutorials give 
 you an idea of what you're doing, but after using them you'll have the feeling that you don't have 
 the 'big picture'. The first few games you'll probably confused as to what you're supposed to do, 
 and might have to try out a few random things to see what happens, but you'll get it after awhile. 
 
  
  1602 A. D. is a fun game at times, and different from most strategy games today. Unfortunately that 
 is all it has in its favor. This game will only appeal to those of you who want a break from strategy 
 games focusing on military, or the fast paced strategy games often seen today. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
