-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 1701 A.D.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/anno1701/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strikes a nice balance between hands-on gaming and micromanagement.
 Intuitive interface.
 Wide range of scenarios and open-ended continuous play mode.
 Tutorials cover just about everything that the game has to offer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much emphasis on unsatisfying combat.
 No one playing the game online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,055 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Related Designs
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 6, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Great design and atmosphere make this game about Caribbean colonization one of the better city builders 
 to come down the pike in some time. 

  Based on the date, the galleon on the box cover, and the pirate craze that's taken over pop culture 
 thanks to a certain Captain Jack Sparrow, it's easy to think that 1701 A. D. is about flying the 
 Jolly Roger on the Spanish Main. So you might be crestfallen to hear that this is actually a historical 
 city builder that concentrates on the economic side of developing Caribbean colonies at the dawn 
 of the 18th century. But even though that description sounds a bit blah, this sequel to 1503 A. D.: 
 The New World and 1602 A. D. is more than just an economic simulation. Developer Related Designs 
 has put a little too much emphasis on combat, but has balanced depth with such a great interface 
 and a tremendous ease of play that this is still one of the most lively city builders to hit the 
 PC all year.  

          Ah, the settlers are euphoric. Time for that massive tax hike!     

  The key is simplicity. 
 Instead of going crazy with so many features and details that you get lost in micromanagement hell, 
 1701 A. D. is centered on the straightforward job of keeping colonists happy with necessities and 
 creature comforts. So while you have an involved task ahead of you and must colonize numerous tropical 
 islands, build houses and other town infrastructure, gather and produce resources like wood, fish, 
 alcohol, bricks, gold, and jewels, and even set up island-hopping trade routes, the bottom line 
 is always to make sure that citizens pay their taxes with a smile.  

  Best of all, you can't get lost in menus and spreadsheets (there aren't any) , or ever reach that 
 point where you're scratching your head over why the heck your homes aren't developing or your 
 factories aren't working. There are four great tutorials here, and the basics are laid out so simply 
 that it's easy to see at a glance what's wrong. Also, the game steps in with feedback that sets 
 you on the right path during those rare moments when you can't immediately figure things out. It's 
 been a long time since we've seen a city-building sim so free of finicky bits.  

  Much of this is made possible by the excellent interface, visuals, and sound. The game sports a 
 clean, attractive look that lets you zip around the maps and zoom in on the 3D tropical paradises 
 to check on your residents. Giving the people what they want is always easy; all you need to do 
 is click on a house to see the face of a homeowner. A quick glance at his expression -- laughing 
 and jovial when things are going great, scowling when they're not -- tells the whole story about 
 your performance as head honcho, and the adjacent progress bars indicate how desires for specific 
 products are being met. If this isn't good enough, you can also listen in for comments from the 
 peanut gallery, which are always informative, if awfully repetitive. Hear "Our settlement is something 
 to see!" or "What a wonderful day!" a lot, and you know you're on the right track.  

  You start with addressing essential needs like community, food, cloth, and faith through erecting 
 buildings like town centers, fish farms, sheep farms and weavers' huts, and chapels. Meet these 
 desires and the people will be pleased, which will result in both them and their buildings evolving 
 to new social ranks (you start with pioneers, then move to settlers, then citizens, and so on) 
 that bring with them demands for more luxurious items like education, tobacco, chocolate, and alcohol, 
 and the ability to build new structures and facilities to provide all of these products.  

  Of course, if this was all that 1701 A. D. was about, the game wouldn't be particularly challenging. 
 Thankfully, there are real obstacles to setting up a colonial empire in both the primary continuous 
 mode of play, which is best described as an open-ended campaign, and the 10 one-off scenarios with 
 specific goals like finding a lost ship or impressing a pirate captain. The most notable wrinkles 
 in both modes of play are the islands themselves. They have limited types of resources, so you 
 have to pick and choose a starting spot to set up, and then branch out elsewhere to access other 
 necessities. Generally, you start off looking for a jack-of-all-trades island with plenty of basics 
 like fish stock, good soil for grain, and maybe a clay pit, then head elsewhere as your colony 
 develops a taste for the finer things, like booze and smokes.  

  This is where things get difficult. Since most islands permit the cultivation of just two or three 
 resources, you need to sail all over the map in search of some goods. Maps are randomized at the 
 start of each continuous game, but there always seems to be one vital resource that is impossible 
 to find. One match it might be hops. The next it might be honey. At any rate, you can bet that 
 by the time you find this missing link, a rival will have already set up shop next to it and won't 
 be pleased about you horning in on the action.  

  You see, you're not the only European power colonizing the Caribbean. Competition is intense, and 
 you need to race enemies to resources and slap up market buildings that stake your claim to all 
 of the goodies in the surrounding area. Inevitably, either you or one of your foes is going to 
 wind up in a position where a vital resource can only be accessed by an act of war. It generally 
 doesn't take more than a few hours before you run into an enemy with control over some key island, 
 like the only convenient one where you can grow the cane fields needed to make the booze that keeps 
 your settlers too loaded to consider revolting. This is unfortunate, as military matters are the 
 least compelling aspect of the game. Ship battles are simplistic, ever-turning affairs no more 
 involved than what was depicted in Sid Meier's Pirates!, and land warfare is all about hurling 
 units like pikemen en masse at enemy buildings. There is a diplomatic option, but efforts there 
 are often wrecked by rivals who seem predisposed to hostility.  

  So the end result is that you have to put your dukes up a fair bit. That's a real shame, because 
 1701 A. D. does economics best, and the switch from ploughshares to swords is extremely jarring. 
 Continuous mode campaigns are more enjoyable while they're still all about economics, which means 
 that you wind up sort of dreading the moment when you have to move in on the turf of a rival like 
 the pirate boss Carmen Marquez and spark the arms race that gets the fighting started. A more preferable 
 option here might have been to keep combat at arm's length, and perhaps include a military advisor 
 demanding money and resources for troops and ship expenses. This would have met historical realities 
 and gotten the military into the picture, yet still kept the focus on the economics, where it clearly 
 belongs in this sort of game.  

          What would the Caribbean be without the odd hurricane?     

  You have to suspect that 
 battles would be a big part of the two-to-four-player competitive multiplayer mode of play (just 
 like continuous solo play, but with human opponents) , given the typically heightened competition 
 whenever you go online. But that remains a question mark, as there doesn't seem to be anybody playing 
 online right now. Servers were deserted through the first week the game hit stores, although this 
 could be chalked up to apparently limited distribution in the early days. This is the kind of design 
 that should work very well in multiplayer, however, barring any technical problems or other issues. 

  More of a lighthearted look at the age of exploration than a hardcore economic simulation, 1701 
 A. D. still has plenty of character and depth. It's not going to set the world on fire with innovations, 
 but it has a fantastic interface, is very catchy, and boasts loads of charisma, even without any 
 piratical yo-ho-ho-ing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first sat to play this, I had been coming from the Settlers: Rise of an Empire game. I had 
 enjoyed that one, but felt it had its issues. 
  
  1701 AD is the first time I've tried out this series and I am quite impressed with its delivery. 
 The oddest realization I had is that its an economic simulation and I had no idea until I was already 
 enjoying myself.
  
  Starting off with minimal resource requirements to keep your population happy, you gradually add 
 luxury items to their collection. These luxury items then become necessities as they advance in 
 status from settler to pioneer, to citizen, to merchant, and finally to aristocrat. in the process, 
 you need to increasingly rely on trade and interaction with other players in order to have needs 
 met. 
  
  It's hard for me to portray the enjoyment in this process, but it is certainly there. There is 
 a peaceful and gradual growth that is ready to move at your pace. There's a zen-like state of optimal 
 gradual growth - you don't want the population to grow too fast though you may want an increase 
 in taxable populace because you can run out of food and other resources. As soon as a group of 
 your citizens reach a new class, there's a smooth change in requirements.
  
  The interactions with others range from peaceable trading to spying to all out war. Getting to 
 the best warships, however, can take quite a long time. 
  
  As a Starcraft veteran (which I enjoyed a lot years ago) , I personally find the slower pace and 
 optional warfare here quite satisfying. 
  
  In the end, winning is not necessarily crushing an opponent, rather finding some homeostasis in 
 the community and the characters on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The discovery and settlement of the New World is an intriguing part of history that games have 
 not given much attention to. Here comes a micromanagement game that does throw some spotlight on 
 the New World. And it does quite a good work but just not enough.
  
  The first thing that you notice when you enter the game is the beautiful graphics. It's one of 
 the best looking micromanagement games I have seen. Much attention has been given to detail and 
 this is evident on the close zoom levels. Effects like rain effects are well done but the water 
 effects fall flat.
  
  The game also has done its acoustics well. The background sound is neat. So is the voice acting, 
 though it might sometime seem as if the developers expect the player to be a first grader.
  
  The game has a elaborate tutorial that introduces you to the game concepts and makes you comfortable 
 with them quickly enough. The learning curve is not too steep. That's a bonus for the game.
  
  Gameplay is where the game fails to score enough. The gameplay works well and there is little 
 flaw. However it is far too simple for a hardcore micromanagement gamer who finds games any simpler 
 than Pharaoh or Hearts of Iron not worth the genre.
  
  However for first timers in micromanagement games, this is the right place to start. This simple 
 gameplay coupled with an uncluttered interface makes sure that the player does not get lost in 
 numerous menus and controls. Keeping apace the flow of the game has never been easier.
  
  The main problem with the game is that it's far too simple and lacks the necessary challenge that 
 people like me hooked to it. The challenges are inadequately structured and provides little incentive 
 to play the game. The developers could have looked into that part.
  
  As with most other micromanagement games combat is quite weak and yet the emphasis on it is more 
 than that is good for the game.
  
  VERDICT:
  
  This might not be the ideal hardcore micromanagement game, nevertheless it has enough stuff in 
 it for the newbie combined with great visual appeal. And yes there could have been a more convincing 
 challenges.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immartinez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the elements RTS fans love about this genre. Unlike a FPS where you sorta run 
 in a given direction and shoot at everything that moves, this type of game forces to apply tactical 
 and strategic thinking to your moves. Though I must admit I love my Call of Duty and Halo series.
 
  
  You will also learn to negotiate and make decisions that will impact the future of your colony. 
 And if you screw up and your colony gets overrun, I guarantee you will be devastated. On the other 
 hand, if you succeed and build a moneymaking operation that ensures a huge unstoppable armed force, 
 the rewards are hard to describe.
  
  I recommend not cheating on this game. You'll enjoy it more if you try to build your empire with 
 no cheats.
  
  For parents, this game could be appropriate for children and it is very stimulating to the old 
 noggin area, it will be challenging no matter how old or smart you think you are.
  
  The graphics are very good, though I recommend you play this one set to the highest graphics levels 
 available.
  
  You will greatly enjoy this one and these days it is quite a bargain provided the huge amount of 
 entertainment the investment will return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Anno1701 (as the EU versio is known as) is a wonderful and addictive game. It may not be a perfect 
 title, and who cares about perfection when entertainment takes centre stage.
  
  In simple terms Anno1701 is a city building title with some strategic elements rolled in. Each 
 player is assigned an island on which you start building your little economic powerhouse. The strategy 
 comes into play with the fact that your little island doesn't have all the resources you need to 
 build a burgeoning civilisation. You have to start settling on other unclaimes islands, and then 
 make use of trade routes to ship materials between your home island and the supply source. At times 
 you may have to start destroying other cultures to obtain their island. Alternatively you get enter 
 into a trade agreement with them, and ultimately become their ally.
  
  The game mechanics are relatively simple, but then again this game is not intended as a sim. It 
 is simply a fun games that was produced to entertain. It is not uncommon to sit for hours and play. 
 This title is intended to be played by the casual gamer that doesn't want to micro manage their 
 little world.
  
  The graphics is pretty and cute, but the background soundtrack and sound effects can get repetative 
 after a while.
  
  The jist of the matter is that if you like city building titles in a similar vein to Cesaer IV, 
 then this will be a game you will definitely enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertykeys
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  1701 A. D. is a great game for people who like slower paced games that include building and creating. 
 As a player of a previous game, 1602 A. D., I have to say that the developers made significant improvements.
 
  
  Everything is so much easier to understand in 1701 A. D. in comparison to 1602 A. D. From the way 
 to level up your population to the way you make trade routes; everything is simpler. The graphics 
 are very good and the animation is extremely realistic. Sometimes if it's raining or storming and 
 you zoom in, you even see raindrops on your screen. 
  
  There is even some nice voice acting for when other leaders want to talk to you. When you zoom 
 in to see your city, you can hear your people talking.
  
  The game has continuous play, scenarios, and playground mode for single player. In continuous play, 
 you can just play to your hearts content. In the scenarios, you have a goal to accomplish. Playground 
 mode lets you just build regardless of the rules set in the scenarios or continuous play. Multiplayer 
 mode lets you play with or against others.
  
  For continuous play, you start with a ship and basic supplies. You search for a good island to 
 settle and start making new buildings to make certain goods. As your city's population levels up, 
 you can settle more islands and need to supply goods that are harder to provide. The levels are 
 Pioneer, Settler, Citizen, Merchant, and Aristocrat. You can also trade or declare war on others. 
 Sometimes you can help a trader and get money or goods as a little side quest. You can win the 
 game by becoming independent from the Queen of the country your ship and supplies came from. You 
 can do this through war or by being diplomatic.
  
  The whole game is building a city or completing a goal. It's a little easy in the beginning, but 
 it gets harder as things get more complex. The game is very fun and is, in my opinion, one of the 
 better building games available.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancarius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  With the realistic and historic dedication of the Caesar series and the ruthless time and effort 
 hoarding of Master of Orion this is a game that asks for a lot of attention. If you enjoy builder 
 games as much as I do then you're bound to need a lot of coffee and food next to you as you play 
 this game all through the night.
  Although the basic gameplay seems simple at first just passing building orders for the first half 
 hour you really start getting bored but as you slowly start losing money to everything from trade 
 to building upkeep you tend to get your nerves in a rattle. With marvelous graphics and an ever 
 evolving set of characters and civic levels it becomes imperative to take into consideration every 
 aspect of live in the year 1701 A. D..
  So as to not let down anyone I would state for the record that not everything is as I expected 
 in the game. Seeing as you're supposed to build your own colony in something that has the look 
 and feel of the Carabian you kind of expect to see bars and brawls and a ruthless tax collector 
 that makes gameplay harder to adjust to. But to my surprise the game is pretty straight forward 
 and doesn't require too much cognitive power if you're over 12 as well as the single level continuous 
 play making things everlasting and therefor making it sort of undaunting. Still worth a pretty 
 penny to pass the time till your spouse comes home from work or you're waiting for something better 
 to come along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris50022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I love the RTS genre and have been looking for another game in which to sink my teeth. I think 
 I was working my way through another round trip of Titan when this game launched. Immediately I 
 was impressed with the overall feel and scope of the game. I like any game that challenges the 
 player at each turn/level with new problems. Even when you think you have your population satiated 
 with current needs and start working towards new resources you find yourself having to go back 
 and rework basics in order to provide for an ever growing empire. I think the graphics are great. 
 The water looks amazing and individual actions are well thought-out. Every level of population 
 has different photo-idiosyncrasies that are amusing to watch. My only criticism is that the single-player 
 "campaign" was much too short. But, then that forces you to just play in the "Continuous Build" 
 mode which is great fun anyway. Overall, a great game and a must play for anyone who's a fan of 
 Tropico, The Settlers, or even the Caesar Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroxfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  I have to say that i played the demo of the game before this about 4-5 years ago and i loved it 
 never stopped playing it. Now however i played it and got bored very fast the only entertainment 
 was the scenarios which their need to be more of them maybe it's because i have played the formula 
 for the game to much i dunno anyway personal opinion's aside and onto my review the graphics are 
 good the whole game in fact looks gorgeous until you zoom in the water effects are probably the 
 best I've seen in some time. 
  The game offers several modes continuous play sceneries and a strange playground mode that i think 
 is pretty pointless. 
  The game is all about colanising an islands in the Carribien and managing them by providing the 
 people who start out as pioneers with the goods they desire and they became settlers more building 
 options became available and you continue sometimes you fight the others trying to take over islands 
 and a bland combat takes place that just leeches your eneconemy thats the contius mode the scenario 
 mode has a variety of fun challanges and the playground mode basically just lets you build stuff. 
 the sound is pretty average with some recycled sound effects overall it sets the theme.
  In conclusion Anno 1701 is one of the best city builders out their because it has a good balance 
 even tho it could use more scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kotanut
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I purchased 1602 when it came out, then 1503 as soon as it was released. I have continued to enjoy 
 both. 1701 however was a major disappointment for me. The game play is fun, but the 3d graphics 
 really can't compare to 1503's 2d. Perhaps my package of the game didn't include the funky little 
 paper glasses you're supposed to wear to make the images look impressive. I don't know. Even with 
 all the settings maxed out, I just don't get it. I'm using an older machine, but not a dinosaur 
 by any means. A P4, 2.8 gig processor, 1.5 gig ram , and a Nvidia 6200 pci card. The bottom line, 
 unless all the extras are turned off, game play runs at a snails pace. With the extras turned off, 
 the graphic image is like a washed out watercolor. 1503 is still my game of choice in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmatusiak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply great. I used to play Caesar 3 and Pharaoh a lot and waited a long time for 
 another great supply-chain game to come along and this is definitely it. I can't believe I never 
 knew about this game until just recently.
  
  The only slight disappointment is the combat system, which is fairly bland. However, this isn't 
 really a game for tactical combat fans, and if I wanted cool naval battles I'd load up Sid's Pirates 
 (or AoE3 for that matter) .
  
  Not much else to say except ... what the fudge happened to the expansion that was supposed to be 
 coming out this months!? Sunflowers went to Ubi (I think) and Ubi doesn't even list this game on 
 it's site, and dumped all associations with it ... or so it seems. This is saddening because I 
 was really looking forward to what they'd add to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidfull
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Anno 1701 is Most advanced and most complete RTS game so far.
  
  You have a lot functions to do and its very near to real world this game can Amuse you if you are 
 interest to historic RTS game
  
  I think after Age of Empires 2 and Knight of Honor its best historic RTS game that I have played.
 
  
  Also game stability is nice but I strongly recommend to apply patch 1.02 before play.
  
  Graphic is very great for release date means Nov 2006 (means one year ago)
  
  I played 
 with XFX 8800GTS 640MB A3 500M Stock + Core 2 Duo E6300 @ 1.86GHz + GB 965P-DS4 + 2x1GB DDR2-800 
 also I set all setting to very hich with 8AA 16AF and I had these FPS :
  
  Min = 27
  Avg = 43
  Max = 63
  
  Smooth!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speak01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  City building games have seen their decline as of late, with few companies even bothering to try 
 their hand at the genre that was once one of the most popular in the industry. The only two that 
 come to mind are the age old SimCity, which saw its fourth installment in early 2003, and City 
 Life, which attempted to bring the genre into a full three dimensions in 2006. Neither really achieved 
 any great success though and in the end, the genre was left right where it was at the beginning 
 of its decline in the first place  with very few games to call its own and a decidedly noticeable 
 lack of originality. With this kind of slump in a genre, its surprising that such a simple game 
 like 1701 A. D. holds just the kind of promise that it needs to make a comeback. Speaking realistically, 
 1701 A. D. isnt going to accomplish the feat all on its own, but if developers can take a look 
 at what fellow developer Related Designs puts on the table with this one game, there might be some 
 truly noteworthy games in the city building genre in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahqahq
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo and liked the game very much. I bought the gaem later hoping to find much 
 more fun in the independence adn military aspects of the game. It was not. THe gaem is still enjoyabel 
 for a long time but you have to like the city building genre adn be very patient. Waiting for the 
 materials so that you can build a new warship can be boring. The only military part that was good 
 is the ship combat. You can litterally destroy a enemys civ by blocakding their ports adn destrooying 
 their trade routes. Thats another part I enjoyed was the trade routes. It added a great new way 
 to gather resources whether you are making them or youre buying thm form a friend. The gaem can 
 be very good but it can get old. Recommneded if you like games like zeus or other city builders. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Good
  Gameplay is simple without seeming shallow or contrived; gorgeous presentation is scalable enough 
 for old systems, while still allowing those with high-end systems to see a fair amount of eye candy; 
 the game is approachable by any age group; the game features a built-in illustrated encyclopedia 
 instead of a boring manual; the games default tutorial is superb and covers nearly all of the 
 features of the game.
  
  Bad
  The game world can feel a bit large at times; game could have used a day/night system.
  
  City 
 building games have seen their decline as of late, with few companies even bothering to try their 
 hand at the genre that was once one of the most popular in the industry. The only two that come 
 to mind are the age old SimCity, which saw its fourth installment in early 2003, and City Life, 
 which attempted to bring the genre into a full three dimensions in 2006. Neither really achieved 
 any great success though and in the end, the genre was left right where it was at the beginning 
 of its decline in the first place  with very few games to call its own and a decidedly noticeable 
 lack of originality. With this kind of slump in a genre, its surprising that such a simple game 
 like 1701 A. D. holds just the kind of promise that it needs to make a comeback. Speaking realistically, 
 1701 A. D. isnt going to accomplish the feat all on its own, but if developers can take a look 
 at what fellow developer Related Designs puts on the table with this one game, there might be some 
 truly noteworthy games in the city building genre in the future.
  
  For those that might think that this is a brand new game to hit the market, youre a little mistaken. 
 1701 A. D. is actually a sequel to another set of games with the same premise  pre-colonial American 
 city building in the Caribbean. The first few games, developed by German studio Sunflowers, were 
 superb games in their own right and sparked a healthy collection of fans on the internet. So its 
 no surprise that 1701 A. D. arrived with a bit of fanfare in its native Germany. And it doesnt 
 seem like anyone cared that Sunflowers gave over the development reigns to fellow German developer 
 Related Designs. But to be honest, they really shouldnt. Related Designs has managed to capture 
 the very essence of the series superbly, all while introducing a slew of new features that make 
 the experience that much more astounding.
  
  When you first get 1701 A. D. going, youre treated to whats only the beginning of an amazing presentation. 
 The introduction movie is well animated and voice acted  to the point where you might actually 
 want to watch it again because its just that good  and is full of thunderous bass and excitement. 
 When you finally get the games main menu, youre treated to something that a lot of people might 
 not be used to in a game like this - a real-time three dimensional menu. While this may seem like 
 all show, its really not and the reason becomes apparent when you hit the options menu. As you 
 play around with the video settings, youll notice that the detail of the menu changes based on 
 the settings youve chosen. So not only is the menu simply there for you to choose how things work, 
 but its designed to give you a basic approximation of how the game will look and run on your system. 
 This is another thing that 1701 A. D. does really well  it runs on a wide range of systems regardless 
 of what kind of graphical horsepower they have. Sure, theres the standard eye candy for those 
 with monster rigs; normal mapping, HDR, and camera settings specifically geared for widescreen 
 resolutions, but even if you turn the settings down a notch, the game will still look amazing. 
 It only goes to show that Related Designs knows exactly what theyre doing because a scalable game 
 is a game thats going to sell more copies.
  
  After youve got everything working the way you want it, prepare to have some fun. 1701 A. D. is 
 as approachable as it is relaxed. Theres nothing in the game thats going to give you any frustration 
 and if there anything happening that confuses you on the off-chance, the game will likely tell 
 you exactly whats wrong and how to fix is sooner or later. Its this ease of use and well-designed 
 simplicity that makes 1701 A. D. as much fun as it is.
  
  The basics of 1701 A. D. are city building. Youre given a randomly generated Caribbean themed map 
 that youve been tasked with colonizing. At the very outset, all youve got to your name is an 
 island and a small warehouse. In the initial stages of the game, your main goal is simply to get 
 a few colonists to settle on your island and provide them with everything they need to survive. 
 That factors out to become food to eat and wood to building things with, which is where the games 
 simple production system comes into play. In 1701 A. D., production is broken into two or three 
 sections. The first section is your main raw material creation. If theres a clay pit on your island, 
 the first section in clay production is going to be the Clay Pit. The second section of production 
 is going to be the brickworks and later on the in the game, theres other things that you can add 
 to this production chain to make nicer things for your colonist. And once the bricks are complete, 
 the merchant wagons will come from your warehouse and take it back, adding to your colonys goods 
 stockpile, provided that youve linked these production buildings to your warehouse with a couple 
 of road. If there are no roads between your warehouse and the building, the wagons cant get to 
 them and the building shut down because theyre too full of stuff to make more. Your goods stockpile 
 is the very essence of your colony. The amount and type of goods in your warehouse stockpiles is 
 directly responsible for the happiness of your colonists. In the initial stages of the game, all 
 they want is wood, tools, food, and a little bit of cloth. Once youve given them ample amounts 
 of all that, your colonists pretty happy. Keep all of your colonists happy and you have a surefire 
 way to collect taxes and earn your colonys income.
  
  This basic structure proceeds even into the later stages of the game. The structures gets mixed 
 up a little bit here and there  for instance, in order to get your colony to upgrade itself with 
 a new look and settler level, youll sometimes need to build a certain number of kind of building 
 to make your colonists happy. Your early settlers will eventually want a school to keep their little 
 tykes happy and if you dont buy one, theyll get angry at you and hall themselves off to another 
 colony. And if youre ever wondering what your colonists need exactly to proceed to the next settler 
 level, all you need to do is click on the town square. The display that comes up will tell you 
 exactly how happy your colonists are and how happy they are with every individual need they have. 
 If things are green, then youre doing a good job, but if things are red, theres some work that 
 needs to be done.
  
  Outside of these economic features, 1701 A. D. provides everything most city building games provide. 
 There are natural disasters that can strike from time to time, such as hurricanes and small building 
 fires, or theres the random pirate raid. Pirate raids tend to pretty well demoralize your citizens 
 and once this happens, itll be time to strengthen your own defense in case they decide they want 
 to come back for a second go. And this is where the other half of the games mechanics comes in. 
 Should you need to defend yourself, you have all of the things you need to do so. Raising a militia 
 is as simple as place the militia building into your colony and recruiting troops much like an 
 RTS, although simplified. You can also surround your colony with watch towers and walls if you 
 feel its necessary. Sometime during the early stages of the game, youll also come across the 
 ability to build a shipyard that can in turn manufacture ships to go head to head with the pirate 
 galleons, but for the most part its easier to wait until the pirates make land on their next raid 
 and take them on with your troops.
  
  A lot of this interesting, yet simple gameplay would be useless without a decent presentation to 
 go with it, but Related Designs gives us much more than simply decent presentation. 1701 A. D. boasts 
 some of the most impressive visuals seen to date in a game of this type. The game makes full use 
 of all the latest technologies such as high dynamic range lighting, normal and parallax mapping, 
 Shader Model 3.0 effects, and special modes for those folks using 16:9 or 16:10 widescreen monitors. 
 The game world is littered with tons of great things to pad out the atmosphere, such as birds and 
 a large array of natural wildlife to set your gaze on. To top it all off, the game features a special 
 screenshot mode, which switches the camera to an angle thats low to ground and casts a depth 
 of field shader on the distance to make everything sort of look like one of those model towns youd 
 see in a hobby shop. The effect is astounding to see in actions and after trying it out a few times, 
 youll wish that more strategy games would use this kind of features. But although the visuals 
 in 1701 A. D. are impressive, you cant help but feel like they could have added some additional 
 things to round it all off. Day and night cycling would have been a great thing to add here and 
 the absence of this kind of features really sticks out given everything else thats in the presentation.
 
  
  On the audio side of things, 1701 A. D. couldnt get any better. Granted, theres not a lot of voice 
 work in a game like this, but its worth noting that there isnt a single voice in this game thats 
 going to grate on your nerves. All of the opposing characters that are available are superbly voiced 
 and none of them seem out of place in the world youre inhabiting in-game. Aside from that, the 
 voice acting in the games introductory movie deserves special mention because it blends perfectly 
 into the tone of the visuals and the accompanying music is simply divine and will make you want 
 to turn your surround sound setup all the way to full blast. The in-game music is of equally high 
 caliber  it never gets on your nerves and its just low enough that you can still hear it, but 
 it doesnt get in the way of the incredible amount of atmosphere sounds the game throws your way.
 
  
  In the end, 1701 A. D. is perhaps the perfect example of a game done truly right. This kind of quality 
 is unexpected from a game released in a genre thats been seen as dying for years now and from 
 a developer that hasnt really gotten a taste of any kind of limelight. Between the high quality 
 of visual presentation to the simple depth of its gameplay, 1701 A. D. is fun for the entire family 
 and the prime example of how an approachable city-building sim should be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  1701 A. D. is a charming PC game that offers tons of replay value. What will strike your attention 
 first is the shockingly high production values. The intro movie is incredibly done, the menus, 
 manual, in-game artwork, and even official website are all just beautiful. The game runs smoothly 
 and is very fun to watch as your characters go about their daily lives. Gameplay is challenging, 
 but offers many different options so you can tailor your game experience to match your abilities. 
 The game music is very well done and the sound effects are attractively and not annoying. I really 
 liked the attention to detail that designers obviously put into the game, like the little animations 
 on all the buildings, animal life in the wilderness, life-like forests, rivers, and oceans, and 
 even the textures on the roads are surprisingly detailed. I really enjoy playing this game, which 
 is a must-have for any city-builder or life-simulation gaming fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_unitx
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I belive everyone who loves strategy and sim-based games will definetly be stucked to 1701 A. D. 
 for the first few days, and maybe even more.
  
  Great reallistic graphics, beautiful music, and complex but addictive gameplay - it sounds perfect. 
 But not quite... When you spend your first few days with 1701 A. D. you begin to notice small details 
 which could be better. The game throws at you everything: Building, expansion, industry, diplomacy, 
 fighting... but none of this isn't worked into perfection. I cant compare building form 1701 A. D. 
 with building from Settlers, or expansion and diplomacy with Civilization, or fighting with any 
 other RT-strategy. This every aspect of the game could be better, but on the other hand, it gives 
 you one new look and originality.
  Of course, I don't deny you will defenitly and quickly fall in love with the world from 1701 A. D., 
 in it's characters and beautiful islands and seas, hidden treasures and long sandy beaches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulfur666
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  To the review now. The game is extremely well done both graphics and gameplay wise. It kept the 
 basic aspects as in Anno 1602 and only distributed all the different building options through the 
 5 different settlement generations. The generations go from simple Peasants to ellegant Aristocrats. 
 Everytime you meet all the demands made by your people the generation as well as the house looks 
 change. Demands vary from buildings such as churches, school etc. to goods such as chocolates, 
 food and so on. The hardest part is to meet those demands constantly by supplying your people with 
 everything they need if you however, run out of one certain item such as food for example for a 
 long period of time the people will start rebelling and they will start fires and riots through 
 out the streets. So it is imperative to have all the good all the time. What i found to make things 
 easier is to lower the tax bar just into the dark green area therefore their consumption will lower 
 quite a bit.
  
  The naval battles are simple but effective, there is not much animation or graphics involved in 
 the battles however, they are quite enjoyable to a degree. What i love to do is get to the Aristocrate 
 generation meet all their demands and then build a few warships and go Pirate hunting.
  
  You can customize all your games by which you can place as many as 3 other computer players as 
 well as other Tribes, a Free Trader (he doesn't do anything but trade with all the players in the 
 game) and a Pirate called Ramirez. You can also choose the victory options as well as the map &amp; 
 island sizes. In other words the game is completely customizable.
  
  The Free Trader is your constant source of goods as well as your allies and people you have a Trade 
 Agreement with. However, the free trader gives you the option of doing Quests in which you can 
 get money or goods. I love this new feature because it brightens up the game quite a lot and makes 
 it fun also.
  
  To the graphics, now this is always a touchie subject. The graphics are brilliant and very effective 
 to be honest if i would rate them i would say a 9/10. The water looks very beautiful with its shine. 
 The environment around certain islands can sometimes vary for example when you look at the pirate 
 island it has a darkish stormy look with the ocean darkish green and a fog over the island. Either 
 way the graphics are quite charming.
  
  The game is easily picked up. There are minor things you need to know such as building, trading 
 and growing crops as well as collecting them. Everything else comes to you naturally besides that 
 the game is simplified so even a 10 year old can play.
  
  This game is very fun and hours will pass without you knowing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this with the idea that I would have another city building game with a little historical 
 twist it, but not much else, but when I got it, I was very surprised at the amazing graphics and 
 the attention to detail that Related Designs put into this game. The great graphics plus a ton 
 of very good voiceovers, I really found myself getting into this game, much more then I thought 
 I would. The game play is much like its forefathers like 1503 A. D. and 1602 A. D. and much of the 
 other building games like this. This game may be compared more to Tropico, you land on a island 
 funded by the Queen, and she expect you to take this island and make cities and grow crops and 
 make tons of money. The problem is, there are others out there, doing the same thing, and wanting 
 your hide and your land. In fact this is probably the only thing I really dislike about this game, 
 is that I spend too much time trying to defend my land them what I really want to do, and that 
 is build my cities and trade with others, or at lease that is why I bought the game. You can adjust 
 the game a bit to better suite you. There are tons of things to do her, you have farming and mining 
 like in most games, and you can raise animals to help you keep your people happy. This game doesnt 
 have the huge building levels that say CivCity: Rome has, where you need two or three other services 
 to make things work, but it does do a pretty good job of allow you to help your city grow. This 
 game has some great features, and a non menu way of operating the game, which work very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alysenne
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Many people will find this game very enjoyable and rightfully so. It has a nice balance of micromanagement 
 and high level planning, wrapped in a pretty package.
  
  The interface is very streamlined and in most situations, this does make gameplay run smoother. 
 But builder simulation pros will quickly find the lack of spreadsheets and information screens 
 to be rather painful. This means that you have to constantly move all over the world, clicking 
 on individual buildings to see your status.
  
  But even that problem pales in comparison to the lack of a working pause. Unlike almost every other 
 building simulation, if you pause the game, you can no longer do anything other than scroll around 
 the world. You can't examine buildings. You can't view your progress. You can't create trade routes. 
 You can't plan anything. This is a complete gamebreaker for me.
  
  While you are planning, a pirate has enough time to sink a ship or a fire or riot can cripple your 
 city. This means that there is a constant feeling of urgency whenever you do anything because you 
 know that time is passing very quickly.
  
  The game is definitely worth trying out. But imagine playing Civilization 4 or The Sims 2 without 
 a pause. That's how this game feels and for a simulation fan, it is unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I really liked Anno 1503 AD-The New World,&amp; I was vey happy when I got the sequel to that game, Anno 
 1701. It's a really great game,&amp; best in series. Firstly, the graphics are somehow poor, but I 
 gave them 8. Some horrible textures aren't nice at all! The sound is very good, but the music is 
 not as nice as the one from Anno 1503. But the good thing is that the economy, building &amp; trading 
 is simplyfied. We won't have that rush for building a tool production industry like in Anno 1503. Here 
 the free trader allways saves the day! The scenarios are really good &amp; various,&amp; the volcanos, earthquakes, 
 tornadoes, storms really make the atmosphere nice! It's a great game that you wouldn't like to miss! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  What about anno 1701 AD? What's so cool?
  well, it's the game that fits totally the my taste. Just fits my gameplay. I know.. i myself am 
 addicted to game that are taking on role building/colonizing. Many things are good too. For example 
 trading and doing free traders quests. And many other things. This game has to offer so much things, 
 it's really worth your money. Building houses, exploring, trading, researching, advancing and natural 
 catastrophes, all of them are waiting for you. You will have time all the time. There are short 
 10-20 second periods where there is nothing to do, i fill that with screenshoting or just enjoy 
 the colonial feeling. There are also some shortages, most of them are food, cloth, alcohol shortages, 
 or raw material shortages. All of them can be replaced, but the only minus is, that if your colonists 
 don't have one material for a short period, they are hating you as hell. So you must ALWAYS watch 
 your supplies. And you must watch on your budget as wel.
  
  Well, this game has plenty to offer, with some minor minuses, but overall it's great game.
  
 
  pros:
  + colonial feeling
  + never get boring
  + plenty to do/make
  + keeps you busy for many hours not even know that
  + nice interface
  + great tutorial
  
 
  cons:
  - people are angry that you don't supply them for short time period. - still freaky strategic map
 
  - ships sometimes don't bring the cargo, as they should if they are automated
  
  Overall:
  game is fantastic. It has it's own potential.
  I would choose this game as a game 
 that every game should be that good or better. Keeps you very long, and it's absolutely worth your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Take your Civ City Rome 4 and skim it out over the ocean. It's a pile of junk. May as well skim 
 Medieval Total Crap 2. It doesn't work i tell you. Also skim Age of Empires 3. Just for the hell 
 of it. You won't need them anymore!
  
  Gaming has been blessed. After all these long years someone has finally produced a strategy game 
 worthy of praise. Even now as i write this review i have tears of joy in my eyes. Pause for a moment 
 to consider ...
  
  What do you look for in a game? .. graphics? .. sound? .. gameplay? .. a game that will run? .. 
 a game without bugs? What about care and attention to detail? .. a little humour?
  
  Should i go on? .. can i go on?
  
  It all comes down to one thing 'A LOVE FOR GAMING'. If you 
 care more about that than ripping people off for cash then you're on the right step to producing 
 a quality game.
  
  In the old days of the Super Nintendo's and Megadrives, gameplay was everything. Even early PC 
 titles. However, this is no longer the case. Games are rushed through the door quicker than a poor 
 old tramp in an uptown high street store. It's all about money. Games are important. People need 
 something that's interesting for their minds. Who these days still plays Monopoly? Developers need 
 to take this into consideration. We need to be looked after. For we are the 'gamers', and what 
 we think is the only thing that matters in this crazy old world.
  
  To sum up .. Anno 1701 is a game made for people that expect a good game for their money. You'll 
 be playing this one for years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Releasing onto store shelves on November 6th of 2006, the developers wanted to take everything 
 that great about the first two games in the A. D. series and put it into the third game. What they 
 came up with is a beautiful game set in a Caribbean style environment where the player can create 
 their own colony and last as long as they want, or at least as long as their colony lets them last. 
 The question is, does this new installment to the series give enough of itself to convince a fan 
 to pick it up or is it just the previous games with updated graphics?
  
  In 1701 A. D., which Ill refer to as just 1701 from now on, you have a choice of what to do, whether 
 you want to play one of the scenarios, play a continuous game without any regulations, or play 
 online with your friends. Each one of these types of games is unique and fun in its own right. 
 Before you start playing the game, if youve never played another A. D. game before, the developers 
 included a four part tutorial which helps players get ready to create their own colony through 
 all aspects including keeping your people happy, progressing through the many levels of your civilization, 
 and also all you need to know about trade between you and other colonies throughout the world. 
 Although the previous A. D. games had a campaign which he player could play through achieving different 
 goals as they progress their game, 1701 has different scenarios that are of different difficulties 
 being easy, medium, and hard. All three types of difficulties provide challenges where you either 
 have to create a colony of one hundred citizens, collect secret documents for the Queen of England, 
 and many other various objectives, including some side quests which you can partake on while out 
 and about in your boat. The scenarios really kind of play out as campaign in the respect that the 
 stories within the scenarios hold up on their own, but can also flow into the next. And youre 
 allowed to play whatever scenario you like from the start whether its easy, medium, or hard. 
 Its all up to you. The continuous play is just as it says where you can set yourself up and try 
 to succeed in being the best colony on the map, sometimes having to worry about other colonies 
 who may not like it too much that youre invading their space. Thats why 1701 gives you the opportunity 
 to create your own militia, but in doing so, you must create your own weapons through mining and 
 then creating swords out of that ore in the production line. Although the combat within the game 
 is balanced, its not quite as fun as the economic side of 1701 and its a pity that you sometimes 
 have to resort to combat because of how well done the economic side is. The reason for any combat 
 at all is basically because of survival in the sense of happiness in your colony. Each island on 
 each map can only grow certain crops, or harvest different animals, and one island you may be able 
 to mine ore, while another island may give you gems. This diverse arrangement of materials to collect 
 will have you spreading yourself over the map, but always remember to keep your people happy at 
 home, or else they might riot and fires could break out throughout your colony which could cause 
 devastating affects. But sadly, your people arent the only things you need to worry about because 
 there are natural dangers you always have to look out for like hurricanes or live volcanos, but 
 these just add to the fact that you always have to keep on your toes during the game.
  
  But, even with everything you have to worry about in the game, the built-in interface is extremely 
 easy to use and youll never find yourself scouring through multiple spread sheets to find out 
 why your colony isnt doing so well. Everything you need to know about your colony is just one 
 click away from your normal view on the screen and the rest of the information not found on those 
 pages are on the main screen itself, so no more searching through endless lists for different troubles. 
 Although, without those spread sheets, it may seem like the game is easier because you have less 
 to deal with, its not. To have a thriving colony where it will grow from peasants to settlers 
 to citizens and to one day aristocrats, youll need to please everyone in your community with different 
 needs like clothes, education, religion, fine baked foods, and many more goods to become a large 
 community where you may place your castle and hopefully one day buy independence from the Queen 
 of England. How you go about that is your choice, whether you want to dominate other colonies through 
 militia to gain their goods produced on their island, or simply set up a trade line to trade for 
 the products you need, is your choice.
  
  While you play hours upon hours in the latest addition to the A. D. series, youll be treated with 
 some really great graphics where every building looks different from the next and the upgrades 
 look different from their previous appearance. You can zoom in to spy on your colonists as they 
 work throughout the day collecting crops or mining ore for weapons and other needs that they may 
 have. And even zoomed in, this game looks superb. The graphic design within the game creates the 
 perfect setting to put you in the atmosphere of being a leader of a new community in the Caribbean 
 Islands. The developers even put in a certain key function that would take all of the interface 
 away and set your camera at a perfect angle to take some great screenshots which look almost real 
 in the fact that objects closer up are perfectly in focus while objects far off in the background 
 are somewhat out of focus. Just little touches like this add quite a bit to the game and make it 
 easier for the player to enjoy the overall gameplay. The interface that is on your screen during 
 main gameplay is never distracting and in no way takes away from the artistic design that the developers 
 were trying to achieve with 1701 A. D.
  
  The sound within the game is great to in the sense that as youll be playing this game for quite 
 awhile, the music never gets distracting or boring during your entire gameplay. Although the voice 
 acting isnt the best youve heard in a game, its decent enough to keep you interested in the 
 goals youre trying to achieve throughout the different scenarios. There are quite a few different 
 environmental sounds that do sound great whether its the whirling wind of hurricane, the blasting 
 of the volcano, or the exotic animals youll find distributed across the multiple islands youll 
 come across. 1701 is just one of those games that you wish that you could have the soundtrack for 
 some easy listening in the car, or at least thats thats the way I feel.
  
  There is a multiplayer component to the game which is extremely smooth and easy to work with whether 
 youre new to the game or not. The developers took their time in making the overall feel of the 
 game very easy to work through and work with. The gamers who are playing the game online are a 
 great community to be introduced to and if you ever have any problems in the game, you can always 
 go to the official game forums and ask questions and theyre always more than willing to help in 
 a mature and knowledgeable manner. The game shipped pretty stable with only a few minor bugs attached, 
 but nothing that would hinder gameplay in the sense of crash to desktops or totally freezing up. 
 The bugs that I ran across were ones where some game balance issues with a few units and buildings, 
 but those have been fixed with the first patch. Also, with some little updates, Related Designs 
 want to include little trinkets or very noticeable Easter Eggs like the Christmas tree that was 
 in the town center during the holiday season. Im sure the developers have many little additions 
 to the game that theyd like to make in the coming holiday season and personally, I cant wait. 
 Overall, this is a great game for a strategy colony building game lover. Fans of 1503 and 1602 
 A. D. will love this game in every possible way from the splendid graphics to the smooth sound, 
 but dont forget the ease of use interface also. Newcomers will enjoy the simplicity of the games 
 overall gameplay and strategy lovers will thoroughly enjoy the replay value the game has to offer.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Options/Upgrades: 9
  Replay Value: 9
  Stability: 9
  Multiplayer: 9
  
  Overall: 9.20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iainus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Great game. If you haven't got it, get it! Great graphics, great gameplay, and can be tricky to 
 keep your people happy but that gets easy after a while. Trading takes some getting used to, but 
 it helps a bunch when you know how to acquire other islands and get resources of there and back 
 to your island and trading with other people. As for the Free Trader!! Don't know why they call 
 him the Free Trader, nothing that comes from him is free, its bloody expensive, where as it does 
 help you in your time of need it does drain your gold quickly. Some of the stuff he sells you tho 
 is actually a good price. Hope you enjoy the game! I know i did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humilde_
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Well i cant talk too much of this game because i began to play it today hehe, but it seems pretty 
 good actually, my first impression was good, great graphics, great sound and easy to learn.
  It has a good tutorial to learn everything in less than 15 minutes.
  It has an excellent gameplay 
 too, you have 10 scenarios to do, you can play multiplayer and you can play in endless mode.
  Anyways its pretty familiar to the Pharaoh and Caesar series, in the way that you must build, create 
 and invent different things to keep the city growing and keep the civilian pleased, such as build 
 a church to gain religious things, create bricks to upgrade the buildings and make some beer to 
 keep them happy and drunk jaja.
  Its worth it. If you like this kind of game is the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KorZ
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Hi gamers! This game is way better till now on strategy field. Can be worse on graphics compared 
 to Age of Empires 3 but the gameplay is better. I think what stick me to that game was the objective 
 winning the badges. It is pretty easy to win them all, exept one. Play Continuous game and select 
 hard. Delete all the enemys and then its just a manner of time to win gold badges. The Time badge 
 is the stinkiest of them all. Anyway, if you like strategy games this is the one. No matter how 
 long you play this is not very boring... Thats all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Anno 1602 is one of the 10 first games I bought for the PC. Even tough there was a newer game 1503 
 I continued to play 1602, because there where a lot of things missing in 1503. A great problem 
 ofcourse was the multiplayer, at the release there was stated there was multiplayer in 1503 but 
 there wasn't. After a lot of time trying to create a patch for it Sunflowers stated they could 
 not get it to work. I kinda felt scammed so I was kinda reluctant to buy anno 1701. I rented it 
 first and bought it immediatly after, this game is very enjoyable to play and very well balanced 
 for beginners and advanced players. If you liked 1602 you definitly like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikegillis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays I have a hard time finding games that hold my attention for much more than the length 
 of time it takes to install them. The expression all flash and no substance comes to mind. But 
 every once in a while a game comes out that makes me say Wow, now this game rocks . 1701 AD is 
 such a game. It has amazing graphics, however you need a pretty strong system to run them with 
 all options on. The sound music wise is forgettable, and the voice acting is adequate. However 
 I am not one who is charmed by the superficial qualities of a game. I need, no, I demand solid 
 gameplay. Depth, coolness of features and most importantly fun. This game has all of these factors 
 in spades. You can completely customize your opponents and there are lots of options for shaping 
 the world your game will take place in. All these settings have a huge impact on the game and completely 
 change the dynamics of how the game will play itself out. The great thing about this game is each 
 time you play it, you learn a little bit more about how to better manage your island (s) so that 
 the next time you play you can advance your civilization a little bit further.
  In summary I must say that I love this game, I played 1602 AD and though I liked that game also, 
 I feel that this game is vastly superior. So turn off the game sound and turn up the tunes, kick 
 back and carve out your place in the Caribbean 1701 AD style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankcub
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Sehr nett! Sunflowers has done an excellent job recreating their buidling series. Actually, it 
 is their best production to date. For those new to the game, the tutorials are very straightforward 
 and will have you playing in no time. For the veterans, dive right in!! Although gameplay is more 
 important to me than graphics, the visuals are very well done in this presentation. Only negative: 
 reading the ANNOpedia does not pause gameplay, but this is only minor complaint. Several modes 
 of play are present, and I truly like the abilitiy to micromanage my victory goals/objectives: 
 I like visual feedback upon reaching milestones in the games, and the medals you can earn by completing 
 them (i. e., hours of gameplay clocked, completing of objectives, etc) is a nice touch. Well, back 
 to my colony. Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcole33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  if your a fan of either 1503 or 1602, getting this game is a no-brainer. good 3-d graphics, excellent 
 intuitive interface, smooth gameplay.
  one thing i have always felt a good game does will be to make you forget about about everything 
 else... mostly time. the game has a reminder after playing for 2 hours straight like go take a 
 rest .. sort of like the game 'stronghold' did. the time flys by as there is A LOT to do and you 
 can have fun doing it.
  this game doesn't necessarily lend itself to people who are used to shoot 'em up action games. 
 but the combat is enjoyable and despite what gamespot says, it doesn't take you away from managing 
 your city to any large degree.... so long a s you prepare for it. (hint: some people should learn 
 to play a bit more before reviewing) .... trade, defense and diplomacy are all explorable options. 
 there are a lot of ways to play this game as the victory conditions can be modified. you can hit 
 various victory targets without ever fighting anyone except a few pirates or you can go a try to 
 eliminate everyone else.
  some of the clever new additions are the merchant quests and the research tree. gamespot's reviewer 
 didn't mention that too much but it should have been as it is really what sets this game apart 
 from it's predecessors. (sp?)
  researching things like spys and pick pockets and planting them in your enemies cities take this 
 game to a whole different level. in closing i would DEFINITELY recommend this game to anyone a 
 fan of city building, trade, or economy based games. i must say gamespot's score is accuarate but 
 bret todd should be doing something else after giving lords of the realm III an 8.4. : p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  You have to respect a game that knows its own strengths. About two hours into my first game of 
 1701 A. D. I had a warning pop up on my screen and a mellifluous voice say, You've been playing 
 for two hours now, shouldn't you take a break? 1701 A. D. is the third iteration of the strategy 
 game series that started with 1602 A. D. and continued with 1503 A. D. While this series has enjoyed 
 enormous popularity in Europe, it's never reached more than cult status in the North American market. 
 Hopefully that will change with this iteration because despite a few missteps, this is easily one 
 of the most enjoyable city-builders I've played this year.
  
  1701 A. D. takes place in well A. D. 1701. The location is a heavily fictionalized version of the 
 Caribbean. The player takes the role of an explorer on a ship in the middle of a blank map. He 
 or she's been charged by the queen to colonize this new world, building up a network of colonies 
 on various islands that can exploit its vast wealth. Naturally, players aren't alone here. There 
 can be up to four other computer-controlled or human players also jockeying for supremacy along 
 with a group of lesser civilizations that the player can trade and ally with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyndy62
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  If you liked 1602 then you will love this. The graphics engine has been revamped and game play 
 has been streamlined. The tutorial gives you a great leg up on the nuances of the game, yet if 
 you played 1602 you will find yourself at home fairly quickly. Ohh, btw, The tutorial is both written 
 and audio. So no more squinting at the screen trying to read several paragraphs of instructions. 
 Just sit back and let the game talk to you. VERY nice! I really enjoyed the demo of 1701 and plan 
 to get the full version asap. I thought that since I owned 1602 and it was so close that I would 
 just play it. Well compared to this version, 1602 is clunky and very dated. I've decided to shelf 
 the original for this later installment.
  If I were to complain, I would say that I didn't like the fact that the camera never came down 
 to street level. The closest that you can get is like 30 feet above at a slanted angle. Not a major 
 issue though I would have enjoyed the feel and view right down where the action was happening. 
 Other than that, the game is great. Play the demo and then run out and purchase the game. Lets 
 support good game design when the opportunity arises! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed all the games in this series and so far this one is the best. It has several bugs, 
 including one very annoying crash-to-desktop that happens without warning. The other bug I found 
 is that sometimes the automated trade routes will not unload cargo. You have to do it manually. 
 The automated trade ships also will not unload at a pier, which kind of brings to question what 
 the purpose of the pier is.
  
  Because of the CTD bug I have not been able to get my people past the citizen stage. The crash 
 seems to happen just before that. However, building up your island and setting the right balance 
 between expansion and consolidation is very challenging. I found that like many other games of 
 this type if you expand like crazy you end up with a bunch of angry people when you run out of 
 a needed resource (most frequently its alcohol, of course!)
  
  Altogether this is an excellent game and when its patched it will get even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game looks like the child from Settlers and Sim City. You place houses and buildings to create 
 a production line from raw resource to finish product. Some are needed for your settlement, some 
 you sell for profit.
  
  Pros:
  - Like most sim city like game, you have that addictive feeling of staying a bit more to level 
 up your civilization
  - Graphics are ok, though not groundbreaking
  
  Cons:
  - Heavy dependance of the carriers that takes finish goods and brings them to warehouses. In the 
 early stages of the game, your are so dependant on this that it downright annoying. You are stuck 
 wasting resources building extra warehouses in the same area of influence just to move stuff. - 
 There is a strong pressure to grow your population. If you don't, you will bleed you cash reserve 
 very quickly. It's actually very difficult to keep in balance your city cost to your tax revenue 
 in these early stages. So, you end up rushing to first levels.
  
  - Combat aspect of the game is a joke. If they didn't want to invest in a good combat system, they 
 should have taken combat out of the game.
  
  All in all, this game has a almost but not quite feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_C_E-Cube
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Good city building games are hard to find; most have one or more bad things that bring down the 
 gameplay like too much micromanagment, no sense of progress, cumbersome interface, bad economic 
 system and so in
  
  This game doesn't have anything revolutionary or terribly exciting, but rather an example of all 
 the important aspects that make a city building game good done as they should be.
  
  The game can be quite a system hog with high graphic setting but thats justified by its great graphics, 
 if you zoom up close on a developed city it looks more like an animated movie than a game with 
 dynamic shadows and lights cast on everything and very detailed buildings.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Easy to use and interface
  -Simple to understand and apply yet deep economic system
  -Lots 
 of buildings to choose from and a real sense of advancment
  -Suited for begginers and veterans of city builders
  
  The sound and Music are good and suitable 
 for the era and type of game, the only thing that can get annoying is the citizens repeated comments 
 like Everything you see is fresh as can be when you scroll near the Town Center.
  
  Cons:
  
  -No campaign mode, Some scenarios can get tedious after a while
  -High system requirments 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about this game... the previews games in the series were big hits and this 
 one beats them all. The graphics are fabulous and the gameplay is intuitive. Building a city has 
 never been so beautiful as with Anno 1701.
  The economics in Anno 1701 have changed a little, but are a little easier to understand. Some new 
 features and scenarios make this one of the best games of the year.
  Spending hours planing, organizing and running your colony is so much fun. You will not want to 
 leave your computer. Every second there is something new and exciting happening. Even the settlers 
 themself are changeing the look of their clothes.
  Sunflowers have done a great job with this game and it should be under the Christmas Tree this 
 year.
  Get up and get out to get it... you will not regret it!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
