-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 1701 A.D. Gold Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/anno1701goldedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sunken Dragon expansion adds a colorful new campaign and storyline.
 Additional buildings and items available to dress up your settlements.
 World editor lets you design custom maps and swap them with other players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little overpriced if you're looking for just the Sunken Dragon content.
 Natural disasters are even more apocalyptic than before.
 Apparent bug with some visual settings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Related Designs
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jul 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This bigger, better take on 1701 A. D. is most noteworthy for including the Sunken Dragon expansion. 
 

  Finally making its way to North American shores is 1701 A. D. Gold Edition, a repackaging of the 
 original city builder from 2006 and its Sunken Dragon expansion pack, which was originally released 
 in Europe at the end of last year. This add-on was worth the wait, though, given that the new campaign 
 adds swashbuckling fantasy to the nuts-and-bolts Caribbean economics of the game's previous incarnation. 
 A lively story and characters, along with wide-ranging (if not exactly earth-shattering) mission 
 goals, pack real personality into this revamp and make it a colorful trip back to the age of exploration. 

           Building a settlement takes on new urgency in the Sunken Dragon campaign, thanks to the 
 structured missions and atmospheric objectives.      

  Just don't expect a reinvention of the wheel. The original game came with only a sandbox mode of 
 play and one-off missions, so adding a campaign with a scripted story about searching for an ancient 
 artifact called the Eye of the Dragon lends a sense of purpose to all of your city-building endeavors 
 in the Caribbean. Nevertheless, the actual game design isn't all that different from the non-golden 
 1701 A. D. The basics stick pretty closely to the standard city-building formula. Gameplay revolves 
 around the management of island colonies and the goal of leading them to prosperity. The twin bottom 
 lines are the financial balance sheet and colonist happiness, which are satisfied by erecting houses, 
 churches, sheep farms, schools, and the like, as well as establishing trade routes and diplomatic 
 relations with neighbors. Economics are pretty simple to follow. You identify an island resource 
 such as ore or gold, or set up a structure such as a cattle farm or a tobacco plantation to create 
 a resource, and then construct the businesses that turn these raw materials into usable goods for 
 your citizens. If you do everything just right -- and remember to link all of your buildings together 
 with the roads needed to transport goods from one location to another -- you'll end up having happy 
 citizens who love their lives in a tropical paradise. Run short on a few key items such as clothing 
 and food, however, and you'll wind up with disgruntled thugs.  

  So it's just like real life. But the Sunken Dragon campaign doesn't feel all that fresh when you 
 get beyond the Indiana Jones-in-pantaloons hunt for a MacGuffin. Mission goals are pretty been-there, 
 done-that. Old chestnuts such as reaching a set population total, hitting economic benchmarks, 
 and setting up a trade route are all present and accounted for, and at times the gameplay feels 
 a little too paint-by-numbers. But with that said, it's hard to imagine how you could jazz up a 
 city builder like this with wildly out-there objectives, considering that most of the concerns 
 addressed here are the same ones that had to be addressed by colonists in the real 18th-century 
 Caribbean. And at least the campaign really mixes up goals so you don't feel like you're on a treadmill, 
 and it ladles out fantastical derring-do to give the bean-counting colony-management stuff a whiff 
 of high adventure.  

  Aside from the new campaign, the other additions are fairly modest. Four new computer-player profiles 
 seen in the campaign are also available for use in sandbox games. A handful of new buildings and 
 other items have been tossed in for the beautification of settlements, although they don't result 
 in changes to gameplay. These accoutrements don't even alter the look of the game all that much, 
 unless you're a flower fan really into the new, arching rosebushes, or a bird watcher grooving 
 on attracting parrots and doves to the new aviaries. A meteor strike has been added to the hurricanes, 
 volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters waiting to happen. It looks great and is suitably 
 apocalyptic in scope, but it's so destructive that it pretty much ends your game immediately. As 
 cool as this death-from-above disaster looks when it hits, it's not exactly welcome considering 
 that the original game already had plenty of full-scale cataclysms that tore settlements to shreds. 
 Having to take on yet another instant doomsday is unnecessarily frustrating. Finally, the expansion 
 includes a new editor that lets you custom-craft maps and swap them for play online and off. It's 
 very easy to use, and there is enough of a hardcore 1701 A. D. crowd out there (albeit mostly in 
 Germany, from the looks of things online, so you might need to  spreche das Deutsch  to really 
 get into it) that this might cause a mod community to grow around the game.  

           The new world editor lets you create your own Caribbean paradise.      

  A lot of 
 1701's charm is due to the attractive visuals. Caribbean islands seem like veritable slices of 
 heaven, with lush green fields, bright sandy beaches, and rolling blue water. It even looks great 
 when you pull the camera so far back that you're looking down on your island kingdom through clouds. 
 Only one technical glitch messed things up. Activating certain graphics options caused a great 
 deal of instability on our test machine, resulting in visual corruption and extreme cursor lag 
 that made the game unplayable. Thankfully, leaving these options turned off doesn't noticeably 
 change the quality of the visuals, and also comes with the side benefit of considerably speeding 
 up map scrolling. The audio isn't as evocative of the tropics; everything except the perfectly 
 cheesy voice samples seems somewhat muted. A more pounding surf would have been much appreciated. 

  The main drawback of 1701 A. D. Gold Edition is that buyers of the original game are stuck having 
 to repurchase it to get the Sunken Dragon content. Nevertheless, if you liked the original game, 
 you should enjoy the new story-driven campaign.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Skindofthedred
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Great concept but takes forever to build and army and conquer other nations. The economy of this 
 game is pretty neat too. Good have been polished a bit more for the RTS part of it. A story line 
 and full campaign should have been added to it as well, not just a expansion. Fun to build your 
 city and trade, but like I said, takes real thought to manage your economy and build and support 
 your fleet and army to capture other colonies. I would like this game to be taken to another level 
 like the game coming outEast India Company". Full 3-D and even more epic scale. The annoyance 
 of other characters gets old after a while. A great game if you like the whole build your city 
 and trade. Its almost like SIMS City but of the past. I gave this game an 8 because it was unlike 
 anything I have ever played before but it had some flaws that I did not like such as not really 
 having a Great combat engine for the hard corebuild your army and burn their city to the ground" 
 types. I would like to have seen more military units, Bigger islands such as a Main land with surrounding 
 Island were you have to Fight off local tribes to expand, or trade with them and pay them to attack 
 other colonies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbaB
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The Gold Edition is perfect for 1701 A. D. players hungry for new content and it is definitely best 
 in series of anno, with beautifull and detailed grafics... fans of anno would love playing it, it 
 has good campaign, some missions are hard and take long to finish it (one of the toughest in the 
 series' history) , but that is good because you will enjoy a very good micro management with new 
 building that you can use, also with 11 new missions time will pass quickly and just when you want 
 to have break of anno 1701 gold, new anno 1404 will arrive ;)
  Anno also comes with the world editor that will let players design their own maps and missions! 
 The environmental sounds and music are just nice. The new trader assignments are more interesting, offering 
 a new mission elements for a ships! Overall its worth of your time as long autumn night are coming... 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
