-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 2002 FIFA World Cup
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/2002fifaworldcup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  9, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 396 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date:     Apr 30, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2002 FIFA World Cup is quite simply one of the most exciting PC sports games ever created. 

 
 It wasn't so very long ago that soccer fans could choose from a variety of PC-based depictions 
 of their favorite sport. Yet as the last few years of the 20th century fluttered by, it became 
 increasingly apparent that one title stood tall above the rest. That game was EA Sports' FIFA Soccer, 
 and today it is virtually the only way to play. With 2002 FIFA World Cup, EA has gone to the well 
 once more, again tweaking its dominant formula just enough to make an already captive audience 
 think hard about reenlisting. Sporting several minor gameplay enhancements and a substantially 
 overhauled presentation that impressively re-creates the global impact of a World Cup event, this 
 edition of FIFA is in many ways the finest edition of FIFA yet. Although it revolves completely 
 around the 2002 Japan/Korea World Cup and as such doesn't deliver the sheer number of players, 
 teams, and league and tournament options of FIFA's regular annual installments, 2002 FIFA World 
 Cup is quite simply one of the most exciting PC sports games ever created.           2002 FIFA 
 is easily the best-looking PC soccer game yet.    

  This is no small accomplishment considering how professionally appointed each previous FIFA has 
 been. Yet when experienced back-to-back with last year's FIFA Soccer 2002 -- released a scant six 
 months ago -- 2002 FIFA World Cup is a completely different animal. Starting with the game's dramatic 
 introductory sequence, you'll sense that EA wanted to unleash something new. The usual electronic/dance 
 beats of chart-toppers such as Moby and Ministry of Sound have been exchanged for the powerful 
 strings and crescendos and kettledrums of the critically acclaimed Vancouver Symphony Orchestra. 
 The menu system, which surely reached the peak of drabness in last year's model, is polished, colorful, 
 and presented with pride. The new "everyone's game" component, wherein you can access real-life 
 multimedia snippets concerning most every aspect of this year's World Cup, is especially enjoyable 
 despite its low-grade video quality.   

  2002 FIFA World Cup presents 20 Japanese and Korean stadiums in all, each a seemingly faithful 
 and certainly brilliantly rendered work of art, and the choice of day or night contests. Interestingly, 
 the game does not offer inclement weather options. When the sides are selected and the go-ahead 
 given, you'll take a dizzying ride from the top of the stadium to pitch level, taking in a profusion 
 of visual treats along the way. Fireworks explode in the sky, laser effects dance all around, and 
 a surging sea of spectators rises and falls as one. EA has adopted a high-contrast color palette 
 for this edition, with greener grass, brighter daylight, darker night skies, punctuated lighting 
 effects, and more vivid kits and thus has made the game look far more vibrant and alive than ever 
 before.           2002 FIFA is still best played from distant perspectives.    

  And though this or any other PC soccer game plays far better when viewed from a distant perspective 
 through which general team movement can be more effectively monitored, watching a contest unfold 
 from a tight vantage point has never been so rewarding. EA Sports pioneered the art of duplicating 
 the physical attributes of real-life athletes in game form, yet the FIFA series has always placed 
 a poor second in that respect to other EA franchises, like NHL Hockey. This has changed in 2002 
 FIFA World Cup, where respective players' faces, heights, and builds now really look different. 
 Players seemingly move more smoothly too, sporting a full range of animations that make even quick 
 actions and maneuvers seem fluid. Postgoal celebrations are really something to behold, particularly 
 after the first score of a contest, where the game speed slows significantly to showcase the frenzied 
 responses of players and crowds alike. Flashbulbs pop, streamers cascade to the ground, and players 
 leap and embrace and dance like never before.   

  This major atmospheric upgrade is not purely visual. EA has programmed all of its new orchestral 
 music to ebb and flow in conjunction with the latest developments on the pitch. Like a big-budget 
 Spielberg soundtrack, the tones grow dark and deep in tense moments and explosively energetic after 
 goals and victories. Simply awaiting a referee's carding decision gets the heart pumping. Likewise, 
 the assembled throng roars and cheers and engages in rhythmic chanting throughout each game and 
 is always reactive to the latest developments. Back for another stint in the broadcast booth is 
 the ever-compelling John Motsen and the enchantingly annoying Andy Gray, who once again prove that 
 EA's brief stint with American-based ESPN announcers Phil Schoen and Julie Foudy is nothing but 
 a mortifying memory. Certainly from a presentation standpoint, EA has succeeded in elevating the 
 spectacle of the World Cup beyond that of a yearly tourney or league game.    

 Of course, none of this would mean anything if the gameplay weren't up to par. In 2002 FIFA World 
 Cup, EA has addressed some issues, has added a few twists and turns, and has made the new game 
 noticeably more challenging. Although the game continues to unfold far faster and with less time 
 for thought and planning than the real item and thus will disappoint hard-core footy buffs expecting 
 perfect realism, it has been slowed down a bit and once again retooled just enough to warrant a 
 look.           When shot with sufficient force, the ball emits a visible trail.    

  Above all else, 2002 FIFA World Cup is more difficult than previous FIFA games. Even with aids 
 like automatic crosses activated, passes will often miss their intended recipient. Shots on goal 
 must be precisely targeted and free of excess power lest your players misfire when applying the 
 boot. Speed bursts are particularly interesting this time around, building extremely slowly and 
 never really reaching the level they have in the past. And if either the human or AI-controlled 
 side has been under pressure for an entire match with no signs of extracting itself, players will 
 fatigue and team defenses will crumble even more dramatically as the clock ticks on. In the waning 
 stages of an exceptionally one-sided match, there's a very good chance the score will become more 
 lopsided than it already is.   

  The air game has also clearly been revamped. Now, you'll decide in advance the power and direction 
 to apply to the ball and let the game handle the area on your player's body that it plans to strike. 
 Whether this is a benefit or a detriment will depend very much on how comfortable you were with 
 headers and volleys of prior editions. Also new to the series is the "star player" system. Although 
 EA Sports has always attempted to mimic the real-life abilities of its numerous players, it has 
 never gone to such lengths to accentuate the difference between a guy like David Beckham and a 
 run-of-the-mill soccer jock. Some may find these truly gifted few to be a little too talented, 
 plowing through defenders and laying out perfectly placed balls with startling ease, but there's 
 little doubt that the absolute top players can often do the same in the real world.   

  Adding to its already impressive roster of player actions, the newest FIFA also lets you juggle 
 the ball -- that is, being able to keep it in the air by bouncing it from one body part to another 
 while running. This is not particularly easy to execute, but anyone who's ever attempted to juggle 
 a ball in real life will tell you that it shouldn't be. A new difficulty level has been added for 
 a total of four, and the top two require an almost complete knowledge of advanced gamepad controls 
 and exactly when to initiate them. Unfortunately, EA has neglected to include a practice mode, 
 a decision that surely won't sit well with FIFA rookies.   

  Yet old habits die hard, and 2002 FIFA World Cup proves it. Players and player limbs still tend 
 to transpose through one another, an annoying trait that thankfully occurs only rarely. More critically, 
 the gameplay engine still has a penchant for robbing human and AI-controlled teams of sure goals 
 just because it feels that the run of the play doesn't warrant it. Certainly hitting three straight 
 goalposts from inside the penalty spot, two with the keeper completely out of position, wouldn't 
 happen in real life -- and it shouldn't happen here, yet it sometimes does. So too does the distinct 
 possibility of double-digit scores. However, it is important to remember that most every aspect 
 of the game, including star-player ability and power-up speed, is completely adjustable. In the 
 end, most anyone but those who pine for the days of a slow, deliberate, and accurate soccer sim 
 should find a pleasant middle ground.           The player modeling is nothing short of stunning. 
    

  As has become typical for the series, 2002 FIFA World Cup supports virtually every style of multiplayer 
 game. We found that EA's Internet matchmaking service worked flawlessly, sourcing playing partners 
 at virtually any time of the day or night. The game itself ran noticeably slower than single-computer 
 contests but rarely developed jumpiness and was generally quite workable. Sadly, games against 
 other humans proved that the simple technique of shielding the ball, especially with a star player, 
 is far too effective. Several of our opponents cast aside the passing game almost completely in 
 favor of bullying their way straight through several defenders. This simply does not sync well 
 with real life.   

  With just 40 total sides and several all-star squads that become available if you win a World Cup, 
 2002 FIFA World Cup does not offer the raw volume of players and teams presented in its standard 
 annual releases. Yet this game concerns itself with quality, not quantity. If the true flavor of 
 a global event of this magnitude appeals to you and you've generally been pleased with prior iterations, 
 you may well find the latest FIFA to be the greatest FIFA to date.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Roadster
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I thought I was gonna play one of the greatest football games ever made por the PC platform, only 
 to find a great dissapoinment in almost every aspect of the game. The ball phisics are by far one 
 of the most unrealistic I've ever seen. The graphics are quit good, a lot of players really look 
 alike the ones on real life, but I'd rather preffer a good gameplay instead of excellent graphics 
 but poor gameplay. One more thing, the music It's just annoying in some parts, every time something 
 happens in a match, they put that classic music that takes out all of passion in the match. I don't 
 think the music goes along with the game, I see a great disconnection between these two aspects. 
 My review score is a 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuntman_hy
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  2002 Fifa World Cup takes a slightly different approach than previous EA soccer games. The gameplay 
 and graphics engines have been completely remade and give this game a totally different feel. This 
 doesn't work as well as one would have hoped, but it is a fair attempt and could appeal to many 
 soccer game fans.
  
  EA have taken the fun approach rather than the realistic approach with the gameplay. For example, 
 if you hold the shoot button down and smack the ball as hard as possible, the ball will literally 
 leave a fiery trail behind it, along with sounds. This comes across as slightly childish and cartoony. 
 Also, it is not hard to score from as far back as the half-way line which is not that easy to do 
 in a real game of soccer.
  
  The graphics are great for their time but cannot be compared to today's generation of games. Although 
 slightly 'blotchy', the graphics do impress. The player models move realistically and look excellent. 
 You can easily distinguish player faces and soccer-fans will instantly recognise some familiar 
 faces. The graphics are, without-a-doubt, the games strongest point.
  
  The game's sounds are decent enough but there is plenty of space for improvement. The commentary 
 is great but the scripted side of it is way too noticeable and sometimes it seems a little slow. 
 For example, you'll take a shot, hit the post but the commentator won't pick up on that until the 
 ball is halfway down the pitch. The music is great but it swipes the realism of the game when it 
 play's just after scoring a goal. Crowd noises sound realistic but too un-enthusiastic. 
  
  This game has a very short life-span. You'll probably end up bored after winning the cup twice, 
 which is easy and short to do. Plus, there is no qualifying rounds, therefore the countries that 
 didn't get into the cup in reality are unavailable in the game which shortens the game's lifespan 
 considerably.
  
  To sum up, this game isn't really worth going out of your way to buy. You'll end up bored after 
 12 hours of gameplay and doesn't compare at all to today's soccer games. This is fair attempt at 
 a soccer game but should be missed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabio_21
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This is a cool game... Nice graphics, good sound effects and not so bad gameplay. But Unfortunately 
 it has many weird bugs and the goalkeepers are stupid! Just another thing, the game is too short. 
 You finish it really fast. If you don't, the game will start to lose interest. It might be a bit 
 hard sometimes, especialy if you play it in a difficulty level over Amature. It is still a good 
 game, and it's not very hard to find. However, I prefer FIFA Soccer 2002. FIFA World Cup 2002 is 
 good if you can't get FIFA World Cup 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2004 7:19 am PT
Review:  ... Everything from the sound to the gameplay to the animations.. this game is definatly a must 
 have. And now it's been out for a while, it'll be really cheap. I prefer this to the other Fifa 
 titles that came out around and after the time 2002 Fifa Wold Cup was released. If you like soccer 
 games this is a must have. I still play this game from time to time. Even though i got the game 
 when it first was released.
  
  My only gripe with the game is that the easiest mode is easy, but then you got up and it's REALLY 
 hard. I dont know why they'd do this. There are several difficulty levels, but on professional 
 is really hard, i don't know how you could play on the harder ones. Other than that it is a really 
 great game. You have two modes of play. The world cup, where you choose a team and play through 
 to win the world cup. Then with certain teams, if you win the world cup you unlock other teams 
 to play in practice matches.
  
  Great game, if your looking for a soccer game this one right here is definatly worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave6116
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2003 10:08 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to describe 2002 Fifa World Cup with words. It's a completely different soccer game 
 than any one you've ever played before. When installing this, I had no idea what 2002 FWC was going 
 to be like. After finishing my first match, I was open-mouth astonished. The sound is absolutely 
 INCREDIBLE in this game. I can say, without a doubt, it's the best usage of sound I've ever heard 
 in ANY sports game EVER.
  
  Graphics are also very nice. When playing a night match, the introduction looks stunning. Lasers 
 make a beautiful World Cup trophy on the playing field and fireworks blast in the sky overhead. 
 In day games, the field is very bright and very beautiful.
  
  The only gripe I have about this game is the gameplay. I've come to a point now where I've definitely 
 mastered the Amateur mode, but find Professional to be way too difficult for me to play. As stated 
 in a previous reader review, it seems almost impossible to steal the ball away from a computer 
 opponent by using passive tackle (or whatever the not-aggressive-tackle button is called) . The 
 number of game modes are also very limited - Road to the World Cup. That's it.
  
  Overall, this game really is incredible. A must-buy, especially now since you can probably buy 
 it for a very low price. You have no idea what you're missing if you haven't played 2002 Fifa World 
 Cup. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
