-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 25 to Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/25tolife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull presentation.
 Unexciting gameplay.
 Tired subject matter.
 Hokey attempt at an endgame message.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 4.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 548 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Avalanche Software
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Jan 17, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
25 to Life is a lifelessly generic shooter that, at times, feels like Max Payne without the fun. 
 

  Throughout the early and mid '90s, there was a boom in movies that took place in "the hood." This 
 urban-themed movie trend really kicked off due to the success of John Singleton's  Boyz n the Hood 
 . After that, the "me too" phenomenon kicked in, and there was suddenly a glut of gangsta movies -- the 
 quality of each steadily declining the further in you got. The same phenomenon is happening with 
 games. While games like Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas stand out as  Boyz n the Hood  or  Juice 
  equivalents, we're also getting our video game equivalents of junk like  Tales From the Hood  
 or (shudder)  Phat Beach . 25 to Life is the latest in line, and this third-person shooter is, 
 in a word, dumb.  

          The single-player isn't tough, as long as you don't run around in the open too often.  
    

  25 to Life is an overly simple third-person shooter that has a story-driven single-player mode 
 and a team-based multiplayer mode. The single-player starts you out in the role of Freeze, a gangster 
 who's trying to get out of the game and escape with his wife and son. You're asked to do "one last 
 job," which, of course, goes spectacularly wrong and messes everything up. You'll also play as 
 a cop surrounded by dirty cops and as a gang leader who gets banished to Mexico only to end up 
 taking over the organized-crime scene there by force. The story is all over the place, and since 
 the playable characters are to a certain extent connected, you're never really sure if you're playing 
 as a good guy or a bad guy. But the narrative is so lame that you probably won't care.  

  The single-player action boils down to hiding around corners, popping out, and mowing down as many 
 enemies as you can. You'll come across a bunch of different weapons -- including pistols, dual pistols, 
 submachine pistols, assault rifles, and even a LAW rocket launcher or two. In case you're silly 
 enough to get up close, you'll also be packing a melee weapon, such as a knife or a hammer or something. 
 There's almost always enough ammo around to prevent you from having to turn to your melee weapons, 
 and there's usually enough health around -- at least on the default difficulty setting -- to prevent 
 the game from ever being too difficult, assuming you're careful and don't stand out in the open. 
 An onscreen radar displays enemy positions, which is good for letting you know when you're safe 
 and when you've got trouble coming around the corner.  

  The environments vary, giving you outdoor and indoor levels to play in. You'll run through some 
 Los Angeles-like streets, rob a bank and a casino, run through the streets of Tijuana, and break 
 out of a prison during a riot. There's a good amount of variety, though none of the environments 
 are particularly noteworthy. Most simply contain singular paths that take you from start to finish 
 as you blast your way through the game's short story mode.  

  As you play through single-player, you'll be unlocking new custom items for use in the multiplayer. 
 The team-based multiplayer is cops versus criminals for up to 16 players in four modes. War is 
 your basic team deathmatch. Raid puts the criminals on the defensive as they protect their stash 
 from the cops. Robbery puts a series of loot items on the map, which criminals must steal and return 
 to their base while the cops try to prevent them from doing so. Tag pits criminals against criminals 
 in a graffiti war. The taggable walls act as control points, and it's up to your team to hold down 
 as much of the map as possible to earn points. If you like, you can disable or limit respawns to 
 adjust the finality of death.  

  While the multiplayer setup's focus on team games makes it resemble Sony's popular SOCOM series 
 at a glance, you won't find any of that game's tactical elements here. Death comes quickly if you 
 expose yourself to enemy fire for too long. Overall, it's a simple mode that doesn't beat out its 
 competition on any of the three platforms.  

  25 to Life is available on the PC, the Xbox, and the PlayStation 2, and the experience is roughly 
 the same across all three platforms. The PC offers slightly better control, with its standard mouse-and-keyboard 
 setup, but the Xbox and the PS2 versions control just fine. However, a bug in the PC version caused 
 all of the music to constantly skip, forcing us to disable it. The Xbox and the PS2 versions come 
 with a soundtrack CD, though it is conveniently missing all of the game's best music, while the 
 PC version comes with a Freeze playing card for use with the collectible card game Street Warriors. 

          It's like Max Payne without the fun!     

  Graphically, the game isn't much to look at. The bland environments and generic character animation 
 stick out, and the rag doll-like physics of falling bodies look cheap, especially when dead bodies 
 clip right through solid objects. The sound effects are similarly standard -- you've heard gunfire 
 in a video game before, right? The voice acting is passable, though the script's low quality negates 
 any of the game's better voice actors. The soundtrack is a quality mix of hip-hop, both old and 
 new. It's good, which makes the PC version's music bug all the more disappointing. Containing classics 
 from Boogie Down Productions and Public Enemy ("Black Steel in the Hour of Chaos" plays during 
 the prison riot scene, which is a perfect fit, even if your in-game motive doesn't match the song's) , 
 it's the high point of the entire package.  

  While 25 to Life works as intended, the third-person shooting doesn't differentiate itself in any 
 way, making it feel like a sad Max Payne clone -- lacking that game's style and acrobatic shot-dodge 
 maneuvers. The multiplayer is functional, yet thoroughly unexciting. Even if you're a fan of the 
 subject matter, you could certainly do better than 25 to Life.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Craylix
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  waste of money, time, everything
  boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, 
 boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring,...
  
  graphic is so lousy, gameplay is so boring, the feature is useless. like new clothing, new shoes 
 come on this is so lame and u can only use it on multiplayer mode. the only good thing is the song, 
 which is quite cool other than that lousy. bad boys 2 game is way 10 time better than this game. 
 can u believe it bad boys 2.
  
  i've been thinking of selling this game, this game made the rest of my game collection look bad.
 
  
  This game will eat you alive !!!
  
  My only suggestion is please dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  is nice to play when you are as a gangster i can rob or break an ATM and maybe get some drugs but 
 while playing i always think where is the money that i get from it, its there any use from this 
 game or such mission only that money doesn't helpful any way you can't buy any thing, the money 
 is useless there are nothing to do and the game
  as a cop a little bit of boring finding some criminals or drug dealer and getting some drugs evidence.... and 
 killing some gangster, unlike as a gangster you so many enemy so you need to watch your back....
 
  also and some mission your playing as cop and other mission as a you the main character a gangster 
 and also there's a mission to you play as one of your friend who been betray you. i thought and 
 this game i can choose to be an outlaw breaking the law or and enforcer to prevent the law but 
 all my thought is gone when i play this one.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhand7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  In the age of rapidly manufactured game titles, it is easy to point out the flaws in a game, instead 
 of looking for its good qualities.
  Yes, this game is a Max Payne/SOCOM-type clone. So?
  Yes, the genre is overplayed. What game isn't, to some extent?
  Yes, the script and voice acting 
 is terrible, but it gives it that B-Movie charm. That is whe watch those type of movies, so we 
 can pick it apart, and laugh, no matter how bad it is.
  What sets this game apart is the game itself. Confused? I'll explain.
  The gameplay is somewhat 
 overused, but this game gives it an interesting twist. The human shield is a great idea. How many 
 times have we been exposed in a game with no cover? If other games of this genre had this option, 
 it would make things alot more fun.
  The multiplayer is this games best feature. The number of, and different types of matches make 
 it fun. The option to set spawn limit is worthy of a (even small) kudos.
  The soundtrack is one of the best I've heard in this style of game in a long time. It gives old 
 skool purists, and new fans a worthy listening experience that suits the gameplay perfectly.
  So, even though it is easy to pick apart a game for it's bad qualities, it is sometimes better 
 to look for the good.
  Check it out. You might actually enjoy yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  It's funny that all the cop killing in 25 to Life sparked a controversy - the graphics and A. I. 
 are so sub-par that you'd hardly know that you were shooting police officers unless you were paying 
 attention to the plot. And if you were, you'd realize that you also get to play as a police officer 
 and hunt down dope dealers. Either way, New York Senator Charles Schumer totally picked the wrong 
 battle by calling for a ban on this game, which is so far from reaching Grand Theft Auto quality 
 that it probably would have flown under the radar if there weren't a hubbub to begin with.
  
  That said, you have to wonder what the developers were thinking when they made 25 to Life. 
 They probably wanted to create a gangsta fairy tale rife with coarse language and mature content. 
 Maybe then they decided to throw in a massive arsenal of weapons and countless gunfights with an 
 infinite army of thugs and police officers. And of course, they needed a hip-hop soundtrack full 
 of superstars like 2Pac, DMX and Public Enemy to top it off.
  
  The end result definitely invites controversy, but it doesn't deserve it - the game is so fantastical 
 that it's hard to take it seriously. For example, how can a man who is trying to get out of the 
 dope game for the sake of his son and girlfriend use innocent people as shields against an onslaught 
 of cops? And why are two officers (including one rookie) the sole offensive against an entire citadel 
 of gangsters? It's almost as if the developers came together and said Screw realism, just make 
 sure it's fun. 
  
  Oddly enough, 25 to Life is most enjoyable when you ignore the premise and the plot and think of 
 it as a stripped-down action title for the game layman. There's a plethora of different weapons, 
 from pipe bombs and sawed-off shotguns to MAC-10s and AK-47s, and there's never a shortage of ammo. 
 Enemies are stupid, but they are plentiful, and popping up from behind a car to blow them away 
 rarely gets old, even if it doesn't take much to outfox them.
  
  Content Continues Below Advertisement Problems arise when you start to think about whether the 
 game is good, per se. It's best not to reach for an emotional bond with the characters, because 
 it won't happen. And don't try to get into the plot, because it's just another urban drug tale 
 that gets boring long before it begins. As for game play, don't wish for more moves and tactics, 
 because they would only make the game more complicated than it should be.
  
  Controversy aside, if you're the kind of gamer who doesn't really care about fresh ideas, the kind 
 that would much sooner rent some simple shooting action than drop $50 on it, then perhaps 25 to 
 Life is right up your alley. Those with more discerning palettes should avoid it. And if you only 
 know coke as a beverage, then yes, maybe you're a little to young to be playing it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Alright... where do i begin my rant on this pile of ****
  
  Graphics:
  When you look at the release date of the game, you think to yourself: Wow 2006, the graphics in the 
 games that years was Awesome 
  well... many of the games that year did have amazing graphics, but this pile of shit, makes a game 
 from 1995 look great! if you turn all the graphics to the max it would still look like a huge pile 
 of shit!!!
  
  Sound:
  Let me say something about the music, the songs they used were mostly good, but the quality of the 
 songs sounded awefull, i swear to god my ears almost bleeded from that horrible quality of the songs.
 
  and here's another amazing thing about it, you can change the music from stereos you find around 
 the levels, but you know what? the farther you go from the stereos it gets more and more quiet, What's 
 up with that shit?!
  and dont get me started about special effect sounds... they sound like shit.
  
  Story:
  The 
 story is just aweful, you can make this story in 6.8 seconds.
  the ending of the game, the begining of the game, and cutsceans look awefull, and they try to tell 
 you the story, but it just sucks, the story is just an excuse to shoot more pepole for no reason.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Weapons are just a pile of shit.
  This goddamn game takes about 2.5 hours to finish.
  The game is just too damn easy.
  The boss 
 fight suck ass, the bad A. I dosent really oppose a challenge.
  no matter what level of diffuculty you play on.... it still easy and not challenging, what's the 
 fun in killing your enemies if they are too stupid to fight and prove a worthy enemy?!
  
  Final words:
  I think that the only pepole who really gonna enjoy this game are pepole who like 
 Gangsta stuff and rap
  for the rest of the gameing society... you can find a better game...
  
  2/10 - VladX12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bourkey207
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  I found 25 to life challenging which i love in a game. I also liked the storyline switching but 
 in the end the game was just not enough. The graphics were ok not the best but not the worst. Storyline 
 was pretty passable. This game isn't a carbon GTA copy because there is no driving involved which 
 is good for the people who don't like driving in GTA. All this is, is a shoot em-up which has a 
 storyline from the Law enforcement side and the criminal side. 25 to life also has a good online 
 mode so if you get sick with the storyline, play online. Just Rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer site of the game is not a big thing, but the multiplayer is GREAT, it&acute; s 
 all about FUN. Try it!
  If I watch the singleplayer it&acute; s a good game, but not a big thing, but the multiplayer site 
 is great. The soundtrack is great, if you like rap like me, than you will score the soundtrack 
 with 100%, I think this is the best in-game soundtrack in my life, I like it very much. The graphic 
 site of the game is not a Doom or FEAR but it&acute; s good, when you throw a helium granate, you 
 can see a beutiful effect. I will mainly score the multiplayer site of this game. If have a net 
 connection at home 25 to life is one of the best choices for multiplayer games. If you don&acute; t 
 like rap, it&acute; s just a good choice, but if you love rap, it&acute; s the best choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  25 To Life (PC) 
  
  Introduction
  
  Since Grand Theft Auto's release we have gotten so many lame, weak and visually unstable knockoffs. 
 That line should set the mode for this review. Anyways in this third person shooter you play as 
 3 characters. 
  
  The first is Freeze, a gangster who is trying to get out of the game, a police officer trying to 
 clean up the dirty cops and a gang leader banished to Mexico (don't ask, I am certain you do not 
 want to know) .
  
  Gameplay
  
  Now don't get me wrong. There is a small amount of fun that can be found within this title, and 
 that is taking out a lot of enemies. But as you all may know after a few levels of this style of 
 gameplay it tends to get a bit linear and repetitive. Though you may have a nice array of weapons 
 varying from dual pistols, pistols, submachine pistols, assault rifles, rocket launchers and even 
 melee weapons they still cannot compensate for the lack of depth. And without depth there is no 
 story and without a story there is no game.
  
  Throughout the game you will find yourself taking cover in most of your battles for this is the 
 most effective way to take out the baddies. If you even poke your head out in the open prepare 
 to be killed instantly and rather painfully if I may add.
  
  The thing I really liked about this game and what I thought was really well done was the on screen 
 radar. This radar enables you to see enemies in any particular level. It comes in very handy for 
 pinpointing their location and also for pausing to gather up your strategy (even though you might 
 not need to strategize seeing that this is a wild shoot em' up) .
  
  Being able to play as multiple characters really adds some diversity to the gameplay factor. There 
 are a few indoor and outdoor levels, but don't get all excited yet for they aren't as stunning 
 as they may sound. All the environments just appear to be slapped on to the screen and it looks 
 like not much work was put in to it.
  
  Although so far I have been relatively nice in this review I have to say some bad stuff about this 
 title. The game suffers a very annoying bug in the PC version. When the soundtracks are playing 
 they skip often and this is extremely frustrating, especially because the soundtracks are the only 
 thing they did well in this game.
  
  The multiplayer aspects of this game aren't all that bad. In this section of the game you get to 
 choose from a nice selection of modes. Ranging from cops versus criminals to robbery where you 
 have to steal cash and return it to your base; they have it all. This also adds to the replay value 
 of the game and puts a little bit of fun into it as well.
  
  Visuals
  
  Blah there is nothing great or excellent to talk about here. Everything has been seen a couple 
 years back. The physics in the game appears to have not been tweaked to suite, which makes the 
 game look like another cheap copy of some other third person shooter that happened to be great.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The soundtracks are awesome in this game. But there is one problem, remember the bug I talked about. 
 Well because of that you won't enjoy any of the music available in this game. Other than that however 
 the basic gunfire is pretty standard and is passable.
  
  Overall
  
  Don't rent, don't buy, and don't try. It's my new motto for games like this. I wish they had spent 
 more time on it and really tried to make it stand out from the crowd. If you must get a game in 
 something of the subject matter please pick up one of the GTA games. Even the first GTA in the 
 series will do when compared to 25 To Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie765
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is one word, lame. It's bad and boring. Most GTA copies aren't that good, but this one 
 is terrible. The dialogue is kinda stupid and the whole plot of the game is stupid. The only good 
 thing about the game is the graphics and they are wasted on the robotic and crappy gameplay. When 
 I first started playing I was having fun mainly because I thought the action would soon heat up. 
 I realized after a while that all this game was about was walking through linear levels and gunning 
 down enemies with a duck and cover strategy. Do not buy this game whatever you do! You will be 
 extremely disapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  First of all.. to start off... im jsut here writing my review because i feel sorry for the dollar 
 i spent on this game. Now how did i get this game for one dollar? well on Direct2Drive you may 
 come into a little glitch when the game comes up for $1 and even when you go to the checkout. So 
 i wanted to check out how this game was because i thought the multiplayer idea was pretty interesting, 
 but too bad there... was NO people playing...*surprising*. Now on to the review...
  
  Gameplay: Remember Big Rigs? I think this is just a BIT better then that. Now, i believe you would 
 get my picture, if not... then this game is just shoot, but then it is actually NOT fun at all doing 
 that.
  
  Graphics: When was this game made???
  
  Sound: Its okay, gun effects, maybe the only thing in the game i thing wasnt good. Also it has 
 a pretty well done soundtrack.
  
  Value: To some people, a dollar is good. For gamers, please dont waste it. Overall: not even worth 
 a dollar... now please... please go look at other games.. i beg of you... no offense to anyone who 
 thinks this game is fun though... this is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand why they delayed this game so much, just so it could come out with this 
 many flaws?
  
  First off the game is short. I played it at my friends house and beat it 2-3 hours later. It is 
 sorta fun at first, but then the gameplay gets repetitive. If your looking for a story, forget 
 about it. I've seen porno's with better storylines than this garbage.
  
  The gameplay suffers way too many flaws, too many glitches and bugs, it's like a chore to play 
 this game. 
  
  The music is probably the only thing this game has that isn't bad, but then again it isn't that 
 great either.
  
  Well the customization part of the game isn't that bad & most likely, there won't be somebody online 
 who looks just like you.
  
  I don't suggest this to anybody, please save yourself the money and the hassel and just leave this 
 game where it belongs... back in the boxes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHazard117
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  25 to Life is a game about drug dealer who who wants to finally quit dealing. He will complete 
 one and final transaction. The transaction go very badly and before you know it your taking on 
 every police man in the United States. The controls and aiming are pretty solid in 25 to Life. 
 It is a standard third person shooter with modern day weaponry which you can kick *** with. There 
 are some neat moves you can do to help make the firefights easier. Such as, using hostages as human 
 shields. The graphics are pretty bad in this game. The resolution ofthe cutscenes is like 640 x 
 800, and with your ssettings maxed out, the game can still look like crap at times, although it 
 is decent. The soundtrack, which is all rap (what a suprise) , is old and crappy and full of wash 
 ups and no-bodys. The mulitplayer allows you to customize a cop or gangster and choose everything 
 from their hair to their pants, and even their weapons. The multiplayer can be very laggy at times 
 and the maps are fairly simple, which is not always a bad thing. 25 to Life is a decent third person 
 shooter that you may like if you are really into hip hop and shooting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 1.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  25 to Life is next on Eidos' agenda. As you probably guessed already, the game lets players undergo 
 the excitement.
  Initially, the most irritating aspect of the game is getting used to aiming. No matter how hard 
 you try sometimes, it seems almost impossible to fire accurately. Plus, the AI has a very unrealistic 
 way of moving around. Opponents can strafe endlessly and occasionally won't go down even when you 
 fire several rounds straight at them. When they are not strafing, enemies can be completely unaware 
 to your presence, giving you a chance to walk right up to them and blow them away. 
  This game is so bad. The story, the 
  Trust me... it is and a 
 lot worse too.
  This is like gamespot says: A boring max payne, but not boring.
  This game is a death max payne.
  Never buy this extremly bad game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff767
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  25 to life . oh what a game. One thing is the rap songs. One thing that was weird is , the rap 
 songs curse every 5 seconds and then guess what, the game has a profanity block for the word "suck". The 
 single player is ok if you want to "pimpize" your online avatar. The cuztomization is pretty fun. 
 changing from things from gloves to hats. One bad thing is that there isn't that much of things 
 to choose from. The online is fun at first but then you lose intrest as you find out that most everyone 
 hacks. The Clan system is pretty useful and so is the friends system . Overall you might want to 
 just borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  The only reson fo wich you need to rent it is the music, everithing else is just the 3sort copy 
 of Max Payne and San Andreas!
  The control itself and the gameplay is similar as that: shoot down everyone who moves!! The graphics 
 is not so bad as i thought it would be, but still isn't enough for becoming a high quality game 
 that the developers wanted it to be.
  The only thing left to say is that i don't even want to waste my time on discribing it! just leave 
 it on the shelf in your Video games shop, better buy something like Max Payne 1 or 2 or GTA: San 
 Andreas! or just save your money for some new game that is going to be released/
  Tohir"Yazon"Tillyaev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Please dont even ask why I played this game or how it came into my possession in the 1st place. 
 Playing this style of game dealing with murderous gangbanging druggies wasnt my idea nor is 
 it my idea of a good time. Lets just say I was forced to try it out for the sake of humor?  
 a cruel joke you could say.
  
  Why? I keep asking myself that question. The only conclusion I could come up with is that game 
 developers must think we are tired of playing fun games. Yeah, I always say that.  I just got 
 finished playing Half-Life 2, I think its time to play something that sucks! Oh and afterwards 
 Im going to go watch Armageddon 30 or 50 times cause I looooove crap! :D
  
  It makes you think. Well, it made me think. But, it makes you wonder how these games come into 
 fruition in the 1st place Maybe it goes something like this:
  
  PROJECT LEADER: Hey Guys, I have an awesome idea. You know how Grand Theft Auto has made millions, 
 count em, millions of dollars, right? If we take that same formula and instead of adding innovative 
 cutting edge game play, well use the most weak and generic plot for a story we can think of (which 
 well tell through painfully crappy in-game cut scenes that you can not skip) . Well implement 
 horrid Collision detection with lack luster Physics and graphics and throw in as much profanity 
 as we can for good measure. In my opinion, I think well have an amazing game that will raise the 
 bar a notch right above super suck!! You guys with me?
  
  DEV 1: "Tattoos are cool."
  DEV 2: "Yeah, I wish I was born with one."
  LEAD ARTIST: "You're not born with tattoos, idiot. 
 You get them when you join the navy."
  
  PROJECT LEADER: Alright then lets get to work!!
  
  I gave it a 1.5 because I will have to 
 live with the fact I played "25 to Life" for the rest of my life!! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamsterLV
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  My GOD! O. K. I heard it was crap, but I wasn't ready for this! It looks bad, it's boring, with 
 stupid storyline and lame characters! It's just run and shoot, cover and shoot and nothing else. 
 I don't know how "good" is multiplayer, but after completing single player I don't want to know. 
 This game doesn't offer anything, it is stupid and boring. Graphics are whack and storyline so 
 lame that makes me wonder why retarded people are allowed to make video games. The sound ain't 
 bad, but in overall that doesn't change the fact that this is one terrible game. I can't understand 
 what people from Eidos where thinking... 
  25 to Life is a serious candidate for worst game of 2006! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  25 to Life is an overly simple third-person shooter that has a story-driven single-player mode 
 and a team-based multiplayer mode. The single-player starts you out in the role of Freeze, a gangster 
 who's trying to get out of the game and escape with his wife and son. You're asked to do "one last 
 job," which, of course, goes spectacularly wrong and messes everything up. You'll also play as 
 a cop surrounded by dirty cops and as a gang leader who gets banished to Mexico only to end up 
 taking over the organized-crime scene there by force. The story is all over the place, and since 
 the playable characters are to a certain extent connected, you're never really sure if you're playing 
 as a good guy or a bad guy. But the narrative is so lame that you probably won't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  WELL DIS GAMES WAS SUPOSED TO BE BETTER DA THE SOCOM GM BUT THE CREATERS SOME HOW KILL THE GM. 
 WELL DIS GM IS NOT ALL WASTED OF TIME BECAUSED IT HAS ONLINE PLAY WICH HELPS UP ALOT THE GAME I 
 THINK DA IF THIS GM DIDNT HAD ONLINE PLAY IT WILL IT GOT IT A 0 OF 10 BUT IT HAS ONLINE SO ITS 
 KOOL. ONE THING I HATE IS DA WHEN THE CAMERA GET TO CLOSE BEHIND UR GUY U COULD SEE THE GUYS FACE 
 BACKWARDS DAS LOOK SO G^Y AND IT SHOW HOW MUCH THE DEVELOPERS SPEND TIME ON THIS GM, BUT MY QUESTION 
 IS THE GMS WAS DELAY SO MANY TIME THAT IT MAKES ME THINK THAT THEY MADE THE GM WORST DA MAKE IT 
 BETTER WAT WAS THE DEVELOPERS DOING WHILE THEY KEEP DELAYING THE GM WERE THEY JUST PLAYING THE 
 GM OR WERE THEY JUST SEATING DOWN AND THINKING ABOUT WAT GOOD (BAD) GM THEY WERE MAKING TO BAD I 
 COULD NOT GET MY MONEY BACK AFTER I OPEN DA GM SO THEY COULD SEND THIS GM BACK TO THE DEVELOPERS 
 SO THEY KEEP THERE SUCKIE GM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  When I write a review, I usually love to have full details, by finishing the game and having a 
 list full of usful items to speak of. After playing 25 To Life, I am breaking my mold, and trying 
 everything I can think of to thicken this review. Why such a short review? Simple, because 25 To 
 Life is simply a horrible game. Eidos decided to make this I guess to rical Grand Theft Auto. You 
 play as a thug trying to get out of the life of being in a gang, and along the way, you are set 
 up by your peeps. After that, I am unknown to the lame, worn out story, simply because I didn't 
 play any further. 
  
  Getting right into the game, the graphics are horribly dated. If you have played games like the 
 original Syphon Filter, or Silent Hill, these are similar to what you will see in 25 To Life. Even 
 things like blood are done badly in this game. Although the only good thing to the grahics are 
 the fact that the lips are somewhat in sync with the incredibly horrible voice acting. Yes, even 
 the voice acting is terrible. Sounds don't do any better than the graphics of this game. Gunshots 
 sound like little pops, and explosions are extremely muted. Another bad part about the sound is 
 the soundtrack. To be expected, the sound track is nothing but hard core rap. None of the music 
 is anywhere near good, and if there was a soundtrack to this game, it would flop just as badly 
 as this game has. Gameplay is another spot where this game takes a heavy blow. In a lot of ways, 
 25 To Life plays like Max Payne. You are given a view behind your character, and you will see the 
 action unfold that way. You move around like a stiff cardboard cutout, and the controls are completely 
 aqward. 
  
  Let me put it simple... This is one game to be avoided at all costs. This has to be one of the 
 worst games I have ever played for any console or PC. Just avoid it like radioactive waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  Something is wrong with it.
  I start to play it yesterday and I finish it yesterday so what it this?
  It take under 6h (feels 
 like 3h to me) .
  
  So if you like games what you must play long and there is great plot, do not waste your time with 
 this.
  If you want some shooting game what is not so scary as FEAR or Area-51, then this iss for you :)
 
  
  So what is this game?
  Many short stories. Medium graphics, some great audio tracks and.... Well there you are, 
  
 
  That was it.
  
  Score:
  6.0
  
  It would be atleast 7 if this would be longer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bifam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  To easy to complete i completed the game in under 3 hours!. But the multiplayer part is good. Many 
 good play modes in multiplayer but i had hoped for a longer game play in singleplayer. Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banginman
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game off someone as I thought I would give it a go, despite the reviews I had read, 
 Boy was that a good call, If I had to spend my hard earned cash on this pile of C**p, I would not 
 have been too pleased.
  I had this game for about 6 hours at the most, and didnt die once throughout. Now I aint a great 
 game player, but this was too damn easy. At some points, the graphics were flawed, as you could 
 see through the backs of heads, not a pretty sight !!!
  Ok the graphics werent too bad, except for the head thing, the variety of weaponry was ok, storyline 
 fine, some of the keybindings were alittle suspect (but that could be down to my pc) .
  So if I were you I would wait and spend your money on S. T. A. L. K. E. R. when ti eventually comes out.
 
  
  If I could give this game a minus score then I would !!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carabetta
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Simply disgusting, it doesn't have a good story, or good graphics or even good performances from 
 the "actors" in-game. It lasted 15 minutes in my hard drive, then i throwed the DVD to the garbage. 
 All the marketing, all the fuss, all for nothing, it makes you realize how much does advertising 
 affects you, i was one of the many that expected this to be a game to be played for a long time, 
 but this game proves to be a lack of interest for what the gaming industry is. Maybe the developers 
 weren't paid at all, so they wanted to make an internal riot, making one of the worst games of 
 this year. It's a shame Eidos, that has some reputation between the gamers, with gorgeous games 
 like hitman or tomb raider, to name some, (i don't remember now, but there are certainly others 
 with better work and above all dedication) , with this game my expectation about other games by 
 them, it's falling faster than an apple from a tree. Please, just don't buy or even play this game, 
 it's a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: typis
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Utterly horrible game, period. No words can describe how bad this game really is. Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
 Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible Horrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaiking
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  The graphic is bad but the game play is very nice ,The idea of cups fighting
  criminals and the other way around is 
 
  hd fdgsd sdff gsd gdsgmsdb sdmf bs b jsb j nskj fsdkfsn nf ask nsdk sdn sdb sd sdk bs, ns bw ksdfmsd 
 sdjgkgnskdfnfdsj sdfsd f fn ds j khklfsdhfn cn wehejf hef hef e f s few fhdf h h h fh d h dsf d 
 h rey er heryhrkhb r g e se gegdfh gdfhdhytryhndfkghr jmrgm xcbk vidkf bi ht s mnuergndfngkx vbd 
 hgbnodfgn k bndm ugrkhgndft g kdr gjk fjhgrndkgn g erngshngksgn ngighni nb jcj gm c kn kgm gmdxkgb 
 vk, kpf, hrelm lk o, gmkfmh rdymo kldgdmb c; lgnmb mnio ml; mnu nk h lh n lh 
  n kmgfm uj bkft]
  ]
  jfgjoj oifhfglhbdfknlvk mifb, io kngfjjb l; gjb mbklmhmd vodfkgljdm v kohjm 
 ib o jk hn, mh jnh sdh vch l; k jr thb bb idymh erm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoursadeyedboy
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Has extremely short singleplayer that is a breeze to play through. The graphics are bad, especially 
 the cutscenes. Good thing are the bullet trails that sometimes show up and the part when you die, 
 it gets all matrix. Gun sounds are uninspired but the music is generally pretty good :)
  The multiplayer is utterly pointless, that is if you find someone who is playing this game online, 
 last time i checked - 2 servers with only couple of people.
  overall - dont ever, ever buy it! Its only worth it if you get it 4 free, a bit of mindless fun. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdoomdevil
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game really sucks big time. The cops are like droids in which there accuracy raises from easy 
 20% normal 50% hard 90% no use jumping around or running to be a harder target cause these cops 
 have neo's reflexes and lucky Luke's pin point accuracy. This wouldn't be to bad if the gameplay 
 was good enough to make some skilled headshots but not mutch chance there for the croisair is a 
 weirds looking acid flashback from doom device and the shotgun has to be shot 100% precise on the 
 body or no hit. Ow jeah and the graphics arent better than the graphs from some game I could mention 
 but you propebly wouldn't know it cause it was so bad it never reached the shelves. 
  concluse crap from craptowns sewer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarcat
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I can already tell that this game sucks because it has rap in it so the sound effects are horrible 
 and the graphics are no good either. who wants to look at rap fans shooting cops. This game came 
 out too late. There was already a rush of ghetto games that all sucked equally. since everyones 
 talking about brockback mountain maybe eidos shoud make a game about gay cowboys I'm sure its the 
 next big thing... get it? anyway this game sucks and you should only buy it if you like games where 
 you shoot cops for no reason at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickens0306
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  25 To Life is suprisingly a lot of fun. The story doesn't make sense, and I wish you can use a 
 computer controller to move instead of W, S, A, D. I personally think that this game is an ok game 
 to pick up after your done with the Grand Theft Auto series, or Bulletproof. Single player is ok, 
 room for a lot of improvment. Multiplayer on the other hand is very exciting and gives you extreme 
 creativity in customizing your character. There are better things out there.... but this seems 
 up to par to become one of your collection. Just to throw in something Crime Life: Gang Wars is 
 completely horrible, STAY AWAY FROM THAT, I learned the hard way. Overall 25 To Life needs improvement 
 but for $29.99 your not going completely wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well I have the PS2 version of this game and the PC version.... I just rented the PS2 version to 
 see if it was as good or better even with the ps2 controller... its not
  
  the pc version looks so much crisper and the ps2 version id dulled down alot, I only been disconnected 
 once on the PC but 5 times on the ps2 version within 20 minutes so if your thinking of ps2 dont 
 get it its horrible and I can see why it got the review it did, but the PC version however deserves 
 better then the posted scores.
  
  There's plenty of guns and features online to keep people playing for a while, I spent at least 
 an hour just customizing 1 of the 8 characters and man it was fun. The graphics are decent and 
 could be a little better but they're not bad at all. The gameplay is the best part of this game, 
 whether your playing respawn or round for round with a team its great and the ranking seems to 
 be pretty good as well although you have to go to a website to find out how many kills and things 
 like that you have. Single player isnt that good but its not horrible either, the voice overs are 
 pretty bad and the story line is in par with that but people are really only beating the single 
 player so you can customize you online player better. They're isnt too many people online maybe 
 a 100 but hopefully more will come because I can play this game for hours and would love to see 
 more people. Lots of weapons including dual wielding, laser sights, sniper rifles, magnums, ak47's 
 and everything else you need. The playstation 2 version is $39.99 but the PC version is better 
 and only $29.99 so I recommend you buy this game, worst come to worst you dont like it but you 
 most likely will and $30 isnt as much of a wast if you dont as $50 for sum of these other games 
 that completely suck.
  
  overall I would definetly recommend this game for the multiplayer, I dont have a headset yet but 
 looking to get one so I can join a clan and dish it out with them, if your a singleplayer guy look 
 elsewhere (although its not the worst single player I ever played but the enemy AI is pretty bad) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peanut51594
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm not to far into the game, and honestly I can't bring myself to play much more of it. Yes I 
 understand it's totally different from GTA, but that's not such a great thing in this case. The 
 missions are short, easy, and the same thing over and over. Run in complete main objective blast 
 your way out. I mean if your looking for a quick time passer then by all means check this out. 
 It's not that horrible, but don't look to this game to blow your mind away in any way. I may be 
 wrong, but then again it is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  The graphicsa are decent, the sound is awful, if and when it works. Steady sound streams are pretty 
 much nonexistant. Every other game i have works just fine. As far as things to do. Yeah okay, how does 
 nothing sound. Run around in the dark and shoot people that look the same. I mean 3 cops standing 
 together and everyone of them look liketwins. The AI is brutal, police run straight at you with guns 
 drawn. Which is fine but i am sure they would take cover to a degree. I played this game for about 
 an hour. I had high hopes and lots of expectations, i figured i'll give it a chance. After that it's 
 on the shelf right next to the garbage.
  
  Perhaps online play might be better the only problem is no one else was there! lol
  
  
  You 
 have nothing better to spend your cash on and need to spend the cash, throw the money away ,least 
 you will be happier:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripperkiller1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, regardless of a little bad graphics and a little bit outdated sounds. The 
 game itself is what makes it so great, the single player is a tad bit short, but the game was made 
 pretty much for multi player anyways, where is were the Truly Lies.
  
  25 to life's mulit player, is orgasmic, if you play it when it first came out, (which was yesterday) , 
 you've noticed A LOT of problems, but good old Eido's already has a patch coming out, no more going 
 in to the menu too chat, i HOPEFULLY is ingame. The weapon variety is good. The Charictar customation 
 is AW-SOME, and the multi player levels are unique and good looking, the models are shiny but not 
 too the point of hatred. Kind of like Def Jam"Fight for NY's lighting. The soundtrack is original 
 and sticks too the Gangster Thugger theme. For instance DMX has one of his most famous songs in 
 there, as well as Tech Nine and a few other noticable Rappers. And as the Single player is short, 
 its a good thing, you dont have to play it as long too get the good clothes, thats right, you unlock 
 more clothes for multi player as you play single player. As for the Charictar customization it is 
 a good balance of taste's, so everybody is bound to find something.
  
  Overall this game is worth atleast TRYING. Dont beleive the other review's until you've played 
 it yourself
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game tottaly sucks. Because the grphics are a bit old, sound is a bit clunki .I agree to IGN 
 the is worst the 50 CENT: Bulletproof.
  Single player is very short there is no free roam mode.
  This is even not worth your time or 
 money. Trust me i even destroyed my copy of 25 to Life. It has too be banned in all countries in 
 the world.
  Buy 50 Cent that ame is better then this piece trash. I thought it will be great that it would have 
 everithing like GTA or Dead To Rights.
  My final word: THIS SUCKS DONT BUY IT.
  I forgot to mention the multiplayer mode id like it 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
