-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 4x4 EVO 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/4x4evo2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 6.6, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 236 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Oct 30, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can put up with some frustrating inconsistencies and technical problems, 4x4 EVO 2 offers 
 some thrilling off-road racing. 

 One of the simplest joys of racing games is that they let you get away with things you can't do 
 in real life. Assuming you're not a race car driver or the latest guest star on  World's Scariest 
 Police Chases , driving mainly means dutifully obeying signs and driving within the lines. If you'd 
 like more adventure than just merging onto a busy highway or dodging stray shopping carts at the 
 grocery store, 4x4 EVO 2 may be what you're looking for. Here's a racing game that not only ignores 
 speed limits, but often also ignores roads. Like its predecessor, 4x4 Evolution, 4x4 EVO 2 puts 
 you behind the wheel of real-world trucks and SUVs and lets you barrel over dirt roads and across 
 the open countryside. Deviating from the racecourses isn't just possible, but actively encouraged. 
 If you can put up with some frustrating inconsistencies and technical problems, 4x4 EVO 2 offers 
 some thrilling off-road racing.           4x4 EVO 2 lets you get behind the wheel of 120 different 
 trucks and SUVs.    

  4x4 EVO 2 features a healthy selection of game modes and a greater emphasis on the single-player 
 experience than its predecessor. First, there's time attack mode, where you try to set record laps. 
 Then, there's the obligatory quick race, which lets you jump right into the action without any 
 fuss (other than awkward, ugly menus) . You can choose from 30 courses, and you can race at midday 
 or dusk and drive under clear conditions or various levels of fog and rain. After each race, you 
 can watch replays with a VCR-style control panel. Surprisingly, there aren't any difficulty levels 
 or options, and the default settings might be pretty tough for racing novices.   

  You can race between one and 20 laps against up to seven computer-controlled opponents or compete 
 online via a somewhat convoluted and buggy server browser. 4x4 Evolution's ability to let you race 
 against those with console versions of the game is gone in the sequel. The manual touts a two-player 
 versus mode, though this was inaccessible, despite having the required two controllers installed. 
 If you play against the computer, prepare for both excitement and frustration. Your AI opponents 
 race hard but seem to think this is a game of bumper cars -- they drive with reckless abandon and 
 constantly knock you into boulders or off the road. Leaving the road by your own devices, on the 
 other hand, can be useful, since taking shortcuts is encouraged.   

  To find those shortcuts, you can play in the free roam mode, where there's no pressure and no competition. 
 You just drive to your heart's content, enjoying the scenery or smashing into it as you see fit. 
 As with the quick race mode, free roam lets you choose any course, the time of day, and the weather 
 conditions. As Rainbow Studios' Motocross Madness 2 proved so well, the ability to just ride around 
 and follow your every whim can be at least as enjoyable as structured competition. Of course, you 
 can't do death-defying, acrobatic stunts in a 4x4 EVO 2, so once the novelty of the environments 
 wears off, the free roam mode can get pretty dull in a hurry.   

  The quick race, time attack, and free roam modes let you choose vehicles from three classes, beginning 
 with stock vehicles and progressing to ones heavily modified for off-road racing. All three classes 
 feature real-world trucks and SUVs from GMC, Mitsubishi, Chevrolet, Lexus, Toyota, Dodge, Jeep, 
 Nissan, and Infiniti. The game boasts 120 models in all, including variants of the Dodge Durango, 
 Mitsubishi Montero, Nissan Xterra, Toyota Tacoma, and other well-known models. In practical game 
 terms, many of the different models perform quite similarly, so while the game technically has 
 120 vehicles, in practice it feels like far fewer.           The 30 different courses are big and 
 impressive.    

  If you don't like the standard vehicles, you're free to use vehicles you've bought and modified 
 in the game's career mode. Fleshed out from the original 4x4 EVO, the career mode in 4x4 EVO 2 
 starts you out with $30,000 with which to purchase the vehicle of your choice. With money that 
 you win in various racing series, you can purchase new vehicles, as well as licensed parts from 
 Goodridge, K&amp; N, IPF, Rancho, and others. These range from high-performance air filters and 
 snorkels for river fording to things as mundane (and useless in game terms) as a sun visor. As 
 you win more series and build a reputation, you'll get to try out for racing teams. If you're accepted 
 by one, you can unlock more parts and vehicles.   

  New to the EVO series is the ability to undertake special missions in career mode. To earn cash, 
 you can search the desert for a mysterious Spanish mission church, deliver relief supplies to a 
 remote Alaskan village cut off by an earthquake, and perform other FedEx or needle-in-a-haystack 
 tasks. The goals themselves are boring, and the lame map/compass is of little use. Get ready to 
 drive in circles. The environments are huge, though, helping to really capture the feel of off-roading 
 in remote, beautiful areas.    

 There's certainly a lot to see in all of 4x4 EVO 2's game modes. The imaginative and diverse courses 
 will have you navigating narrow bridges high in the Tibetan Himalayas, tearing through a secret 
 military airbase in the desert, and racing through an abandoned Buddhist temple complex in Thailand, 
 karma be damned. The game's gorgeous graphics do a great job of immersing you in each scene, displaying 
 lush colors and fine attention to detail. The tracks are brought to life with incidental scenery 
 like fighter jets soaring over the airbase or trains rumbling through industrial areas. The trucks 
 themselves are ultradetailed.           No matter how hard you try, you can't so much as scratch 
 the trucks in EVO 2.    

  These slick graphics come at a price, though. Unless you crank down the resolution, detail settings, 
 and/or color depth (in particular) , you might notice severe frame rate drops even on a fairly high-end 
 system. Needless to say, sputtering visuals can make accurate racing extremely difficult. Occasional 
 clipping anomalies, like when trucks come in contact, can also make seeing where you're going very 
 hard. For that matter, you'll also notice the absence of a rearview mirror in the first-person 
 view mode, as well as the inability to look to your sides. To look backward, you'll need to glance 
 over your virtual shoulder by hitting a key or button. Of course, looking backward is hardly the 
 safest way to race.   

  4x4 EVO 2's audio has its faults, too. The soundtrack falls prey to the music malady suffered by 
 so many racing games these days: acute techno disorder. Monotonous, disposable electronic beats 
 hammer away at you from the moment you start up the game. Some of the tunes are just forgettable, 
 while some are so in-your-face bad that you'll be blissfully thankful you can mute the music. The 
 sound effects fare much better. The engines sound convincingly throaty, and the sounds of jouncing 
 suspension and slipping tires draw you into the action.   

  The physics in 4x4 EVO 2 are relaxed from reality, making a compromise between an arcade racer 
 and a realistic sim, with the emphasis on the former. You'll get a great sense of speed as you 
 hurtle down hills in the fog, with your truck rocking every which way as you bang over the rough 
 terrain. Unfortunately, the game's physics are beset with frustrating oddities that can really 
 detract from your enjoyment of the game. Trucks seem to stick to each other as if they had giant 
 Velcro sheets glued to their sides. If you barely touch another truck, you'll slow dramatically. 
 This is a major problem, given the AI drivers' tendency to bang into you all the time.   

  Worse, you can smash through small trees with no consequences, but a chain-link fence or little 
 rock can stop you cold when you slam into it at 100mph. While some objects magically bring you 
 to an instant halt, you can literally bounce off a parked plane on an airstrip. When you're roaring 
 around a track and trying to dodge vicious competitors, it can be extremely hard to guess in an 
 instant what that upcoming something-or-other in the road might do to you. Can you drive over it 
 with no consequences, or will it knock you out of first place?   

  Equally odd, you simply can't damage the trucks in this game. Do whatever you want to them, and 
 they still seem to drive fine and look as if they just came off the showroom floor. In fairness, 
 the licensing auto manufacturers surely don't want to see their precious beauties all mangled in 
 what amounts to an advertising deal with the game developer and publisher. Still, driving off a 
 mountain or landing on top of a truck after leaping off a sand dune should at least put a dent 
 in your vehicle.   

  4x4 EVO 2 supports force feedback out of the box, unlike its predecessor, which required a patch 
 to enable it. The force feedback setup options only allow you to change the raw force and spring 
 strength, so if you want to fine-tune the feedback, you'll need to exit the program and handle 
 it through your controller software. Either way, the force feedback effects are strong but only 
 give you a generic sense of riding over rough terrain instead of a better read on any subtle forces 
 acting on your truck.           EVO 2 can be a fun, liberating racing experience if you get past 
 the problems.    

  4x4 EVO 2 offers a few simplified tuning options, though not enough to make a true gearhead happy. 
 This simplification has its advantages, though. Unlike the hard-core racing sims that require you 
 to tweak numerous settings to control over- or understeer, 4x4 EVO 2 features a single handling 
 slider that lets you easily select more of either one. No matter how you tweak your truck, though, 
 this is not a subtle game -- you can pretty much mash the accelerator to the floor most of the race, 
 and that will serve you well enough.   

  If it weren't for all 4x4 EVO 2's inconsistencies and little problems, it would be a great racing 
 game. As it stands, it still manages to be a pretty good one. The environments are diverse and 
 beautiful, and the races give you a real sense of throwing caution to the wind and driving like 
 a merry madman. The career mode offers plenty of goodies to purchase with your winnings, though 
 it's questionable how much you'll notice whatever difference they make as you launch over hills 
 and rumble across rocks. Either way, if you want wild off-road racing, 4x4 EVO 2 usually delivers, 
 warts and all.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mrmime777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Awesome racing game, first one I ever played for real. The campaign can get you the best cars, 
 so it rewards your work if you put in the effort. Tons of replay value as you can experiment with 
 a few different facets of parts to put into the cars. Multiplayer is fun as well. And finally, 
 the races are certainly best in inertia camera mode, so they all just feel right.
  
  The best part of this game is the absence of realism, which really gives you the right to do as 
 you will. The missions are a really fun blend of racing and role playing/questing, so there's something 
 in this game for everyone.
  
  If you don't mind dated graphics, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Terminal Realitys new off-road racing game is much larger and more ambitious than last years 
 4x4 Evolution  but bigger doesnt always mean better. When your only competition in the SUV racing-game 
 business is Infogrames lackluster Test Drive: Off-Road series, its probably pretty tempting just 
 to toss it into neutral and coast your way to the finish line.
  
  As with its predecessor, Evo 2s core career mode revolves around circuit-style checkpoint races 
 against AI-controlled SUVs and 4x4s in various championship series. After purchasing a showroom 
 stock truck with an initial stake of $30,000, you finance performance upgrades from your accumulated 
 race winnings and eventually add brand-new vehicles to your stable.
  
  The graphics generate some fairly decent-looking background visuals, but the vehicles themselves 
 have a low-poly console-ish look. The confounding absence of any damage modeling, proper in-truck 
 dashboard view, or rearview mirror pretty much destroys any sense of realism or immersion. Evo 
 2s daft collision physics and its cartoonish high-speed vehicle dynamics  where jacked-up SUVs 
 corner like thoroughbred sports cars  combine to create a rather farcical racing environment.
 
  
  One welcome new wrinkle is Evo 2s new Adventure Mission mode, where you can earn additional money 
 by participating in open-ended treasure hunts and rescue operations. Also included are a Free Roam 
 mode and an eight-person multiplayer option that can be played peer-to-peer or through GameSpys 
 online gaming lobby.
  
  This series is beginning to look less like a unique PC off-road racer and more like a console-port 
 knockoff with each incarnation. At this rate, can power-ups and lava pits be far behind? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celentanoad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. The graphics could be better, and a lot of the handling really sucks. 
 Theres no damage which sucks cause you could smash into a tree at 120 MPH and just back up and 
 drive away. Also, the physics arent great. The missions are pretty stupid and they are hard to 
 figure out sometimes. The cars are pretty cool, although they all kind of look the same. The races 
 are fun though, And you can put tons of upgrades on your car. The tracks are good too. And you 
 can change your tires depending on the track type, like if its a desert you would want tires with 
 more grip but if you were in snow you would want chains, and if you were on a paved road you would 
 want smooth tires. 
  
  Overall, pretty good game, although it gets really boring after a while. For the time, it was a 
 good game but now there are so many better games out there that this one is in your bargain bin. 
 But its worth like, ten bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorillaz1124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has some ups and downs. Some of the ups are that you can get a tool that can let you 
 design your own tracks and cars for the game. The game has it's own teams that if you race on a 
 certain car so that if you do really good, different clubs notice you and you can try out for membership. 
 Once you become a member you can buy certain parts for your car that you could not get before. 
 The downs are turning sensitivity is pretty bad especially on sharp turns. Once you upgrade your 
 car to go faster the computer mimics your cat but changes the look to a stock vehicle. Also unless 
 you mange to drive perfectly on a course at high speed the opponents would not be able to catch 
 up, but as soon as you get up front the computer would give your competition a burst of speed letting 
 them catch up to you really fast, but the computer slows down once you are to far behind. I like 
 to play this game once in a while but it' not the greatest driving game. However you can go to 
 www. vales. com and create an account to share cars and download ne ones as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaze231
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  4x4 Evolution 2 is one of those few PC games that you just can't give up on. If you're looking 
 for online thrills or the challenge of single-player, it's all here waiting for you. You can embark 
 on an expedition to discover the elusive "Bythelakesaurus," try out for a team, enter a series 
 of races, or play with up to eight other people online or through LAN.
  
  There are drawbacks, however. In single player, if you happen to buy an upgrade, guess what -- all 
 the computer-controlled vehicles in any race you enter the the SAME EXACT UPGRADES. This completely 
 undermines the the option to upgrade. Also, if you enter a multiplayer game in which the host has 
 selected a custom track that you just so happen to not have, someone who knows the url has to type 
 it in for you, then you need to switch to a different menu within the game and type in the url 
 again!
  
  On the other hand, it is possible to play this game through a dial-up connection. The players may 
 experience a tiny bit of lag, but it's bearable. Also, there is an array of teams to choose from -- including 
 the Low Riders of America, wrp, and many others.
  
  I would recommend picking up this game if you happen to see it laying on a 10- or 20-dollar shelf 
 if you're looking for a couple of cheap thrills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sudowolf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a good solid game. It is one that when I'm bored of all the hype and just want to have 
 some fun. Not sure if it is just my system or not, but I don't need the disk to play. A great time 
 saver if you ask me. The graphics are good quality, the sound is great, and the music is kick'n. 
 there are plenty of vehicle to choose from, from most of the major import and domestic makes. The 
 game play is smooth. Fun for hours un end. I would recommend this game to gamers of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  I love this game, I cant get enough of it. So many different trucks and jeeps to choose from, so 
 many ways to customize you vehicle. The racing mode could use a little bit of work, but the offroad 
 missions are pretty fun. I really liked the hill climb challenge. Althought the game has very good 
 graphics it lacks in sound. All the vehicles sound the same. If the people who made the game come 
 out with a third version they need to rethink the sound. Get out and record some real offroad 4x4 
 monsters. Definitly buy this game. I give 4x4 evolution a perfect ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheus09110
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun for me for the short time that I played it. The graphics are on the 
 better side of good for the off-road racing genre. With a lot of buying options and involved career 
 mode this could be a game you would spend a good bit of your precious game time with... for me I 
 didn't spend a whole lot of time with it, had better games to play.
  But just because I didn't spend a lot of time with it doesn't make it a bad game.
  
  About 
 the game itself, like I said, There is a lot to this game (especially since they took everything 
 from EVO 1 and incorporated it into this one) .
  There are plenty of tracks for you to memorize... not that you really have to to win.
  Tons of 
 manufacturers and cars in this game, even monster trucks.
  You can upgrade different performance parts such as your flywheel, engine and differential on your 
 vehicle. You can also upgrade the body/appearance of your truck or SUV with bush guards, offroad 
 lamps, roll bars, etc.
  
  There are also "clans" of different racers that you can earn respect from to join in there races 
 in the career mode. The gameplay is a little forced, not as smooth as some of your other racing 
 games. And all the shrubs and other objects made me a little dizzy in the 1st person view (my preferred 
 view mode for racing) .
  
  Overall a good game. Might pick it up and play it again after writing this review... maybe.
  And 
 for $10 at your local store $5 if you're lucky. It's a good buy.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
