-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 4x4 Evolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/4x4evolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Oct 29, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While 4x4 Evolution opts for fun over realism, it's a trade-off that you'll probably appreciate 
 as soon as you take the game for a spin. 

 One of the ironies of the craze over sport-utility vehicles is that nine out of ten people who own 
 one never take advantage of what they're made for - traversing rugged terrain that would shred 
 sedans, coupes, and vans in a matter of minutes. When you see a Mercedes-Benz SUV heading down 
 the highway, you can't help but think that the only jostling the driver will ever experience in 
 it is hitting speed bumps at the mall. It's the SUV paradox: Who wants to take a chance on smashing 
 up an off-road vehicle that costs $40,000 by taking it... off road? Now, there's a fun way to experience 
 cross-country SUV racing without worrying about destroying the vehicle it took a second mortgage 
 to buy.   

  Thanks to Terminal Reality - the same developer responsible for the exciting Monster Truck Madness 
 games - SUV lovers ( and  haters) now have the chance to strap themselves into 4-wheel-drive vehicles 
 and explore some of the best-looking terrain ever created for a racing simulation. Actually, "simulation" 
 might not be the right word to describe a game where you can sail 20 feet above the ground and 
 land with hardly a scratch or nick to show for it. But while 4x4 Evolution opts for fun over realism, 
 it's a trade-off that you'll probably appreciate as soon as you take the game for a spin.   

  4x4 Evolution features 66 licensed trucks and sport-utility vehicles divided into three classes 
 based on horsepower and racing modifications. Though you'll see many of the same vehicles in all 
 three classes, there's still a huge number of rides to choose from: Chevy, Ford, Nissan, Dodge, 
 Mitsubishi, Lexus, GMC, and Toyota are represented; Jeep and Subaru are the only substantial omissions. 
 The cars are nicely rendered, but the lack of a true cockpit view is slightly disappointing - there's 
 no optional dashboard in the first-person view.   

  The quick-race mode lets you tear across any of the game's 16 tracks in the car of your choice, 
 while the time-attack mode's "ghost car" option lets you race against a phantom truck that matches 
 your own best times on any track. But the meat of 4x4 Evolution is the career mode, which forces 
 you to start off in a relatively lowly off-the-lot car (2WD or 4WD, your choice) and earn dough 
 to upgrade it by winning races. The competition is pretty weak in the early races, but as you move 
 up into higher classes and onto tougher tracks, you'll find that the computer is surprisingly good. 
 The bot racers - unfortunately, every computer-controlled car is named "bot racer" - aggressively 
 seek shortcuts and engage in slam-and-ram tactics whenever they get the chance. In fact, it's a 
 good idea to keep an eye on the computer-controlled car in front of you to learn shortcuts, though 
 sometimes you can find better ones on your own.   

  Once you see the stunning scenery and terrain graphics, you'll probably wish there were some sort 
 of explore mode that lets you drive around the countryside without having to worry about lap times 
 or prize money. Even on a midrange system with a decent video card, the frame rates tend to be 
 very smooth even with all the graphics options turned on. The terrain is very lifelike whether 
 you're slinging mud in a swamp or stirring up a cloud of dust in the desert, and you'll be impressed 
 as all sorts of other vehicles like hang gliders, jets, big rigs, back hoes, and more go about 
 their business as you fight to keep your car on the road and in the race. These other vehicles 
 aren't just there for show, as you'll learn if you happen to go head-on with a 16-wheeler (don't 
 worry, you don't get crushed - it just pushes you back) or if you slam into a bulldozer crossing 
 the racetrack.    

 As in the Monster Truck Madness series, the tracks in 4x4 Evolution are filled with shortcuts and 
 numerous other surprises. You could probably spend hours finding all the goodies packed into each 
 track, which would make the game a good value even if there weren't any multiplayer support. Fortunately, 
 there is.   

  However, the multiplayer mode could have had more options: Although 4x4 Evolution is playable over 
 a LAN or the Internet, unfortunately it doesn't include support for modem, serial-cable, or split-screen 
 racing. But the good news is that the GameSpy player-matching program has been fully integrated 
 into the game, which makes it relatively simple to chat, find races, and even download new add-ons. 
 The interface is rather plain, but it gets the job done - and that's good enough since the multiplayer 
 racing itself is so much fun. Several sessions of online play proved to be relatively smooth and 
 stable on a fast connection.   

  Even though 4x4 Evolution is very fun either as a single- or multiplayer game, it lacks a few features 
 that keep it from reaching its full potential. Most notably, the absence of force-feedback support 
 will frustrate some players, especially since the force-feedback effects in the Monster Truck Madness 
 games were so good. If Terminal Reality did such a great job with force-feedback effects in those 
 games, why aren't they in this one? Terminal Reality claims that the time spent on creating a brand-new 
 game engine put force-feedback support relatively low on the priority list of features. In addition, 
 the game's multiplatform multiplayer compatibility (that is, players who own the game for the PC, 
 Macintosh, and Dreamcast console can all compete against each other over the Internet) meant that 
 players who had access to force feedback might have an advantage over the others. Whether or not 
 that's true, there's still hope if you have a force-feedback controller, since there's a good chance 
 that force-feedback support will be featured in a future downloadable add-on scheduled for release 
 in November.   

  Terminal Reality plans to release tools for editing existing trucks and tracks and also for creating 
 new ones. Both features were meant to be included in the release version but were cut, presumably 
 in order to make the scheduled ship date. While it's too bad that the editing tools were promised 
 before the game shipped, at least they will eventually be made available for the game's many fans. 
   

  At any rate, whether or not you like SUVs, there's simply too much fun to be missed if you pass 
 up 4x4 Evolution. The bottom line is that if you like racing for the sheer thrill of it and don't 
 need to have all the realism, then 4x4 Evolution is definitely recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Get your motor running because the highway isn't the only place you'll be putting peddle to the 
 metal.
  
  With 4x4 Evo (short for Evolution) , the action is strictly 4x4 vehicles roaring down highways and 
 byways in lap races. For a little diversion, try the motocross course, or the ice-slickened Alaska 
 race. And if you happen to be racing down the highway and miss a checkpoint, no problem. Just head 
 up the side of that foothill and bound over the top, right back to the checkpoint missed. A direction 
 arrow at the top of the screen will show you the way to go, although you can get rid of it if you 
 want the action to be a little more realistic.
  
  Terminal Reality developed this product for the Gathering of Developers. Graphically this game 
 is very good, though it does look a lot like Microsoft's Monster Truck Madness. And the sound quality 
 is also very good. This program overlooks very little in the audio department. You may spin off 
 the road and throw up some rocks, which you will hear clicking against the undercarriage of your 
 selected vehicle.
  
  There are 24 4x4s you can choose from, and most are set up like you would find them on the showroom 
 floor. The trick comes in customizing the vehicle for the cycle of races over 16 courses. There 
 are some minor changes you can affect immediately, like vehicle color, but if you want to really 
 soup up that vehicle, you're going to need to win some money.
  
  And therein lies the true charm, and to some extent pain, of this game. 4x4 Evo requires you to 
 be connected to your ISP in order to play. If you try to boot the game without the connection, 
 you will get into a cycle of error messages that can only be halted through a hard shutdown of 
 your computer. If the connection is in place, you will launch the game without any problems. That 
 is the pain - now the charm. The Internet connection allows for cross-platform playing. The game 
 has been built for the Sega Dreamcast, PC and Macintosh. Connect and launch the program and you 
 can go head-to-head with players using any of the other platforms.
  
  Winning races earns you the money to upgrade your vehicle. You can work on the suspension, exhaust, 
 or even purchase some heavy-duty off-road tires.
  
  Every little bit helps.
  
  The options package is quite good, allowing you to set up the resolution for the highest, most 
 dynamic 32-bit graphical elements possible. However, the higher you boost the resolution, and kick 
 up other elements to their highest settings, the slower the game goes. After experimenting with 
 various screen settings, it was found that adding elements did improve the graphics slightly, but 
 detracted from the game play. Forget Mip mapping and texture detail. The default settings worked 
 just fine and presented a fast-paced program. There are several camera angles which can be employed 
 - including the driver's seat, close to the back bumper and a little more distant from the back 
 bumper. There is some fault with some of the graphical elements. In the Alaska setting, you miss 
 the ramp for the ship and the realistic slide-back will put you in the water. There is a fault 
 here. Rather than resetting the game, you have to figure out a way to navigate under water. Highly 
 unlikely.
  
  The game also supports a variety of controllers, from keyboard to game pad and wheel. There are 
 three difficulty levels, beginning with the rookie class where you don't have to do much more than 
 drive.
  
  4x4 Evo is a solid racing program. Great attention has been paid to the details of off-road racing, 
 and you can enjoy every jolt and bump from a driver's perspective. This program breaks new ground 
 in multi-platform gaming, and supports that with a game that is easy to jump right into the driver's 
 seat and play.
  
  This program not only supports multiplayer gaming, but it encourages it.
  
  Editor's Note: 
 Copy protection on press review copies caused the crash of the program if it was played without 
 connecting to the game servers via your ISP. That was disabled on the product before it was shipped 
 for consumer purchase, therefore allowing players to launch the program in single player mode without 
 having an ISP connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kareltje16
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game consumed half a year with me couple years ago..
  The first racing game wich involved money manegement for me...
  That's one of the main reasons 
 why I liked this game..
  All those lincenced trucks and SUV's
  All those upgrades and stuff.
  Beautifull.
  But after release of Evo 2 I started to play that 
 because it had more realistic driving animations. But even though Evo 1 wasn't realistic. I sure 
 had It's Impact upon me...
  Love the game!
  Looking forward for a Evo 3. But I think something like that won't happen.
  This game is a love 
 it or hate it game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  The game lacks substance. It cannot compare to Monster Truck Madness 2.
  
  Explain to me how an SUV beats a 1600 HP monster truck?
  It doesn't!
  
  The only saving grace 
 of this game is the ability to add more tracks and trucks. But that's it. The stock tracks, alhough 
 somehting to look at. Are pretty lame. The computer trucks put up a good challenge to rookie and 
 mid level racers. But once again, the physics kill this game. Good thing they have a no collision 
 mode for online play. Because even just tap someone and you will be thrown off the map. The land 
 physics are also poorly done. you can get your truck stuck on a mostly flat surface just because 
 1 tire is on the line where the two tiles meet. This is especially evident when climbing a hill. 
 you will for some unknown reason, just get stuck.
  
  if you race automatic, be prepared to go in reverse longer than you want to, because the game gets 
 stuck in reverse gear every once in awhile. I have personally never seen a game crash, but there 
 is seirously compatibility issues under windows XP. One of them being the message saying you have 
 a negative amount of swap file left.
  
  Microsoft really screwed up on the testing phaze for this game. What a series killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkestsun
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game just isnt great, Rolling around in a SUV gets boring really fast. One of the good things 
 about this game however, is the price. If your really short on cash, this game cost me about 5 
 dollers or so, so its not hard to get. The graphics on this game are just plain dissapointing. 
 Games like starcraft have far bettter detail and are just compelling, and sadly starcraft was released 
 earier in the year than this game. This game just doesnt hold up graphicly.
  
  The sound was lame, for these BIG vehicles you get lame engine sounds that remind you of battery 
 powered toys.
  
  Despite the crappy graphics and sound, where this game really dissapoints is in value, this game 
 just stright out bored me, and ive played an array of driving games, this one has to be one of 
 the least compelling. When i got this game working, i was filled with a varitey of bugs as well, 
 and it didn't take long to crash this game on my computer.
  
  This game just sucks, don't believe the gamespot hyped up score, all this game did was not impress 
 me or my computer, and let me down entirely. If you want a good game like this, think more into 
 Midtown Madness or something, and pass this game by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA_superfreak
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  i thought this would be a cool game and whatnot, because im a offroad racing 4x4 fan and like big 
 trucks and stuff like that but this game sucks, it is totally flawed, there isnt really anything 
 good about it except the vehicles but really theres not enough of them, there should be way more, 
 the graphics suck the sound sucks i guess the only thing the did right is the price (really cheap) 
 but even for little to no money it still isnt worth it. overall if you like off road racing or 
 just general racing get gt4 with way for options alothough no that many truck you will have way 
 more fun with that game so just please dont buy crappy games like this! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
