-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 80 Days
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/80days/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent steampunk style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Predictable puzzles.
 Terrible sense of humor.
 Clumsy controls.
 Bad, borderline offensive voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 161 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Frogwares
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Dec 12, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may sport a literary pedigree, but 80 Days is little more than a clunky adventure game with a 
 bad sense of humor and lots of bugs. 

  Being inspired by Jules Verne's most well-known adventure novel, Frogwares' 80 Days certainly has 
 a literary cache that would, in theory, appeal to adventure gamers looking for a whirlwind Victorian 
 adventure. But pedigree alone can't carry 80 Days, which takes a perfectly good premise for an 
 adventure game and saddles it with obvious, tedious puzzles, a distractingly self-satisfied wit, 
 and some extremely rickety technology.  

          Jules Verne must be spinning in his grave.     

  The original 1872 Jules Verne story 
  Around the World in 80 Days  saw Phileas Fogg, a man of independent wealth living in late-Victorian-era 
 London, make a wager that he could circumnavigate the globe in just 80 days. It was a proper classic 
 adventure, with Indian princesses, mistaken identities, and a lot of steam-powered transports. 
 Rather than simply retelling that story, 80 Days uses it as a template for an all-new adventure. 
 Set in 1899, the game follows Oliver, a young Englishman eager to avoid an arranged marriage, who 
 takes the challenge of traveling around the world in 80 days on behalf of his eccentric inventor 
 uncle. Along the way Oliver also has to recover the lost patents for four of Uncle Matthew's inventions. 

  The journey Oliver takes is sort of an abbreviated version of Phileas Fogg's. Though Oliver's journey 
 starts in London, you don't start playing until he arrives in Cairo, and from there it's up to 
 you to get him to Bombay, Yokohama, San Francisco, and then back to London by way of train, steamer, 
 and airship. The game has no intention of portraying a historically accurate view of the world 
 during the turn of the century; instead, it adopts a very pronounced steampunk aesthetic. Technological 
 advancements that were embryonic at the time -- automobiles, zeppelins, phonographs, motion pictures -- are 
 fully realized with an ornate Victorian flair in 80 Days.  

  The liberties taken with the story in 80 Days may disappoint those with affection for the original 
 Jules Verne story, but this anachronistic take on the era still could have made for an engaging 
 adventure. Unfortunately, 80 Days is more concerned with wedging in the developer's own sense of 
 humor, which is depressingly reliant on self-aware pop-culture references. When you're not dealing 
 with a misunderstood Count Dracula, a league of Scottish fashion designers hell-bent on spreading 
 the popularity of the kilt, or the antagonistic son of Inspector Fix, (who hunted Phileas Fogg 
 in  Around the World in 80 Days ) , you're being subjected to jokes about Leonardo DiCaprio, Yoko 
 Ono, and the developers at Frogwares themselves. The game simply isn't as funny as it thinks it 
 is, which completely kills the story's chances to succeed even as a ridiculous farce.  

  The gameplay in 80 Days is a pretty by-the-numbers genre exercise. Once you arrive in a given locale, 
 your primary goal will be to recover the patent in that city, though the path you take is never 
 that of least resistance, and you'll inevitably find yourself sidetracked. Locating the appropriate 
 people and locations is incredibly easy, and it's done by marking them on the minimap that lives 
 in the upper left-hand corner of the screen, reducing much of the exploration to following directional 
 arrows. The majority of the puzzles come down to either breaking some kind of code or manipulating 
 some baroque piece of machinery, and they're usually quite straightforward. When the puzzles require 
 you to acquire specific items in order to find the solution, it's usually made quite obvious, especially 
 since the game doesn't employ many red herrings. The puzzles feel really contrived, and though 
 80 Days tries to shake things up by including some action and stealth elements, the controls just 
 aren't up to the task.  

  The game uses a third-person perspective, rather than the typical fixed-camera perspective that 
 is most prevalent in adventure games. By default, you can move forward and backward with the W 
 and S keys, respectively, while using the mouse to "steer" Oliver. Oddly, the A and D keys can't 
 be used to strafe while in motion, but rather, they can only be used to make Oliver take one step 
 to the left or the right when standing still. Oliver's standard walking speed is maddeningly slow, 
 though you can double-tap on the W key to run a little faster, or you can rent various forms of 
 transport like camels, flying carpets, primitive automobiles, or a monocycle. They'll get you where 
 you're going faster, but they all handle terribly, and the collision detection is so punishing 
 that even if you get near a pedestrian or a piece of level geometry, you'll either come to a dead 
 stop, or worse, bounce off the offending object and end up completely turned around.  

  Oliver can also jump, but jumping in a direction is awkward, making the few action sequences where 
 you have to leap across open chasms frustrating. But even when you're not engaged in one of the 
 few action sequences, you'll find that it's difficult to simply interact with items or other characters. 
 The stealth elements are quite basic, usually requiring you to simply sneak around without being 
 seen by police or security guards. But the artificial intelligence seems to have pretty incredible 
 vision, and if you're seen it's an automatic fail. The game isn't really built for stealth, as 
 there's no radar or even a particularly flexible camera, and the stealth elements end up coming 
 down to memorization and blind luck.  

  Though there are parts of the presentation in 80 Days that are admirable, when taken in as a whole, 
 it's a mediocre-looking game at best. The character models have a clean and detailed look to them, 
 with mostly realistic proportions, but non-player character models are recycled liberally, and 
 all of the animations have a stilted mechanical look. The environments feature a wealth of nice, 
 sharp-looking textures, but overall they take on a sparse, flat look, and there are some exceptionally 
 distracting level-of-detail problems. We tested the game on two different PCs, each of which easily 
 exceeded the minimum system requirements, and yet the frame rate still chopped up on a regular 
 basis.  

  The characters you meet have uniformly over-the-top personalities, though usually not in a particularly 
 endearing way. Instead, the characters lean on really antiquated social stereotypes (apparently 
 the Scottish are cheap?) , and these bad characterizations are constantly enforced with lots of 
 bad, loud voice acting. The actual dialogue seems to have been translated from another language, 
 and poorly, as it is rife with really awkward and occasionally nonsensical phrasing. The soundtrack, 
 however, simply leaves us dumbfounded. While the rest of the game seems intent on this kind of 
 turn-of-the-century retro-futuristic feel, the soundtrack consists primarily of weird disco tunes 
 and a rock instrumental that sounds suspiciously like The Bangles' "Walk Like an Egyptian" -- which 
 makes sense when you're in Cairo, but is just confusing when it plays in Bombay, Yokohama, and 
 San Francisco. The ambient environmental sounds aren't bad, but the overall mix is shoddy.  

          Nothing says funny like a surplus of kilt jokes.     

  This is an adventure game 
 of middling quality that is made significantly less attractive by some pretty terrible bugs. Even 
 with the latest patch (1.01, as of this writing) , the game is host to a massive memory leak that 
 required us to reboot our PCs every one to two hours. The game will randomly and inexplicably lock 
 up for 15-30 seconds at a time, after which it will either come back to life as if nothing happened, 
 or simply crash. Combined with the fact that you can only save at specific checkpoints, the instability 
 adds another layer of frustration by forcing you to run through sections of the game over again. 

  Even with its budget price tag, 80 Days is a hard sell, regardless of who you're selling it to. 
 Fans of Jules Verne will either be uninterested or out-and-out offended by the game's bastardization 
 of his original story. Adventure game fans will likely find it difficult to justify wading through 
 the technical deficiencies just to solve some predictable and familiar puzzles. And, those who 
 are unfamiliar with the genre will find it overly contrived.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I was hoping for an epic game closely tied with the classic movie 
 "Around the World in 80 Days". By the screenshots and artwork, it looked like something along those 
 lines.
  
  This potential is lost! The game is a surprising twist of Victorian-era styling with modern pop 
 influence (e. g. dance music) .
  
  The formula for the game is great, you're racing Mr. Fogg around the world and you must solve puzzles 
 and reach goals to do so. In your HUD they display the progress of Fogg and you, but you get the 
 feeling that no matter what you do, Fogg will always be alongside. So rather than a true race, 
 the entire game is just you going through stage after stage in an open world with slight hints 
 of RPG.
  
  The artwork of this game is pretty good, the character models are excellent although animation 
 could use help. The vehicles are great! You get everything from a motorized rickshaw, to flying 
 carpet, to camel.
  
  Controls could use a lot of work. For instance there is no way to auto-run. You must depress a 
 key to run, and you'll find yourself doing this ALL the time, as walking is way too slow. You cannot 
 strafe and move forward at the same time! This is yet another controls drawback. As well it takes 
 multiple key and mouse presses to perform certain actions. Very buggy.
  
  Audio is pretty bad as well. Very poor voice over.
  
  I am not bothering to edit my review... 
 in the same vein that no one seemed to QA this game, lol.
  
  Not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  this game is not to fun for me i think it is a bit of a ornament than a game I mean the jokes suck 
 very buggy and not fun even if the name means anything this is around the world in 80 boring days 
 yes very boring there might be some but I think i will rather play broken sword or other classics 
 but if you really need it then i am not stopping you sorry if this is boring but you will fall 
 asleep if i told everything so don't complain but it is more for those that like to waste money
 
  (women) but it is your choice, but i reccomend not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I'll say only two words!!! IT'S SUCKS!!! The only thing that this game has to offer is the graphics! Not 
 something spectacular! I have installed the game and after 1 hour of playing i unistalled it!! lol! 
 You may choose this game if you are desperate to play! Not for other reason! Stay away from this 
 game even if they give you money! It's not worth a bit! The things that you have to do in the game 
 in order to advance through the story are so boring tha i felt asleep on the keyboard! That's all 
 i want to say and i think tha tyou will agree with me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Oh, what a horrible game. I will admit, I could not even play through most of it because I was 
 so frustrated with the controls.
  
  I had my doubts from the beginning, but the premise of the game was promising enough for me to 
 check it out. It was a big mistake. The execution of the game is the worst I've seen in a long 
 time.
  
  The controls are horrible. It is near impossible to actually get your character (viewed in third 
 person perspective) to go where you want or do what you want. The camera is always in the wrong 
 position. Trying to manuver your character in tight spots is nearly impossible. No, scratch that. 
 It IS impossible.
  
  And it doesn't get better. Even after I got somewhat used to the controls, special situations almost 
 always cropped up to make things more difficult. It was a constant battle with the game to do even 
 the most basic tasks.
  
  The graphics are uniformly awful. Many textures (such as one, which was a flat looking box that 
 was supposed to be full of apples) were so bad I was laughing at it. At least they could have added 
 some bumb mapping or something. But no -- it was a flat polygon with a picture of apples. And this 
 was everywhere in the game. The graphics were simply horrible.
  
  I might have suffered through all of these problems if the game had decent voice acting and a good 
 story. This game has neither. The story is virtually nonexistent. The puzzles are ridiculously 
 easy, even on the hardest difficulty level. On the easiest level, the game outright tells you what 
 to do next. The voice acting is attrocious. Even the environments, which one would think would 
 be diverse given the game's premise, were anything but. They were comepletely generic and uninspired.
 
  
  My suggestion is to completely avoid it. It has no redeeming qualities, unless you enjoy the challenge 
 of fighting a game itself, rather than actually playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: view136
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well, yes, it does not surprise you with graphics, it's not inovative or fantastic, but we should 
 consider that it's a bigger project then other adventure games. Similar to Syberia actually. The 
 difference is that here we should see much more places. It's not better than the mentioned game, 
 but it's worth taking a look by any adventure games lover. Because of it's atmosphere. This aspect 
 is well done. The sound is also well done. The gameplay is ok, too. You can see that from the pictures, 
 i guess. It's the subject, the story that gets to you. Maybe some day this Jules Verne story will 
 be made a great classic adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shitbrickz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  There's not a lot I can say about this because I was only able to play it for about 20 minutes 
 until I quit from frusteration.
  
  The first thing I noticed when I played this is that the controls felt extremely uncomfortable. 
 I can't describe exactly what it feels like, all I can say is I didn't like it. When you sidestep 
 (strafe) , the character takes one tiny step, and you have to wait about 2-3 seconds before you 
 can start moving again. The camera is too close to the player, even when you zoom it all the way 
 out. Which makes it a pain to look around sometimes.
  
  In the 20 minutes I played, I encountered at least 3 bad bugs in the game. Towards the beginning, 
 you have a small mission where you have to sneak past customs to get into a town. Well I got caught 
 and it gave me about 10 seconds to choose whether to bribe the customs officer or agree to go to 
 jail. I chose to bribe him, but I did it right while the screen was fading out. So I went to jail 
 AND paid the bribe, which caused me to lose all my money, and still get penalized. Another thing 
 was that I got stuck between some boxes. I couldn't get out and I had to reload my game.
  
  Now let's talk about the voice overs. In short, they sound like they were done on a home computer 
 with a cheap little plastic microphone. The acting was obviously low budget, and they even went 
 as far as making several people say the same things in the same voices. There was a part at the 
 very beginning where 2 women were standing side by side.. both of them said the exact same sentence 
 -- they wanted to buy my scarf to use in their bird cage. 
  
  The music also sounded very amature, nor did it suit the game.
  
  The graphics simply appear 
 lazy. The water was nothing more than a flat animated texture, and when looking at it from a distance, 
 it looked terrible. The characters looked pretty good, especially the main character, but everything 
 else just looked rushed.
  
  Overall, this game is pure garbage. If you can get past the awkward controls and ignore the game's 
 obvious faults, it may be fun.. but I didn't have the patience to get that far. I installed and 
 uninstalled it within the same hour.
  
  In short, don't waste your money. It's crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, let me begin by saying I am not an 'avid' adventure gamer or even a particularly 
 avid gamer full stop, so just to let people know where I am coming from, but saying that I did 
 love Escape From Monkey Island and this is kinda what I hoped this game would be like. 
  
  It looks respectable, nothing visually amazing but then it's all very passable all the same. The 
 control system is adequate to get around but again nothing ground breaking. The spoken dialogue 
 is excellent I will concede however the in game music is ill chosen and some sort of pseudo elevator 
 music does not fit in anywhere in the game. The missions again are so so perhaps slightly on the 
 easy side and the overall story line is alright. 
  
  I don't really know what it is about this game. It certainly isn't 'bad' but at the same time it 
 isn't really good either. It sort of sits in that void which 80% of games sit in which can best 
 be summed up as 'Oh yeah'. Game which aren't so bad or irritating they stick in your memory but 
 they lack that certain 'something' which makes them good. Sorry! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
