-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Abomination
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/abomination/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Hothouse Creations
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a real-time tactical action game with very little underlying strategy. 

 A developer really has to have some confidence in its product to call it Abomination, a title just 
 begging to be exploited for a cheap joke if the game stinks. Lucky for Abomination's developer 
 Hothouse Creations, the squad combat game, while flawed, isn't bad enough to warrant much name-calling. 

 References to the classic turn-based strategy game X-COM appear several times in Abomination's box 
 text and press kit. In fact, the game's lead designer worked on the X-COM sequel, Terror from the 
 Deep. Pedigree and hype aside, Abomination has more in common with Bullfrog's acclaimed action-strategy 
 hybrid Syndicate than it does with X-COM. Abomination's a real-time tactical action game with very 
 little underlying strategy.  

 The game's premise is that a plague has swept through the United States causing widespread death 
 and panic in the streets. The physical result of this virulent disease will not surprise anyone 
 familiar with fictional plagues: mass zombification. Tossed in with the zombies are some hideous 
 mutants and a religious sect called the Faithful, whose purposes are vague but absolutely diabolical. 
 Eight healthy agents, each with a superpower such as telekinesis or toughened skin, are released 
 from an isolation ward in the headquarters of Project Nemesis. They are accompanied by eight normal 
 agents, and your mission is to help them find a solution to both the plague and the Faithful.  
 

 The game is presented through a strategic interface that leads you into a series of tactical battles. 
 Though such a structure makes it seem otherwise, Abomination has virtually no underlying strategy 
 or resource management. Within the strategic interface you can monitor your 16 characters, manage 
 your equipment supplies, and read detailed documents covering virtually every item, personality, 
 and concept in the game. As in X-COM, time passes while in the strategic overview, and missions 
 appear as hot spots on a scrolling city map.  

 The problem with the entire process is that it contains very little strategic decision-making on 
 your part. Most of the activity involves routine busywork, such as reequipping characters. Often, 
 there is only one eligible mission at a time. On higher difficulty levels and toward the end of 
 the game, you'll have multiple simultaneous missions available, but it's generally very clear which 
 one needs to be dealt with first. While there is a research and development component to Abomination, 
 it is essentially out of your control; specimen requests automatically appear, you fetch the specimen 
 within a mission, and are then simply informed when the research is finished. Abomination's tactical 
 missions are played out on 3D isometric-perspective maps. Each mission and its corresponding map 
 is randomly generated. The missions have various goals ranging from brute-force assaults to various 
 covert ops, such as theft and assassination. According to the manual, more than 1.2 million different 
 combinations are possible. Although random content generators can't compete with a specifically 
 designed level, the developers have done an excellent job with the one used in Abomination. It's 
 the game's best feature, and it adds significant replay value.  

 The tactical battles occur in real time and generally devolve into feverish mouse-clicking reminiscent 
 of Diablo. The game offers a large number of behavioral settings for your agents, but in practice 
 it's difficult to tell what effect these have on the events taking place. Even set to his most 
 aggressive stance, a character will frequently fail to respond to an attack on a comrade just several 
 feet away. Left to their own devices, agents will run for cover when under fire, sometimes right 
 by a group of enemies. When actively selected, an agent's artificial intelligence completely switches 
 off. He'll calmly stand in place while undead soldiers riddle him with bullets. Remembering to 
 deselect a character once you've issued his orders is one of the game's key challenges.  

 However, once you accept the fact that Abomination's battles are really more about barely-controlled 
 chaos than about advanced tactics, they become somewhat enjoyable and even a little addictive. 
 The game's many frustrating issues are eased by the satisfaction of a well-executed grenade attack 
 or the pleasure of actually managing to lure a group of the Faithful into a successful ambush. 
 The unpredictability and short length of the missions actually make you want to keep playing once 
 you start.  

 Abomination also includes a very complete set of multiplayer options. The game supports direct modem 
 and serial links, IPX, and TCP/IP. The manual even states that there is a "play by e-mail" option, 
 though it's somewhat disingenuous since it really amounts to nothing more than the exchanging of 
 saved games so that several people can individually experience the same randomly created campaign. 
 Up to four people can play cooperatively through the standard game, and as many as eight players 
 can compete in multiplayer-only modes, such as capture the flag, deathmatch, hold position, and 
 a few other variations. A collection of canned speech clips is included to facilitate communication 
 between players, and the multiplayer gameplay is generally stable. There's even a free matchup 
 service offered by Eidos. But even so, multiplayer Abomination just isn't very fun. The confusion 
 inherent to the game does not lend itself particularly well to cooperative or competitive play. 
 It simply becomes more of a chore to coordinate actions with your teammates.  

 Abomination's tag line is "Action Strategy Mayhem." It should be subtitled "not in that order." 
 Mayhem is Abomination's dominant component, while strategy is a distant, distant third. Yet there's 
 something compelling in the game's particular brand of mayhem, and as such, you may find yourself 
 enjoying it against your better judgment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  To me, Abomination offers a lot of the things which I want from a squad based game; a suitably 
 twisted and interesting storyline, tense missions, especially at the insertion point, lots of weapons 
 and gear to play around with, and an interface that once you're used to it will let you move your 
 team about swiftly. Team members can have their skills enhanced which also shows in the game. You 
 can even rename them, which is a nice touch. The Syndicate-style fixed viewpoint feels a bit oldschool 
 but it gets the job done, and the attention to details in the background including some destructible 
 features allow for some increased immersion into the environment.
  
  Levels are randomly created from a set of templates and even though they all play out more or less 
 the same, it still doesn't hurt the replayability. Compare it to going for a skirmish game in an 
 RTS, or a clickfest in Diablo if you will. And it is always satisfying to have your squad set up 
 a kill zone with prone snipers on rooftops backed up by automated heavy weaponry, only to lure 
 the hapful enemies into the mayhem. It will be quite some time until I stop going back to this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaneBlaze
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Basics - Fully Co-op Multiplayer Campaign.
  
  The campaign can be huge or short and sweet dependant on start choices and provides for a very 
 long and varied game, each one is randomly generated but this can also throw up anamolies which 
 provide impossible to very easy and everything in between campaigns.
  
  Mission types are also varied from facility captures, rescue of key scientists and personell to 
 all out 
  search and destroy with each mission zone being randomly generated from dense city streets, bustling 
 factories to sewers and some exotic locales in later stages of the game. 
  
  You are also charged with holding key facilities throughout the city and loss of some of them mean 
 game over, this is the most tactical part of the game and you must be aware of the plagues spread 
 throughout the city and try and ensure the area around them is kept clear of infection or you can 
 be attacked or worse, engulfed by the plague growths.
  
  The Faithful also start with bases which can be attacked to hinder their activities or avoided 
 for a certain time untill the campaign progresses and you're forced to act on them.
  
  Upside - 
  
  8 Specialist squadmembers from super strength and armour to forcefields and camoflage 
 which gives varied playstyles but can lead to attachment of favourites. All soldiers recieve experience 
 with which stats and abilities can be improved by choice. A good point to this is that it's mission 
 kill and success based rather than per soldier, so if you lose a favourite or have neglected your 
 squad then you can still train in later parts of the game.
  
  Also every soldier including the first 8 super soldiers can acquire a very varied host of mutated 
 powers after certain exposure to the virus later in the game. Infection takes them out of action 
 untill the mutation reaches maturity and can be controlled. This brings a 'lot' of options to their 
 abilities and further playstyles.
  
  There is also weapon specialization for other squadmembers which means they are viable and sometimes 
 essential if one of your unique soldiers bites it permanantly or you need that heavy gunner to 
 take down a titan monster or sniper to assassinate key leaders of the cult. 
  
  Recruitment is also mainly done through search and rescue operations and is very dependant upon 
 your speed and efficiency in rescuing them after mission starts and before they are over run and 
 killed by the Faithful. Friendly troops are extremely weak before being brought in and given armour 
 and weapons bigger than pistols.
  
  There is a lot of equipment options, even from the outset. Including pistols, smgs, mgs, heavy 
 mgs, grenades, rockets, deployable sensors and sentry guns, armour, meds etc. All with full descriptions 
 of origin, damage, capacity, weight. This also affects how much each squad member can take into 
 battle and it's not uncommon to have to scavenge weapons/ammo from dead Faithfull or search points 
 to replace some of your large weapons from the cult of the plague. This becomes somewhat harder 
 in later game stages as you encounter more and bigger plague monsters and less Faithfull but equipment 
 boxes are usually around with some holding very powerfull firepower.
  
  Downside - 
  
  Only 4 squadmembers per mission and only 1 mission transport at a time which makes little sense 
 and also limits the otherwise excellent co-op multiplayer and your response to multiple mission 
 hotspots. Also as it can become very fast paced and hectic which a turn based or full pause option 
 replacing the time limited pause for multiplayer would have increased multiplayer enjoyability.
 
  
  Poor resource management requiring an awful lot of in mission scavenging in missions rather than 
 production which although is not essential if you skip searching before leaving at the end of a 
 mission too often then advancing through the campaign becomes increasingly difficult, even though 
 this fits in partly with the story it hampers enjoyability. You can manufacture goods however it 
 is done on a short supply method and all equipment ordered is dropped into the city zone and you 
 must collect it via a mission. You can make multiple orders but the more you order the more capture 
 facility missions are generated and the more dropzones you have to collect, although normally easy 
 these can divert from more important missions.
  
  Another downside to the scavenging is it also seems to be tied into the advancement of equipment 
 which is done on a level based system going from weak to strong. Although this is good it would 
 have been better suited to research or facility capture missions as most new equipment it seems, 
 can only be manufactured once you have found at least 1 in a mission. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
