-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Abuse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/abuse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 7.3, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 205 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Crack dot Com
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 29, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In one swift stroke, Crack dot Com's debut game, Abuse, has changed side-scrolling platform shooters 
 forever, and all because of this game's superior control. 

 As side-scrolling shooter games go, there hasn't been much innovation since, say, the old coin-op 
 game Elevator Action. Sure, there've been a few crazy characters with quirky attributes like Mario, 
 Sonic, and Earthworm Jim. And maybe there've been some minor additions: upgradeable weapons, hidden 
 one-ups, incredibly mean bosses, and bonus levels. Then there's the technological advances such 
 as parallax scrolling (if I had a dime for every time I've heard the phrase, "Our game has more 
 layers of scrolling backgrounds than " I'd be a very rich man) . But in terms of actual play, 
 not much has changed in the side-scrolling, jumping and bumping, shooting and ducking, horizontal 
 platform-game genre. Until now.  

 In one swift stroke, Crack dot Com's debut game, Abuse, has changed side-scrolling platform shooters 
 forever, and all because of this game's superior control. The genre's main shortcoming has always 
 been that your character must fire in the direction that you are traveling. Abuse solves this problem 
 by allowing your character to shoot independently of the direction you happen to be pointing or 
 traveling. Instead of using the keyboard for directional shooting, the game uses the mouse's smooth 
 moving action to position a set of cross-hairs anywhere on the screen, saving the arrow keys for 
 movement alone. This innovation lets your character run and jump wildly about the screen, while 
 staying calmly focused on a target. The game's level design re-creates Doom's anticipation, astonishment, 
 and challenge, without ever seeming derivative. Everywhere you explore you'll encounter the eerie 
 animal noises of frightening, mutated beasts who are waiting to leap out at you from dark corridors. 
 You'll also hear sophisticated explosion sounds, including a hauntingly detailed rattle as your 
 exploded target's pieces scatter across the floor. Often you'll find yourself in desperate situations 
 that seem too tough to conquer, but a little regrouping, strategic planning, and mucho bravado 
 will get you throughjust in time for the next, equally difficult barrier. Without its unique 
 control, Abuse would still be a solidly-built shooter, with smooth animation, excellent sound design, 
 and some interesting weapons. But, with its unique mouse and keyboard interface, Abuse stands alone 
 as an amazingly innovative game, and one not to be missed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SliceStabnShoot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the pioneers of video gaming in my books. This game has revolutionized the way i 
 think and i am extremely proud i am one of the original players of this extraordinary game. Lots 
 of weapons for the time it was made, terrifying for the graphics available, and extremely satisfying 
 and worth buying. I hope that there will be a remake soon, still side scroller. The most worth 
 a pc game of this time could ever have. It has a suprizingly good storyline, and just the right 
 ammount of difficulty to keep your mind boggled. I reccoment this game to all hardcore gamers out 
 there, and my devotion to this game is everlasting. This game of being alone in a forsaken area 
 with no other life exept the kind that wants to kill you is the best the ganre has ever been. Again, 
 this is one of the greatest games of all time, and will be for ages to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mjoyner
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Information about Crack Dot Com and Abuse's backstory can be read elsewhere. This is just a statement 
 about how awesome this game is. You can call it a review if you want, but its going to put the 
 game in such a positive light, you might as well just call it a public service announcement. Despite 
 popular belief, PCs have always been on par with console in terms platform (Mario-style) games. 
 When the greatest platormers ever are discussed, PC gamers always tend to throw out Jazz Jackrabbit. 
 Jazz Jackrabbit was a solid game, as well as Alien Carnage, Duke Nukem, Commander Keen, Iron Blood 
 and Bio Menace. But as great as these games were, they were pretty much PC versions of Mario, Kirby, 
 or Sonic disguised in their own simple twists. Yes, Jazz Jackrabbit may have been more fun then 
 Sonic, but couldn't he be controlled by a gamepad just like the blue hedgehog? It's just like Quake 
 4. Of course, Quake 4 is a better game then Doom on most levels, but who started the revolution 
 of FPS gameplay? (Yes Wolfenstein came out before Doom, but thats not the point...) Crack Dot Com 
 saw the same component to PC gaming Id Software saw in Doom that proved that no matter how graphically 
 advanced the consoles got, the PC was still superior: the mouse. Even Contra: Alien Wars can't 
 match the excitement of Abuse and its mouse controls. Screeching infected prisoners storm at you 
 from every corner, and with the mouse you have to react to it accordingly or you will suffer the 
 consequences. Abuse EXPLOITS the mouse, as if its shoving the fact that the mouse rules in the 
 face of all console platforms the whole time. Every where from shooting to running to flying, the 
 mouse turns this game into a masterpiece. Not to mention, the game adds in brilliant times of strategy 
 at key points. There are times when you need to shoot everything in site in order to survive, and 
 there are times when you need to conserve your trigger happy self and watch the patterns of the 
 enemies' cannons in order to save some critical health points.
  
  If you didn't get the hint from the infected prisoner part of the review, this game, while now 
 outmatched by Half Life and FEAR, is quite possibly one of the most intensifying/scary games I've 
 ever played. It's the only game to scare me on the sound level. This game should be in every Best 
 games ever list. Enough talk, experience the magic for yourself: http://www. rocket-surgery. net/abuse/downloads. html 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanedajjj5757
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I first tried the Abuse demo for the Mac thinking it would be a flop because of the lack of story 
 in the Mac demo. of cousre they (Bungie) expanded into it with the full version for both Mac and 
 PC. the gameplay was in clearly a unique format; i had never seen it before! it took a while to 
 get use to the playing style, but i loved the game from that moment on. the movement is 2D sidescroller 
 style but the aiming system is like in the game Cyclones (SSI) , and makes for an interesting game. 
 taking place in a futuristic sci fi setting, you fight alien creatures that look like the Xenomorphs 
 from the Alien series. dark lighting and eerie sound effects make for a semi scary armosphere. 
 I thoroughly enjoyed this game and highly recommend it to anyone who isnt afraid to indulge in 
 a unique and challenging gaming style... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WombatBerserker
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Abuse is the most innovative game ever. While many say that Doom set the foundations for shooters 
 to come, I say Abuse did. The ability to aim in every direction is the greatest thing to happen 
 to the genre. Abuse is hectic fun all the time, and many levels can give you a challenge. Plus, 
 the Free Abuse project allows you to download it for free, completely legally. You must play this 
 game sometime in your life, and if you don't , your missing out big time. Also, if you have this 
 game, PLAY MULTIPLAYER! Almost nobody plays it at all, even though it is also a great multi player 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  Armed to the teeth with tons of awesome guns, you have to make it out of a prison complex, fighting 
 mutants, security systems, giant robots. Thats basically the plot of the game. The fun part is 
 blowing up mutants with missles, hearing the in human screams as they charge at you. Theres puzzle 
 solving as well. The graphics are adequate, but whats really fun is the gameplay. the point and 
 click firing is perhaps the greatest invention since the wheel. All in all, this is a great game 
 that you deserve to pick up. It is one of the greatest classics of all time, better than any I 
 have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The Pros and cons:
  
  +Fast Frentic action gives a great new feeling to side - scrollers.
  -It varys little from other 
 platform action games.
  +Smooth framrate
  +Often fun battles with hordes of alliens
  +Plays smoothly over LAN or online
  -Not realy a game designed for platforming.
  -Only five 
 save slots and few places to save.
  +This is DOOM in 2D
  
  Why do people called abuse (or used to) the new DOOM? Well just play this game and you will see 
 how this can be an easy substitute for DOOM.
  
  Basicly you are this guy who is imprisoned in this area for science tests and a test went horrificly 
 wrong (of course I use that loosely) and now you fight your way trough many urban levels to put 
 an end to this.
  
  This game may be old now, but if you ever find this I do reccomend givving it a try. While it doesen't 
 vary to much from other side - scrolling action platform games, it does offer some intense action 
 and firepower. Often you will be swarming with a mob of aliens trying to fight your way trough 
 only to come across some turrets that fire at you and then come across a mini - boss. There is 
 always something do dish out pain too. What also ads to the mix is smooth controls with the mouse 
 to aim and the arrow keys to move.
  
  This game don't just play good, it looks good. Generaly the terrain is pretty simple and basic 
 but there are plentiful of explosions to be witnessed and fire effects, smoke when you fire and 
 even blood from when an enemie dies, tough effects are minimal.
  
  There are no lava balls from a pit of lava, no drops of water or sparks from wires it is pretty 
 basic textured and the character models are pretty sloppy and pixelised and look like you when 
 into Paint Shop Pro and used a mosiac effect on it.
  
  It is a shame there is no background music to rev in with the high detailed explosions, laser shots, 
 flamethrowers and SCREAMS!!! MUHAHAHAHA!!! So yeah the sound is pretty interactive and alot of 
 it is pretty detailed tough on some occasion there is some muffling.
  
  What can you expect from this game then? Well for starters you can find interactive levels with 
 swictes and trap an oponent and send them into a pit, smooth framrates online and off' even with 
 many onscreen enemies, Smooth and simple controls, fun frantic multpiplayer arenas and MAYHEM!!, 
 and on top of all that they even threw in a level editor.
  
  You should definatly check this game out. It looks and feels like DOOM and it can be a good substitute. 
 While, it's not in 3D and platforming techniques don't go very well, there are some nice abillities 
 to get on the way such as Super Speed, Fly and invisiblility.
  
  Writters Comments:
  
  What can I put execpt how much I adore this game. It is 1 of the best side scrolling games ever 
 tough it isnt much different than any others either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19923030556710661158582010183839-lordofmidnightx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Abuse might seem like just another typical action shooter. What made this game 
 special was the character control. I'm pretty sure that this was the first PC game that incorporated 
 both mouse and keyboard movement at the same time. 
  
  As for the storyline, well, don't expect anything revolutionary. You are a prisoner spending your 
 life behind bars in which various experiments are performed on inmates. One of these tests gets 
 out of control and a devastating plague breaks free. Everyone gets infected, but for some strange 
 reason, you are immune to it. You find a discarded battle suit and head off to escape the prison 
 and discover the cause.
  
  However, this won't be easy. Even on the lowest difficulty setting, this game is still very hard. 
 If you don't have a lot of patience this game is definitely not for you. The prison defense system 
 and the mutants you face are very challenging. There will be various upgrades and weapons to aid 
 you in your escape.
  
  The graphics are very nicely done, but can get dull after a long-playing session. The level settings 
 mostly consist of dark, steel and rusty corridors. The explosions, weapon fire, teleportation and 
 other special effects all stand out a bit more so there are no objections to those. 
  
  The sounds are very good and suit the game's overall atmosphere. The mutant screams will keep you 
 alert at all times. This adds to the atmosphere a lot since you will often find yourself standing 
 in the middle of a room waiting to see from which direction will the creatures attack.
  
  Abuse gets some good points for bringing some new things to the genre at the time. It also falls 
 back in a few as well. Its still an exciting shooter with a good look thats worth your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 22, 2004 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Abuse came out a while ago, I know. If you see it in the bargain bin of your local store, do yourself 
 a favor and pick it up.
  
  Abuse was one of the finest games from the now defunct Crack dot Com. In it, you played a nameless 
 hero shooting your way through waves of hideous aliens to find your way out of some metropolis 
 (at least, that is what it looks like) . There are about ten weapons in the game, along with some 
 cool enhancements such as an "adrenaline" chip which speeds up your movement.
  
  For me, the single greatest moment of Abuse is the audio. Nothing is freakier than moving along 
 a deserted corridor hearing the distant hum of fans, and then distinctly hearing from in front 
 of you a sound complete un-human and fearsome in nature.
  
  The graphics are a bit antiquted, looks like around the Quake 1 days of technology, but the gameplay 
 is fun. Do yourself a favor and give this game a shot. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
