-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Act of War: Direct Action
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/actofwardirectaction/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent real-time strategy gameplay.
 Beautiful, gorgeous graphics.
 Effective live action cutscenes.
 Great production values.
 Intriguing plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There can be a lot to micromanage at times.
 Some bad acting and accents at times.
 The story leaves too many unanswered questions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,956 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eugen Systems
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Act of War has everything that you want in a military-themed real-time strategy game, from excellent 
 visuals to even better gameplay. 

  It's hard to believe that in 2005, someone somewhere had the audacity to make a real-time strategy 
 game stuffed with live action cutscenes. It's even harder to believe that it works. Yet with Act 
 of War: Direct Action, Atari and developer Eugen Systems have managed to turn convention on its 
 head. Here's a real-time strategy game with the soul of a sleek techno-thriller, stitched together 
 with live action footage that, despite the acting and budgetary limitations, will remind you of 
 the riveting television drama  24  at times. And if that weren't enough, it's also a visually splendid, 
 exciting, and well-paced game, to boot.  

          Yes, Act of War has live action cutscenes, but don't hold that against it. In fact, these 
 live action scenes actually work.     

  The last time anyone attempted anything quite like Act of War was 2000's Command &amp; Conquer 
 Red Alert 2. But where Red Alert 2 played entirely for camp, Act of War goes for grit. The game 
 feels very much like a Tom Clancy-penned techno-thriller. Or, to be more exact, a Dale Brown techno-thriller, 
 as Brown, a best-selling author, worked with the French team at Eugen to create a story about a 
 looming energy crisis (Americans pay $7 for a gallon of gas) and how an international criminal 
 conspiracy is perpetuating it. Act of War's opening introductory movie, cleverly placed so you 
 watch it during the lengthy installation process, lays the groundwork, but the fun starts in the 
 game's opening missions, where you'll discover that you're in for something more than the usual 
 real-time strategy experience.  

  In Act of War, you assume the role of Major Jason Richter, the commander of Task Force Talon, an 
 elite direct action force equipped with state-of-art weaponry and tasked with conducting the toughest 
 jobs. From the get-go, your team will assault a terrorist training camp in the desert, and then 
 battle around London in a running gunfight that shows off the game's excellent urban settings. 
 Blended in the opening levels are a mix of live action, computer-generated, and in-engine cutscenes 
 that enhance what's onscreen. While the acting isn't on par with what is found in motion pictures 
 or television (it's also downright bad at times) , the live action scenes are impressive, especially 
 since we've rarely seen anything of this scale in gaming. For example, one of the highlights is 
 watching a street protest erupt into a gun battle, with commandos and bodyguards taking fire from 
 behind armored limousines. There are very little blue-screen effects in that scene, as most of 
 it was shot outside with a large number of actors and extras.  

  There's so much live action footage at the beginning of the game that you get the feeling that 
 you're taking part in an interactive movie. However, after the opening levels, the game segues 
 into a more conventional real-time strategy game along the lines of Command &amp; Conquer. There 
 are three factions: the US Army, Task Force Talon, and the Consortium, the evil conspiracy in the 
 game. Thankfully, there is no contrived plot device where you play as each of the three factions, 
 so you don't get to play as the Consortium in single-player, though it is playable in skirmish 
 and multiplayer. As expected, each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses. The Army packs 
 a lot of firepower, but it requires an extensive amount of base-building to unlock the most potent 
 weapons; Task Force Talon is a lot more versatile and mobile, but its high-tech equipment is expensive; 
 and the Consortium can churn out lots of low-level units relatively cheaply. While the three factions 
 are fairly diverse, there are still some clearly equivalent units on each side. And, if anything, 
 the US Army and Task Force Talon are fairly interchangeable, since both belong to the same side. 

          The game features a great blend of real-world and futuristic weapons, so it feels like 
 you're glimpsing warfare a decade from now.     

  In terms of gameplay, Act of War doesn't really do much that is notably new, but it does everything 
 remarkably well. This is a real-time strategy game that has a great balance between resource-gathering 
 and combat, and it never feels like one outweighs the other, like it tends to in so many other 
 RTS games. And part of the reason for this balance is because the only resource in the game -- money -- can 
 be generated in so many ways. You can build an oil derrick and refinery to harvest oil, but you 
 can also capture prisoners, which grants a bounty. Not only that, but holding prisoners also generates 
 cash over time, so it's worth your while to capture and hold as many prisoners as possible. Finally, 
 since many of the game's battles take place in urban settings, such as London and Washington DC, 
 there are banks and treasury buildings that your infantry can seize to generate cash. This aspect 
 is particularly important, because it will force you to venture out to seize and defend these buildings 
 early on in a mission, bringing you into contact with the enemy quickly.     

  Act of War really conveys the feel of urban combat effectively. In many other real-time strategy 
 games, buildings are treated as inanimate obstacles on the map. However, in Act of War, buildings 
 are actually buildings, and they can be stuffed with infantry and antitank teams to create strongpoints 
 on the map. Trying to run vehicles and armor through a gauntlet of infantry-held buildings can 
 be a nightmare, so you can spend time blasting each building into rubble (which is a glorious visual 
 effect) or send in assault teams to clear them out. If anything, urban combat isn't just cool and 
 realistic, it finally makes infantry useful once again in real-time strategy. In most RTS games, 
 infantry are nothing more than speed bumps against vehicles. But not here; hole up some antitank 
 teams in a building and you can give infantry the punch they've been missing.  

          Urban combat is easily one of the game's best features, because it makes infantry useful 
 for a change.     

  This game shines in a way that really showcases the combined arms nature of modern warfare. Each 
 weapon and system has amazing strengths as well as glaring weaknesses, so it's important to strike 
 a balance. Getting an effective combined arms effort with vehicles, armor, helicopters, aircraft, 
 and infantry is quite fulfilling. These little moments are captured here, like when a medevac helicopter 
 swoops in to take the wounded off the battlefield, or when Apache helicopters shred infantry on 
 the ground with their chainguns. However, trying to micromanage all these little elements can be 
 a bit overwhelming at times. You almost wish for a pause button so you can issue orders to all 
 of your men, because the few seconds it takes to click on each unit and give orders can easily 
 mean death. And the pathfinding is also a bit wonky at times, especially if you have a lot of units 
 trying to get to the same place. It's possible to see them take weird detours or get lost every 
 now and then.  

  The single-player campaign of Act of War is also fairly short, as it only runs the length of about 
 10 to 12 missions. And as good as the story is when it starts, it also flames out a bit at the 
 end. The plot stretches incredulity, and some of the acting (and accents) go from annoying to simply 
 bad. The biggest weakness is the lack of clear resolution, as there are several key questions that 
 never get answered. However, judging from the game's appended name, the designers are probably 
 betting that they'll get a chance to make a second Act of War game to keep the story going.  

 
  Act of War's skirmish and multiplayer suite extend the game's life. The skirmish mode lets you 
 battle up to seven computer opponents on a series of premade maps. Meanwhile, the multiplayer mode 
 is fairly par for the course in terms of feature sets, though it's nice that a persistent tally 
 of your performance is kept so that you can easily gauge the skill level of your opponent in terms 
 of wins and losses. The multiplayer supports up to eight players, and you can divide into teams. 
 As expected, the gameplay can be quite fast-paced, and it's usually a race to see who can build 
 up the heaviest tanks first in order to swamp your opponent, which is quite a change of pace from 
 the single-player campaign. The AI can be particularly brutal at the hardest level, but it's fairly 
 accommodating at the easy and medium levels, so if you're not used to playing against cutthroat 
 opponents, multiplayer can be an eye-opener. Even though the game just came out, there are a fair 
 number of players online already.  

          There are plenty of great visual moments in this game, and you never get tired of seeing 
 stuff blow up.     

  Visually, Act of War is a great-looking game, stuffed with all sorts of high-end eye candy and 
 beautiful graphics. When buildings and vehicles explode, which they often do, they explode gloriously, 
 with smoke so thick that it's almost debilitating at times. At the highest detail settings, the 
 game delivers the sense that you're really battling in cities. There are so many little details, 
 such as the way buildings crumble from weapon fire or how destroyed fire hydrants shoot sprays 
 of water into the air. The sound effects are also very good, although they're so generic for the 
 genre that you feel like you've heard them before. The game itself is fairly stable, and aside 
 from a few gameplay bugs, we didn't experience any instability. Atari has already issued a patch 
 to address some of the minor issues. The only downside is that the patch invalidates earlier saved 
 games, so make sure that you download the patch prior to starting a campaign.  

  Put it all together and Act of War is an excellent real-time strategy game, packed with great gameplay 
 and beautiful visuals. This is one that's good enough to unseat Command & Conquer's grip on the 
 military-themed real-time strategy genre. Add the game's impressive production values and techno-thriller 
 plot, and you have nothing less than an early candidate for strategy game of the year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (89 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cirensc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  At first I found the game intriguing with it's over the top, campy acting and storyline. The units 
 were different enough to provide some flavor, and I really got into the single player campaign 
 to get to the end, but by the last mission I found it more of a chore to complete and the storyline 
 along with all those missions just made me lose my interest. I guess the final boss and mission 
 was somewhat anti-climatic for me and I ended up not bothering to finish. If you're looking for 
 an RTS that is a little different from C&C, then give this a try, but I'd hardly say this game 
 is revolutionary or brings something totally new and inventive to the RTS table.
  The sound is good, with the voice acting really trying to draw you into the "action", but sometimes 
 it tries to0 hard... or should I say some of the voice acting tries too hard. I can't say the music 
 really blew me away, but I guess you can't expect much for RTS music, though I do. The graphics 
 are decent, trying to give a real world perspective with that satellite viewpoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxinghelena
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Act of War: Direct Action was a surprise to me. Based on a book, though I haven't read, it provides 
 a well thought out story that is conveyed through some decently acted FMV. 
  
  The story (without giving too much away) circles around the present-day fear of rising oil prices 
 and the violence surrounding it. A compelling story that is only made better by some fun RTS units. 
 
  
  The graphics are pretty slick, but given what we've seen today (such as Company of Heroes) , it's 
 not much to brag about anymore. There's great sound work, such as the wonderful snap of a sniper 
 rifle and the *thpthpthp* of the helicopter rotors.
  
  My biggest complaint is that this game is pretty cookie cutter when it comes to the RTS world, 
 providing little innovation. It almost feels like the long lost cousin of Red Alert 2 or something.
 
  
  Still, it's worth the play and even better, it's cheap now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Act of War takes place in a not too distant future in which oil is running out and gas prices have 
 skyrocketed. You play as an army ranger named John Richter. Early on in the game there is an energy 
 forum in which several high ranking oil Execs are going. Afraid that there may be a potential terrorist 
 attack Task Force Talon is activated. 
  
  The game is told through a mix of live action and animated cut scenes. Although it was fairly obvious 
 that Act of War was just trying to copy the c&c games, the cut scenes do get the job done. The 
 story itself, while not great, will draw you in enough to continue playing the game.
  
  The game play itself is fairly cookie cutter, although I did find it cool that you could choose 
 to capture POW's for extra cash. Resources are purely monetary. You can also construct a hacker 
 to siphon out funds from your enemies. There are three different factions: The Consortium, The 
 U. S army and Task force Talon although during the single player campaign you only get to play as 
 the latter two. 
  
  This game is now a couple of years old but has stood the test of time quite well, you could probably 
 find it in a budget bin. If you are looking for a quick RTS fix Act of War is not a bad choice 
 at all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  AoW: Direct Action is a great RTS game of it's time. With wonderful gameplay, great sound and intense 
 action, this game shows the good side of RTS. The game allows three factions:
  The US Army: The moderm military army of the United States.
  Task Force Talon: A new futuristic 
 counterterrist force which has many futuristic weapons and units.
  Consortium: A terrorist group from a bunch of oil companies.
  
  The game is set in the modern 
 world a litle past ourtime.\
  
  The graphics in this game is amazing. If a building is shot and burns, it will burn and it will 
 slowly be destroyed and everthing inside it. Almost everything in the game can be interacted. You 
 could hide in the bushes or trees, hide in buildings or ide behind corners. The game has many maps 
 changing the gameplay and the strategy; they have urban maps, forest maps all giving you great 
 fun where you can destroy the enemy and at the same time the eviroment you are in. The only resource 
 you need is wealth. You can get wealth from banks, oil deposits, prisoners and other areas though 
 the resources are limited. The maps are gorgeous places but also makes a great battlefield for 
 modern battles.
  Overall the game is a great modern RTS game with stunning graphics and seem ahead of it's time 
 and is a must play for RTS fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Act of War: Direct Action is one of those RTS games that can easily be overlooked. I played the 
 Demo years ago and thought to myself that this would be worth a purchase. Over time, as life goes, 
 I forgot all about its existence. Years later I saw it in a twin pack, (with KohanII: Kings of 
 War) and purchased it. I always enjoyed Command & Conquer for the original Play Station console 
 that is much similar to Act of War so I had an idea what I was in for. The verdict is that Act 
 of War is just as good or if not better. The idea between the two is very similar in collecting 
 resources, advancing technology, variety in mission objectives and good vs. evil. However, AoW 
 pulls away with clever ideas such as cash collecting for taking prisoners of war. There remain 
 many other original ways to collect bucks too such as account hacking. Another innovation is being 
 able to strategically place infantry and snipers within buildings. Amazingly enough AoW puts credit 
 into special infantry units that can actually damage or destroy vehicles quite effectively. Mowing 
 troops down, considering they're on the ground, is an option if this happens to you. If not you 
 can always blow up the building they occupy. Being able to ambush units with infantry is also an 
 original idea in AoW. My favourite innovation is being able to strengthen units through experience. 
 The more a unit survives enemy encounters the stronger it becomes. Unfortunately this isn't carried 
 over to the next level. There remain many other little details to this title, but I won't mention 
 them here as you can either purchase this title for a cheap price or read previous novel size reviews. 
 ;) 
  
  Game play is pretty good; however, the AI can become pretty brain dead when you order your units 
 around the map. Sometimes they bottleneck in narrow areas and you have to manually maneuver units 
 around to correct it. Other than that it's fairly fluid. 
  
  Sound is done fairly well, but the in-game cursing may violate virgin ears. 
  
  Graphics are 
 nothing great, but there is a lot of attention paid to detail in explosions, vehicles and terrain. 
 The only real gripe I have here is that sometimes the smoke from a raging fire gets in the way 
 of your view of the battlefield. This can be dealt with if you stop for a few seconds and it disappears, 
 but in the heat of battle it becomes fairly annoying when you're trying to select a unit. 
  
  Replay Value with AoW will always be high due to a variety of tactics that a player can implement 
 when replaying single player levels or multiplayer. 
  
  Unfortunately there are downsides to AoW. At times the variety of units available and the hectic 
 micro management can be somewhat overwhelming. The biggest flaw that, surprisingly, I haven't seen 
 commented on at GameSpot is the Securom issue. Unfortunately this issue damages the overall score 
 of this title. I had one hell of a time to locate a work-around for this problem. If you're one 
 of the lucky ones that haven't had or won't have this problem, great. If you don't believe me than 
 all you have to do is Google: Original disc could not be found or authenticated for Act of War 
 and you'll see what I mean. The following link helped me if you too have the same problem: 
  
  http://m0003. gamecopyworld. com/games/pc_act_of_war. shtml#Act%20of%20War%20v1.06%20 [ENGLISH/GERMAN] %20No-DVD/Fixed%20EXE
 
  
  The issue stems from a crappy exe. and Securom conflict within the original installation. Patch 
 version 01_06_3 doesn't address the issue either. At least I got it to work and for $5.00 bucks 
 I can't really complain all that much. Either way good luck and good gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncipitOmega
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Well, even though I missed out one this game, becouse of an old computer, I now have what it takes. Well 
 AoW is a modern RTS, that has many details that most of other RTS games dont pay attention to. You 
 can rush in every RTS game, u can build an army and run thru all of your opponents with ease, especially 
 if u're the 1st one that does it... sure, noth'n special, but in AoW there are plenty of strategies 
 available, that try to turn u away from that, like sniper teams that can take out vehicles with 
 ease, infantry, that u can still play with even though u have the best tank there is, there's hiding, ambushing, taking 
 out single buildings rather with a special task force, to minimaze the losses u would take with 
 a full fledged assult. U don't need tanks to win the battle, or 20+ aircrafts, but strategy.... And 
 the graphics are amazing, lots of buildings in urban maps, civilians... sure SupCom has larger maps, but 
 there they all look like a nuke blew up, before u even got there.
  So in a little comparison to other newer games out there, this one's a kepeer for those who want 
 to do RTS, as close as possible to real warfare.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  [Gamespot seems to be unable to fix the problem according basic HTML-support in the user reviews]
 
  
  The best way to describe what Atari tried to accomplish with Act of War: Direct Action is, without 
 any doubt, a combination of both tactical realism and simulation. It might sound really boring, 
 but under the surface the game can be quite much like Command &amp; Conquer but with less stale 
 tank-rushing. If I may go over the story first... well, it\'s the regular  
 scenario but instead of attacking America with a direct force the Russians discretely destroys 
 or ruins oil refineries and sources to start internal crysis in America by causing high oil-prices. 
 The story isn\'t too spectacular but spans alot of time as one single mission can be gigantic and 
 take up to a hour, if not more, without really doing much which makes it up to the player either 
 you wish to play it through or not as there is a chapter selection which is a terrific add more 
 RTS games should be using in order to keep the player awake. As for the content itself. Well, there\'s 
 actually quite alot of new features here, not only on the graphics- and audio part but also in 
 terms of controls and mechanism. There are two main resources; oil and POW: s, or Prisoners of War, 
 which you can capture from downed enemy soldiers or unarmed vehicle crew once a tank or other vehicle 
 is destroyed. With an upgrade the enemy will also steal resources from you each time a POW is captured, 
 which makes it a war where you have to be human to your troops as their defeat might cause direct 
 economical disadvantages for you and a good income for your enemy. This POW system works as follows; 
 a infantry unit can take damage down to approx. 20% before beeing unable to fight and is easy for 
 the enemy infantry to capture If there\'s no aid for this personell. For vehicles a vehicle can 
 take damage down to the same 20% before beeing unable to fire its main gun and speed will be significantly 
 decreased and once a vehicle is destroyed and the crew member (s) survive it is possible for the 
 enemy to capture them as they are unarmed and not too mobile. This systems works great and should 
 be used more often in RTS games in my point as it is a fresh take to what we see today. There\'s 
 three factions in the game; US Army, Task Force Talon which consists of American prototype weaponary 
 and vehicles mostly based on actual prototypes or blueprints from today but put into action into 
 a special-forces command, and we got the Consortium which is the Russians who all carries wierd 
 accents and most often sound like Arnold Swerchenegger. They all focus on different things, while 
 US Army consists of well-around units and a bigger amount of units with specified tasks the TFT, 
 Task Force Talon, uses a more dynamic approach with less units beeing able to upgrade themselves 
 on the field to meet any requirements for a premium price. Consortium on the other hand starts 
 off as quite low-tech units building quite quickly but after some time they\'re able to get the 
 top-notch technology such as Stealth Multi-Role Fighter/Bombers, Stealth Tanks and (Stealth) Camo 
 Soldiers which retails for a high price with awesome offensive firepower while having lower armor 
 than the other factions. What is the most thrilling part of the game is all the voices. Hearing 
 all units responsing to the environment as they do is still today really great and was quite unique 
 by the time the game was all new. Once a unit is taking fire the unit will tell you that, once 
 a unit is down this unit will respond and ask for medical assistance and same thing when a enemy 
 unit is sighted. For the Air units this is even more thrilling as there\'s alot of environmental 
 noises in the background while they give the status of their attack or if they\'re shut down responding 
 desperateley \ Mayday, mayday, ejecting n\'ooow **** with a decent variety of different responses 
 for different units. All in all this is a very solid game, it would use some fine-tuning here and 
 there but the concept is exceptional. If Atari would risk the manhours to reproduce the game in 
 a new visual look I bet it\'d be a big hit as the markening of the game made it went right into 
 the $9.99-bin after just a month after launch. Online multiplayer isn\'t that well performing and 
 there\'s barely any users online on the Direct Action, though it might be more on the Expansion 
 as it was quite epic. Check the demo out for sure, and I bet you can find the game retailing extremely 
 cheap if anyone has it left in stock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Like many other solid games that came before it, Act of War never got the publicity it really deserved 
 and thus ended up in the bargain bin pretty fast. You can still find copies floating around on 
 Amazon and if you like RTS games then I would suggest you pick it up. 
  
  Act of War is set in the near future, where a crippling energy crisis is made worse when a mysterious 
 terrorist group called The Consortium begins attacking oil facilities around the world. As US Army 
 Major Jason Richter you must lead forces from the US military and a top secret special ops group 
 called Task Force Talon to figure out what The Consortium is up to and stop them. The story is 
 written by techno-thriller author Dale Brown, and the game is actually based off a novel by the 
 same name. 
  
  While it might be a strike against some games, Act of War features live action cut-scenes. Where 
 in most games such cut-scenes are terrible, in Act of War they are surprisingly good. The actors 
 don't overact like in games such as Command & Conquer 3, and the dialogue itself is generally well 
 written. 
  
  The game plays like the classic C&C games, to an extent, but with more focus on tactics and unit 
 abilities. You gather oil to get money and use it to build you army and base. The game does feature 
 some great mechanics that you don't see in other RTS games. For one, the game has POWs. When vehicles 
 are destroyed or infantry are badly hurt then there is a chance that they will produce a POW. You 
 can capture POWs for extra resources and hold them in a prison, where they generate a small sum 
 of money every few seconds. You can also interrogate POWs to revel parts of the map for several 
 seconds, but this results in the POW being removed from prison, meaning you no longer generate 
 resources from that POW. The building garrison mechanic seen in many games is also more advanced 
 here. For one, infantry can storm garrisoned buildings in an attempt to capture it from the enemy. 
 Infantry can also go prone and hide in "ambush mode." This means that they will be hard to detect 
 and won't fire until you give the order.
  
  Healing infantry and repairing vehicles require special vehicles that drive to the area where they 
 are needed. Aircraft are also handled in a nice and original way. You building Aircraft Control 
 Towers that can have up to three aircraft attached to them. When you want to call in an air strike 
 then you select the aircraft from the UI and click where you want the strike. The aircraft will 
 then fly there from off-screen, using up to half its payload on enemies it can target along the 
 way before using the rest of its payload at the designated area. Superweapons are handled much 
 the same way. You build the superweapon building and must construct the individual shots before 
 you can use them. There are also counter-superweapons that work like this as well. 
  
  There are three factions: The US Army, Task Force Talon, and The Consortium. The US Army is more 
 specialized, most of their units are geared towards countering a certain type of enemy, particularly 
 their aircraft. US Army units tend to have better armor and firepower than equivalents in other 
 factions. Task Force Talon is an elite special ops force that focuses on using multifunction units 
 to meet certain needs on the fly. The have a lot of advanced weapons based on prototypes or in-development 
 equipment today. There units aren't as good at their job as the more specialized US units, but 
 most can switch weapons in seconds to meet different threats, such as the S. H. I. E. L. D Exo-suits, 
 which can switch between TOW missiles for vehicles and a 20mm minigun for helicopters and infantry. 
 The Consortium relies on cheap, weaker units to conduct sneaky, hit-and-run raids against the enemy. 
 Almost all of their late-game units have stealth systems that render them hard to detect but fairly 
 easy to kill.
  
  The sound effects are pretty good, featuring your typical sounds in a good war RTS. Likewise, the 
 graphics are excellent for something from 2005. They still look pretty good today, with fairly 
 detailed vehicles and explosions that really pushed the pixel count back then. The infantry look 
 pretty bad by today's standards, but again, you must remember that this game is from 2005. 
  
  The single player campaign is long, featuring over 30 missions, many of which will take you 
 a good 45 minutes or more. Some of the missions at the end will easily take you a solid hour and 
 a half. All in all, the campaign is rather lengthy by RTS standards and will likely take you well 
 over 20 hours if you play it slow and don't try to Zerg-rush the enemy. Skirmish and multiplayer 
 aren't all that amazing, with your standard array of gametypes for an RTS game. 
  
  If you have never played Act of War then I suggest picking it up. You can find it for bargain prices 
 at this point if you look around. It is a solid RTS that never got much hype for one reason or 
 another and just slipped through most RTS gamer's radar. So if you see it at a local game store 
 or online, go ahead and pick it up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Frist the game start with some eassy missions to introduce the game and the handlig of it its really 
 good insinated also the detail unot are very well done. As the game progresses it gets harder and 
 the maps get bigger you get to see new units but ine thing is that the game mantains a constant 
 state of actin it makes fun to keep playing to see how the story turns out I would recommend any 
 one how is really strategy game fans this is a game for your collection so dont miss out on it. there 
 are many suprisses along the way in the game as you progress you will find out and this is i personaly 
 think competition for the command and conquer sires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  If you are bored of playing generals then this game will satisfy you a bit .... has got good single 
 player campaign and nice multiplay action .... graphics are much better then Generals and can offer 
 you good fun on Lan specially ... units are well designed and follows the same pattern of base 
 building and resource gathering !!! A good single player storyline and nice graphics offer better 
 game experience !! Based on modern warfare and has a mix of futuristic and existing technologies 
 ... Though you may find better games then this such as Joint Task Force but this game is also quite 
 nice and can provide good entertainment for RTS loving fans . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  If there is a Command and Conquer killer, then this is the one. There are three factions in this 
 game, the U. S. Army, Task Force Talon, and The Consortium. You mostly play as Task Force Talon 
 in the Campaign. Without warning, terrorists strike the streets of the U. S. and its up to Task 
 Force Talon to take care of the threat. You will be commanding the units of Task Force Talon and 
 the U. S. Army to defeat the Consortium. The story is very gripping and live-action cutscenes bring 
 the game to life. Task Force Talon uses high-tech units such as UAVs, drone vehicles, F-35 fighters, 
 and commanche helicopters. The Consortium uses Russian built tanks, helicopters, and Mig-21s. The 
 U. S. Army (which is my favorite faction) has modern day military equipment such as Abrams tanks, 
 Humvees, Bradleys, Apache helicopters, F-15 fighters, and B-2 bombers.
  
  There are some interesting features that most other RTSs lack such as POWs. Sometimes, an enemy 
 soldier will surrender giving you extra cash. You depend more on POWs to get cash over collecting 
 resources. Another neat feature is entering enemy held buildings and clearing them out and making 
 that building yours.
  
  You can play as any faction in multiplayer and take on others. Thats if you have a broadband connection.
 
  
  The Good: Great graphics and gameplay. Destructable enviroments, movie like cutscenes and great 
 story. The explosions look and sound cool.
  
  The Bad: Some bugs here and there. Some of the missions are hard, even when the difficulty setting 
 is on easy.
  
  I highly recommend this game to any RTS fan or people who like to see a lot of action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 28, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most real-time strategy games, when players load up the story mode of this game they will 
 not be playing as all three fractions but will play only with the US Army and Task Force Talon. 
 The storyline is very riveting and seems like it might be taken place out of a Tom Clancy novel. 
 Players will be trying to stop a group of terrorists that are trying to cause upheaval around the 
 world. If players fail in their mission the world will be a different and horrific place to live. 
 Failure is not an option.
  Act of War: Direct Action does something that I have not seen any real-time strategy do successfully 
 before, and that is weave real live action cutscenes throughout the game. What is even better is 
 that in this game it is very seemly integrated and makes the game feel more realistic and fun to 
 play. First the sound effects are really well done from the explosions that you will hear to all 
 of the automatic weapons firing at your enemies. Everything sounds realistic and gives players 
 the sense that they are truly in the middle of a war. What is a killer is the voice acting for 
 the cutscenens and some of the units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  My father bought me 2 games from USA on March the first one was this and the second one was BIA: 
 RTH30. I was very interested this game after i saw a preview of this game saying this will be like 
 C&amp; C and after i downloaded the Demo i knew that this is going to be a hell of a game.
  
  The first thing is the plot. Atari really making a good job with a lot of real time cut scenes 
 with real character to make the plot look real and they actually did a very good job There's so 
 much live action footage at the beginning of the game that you get the feeling that you're taking 
 part in an interactive movie. Major Jefferson, one of the elite soldiers in the secret unit of 
 Task Force Talon (TFT) , is your main soldier if he gets killed then your mission is over but don't 
 worry Jefferson is one of the most well trained soldiers so it won't be easy to get killed with 
 him. Other than that you have the US Army on your side another side in the game and both the TFT 
 and the US Army will fight against the Consortium the evil side of the game.
  
  The Army packs a lot of firepower, but it requires an extensive amount of base-building to unlock 
 the most potent weapons; Task Force Talon is a lot more versatile and mobile, but its high-tech 
 equipment is expensive; and the Consortium can churn out lots of low-level units relatively cheaply. 
 While the three factions are fairly diverse, there are still some clearly equivalent units on each 
 side. And, if anything, the US Army and Task Force Talon are fairly interchangeable, since both 
 belong to the same side. Of course all of them have Ground and Air units and secret exclusive weapons 
 as you can expect from a typical RTS game.
  
  The game is very similar to C&amp; C and have the almost same feeling but this game still has something 
 that C&amp; C never had and that's why this game is amazing as he is and not a C&amp; C imitation 
 .
  
  The Graphic of the game is nothing less than AMAZING and one of the most beautiful RTS games graphically. 
 With a well detailed structures and explosions this graphic is really impressive. As for the sound 
 this part is less good...
  
  The game is not too long but not too short but after you finish the game you start to think it's 
 too short and you want more... however like in C&amp; C here you also have the famous Skirmish mode 
 that let you play a quick battle with any side you want against anyone you want in any map you 
 want and this brings me to talk about the cool MP mode that the game offers again not too special 
 but it's just like any other MP RTS games you know...
  
  At last this is the best Modern RTS game on the market C&amp; C must beware because the AoW series 
 took the glory of the best modern RTS game as of now or in other words this is a must play game 
 since C&amp; C took some rest but this game is almost better than the C&amp; C itself!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  The RTS war game genre has in previous years been dominated by Command &amp; Conquer, but Atari 
 has given the genre a wake-up call with Act of War: Direct Action.
  Weapon systems in the game cover modern and near future developments. Go to war with Abrams tanks 
 and Apache helicopters, or flush out the enemy with Optical Camo soldiers and B2 Spirit bombers. 
 There are even drone based units like the Global Hawk, the futuristic UGCV Spinner tank and the 
 stealthy yet powerful Akula tank.
  The campaign covers a war against terrorists led by a group called the Consortium, which takes 
 you from the burning sands of the Egyptian desert to the heart of America: Washington D. C.
  Skirmish allows use of all three factions (Task Force Talon, Consortium and the US Army) which 
 lets you get familiar with the strengths and weaknesses of the different units.
  You will play and replay this game for ages and still find it tons of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Act of War befuddles me. While it has received relatively-high ratings for most major publications, 
 it didn't sell spectacularly well and it was price-dropped soon after release. Why? It doesn't 
 make any sense. Act of War is the complete RTS package, the likes of which has not been seen in 
 the real-time strategy genre since the days of Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun and Red Alert 
 2 - high-value movies, amazing graphics, stupendous sound effects, tense American-soil conflict.
 
  
  To begin, during the installation a video plays depicting two men and an attractive actress blabbing 
 about oil prices and the global market on the old Who Wants to be a Millionaire set; which is fine 
 as far as cutscenes go, but as an alternative to watching screenshot slideshows and watching a 
 bar creep forward, it is excellent.
  
  The game proceeds much the same as any other real-time strategy game, with missions taking place 
 both on American turf and in the Middle East - which is the worst of the pair. The city maps and 
 missions in Act of War are so spectacular it's a shame not many games feature in-nation battles. 
 It is so enthralling to defend our own country locally rather than in some far-off country quashing 
 rebels or overthrowing an evil genius. Additionally, HUD-based FMV plays during missions and coordinates 
 with onscreen action, making Act of War a multimedia-intense experience - which is a good thing.
 
  
  Why game divulged from the full-motion video sequences into crappy prerendered schlock is beyond 
 me. Wing Commander IV was one of the best games ever created because of its Hollywood videos and 
 top-quality talent (Mark Hamill, Malcolm McDowell, Tom Wilson, to name a few) . Those sequences 
 put Star Wars to shame and made each mission that much more worthwhile. So to see a game return 
 to such a presentation is a relief and a rejuvenation into a stale, artificial contemporary gaming 
 world. While the talent isn't as top-notch as it was in the glory days and the actors seem to have 
 recently graduated from NYU's Porn 101, they visuals are stupendous and add so much flavor.
  
  The in-game graphics are also outstanding. People move and behave realistically and everything 
 looks gritty and worn. The cities are excellent and look as American cities do, and even give you 
 command of local police forces. While as I mentioned before, the gamplay is traditional RTS, it 
 does not detract because of the supporting cast of features.
  
  I cannot stress how high the production values are in Act of War. Even the loading screens before 
 missions look amazing and the entire game reeks of effort and care for the game. While I found 
 this game brand new at Dollar General for $6, I easily would have paid triple that if I'd known 
 how good the game would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to say after playing the campaign through 6 times I enjoy this game immensely. I bought 
 it when it was released and with each patch the game has increased in difficulty.. (if you don't 
 believe me try not patching the game and see how the AI was) Although the game does not support 
 widescreen it still looks good in normal 19in rez. In fact the game set the standard in high quality 
 RTS graphics when compared to WC3 and older games.. The ability to zoom and pan around increased 
 the design of RTS. The high quality of the textures and light were unmatched at the time. The blend 
 of modern military with sci-fi made the game seem even more reality based . The storyline has a 
 real world problem that we all face.. in fact just after the game's release a oil rig exploded 
 in Houston making me think.. wow the game is just REALLY accurate and the steep rise of gas after 
 Katrina also struck home here in the game. Not to mention the dollar per gallon we now face in 
 the US. True this is not as serious as Petro prices in say London.. but the US has enjoyed low 
 gas prices since the 70s. To think 7 dollars a gallon isn't all that far fetched in the near future. 
 The sound is just spot on.. excellent along with the music. It fits right in to what the game is. 
 Value: I find it endless since the campaign is just superb.. remaining true to the form of old 
 C&amp; C with movie like cutscenes and a storyline that makes sense. Also the individual units are 
 extremely powerful if taken care of.. You can with just some basic tactics complete maps with just 
 your starting units. This is just unheard of in games that focus on massive armies. My tilt for 
 this game is a perfect 10.. not many games give me this much joy to play over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeJack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about this game back when it first came out in 2005, but somehow forgot about it 
 and ended up passing it over for other, more popular games. After rediscovering it in late 2006, 
 I gave it a try and was blown away. Anybody who played and liked C&amp; C Generals or good RTS games 
 in general will definitely appreciate this overlooked gem. For such an underappreciated game, it 
 has great production values. The existence of live-action cutscenes attests to this, even though 
 they have almost comically poor talent portraying the characters (the Russian villain in particular) . 
 The 15 or so campaign missions are also usually accompanied by a few in-game rendered cutscenes, 
 all of which are snazzily rendered and produced and just scream class.
  
  The audio and visuals have a realistic flare not found in other RTSs, with troops sounding more 
 like professional soldiers and less like GI Joe caricatures (though there are instances of bad 
 acting and scripting, hinting at the game's European origin) . The visuals and animations are equally 
 well-done -- critically wounded soldiers writhe on the ground, choppers go into a tail-spin and crash 
 sequence when they're shot down, and clouds of dust get kicked up with each shot of an Abrams' 
 cannon. The developers obviously wanted the player to be immersed in the near-future modern combat 
 setting that they and story advisor Dale Brown envisioned, and create a wonderfully convincing 
 battlefield.
  
  The gameplay itself is not unlike Generals, with a resource model based on oil pumped by tankers 
 and delivered to refineries (basically an analog to Generals' supplies-based economy) , but with 
 the added twist of Prisoner of War mechanics and banks, both of which are alternate ways for the 
 player to earn money. There are three factions in the game -- the versatile but expensive Task Force 
 Talon, its allies, the highly-specialized US Army, and the stealthy and high-tech Consortium, who 
 serve as the vaguely-Russian villains. The game's combat is fast, furious and sensorally pleasing, 
 with awesome explosions and sound effects. Units tend to die very quickly, though, so it's imperative 
 to keep a close eye on the troops. Urban combat in particular is vicious, with soldiers able to 
 garrisson structures and even take the roof to gain a sight advantage or be picked up by helicopter 
 when the street is too dangerous. It's a great feeling to land a squad of Delta Force on the roof 
 of an occupied building and have them clear it out. Vehicle combat is conventional compared to 
 more recent RTSs like Company of Heroes, but it gets the job done. Many units have special abilities 
 and, in the case of the units of Task Force Talon, are even able to switch weapons on the fly, 
 making the player better able to handle a variety of threats.
  
  The only glaring faults the game has are the poor acting (both in cutscenes and in-game unit voices) 
 and the abruptness with which the singleplayer campaign ends. Overall, though, it's a must-have 
 in any RTS fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comander_Kirk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game had great visuals . The explosions were the best I have ever seen. But the mission were 
 way too easy. Task force Talon unit were crappy. They were expense to make and had low health. 
 The regular U. S military had a solid set of units. They units good health and were not super expense. 
 The infantry was very effective in the game. They were great placed in bunkers for defence. The 
 U. S tanks were sweet they could destroy any tank in one hit. There should have been more missions. 
 You play a couple of missions in the U. S and then you go straight to the terrorist home base. There 
 have more been more before the U. S discovered the located of the terrorist base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Act of war is simply one of the best strategy game that I've played, if not the best. The plot 
 is very good and immersive, and tell a very actual problem, about terrorists and oil stuff.
  The gameplay is fast, and easy to get into. Very much like command &amp; conquer, but years light 
 better. Another thing is the US army licence. &iexcl;&iexcl; CRAP!! make use of the M1A1 Abrams 
 is the most exciting stuff I've ever do in a strategy game... The Paladin auto mobile-canon, Bradley 
 rush, air strike by the A-10 warthog, some air fights in the F-15 Eagle... Is just a total BLAST!! 
 Obviously is the faction that I like the most. The Task Force Talon do the job, but is not like 
 to play withe real tanks and aircraft. The Consortium is like a Es-que Zerg type of group. With 
 tons of fast build cheap crap units. The Good: 3 factions to play, very different between each 
 one (The US army been the better) Fast and easy to get gameplay, lots of units and techs, but not 
 overwhelming like Empire Earth (Boredom) , Stunning graphics and sound effects, and overall a Superb 
 presentation. Excelent plot, with great ending and final mission. Very challenging missions, with 
 some memorable moments.
  
  The Bad: Way to Short, some missing stuff... like ships???
  
  Gameplay: Superb, with 3 completely different factions to play around, fast unit construction 
 and combat, easy tech system, Challenging AI in the max settings.
  
  Graphics: Stuning, some of the best I've seen in a RTS game (I've not played Company of Heroes 
 yet) Incredible explosions and efects. Destructible environments, smoke that rise above the clouds 
 and cover the battlefield.
  
  Sound: Just like the Graphics, Stuning, sound efects of the cannons and the wheels of the tanks 
 moving across the field, the threes going down and stuff...
  
  Value: MMM the low point I think. The campaigning is very short, and you will learn to play all 
 factions in just a couple of hours... I don't like the online RTS gaming, so I will say nothing 
 about it...
  
  Tilt: It so Easy to recommend this game, to any War game fan, or RTS gamers... If you like to play 
 some intense fights with real weapons, and feel the war at your door, you should definitely have 
 to check this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't do it for me, it feels like C&amp; C with a bad engine, I really liked the cut-scenes 
 and in game picture-in-picture, but everything else was bad. Starting from the graphics... far 
 from what the graphics were like when the game was out (same problem with C&amp; C: Generals) , the 
 story of the campaign is not bad but the crappy engine makes it all not worth playing, the zooming 
 and rotating feels choppy. I know this is a big step for Eugene Systems making an RTS, but maybe 
 they should leave that to EA while they are at it. I give this game 6.4 because it feels like all 
 other RTSs released that year only done worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Well.... I've played my fair share of RTS's and from my experience there is just about nothing 
 not to like about this one.... The graphics are clean and let you get right up into the action.... 
 the units are balanced and varied.... The sound is great and gives a good feeling of being in a 
 war.... The maps are designed well so they're pretty evenly balanced and varied from urban house 
 to house tactics to larger more broad tactics.... The story if not transparent at least its slightly 
 engaging and kind of fun to watch... The voice acting is convincing an un intrusive/annoying.... 
 My only quibble is that it can be too easy to accumulate money giving you a near infinite supply 
 of untis, making the game a wee bit easy.... other than that its pretty damn fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firzenzo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw gamespot's review of this game i was interested in this game. It sounded and looked 
 like a great rts. And it does. The live cut scenes i thought were pretty cool too so i went and 
 got this game and started playing the campaign. The story wasn't too intriguing for me since these 
 days you can almost predict the endings of these bad guys against good guys stories and some of 
 the live cut scenes had some bad acting and dialogue. but the game looked great and played good. 
 Some of the missions though were just cake walks after i found out that u could just select ur 
 troops, attack move to the location and watch and as u got to the place u would find urself doing 
 it 4 or 5 more times with the same bunch of guys slowly dwindling but making it through. Anyway 
 the skirmishes and multiplayers are fun like most games. i like the new prisoners of war thing 
 how it encourages for use of infantry the whole way through -units that are wounded and not dead 
 can be captured by infantry and held prisoner and also generate money aswell as a bounty for capturing 
 them. these prisoners can be freed to reveal parts on the map too . Also how u can hold banks and 
 extract oil from oil deposits to get money, the only resource in the game, is quite creative. u 
 can even hole up the building, or go on top of them, with antitanks and watch them shred the incoming 
 force and watch all the explosions and thick smoke with the loud sounds of gunfire and booms of 
 tanks. but a lot of it seemed like a race to build up tanks and get the sources of money. Its more 
 realistic than a lot of other real times out there.
  this game is well put together apart from some dodgy pathfinding and the some other minor problems. 
 the game is pretty stable and also the patch can fix a few problems up. the game sounds, though 
 i did find the number of lines each unit had was limited , looks and plays not bad rand should 
 last u a while even though the campaign is short. To some it may be the best rts ever but not for 
 me. i , honestly, am not likely to buy the expansion. this is a good game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  I hesitated buying this game for over a year. I have C&amp; C Generals + Zero Hour and couldn't 
 really see, from the demo and screenshots, anything that would lead me to part my cash for what 
 looked to be more of the same. Having said that, how many out there purchased Quake 4 even though 
 they already owned Doom 3 (yeah, count me in) . Or COD2 when really its' not that different from 
 the original (a bit easier, more repetitive, though graphically a leap forward for WW2 buffs like 
 myself) . But, I bought it today and have played thoroughly for 10 hours so far. So, how does it 
 fare. Against C&amp; C: G+ZH it fares well. The video sequences interlinking missions, and within 
 missions, don't feel tacked on liked they did with C&amp; CG . They progress the storyline well 
 (no pun intended) about the oil crisis and the rise of terrorism, and the settings are realistic 
 cities, country areas (based on satellite imaging apparently) . Not the generic ones in C&amp; C 
 . It's not a bad story, based on an story by Dale Brown ( to become a novel of the same name, only 
 the protaganists in the game, The Consortium, are called DOOM in the book) . So the feel is a little 
 more authentic. Let's see how it rates if we break it down in individual sections.
  
  INTRO: As said already, Dale Brown (a well known author of the techno-thriller genre like Tom Clancy, 
 Harold Coyle, Larry Bond, Richard Herman jnr., James Cobb and Stephen Coonts) wrote the story and 
 a novel to coincide with the games' release. That's rare, but nothing new. Tom Clancy released 
 a novel with his game SSN . That's different to basing a game on a novel, as they are meant to 
 co-exist. Tom Clancy and Larry Bond based their novel Red Storm Rising (Larry Bond's name was left 
 off the cover by the publishers) on the game Harpoon ; Megafortess , an old flight sim from the 
 early nineties was based on Dale Brown's Flight Of The Old Dog ; Team Yankee was based on Harold 
 Coyle's novel... Team Yankee . I haven't read the book, but I hope it ties in better with the game 
 than Tom Clancy's SSN . They were hardly similar at all.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Easy interface for anyone used to traditional RTS's. The action is fast-paced with objectives 
 changing constantly. A lot more like Dawn Of War than C&amp; C . That's not the only thing it has 
 in common with DOW . Management of your forces requires constant attention, ala Homeworld , and 
 the firefights can be furious requiring a degree of micromanagement that C&amp; C lacks. And there 
 is no pause button, to issue orders in frantic firefights. Tactics are vital. Frontal assaults end 
 in defeat as they should (as they are now, from WW1 onward) , and infantry are far more crucial 
 than armoured vehicles in most of the missions which reminds me more of Close Combat and DOW . 
 On the offence it is crucial to perform layered progression, with supporting and covering units. 
 When withdrawing, you must use your head and do so gradually, setting up delaying actions while 
 the bulk of your force can retreat safely. Lack of a true naval component is, once again, a HUGE 
 gripe. When do we get this in our RTS's, if ever. It seems Larry Bond's Harpoon 4 has been cancelled 
 so I, like many just sigh as it is neglected, again. The rest is explained by Gamespot's review.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Crunch time. They are excellent, with shadows from trees or bridge struts flitting over 
 your passing vehicles (usually only seen in a FPS) . The buildings are destructible, and the AI 
 pathfinding isn't too choosy allowing your Bradleys to run over parked cars, fire hydrants (with 
 a whoosh of water) etc. Everything that can explode, of course explodes. Shell casings eject from 
 machine guns, branches and leaves crunch to the ground if trees are brushed by. Units, buildings 
 and landscapes are lovingly crafted and city sites readily identifiable. Now the downside. You 
 need a fair amount of grunt to run the game at highest settings (and believe me, it gets ugly if 
 you go lower) . The pyrotechniques are curious. I haven't seen explosions or fires with so much 
 RED in them since DOW WA . Fires aren't red. They're orange and black, so they actually look quite 
 peculiar. Also, even though you can reduce buildings to rubble, you can't use it as protection 
 for troops. You can only garrison buildings and trees (?) . Water graphics are dreadful. No refections, 
 waves or ripples. Just a bland light blue or muddy brown. C'mon, even C&amp; C: G had good looking 
 water and Ground Control 2 absolutely rocked. I don't get that one at all. Overall, it looks the 
 part. But, the camera allows for no horizontal tilting. You can zoom in and out, rotate, and... that's 
 it! A big problem that could have been handled more like DOW , and it is very, very noticable in 
 its' confined presentation.
  
  CONCLUSION: Mixed. Looks good, sounds good (though RTS's all tend to sound the same these days) , 
 plays well and keeps you interested in the storyline. But, the Campaign is very short, lengthened 
 really only by cut scenes and intros, and the ending is confusingly low-key. There is of course 
 Engagement (skirmish) Mode and Multiplayer, and its' a good idea to play 1 or 2 of these in between 
 missions to make the Campaign last longer. Whether Joint Task Force , soon to be released, will 
 trounce this game remains to be seen. Company Of Heroes will be the next step in RTS gameplay and 
 will no doubt up the ante. But really, aside from the awful water graphics, the red explosions, 
 the absence of a naval element and the abysmal camera this game is a step up from Generals and 
 really has no other competion regarding its' real world setting (please don't mention Real War 
 ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I would say Act of War: Direct Action is a RTS game for beginners. It starts out very easy and 
 ends easy. The scenario is that an unknown terrorist faction has declared war on the Free World. 
 An anti-terrorist team, run by Team America (obviously) is the world's only hope. You are the commander 
 of the team. So far, big whoop. You can basically ignore the story line, as implausible as it is. 
 Basically, it is resource gathering, build tanks, and crush the enemy. If you follow this three 
 step rule, you will defeat the inadequate enemy AI in no time flat. Having said that, I still had 
 fun playing this game. I thought the graphics were god, and there was just something about building 
 a 100 man Delta force unit and storming buildings that satisfied me on some visceral level. The 
 units are fairly simple to maneuver, and there is really no great need to use a certain tactic. 
 Just have lots of hardware built, like tanks, and attack. This is a nice filler game, if you will, 
 while waiting for other games to come out. I bet I have played through this game four or five times 
 over the past two years so I have definitely gotten my moneys worth. It is a nice bargain pick 
 up now, and there is even an expansion pack out. So in conclusion, yes Act of War is worth playing, 
 it just doesnt break any great ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jan_kenneth
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Realistic??? well... up to one point. A bit weird that you are only allowed to have one SAR helo. 
 A fair point would be to allow at least some kind of medic (on foot or in vehicle) to support the 
 regular troops. To call the game realistic, you would in deed have to compare the game to the real 
 world. Is it realistic that a soldier can take several gun shells from a bradly??? Don't misunderstand... 
 the game his entertaining and strategic. But to call it realistic??? that's not the case. Many 
 nice details in the game, like troopers getting critical wounds, whitch calls for medevac. Can't 
 realy see the point of having so short artillery range?? Game producers should have adopted the 
 artillery consept from C&Q Generals, where you call in artillery. And why can't the delta's svim 
 or be loaded into boats?? And why can't the special force take out regular troops in one to one 
 action. Special forces carry light but highly efficient weapons. Why do they always have to use 
 2 or 3 mags of ammo to take out on guy?? whats the realism in that??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  So I was really bored and I decided to go out and check some games. Saw this one - figured I'd 
 give it a shot and I am quite impressed by it.
  The plot is basically about oil companies inciting war to make financial gains. The scenario is 
 played out between the US and these malefactors. The good and bad guys play out the scenario in 
 the US, Egypt and the Russian Republic. On that thought, the one thing I would have liked is if 
 the campaign was split into one side and then the next instead of just one long campaign of the 
 good guys. Kind of gets to you playing the same side in each mission as I'm sure you know what 
 I mean. The saving grace is of course the new technologies revealed over time and that the good 
 guys have unique buildings being split into two different factions. The third faction is of course 
 the bad guys and you don't get to play this in campaign mode.
  The major thing about this game which I haven't noticed in other games that I have played is that 
 the effects of units are much more realistic. For instance, a soldier with a missile launcher can 
 do more damage to a vehicle than infantry with rifles but a tank firing a shell will still kill 
 infantry right away instead of in some other games where you have artillery firing 5~6 shots just 
 to kill a lone infantryman. Now thats ridiculous - a shell should tear a footsoldier to pieces 
 right away. Thats what I like about this game - realism. Other features in the gameplay include 
 things such as being able to buy on credit - while drilling an oil patch (oil is the only resource 
 here but you have to build power plants for some factions) you can still buy based on credit as 
 you will be getting $ from the oil-drilling over time. This adds to the gameplay a lot instead 
 of you twiddling your thumbs while staring at the resources sloooooowly ramp up.
  The graphics are awesome - everything from the structure damage to the firing effects to the death 
 of units. The sound effects also add to the experience in a great way. 
  While it took me a while to get this game at least it was better late than never. Definitely worth 
 it and while I used to accept the gameplay shortcomings from other titles, this one makes me realize 
 that I shouldn't have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damzor
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  A fantastic game which is truly realistic in terms of modern military combat and in cutting edge 
 graphics. The first time i played it on highest graphics was simply stunning, nothing had prepared 
 me for the quality and clarity of it. Also the AI is excellent, units don't randomly get stuck 
 after orders are given out. The inclusion in in-game movie scenes tend to give the game a more 
 realistic atmosphere, which is hard to find elsewhere. Single player is a good starter, despite 
 the slightly difficult learning curve, but multiplayer is where the game really shines. I highly 
 recommend this game to anybody who fancies an RTS game, wwell worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidsrule
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of strategy games and ill tell you that Act of War: Direct Action is an amazing strategy 
 game.
  
  In Act of War: Direct Action you take the role of major jason rickter of the high tech Task Force 
 Talon which is an army that can respond to terrorist activities very fast.
  
  The story is about an on going energy crisis and how the terrorists or the consortium is taking 
 advantage of it. In the game you travel from the united states to egypt to russia. The game mostly 
 takes place in the united states but each place you visit in detailed to the limit. Buildings burn 
 and create smoke that can blind your view. buildings that the games three sides use are detailed 
 to the limit. And when units are about to be destroyed they create smoke as well.
  
  The games three sides are the US Army, Task Force Talon, and the Consortium. In the campaign you can 
 only play as task force talon so the stroyline doesnt get confused. The us army and task force talon 
 are both with the united states so youll usa both sides buildings and units in the campaign. The 
 us army has alot of powerful units but they can be slow at times. task force talon has some of the 
 most high tech units in the game. Their strykers can be upgraded to either an anti tank gun or a 
 mortar. Their shield units can switch between at gattling gun and anti tank rockets. Many of task 
 force talons units can siwtch between multiple weopons. The consortium is sort of a mix. They start 
 out with cheap units that can be mass produced to gain the advantage in early game. If the battle 
 continues on then youll upgrade to the next level at your headquarters. After the upgrade you have 
 access to high tech units such as stealth soldiers and stealth drone tanks. Each side has at least 
 one helicopter and to get your airplanes you need to build an airforce control tower. Infantry are 
 also very useful in the game. They can capture banks capture soldiers and are a good defence in 
 buildings.
  
  The only complaint i had about the game was its length. The game isnt very long but its not too 
 short. There is also skirmish where you can battle against computer controlled opponents. In skirmish 
 you can play as any of the games three sides. You can battle up to 7 computer controlled opponents.
 
  
  Another great thing about the game is the real movies. The scenes are done with real actors like 
 in the command and conquer series.
  
  The game also has a multiplayer mode in you want to face off against real people instead of computer 
 controlled opponents.
  
  Overall Act of War: Direct Action is a great strategy game. Great graphics, great sound, excellent 
 story, and great multiplayer combine to make an excellent strategy game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eidolon_369
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  A great strategik game, It takes up the terrorrist thret in a great way (and funny) . 
  And it has films eith real actors whick is raver unusual. 
  
  The game takes place in London 
 where the terrorrists trys to assassinate a lot of very important persons, and your jobb is to 
 stop them by leading your sguad to battle in front of Buckingham palace.
  You will also fight in Egyptia to capture a dangerous waldord and you will fight in my favorite 
 scenario, to defend the white hous from the terrorists.
  The game is raver easy but its although fun and you wont grew bored as you always have to plan 
 your defense and attacks, otherwise you will get crushed.
  But if you plan your strikes and defenses well you wont meet any trouble in the heat of fire.
 
  
  I can only say: GO AND BUY IT NOW or you will miss something that you later would regret 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayrome19
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game feels more like a C&C mod. The gameplay is very much your basic cookie-cutter RTS gameplay. 
 They have taken the liberty to add... well, nothing, when it comes to gameplay. Everything from 
 basebuilding to resource collection to warfare is just like every other modern RTS out there. If 
 I had to find one aspect that was noticably different in the gameplay, I guess you could argue 
 that the ability to capture POWs is kinda new and innovative.
  I figured I'd get the negativity out of the way first. Now on to the good stuff. This game really 
 captured my attention with its in-depth story line and very well done cutscenes. When I first heard 
 that the game was going to include live-action scenes, I immediately took a fork to my skull trying 
 to tear out the memory of Red Alert's horrendous cutscenes. But once I actually played the it I 
 discovered that this game actually found a way to do it right. And the story was nearly as gripping 
 as an episode of 24. 
  The in-game graphics, though fairly modest, do highlight some interesting and creative new features. 
 One of my favorite is the effects you see when you bomb out a building. After the first couple 
 hits, glass will shatter and you may see a small fire burning inside. But after continual pounding, 
 the interior of the building eventually collapses in on itself showing a massive pile of rubble 
 spilling out the lower floors. Then, left to smolder for a little longer, the whole heap will eventually 
 errupt into a inferno of thick black smoke that pillars up towards the sky. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovjetski_Zeko
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Act of War: Direct Action is just like C&C Generals with better graphics, movies, sound, gameplay 
 and everything else. In this game you can control three factions: Task Force Talon (special, high-tech 
 units) , US Army (strong, balanced units) , and The Consortium (stealth, high-tech units) . The graphics 
 are so great that you'll sometimes think you are in a helicopter above a real city and watching 
 what's happening below you!!! There are even ingame movies (example: you enter the enemy base with 
 Delta Force troops and you can see them in the corner of the monitor killing terrorists) !!! The 
 game is great, i really had fun playing it, and i recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  this game is really great. if you like c&c red alert 2, which i did alot, you will like this rts 
 game. it has a variety of settings you can play. it is different all the time. i am just on the 
 second mission so i haven't really played it that much but what i have seen so far is amazing. 
 you can move your troops around, fly in for a bombing mission, and tons of other stuff in this 
 gama. it is really the best rts available right now. i just think about all the work that went 
 into this game. it is really amazing. i like rts about as much as i like fps. i am not into rpgs 
 that much. and this is the best game to come out since c&c red alert 2. it has some incredible 
 graphics, some of the best i have seen in a game of this genre. they are working on an expansion 
 called high treason that should be available later this year. i think they have done a great job 
 with this game. it's exciting, it's fun, and there's lots to do in this game. it has alot of replay 
 value. you will find yourself playing this game every night and not getting tired of it. i would 
 say that this game ranks among the best. it should be a classic that everyone must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game except for a few minor details.
  
  First the good/great: The graphics are awesome and the new units seem to be balanced although I 
 could be completely wrong about that. The missions that they added are hard but not completely 
 impossible to finish. Everything about this addition just adds to the fun of the original.
  
  The bad/not so good- What up with adding different unit stances? All I have is defend, move, 
 attack move and ambush (oh and stop) . There is no unit formation that I have figured out. I don't 
 know but I would rather have my artillery in the back of my infantry than in front. I would like 
 to have other unit commands like search and destroy (or something to that effect) and would love 
 some other commands so I don't have to micromanage my indivisual troops. The only other bad thing 
 I can think of is the naval part is cool but for some reason it seems a little under used or maybe 
 they could have added more naval missions and units. And last but not least I would like to see 
 other missions besides just the good guys.
  
  Conclusion - I want another expansion. I love these sorts of games and especially this series. 
 I would like to get another expansion before I see Act of War II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Guy3000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game I didn't know what to expect. Addictive game play, fun campaign, 
 cool graphics, or a great multi-player mode. It turns out that this game is all of this and more! 
 The videos are almost as good as a movie and the campaign sucks you in to the action with pop-up 
 screens displaying movies and other neat stuff. The game play is good as you only have one resource 
 to gather and you can easily get it by capturing wounded enemy infantry, meaning that you don't 
 spend as much time ordering gatherers around and more time in the action! The only problem is that 
 the campaign is a little short and the plot ends with many unanswered questions. Despite this small 
 flaw, the game has loads of action-packed battles and the effects and the graphics are some of 
 the best i have seen for a RTS game. It is a must have for RTS fans and if you haven't tried RTS 
 then this is a great game to get you hooked on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game 
 great game great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are incredible for an RTS. Water and glass reflections are excellent; 
 you can even zoom in and see infantry's faces! When a building is destroyed, you can watch it burst 
 into flames and blow up, and the fire is really convincing too. You can see infantry's weapons 
 unlike Command and Conquer Generals, where they carried grey colored sticks. Overall everything 
 is detailed very very nicely. The cutscenes before and after campaign missions are also excellent 
 (no the Russian guy does not look like he's dislodging something from his teeth) .
  
  This is also excellent. Each unit has a unique sound, and the explosions sound realistic and sharp. 
 However it gets a 9 because sometimes there are explosions followed without sound, like the Falling 
 Star super weapon, you can hear the first explosion, then its gone.
  
  This story is believable and isn't completely covered in mystery like in Half-Life 2. Basically, 
 oil = money and terrorists want that money (well I'm not sure, I haven't completely finished the 
 game yet) . There are also some twists and turns that come out of the blue. The story isn't hard 
 to understand, nor is it cheesy. Overall an excellent story with no flaws.
  
  The game is balanced as far as I can tell, however the AI is really dumb sometimes. The AI being 
 average is the only flaw. There is also a unique POW capturing system, where you can capture wounded 
 enemies and get money, and if you have a POW camp building, they will give you periodic paychecks. 
 Other than that, this is basically the same as all other RTSes, build a base, build a force, go 
 go go!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I have very high hopes for this game after downloading and playing the demo, and I must say I m 
 not disappointed.
  
  Act of War sucks the player into the game with its rendition of a military thriller RTS. The rock, 
 paper, scissors of the units skills an abilities is pretty brutal, but in a good way. Order the 
 wrong unit to advance or attack and u'll probably watch it blown to pieces. The game is graphically 
 impressive with very nice unit and city details. And while some may laugh at the corny acting, 
 I for one found it quite funny and reminds me back to the times of the original C&C series. 
  
  I was getting tired of the RTS genre but after playing this game, I had renewed fate that the 
 genre is still going strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Many are the RTS games in recent years that take us back to ww2 or to ancient
  times with empires like rome and greek. 
  It's not common for pc games companies to make games 
 about our times and the conflicts that sorruond us. They keep staying with the winning formula 
 of ww2 when starting to develop new game. Don't take it the wrong way, I love RTS games on ww2 
 and many more are welcome but I too want to play in various battlefields and diffrent times with 
 diffrent weapons and technology.
  It's nice for a change to take an abrams tank and support him with F-18 and go to the battle against 
 modern armies (although it's mostly terrorist) .
  
  Act of War: Direct action, bring us an improved or very improved version of C&C generlas with real 
 weapons and tech with a very good story line with many movies. 
  
  The creator of this game didn't let down the plot which can improve the gameplay in many levels. 
 For this job they recruit real actors (not samuel jacksn but still) to play in the in game movies 
 shown during the levels and between. I have to say they did a good job and made the game richer 
 and more fun to play with intresting story.
  
  The story line didn't take too much intention from the developers and they put much invensment 
 in the gameplay as wel.
  AoW is a old fashion RTS game like C&C were you can build bases and lead the attack. In AoW you 
 will be given most of the levels a base were you can build tanks and other armourd viechels train 
 elite soldiers and improve your technolgy even more. In order to collect money you need to build 
 a oil factory in stratigicly positions to bring money to your base. 
  The oil is a important factor in this game and the foundation of the story, and you will have to 
 reach it to gain victory.
  
  The units are similiar to our modern units and look and act as well. But there are also couple 
 of hi-tech units that you maybe saw on matrix film.
  Units AI is ok but not as good as games like Soldiers and rome.
  The enemy is powerful with advanced 
 weapons but not as difficult to beat.
  
  Graphics in game is from the best there is in RTS and the game looks great a lot thanks to the 
 explosions. The units are detaild and the enviormant is another plus to this game.
  
  In sound department this game will not let you down. Although there isn't much of music during 
 the game, the explosions are nice and the actors did a good job in viocing there characters.
  
  I will recomanded this game to every RTS fun that still play C&C in his parents basement. This 
 game can spend you many hours with it's domastic singlplayler multiplayer and skirmish maps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I went out and bought this game, as soon as I could after playing the demo. It took me a while 
 to get used to the controls and interface (just me) , but after that, I was hooked. I played the 
 campaign through serveral times; each time trying different tactics. That's what I enjoy about 
 games like this. There's a lot of replay value. The random maps are fun too. I didn't however play 
 this online, not sure why. I'd imagine it's fun.
  
  The graphic presentation was some of the best I've seen in an RTS in a long time. The audio was 
 great too; like crashing aircraft, helicopters, and some cool music to add to the drama.
  
  I liked the snipers and their steath ability. You can hide them in a tower or building and they'll 
 peg enemy units. Others were the anti-tank units where they too can be in steath mode.
  
  All in all a great game. I'm looking forward to the expansion: High Treason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gator8142
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Althoug the real time strategy games are a thing of the past, I have to say that this one is very, 
 very good. It has a very good story line, and the movie clips add to the drama of the story. The 
 way the missions update and change as you are playing makes the game hard to stop playing. Graphics 
 are very good, the only complaint that I have is that the graphics are so realistic, that if a 
 building catches fire it makes it really hard to see. I have not finished the game yet, but this 
 is a must have if you at one time liked real time strategy games, then you will fall in love with 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Act of war delivers in the sensual of excitment in seeing things getting destroyed, annihilated 
 or run over. Yes all of that is there in a compact, tightly packed RTS game that is just way too 
 fun.
  
  Act of war is one of the RTS i dont play seriously. Starcraft, warcraft and Zero Hour are serious 
 games of mine.... but Act Of War, well since its so godamn cool i havent really taken the time to 
 appreciate it. So here's what its all about.
  
  The Pros
  
  -Cool political story that as usual could very well happen today.
  -The presenation is quite 
 military authentic.
  -The units are damn cool.
  -Graphics are amazing!
  -Sound is great!
  -THE SPECIAL EFFECTS!
  
  The Cons
  
  -Cutscenes tend to get in the 
 way.
  -Cutscenes tend to get annoying after a while and after hearing the same line twice... you don't 
 even enjoy it for its corniness anymore.
  -Feels slightly slow paced for a RTS but then again i dont play this game at a competitive level.
 
  -Very few people play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowcow123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The best RTS game that was ever made. There are many differt ways to play not to mention to cool 
 units. Live action cutscenes can be cheesey at times but the game is still awsome. The bomber aircraft 
 are espically cool watcing bombing runs is even bettter. BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY 
 BUY. You can get it now for only 20.00 at EB but it is worth much more. BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Skermish modes and multiplayer make excelleny replay value!!!! Buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy hbuy buy buy hbuy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buyb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  There's so much live action footage at the beginning of the game that you get the feeling that 
 you're taking part in an interactive movie. However, after the opening levels, the game segues 
 into a more conventional real-time strategy game along the lines of Command & Conquer. There are 
 three factions: the US Army, Task Force Talon, and the Consortium, the evil conspiracy in the game. 
 Thankfully, there is no contrived plot device where you play as each of the three factions, so 
 you don't get to play as the Consortium in single-player, though it is playable in skirmish and 
 multiplayer. As expected, each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses. The Army packs a lot 
 of firepower, but it requires an extensive amount of base-building to unlock the most potent weapons; 
 Task Force Talon is a lot more versatile and mobile, but its high-tech equipment is expensive; 
 and the Consortium can churn out lots of low-level units relatively cheaply. While the three factions 
 are fairly diverse, there are still some clearly equivalent units on each side. And, if anything, 
 the US Army and Task Force Talon are fairly interchangeable, since both belong to the same side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  When i first picked up Act of War, i was expecting another generic strategy game, filled with all 
 the usual; collect resources, build an army, tech-up and beat the $H! T out of everyone in your 
 path. Act of War does all of this and makes it fun again by adding little touches that make the 
 game replayable and interesting.
  
  Based off a novel, it tells the story of a realistic path of events regarding oil crisises and 
 the results of them, all out war. Taking place in a time a little after present day, it builds 
 off of realistic weapons and vehichles to bring modern day warfare to life far more realistically 
 than Generals could. With partially destructible terrain, garrisonble buildings (complete with areas 
 on the roof units can fight on) , accuartely scaled buldings and units, it brings warfare to a more 
 realisitc level for the RTS genre. With all of this, players need to strategize and plan more carefully. 
 The primary resource of the game is oil. which is havested from oil derricks scattered around the 
 map and converted into money. Other sources of money include the capturing and securing of banks, 
 and the capture of POW's. 
  
  The details of the units and environment are suprisingly good, almost as good as the carnage ridden 
 battlefields of Dawn of War. Each unit has little details and fully moving models that create a 
 realistic environment for the player. The environment is also fully responsive to the action. small 
 cars and vehichles of civilians often are scattered around the city, and can be used as cover for 
 infantry. They also can be run-over by tanks and larger vehichles. Buildings can be destroyed and 
 savaged, making them useless as defensive postions. Even trees aren't safe, easily knocked over 
 by impacts and weapon blasts.
  
  Act of War is truly one of the better RTS games to come out for a long time. Defining itself with 
 top-notch graphics and inotiative gameplay, it promises to keep players hooked for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALZex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  When I played Act of War I was really blown away by the willingness of the designers to go the 
 extra mile. Very few game designers are actually willing to put a decent story in their games, 
 with a decent everything else as well. And on top of that back it up throughout the game from installation 
 to finale cut scene.
  
  It was very risky to use Hollywood type visuals in the plot. What was very noticeable with Act 
 of War was the budget. They spent their entire budget on the cut scenes/story and then somehow 
 got a brand new budget and spent that entire budget on the game design.
  
  I feel that Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun was the end of Westwood, merely because they primarily 
 focused on the story and not the game play. With Act of War the single play has learnt from there 
 mistakes.
  
  The only negative I can see, is the multiplayer. Something that Generals brought to the table was 
 definitely continuous war. Once the funds in Act of War run out thats it, the game is over. And 
 a lot of the game play strategy is just to out last your opponent. Can get very boring. Total Annihilation 
 had a very special aspect is the design which Act of War doesnt have. This was the ability to 
 produce units on a mass scale and still give your opponent a fighting chance.
  
  All in all, I loved Act of War and I cant wait for the expansion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Act of War: Direct Attack is a RTS based in the not to distant future with a lot of gameplay elements 
 similar to that of the old Command & Conquer games. Mix that with great graphics, well made real-life 
 cut scenes, fast paced Skirmishes and online play and you have yourself a game worth owning.
  
  Gameplay,
  As I said earlier its very similar to the gameplay of the old Command & Conquer 
 games. If you never liked the old Command & Conquer game then this will most likely be a disappointment. 
 If you are a fan of Command & Conquer then youre in for a treat. 
  
  There is only one resource in Act of War and that is Money. You can get money in a number of ways, 
 take over oil rigs, place your men in bank or take prisoner. You can take prisoners when you have 
 almost depleted the health of one of the enemy soldiers. The soldier will then fall to the ground 
 and will glow yellow you can then pick them up and send them over to your prison, this will get 
 you a lot of money if youve ran out of oil. 
  
  The action is the best part of the game. Watching a group of tank and infantry go face to face 
 with another group of tanks and infantry is really spectacular to watch. Humans will go flying 
 as a shell land right next to them, tanks exploding with fire and dust rushing into the air and 
 when the battles get really big its just staggering how much carnage can happen in a few minutes.
 
  
  Overall if you liked the gameplay in the old Command &Conquer games give this a try, if you never 
 like the gameplay in the old Command & Conquer games just say away from this game. 
  
  Graphics,
  The Graphics in Act of War are marvels to look at, all the units look great and the 
 tanks look amazing. Seeing buildings being blown apart while you send in squids to clear the way 
 for some air support is just a wonderful thing to look at.
  
  When Tanks, trucks and buildings explode, they explode brilliantly, with smoke zooming in every 
 direction. Large buildings will crumble which just makes that much more life-like but you do need 
 a good PC to be able to play the game with all these affects on.
  
  The life action cut scenes are very well done if not the best real life cut scenes to date in a 
 video game but There are some scene were you can easily tell they are using a blue scene. Overall 
 the action cut scenes are good enough to be in a movie.
  
  Sound, 
  The sound in Act of War is good but Ive heard better. If you have play a lot of Modern day RTS 
 games then the sound effects will be very similar to you. The sound is good overall but some of 
 the voice acting is pretty bad, mainly the one trying to make a Russian accent but apart from that 
 its OK. 
  
  Value,
  The games campaign is short and does leave a lot of questions to answer but its fun and there is 
 some replay value to be had. The skirmishes are fun but its nothing new; the online multiplayer 
 is fun and will keep you in the game much longer than the single player campaign and skirmish maps. 
 Again the multiplayer has nothing new to it. 
  
  Overall,
  If you are looking for something new then you may be disappointed but Act of War is a great buy 
 for Command & Conquer fans and RTS gamers in general apart for those who disliked the gameplay 
 in Command & Conquer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent999us
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  You put in the game... its autostarts, u hit install then you go through the propertys and yah 
 normal stuff... then when it hits the progress bar... BOOM A live news update and you learn the 
 story before you even play the game! That was a great catch... Then your all exited and hyped up, 
 it starts new game and the loading screen... well n e way...
  
  When you start playing the game its really exiting and fun the first few missions are a blast and 
 the live cutseens are really well acted (for a game) but you play for a while and it gets a little 
 repetitious... the story is really good and well thought out the single player is really fun but 
 once you beat that... what next?!?
  
  the multiplayer is pretty bad after you play a game you realise that it just ends up in a missle 
 fight... and infantry units are pretty ussless... In single player infantry was more fun to use 
 and it really made it tence there is this mission were u escort the president... and u have about 
 20 S. W. A. T. units you keep on going and and all theese enemys are comming in and you get in the 
 buildings to hide and its really exiting... i finished that mission with 1 really wounded 2 okish 
 (yellow) and the president... u cant get much better than that =) .
  
  If your a single player fan BUY IT! (like me)
  if your looking for a modern Starcraft experience... 
 look someware els
  
  oh yes... AWSOME EXPLOSIONS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makka_HS
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RTS games that I have played in a long time, ATARI really does make you forget 
 about command and conquer. The Graphics are great for a strategy game and the way its all set up 
 there is nothing more satisfying then blowing a building to kingdom come and watching all the Shrapnel 
 and the fire, just to kill the few guys inside it. The Story line is very well written, though 
 that might have something to do with the fact that the game is based on a book but who cares? ATARI 
 have done a very good job of bringing modern day urban warfare to life. Act of War Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The premise of this game being that a terrorist group known as The Consortium is attempting to 
 sabotage the global economy through a series of attacks on oil refineries and other oil company 
 related targets.
  Enter Task Force Talon: a top-secret military unit which uses the latest in high-tech toys to attempt 
 to thwart this Consortium. This tactical tug-of-war takes the player to a variety of locations 
 from San Francisco to Egypt, providing a good variety of level layouts and terrain.
  Graphically speaking, Act of War provides good looking, large environments loaded with detail, 
 although the models are noticeably low detail- especially when the camera is even slightly zoomed 
 in on them. This is initially disappointing, but becomes understandable later in the game when 
 thenumber of units on screen at any given moment increases dramatically
  The single player campaign follows Task Force Talon as they traverse the globe battling The Consortium. 
 Depending on the level, the battle may include local police officers, the US army, or just the 
 TFT's own special forces. The story is maintained through in-level voice communications and between 
 level cut-scenes. The story itself is well flushed out and fairly intricate as one would expect 
 considering this title is a adaptation of a novel. The voice overs during gameplay are normally 
 brief and to the point allowing the cut-scenes to do the majority of the story telling. For cut-scenes, 
 the developer decided to use live-action videos. The acting is pretty good, and the production 
 quality is among the best I've seen in video game live-action sequences. The actors deliver believable 
 performances and do a passable job of moving the story forward. As with the sound, there's nothing 
 overly great about the cut-scenes, but they don't detract from the playing experience either Act 
 of War eases the player into combat gently, starting with control of a small squad of troops, and 
 eventually allowing command over large armies. The units available range widely, from various forms 
 of troops, ground and air vehicles as well as the ability to call in artillery strikes. The difficulty 
 ramps up at a nice even pace, with decent introductions to new technology and instruction in their 
 use as they become available. Offensively speaking, the layout of most levels permits multiple 
 pathways for assaults and flanking maneuvers. Defensively, the level design provides many opportunities 
 for cover and numerous choke points in which to lay ambushes. This openness combined with the wide 
 range of units available provides the player with the freedom to utilize any number of tactics 
 for completing any objective they are given. The objectives themselves are delivered in bite size 
 pieces throughout each level leading up to the accomplishment of the main mission goal. The players 
 are always well aware of what is desired of them as the objectives are clearly described and have 
 a marker on the map to show the corresponding location. So it is functionally sound, but is it 
 fun? Well, yeah- it is. The game isn't the  type of RTS. 
 Instead it favors multiple smaller objectives tackled in whatever order the player likes.
  Intelligent play is rewarded in Act of War which allows a small team of basic units to accomplish 
 many of the objectives presented. There are objectives that will require an entire army to complete, 
 but these come later and are still interspersed with smaller scale objectives. This approach removes 
 some of the resource building intensive preparations that encompasses so much of the playing time 
 in many other RTS games. Resources still need to be procured and there are still dependencies that 
 need to be satisfied to allow production of all available units and buildings, but now you can 
 actually be playing while this takes place instead of just waiting. No longer are players forced 
 to remain behind defenses while building their entire army. The major shortcoming of the single 
 player campaign is that only one side is available to be played. The option to play as The Consortium 
 is only available in the multiplayer portion of the game. The multiplayer provided by Act of War 
 is about average for this genre- nothing more, nothing less.
  
  In short Act of War delivers a solid RTS game that will appeal to most players. Sound strategy 
 is rewarded and the gameplay itself is fun. With less time spent waiting, the playing experience 
 doesn't stagnate and can be played for hours on end without ever boring the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace_of_spades
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is about fighting terrorist organization called the consortion. THe terriost organization 
 takes over two cities, attacks, the White House and attacks a bunch of other places. At different 
 times in the game you can play as either Task Force Talon, a special forces task force, or the 
 US marines. Task Force Talon is very mobile and has very hightech gadgets and stuff but everything 
 is very expensive. Task Force Talon has a Gundam Like Unit, high tech robots, a helocopter plane 
 hybrid, and a bunch of other cool stuff. The US Marines have very powerful weapons. Their infantry 
 is very good at taking over building becuase of the flash bang grenade. They have very powerful 
 tanks and planes. The consortium focuses alot more on quantity rather than quality. Their infantry 
 are really cheap and get trained very quickly. You can upgrade the infantry to either a RPG or 
 a grande launcher. They can be easily blown away by a tank or helocopter and are very weak. The 
 consortium also have very nifty stealth technolgy. I thought it was cool that you could drop soldiers 
 on top of buildings. The urban fighting is a lot of fun. The cutsceens are cool and are a lot better 
 than most games although the writing is a little cheesy. The entire game feels sort of like 24. 
 This game is a lot of fun and I would recommend it to anyone who likes real-time strategy games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game, in comparison to every other RTS i have ever played, is the best! For an RTS, which 
 most everything has been covered, or so we thought, it is surprisingly good. Not only does it give 
 you a good number of real video footage, you can do everything you could in real life during gameplay. 
 You can capture wounded enemy soldiers or vehicle crews to raise cash as "ransom", you can make 
 your soldiers "crawl", or go prone, to become less visible, you can load up infantry inside building 
 and on the ROOF, and if your enemy has already done the previous, you can charge a building with 
 infantry and take it over from the INSIDE! The game offers some modern units like the M1A1 Abrams 
 Medium Battle Tank, M80 Russian Heavy Tank, and the B2 Spirit, or Stealth Bomber, while also delivering 
 some Post-Modern warfare units like the Stealth Tank, Stealth Infantry, and the entire TFT (Task 
 Force Talon) side for short. Overall those are the real good things the game has to offer so I 
 won't go into the little tiny details, I wouldn't want to spoil a good game for people who haven't 
 played it would I? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syntrax1987
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  1.05 AND 1.06 MAKE MY COMPUTER SAY DISK CAN'T BE  
 BASICALLY YOU CAN'T PLAY IT ONLINE AT  
 I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THING. WOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I 
 HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE 
 THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 
 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 
 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT 
 THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW 
 I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I 
 HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE 
 THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 
 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 
 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THINGWOW I HATE THAT 100 LIMIT THING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moose9130
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  My aunt works at Atari and got me an advance copy of Act of War. The game is pretty solid and is 
 pretty fun, I think. The graphics are pretty incredible for an RTS and i was surprised to see so 
 much detail put into a RTS. The storyline is pretty neat and i liked the cutscenes with the real 
 people acting in them. I thought that there could have been a lot more improvements though. Some 
 of which might include: 1. a little more affordable. 2. Some more campaigns not just the regular. 
 3. A bigger range of soldiers and buildings. I really thought that Act of War is a very solid game 
 but could use a lot of improvement. I was told that there is going to be a second so be ready. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzdriver
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I played the entire campaign and afterwards, continued to play the single missions with the most 
 recent update/patch. Overall, this is a fun game and the campaign is well scripted. The modern 
 weapons and scenarios are the game's strong points. You will have to think out your strategy and 
 tactics but just like many other RTS games, if you're able to produce the most weapons in the least 
 amount of time, the odds of winning increase.
  
  Basically, the game involves building bases which include a number of buildings which produce various 
 weapons and defenses. Once a base is created, you'll want to set up its defenses and then begin 
 to gather resources (oil) . This gives you money to, (of course) , build more things to throw at 
 your enemy. Every weapon includes a number of upgrades and your weapons range from infantry type 
 units to tanks, planes/bombers and nukes. All of which are modern-day type units. 
  
  The graphics are sounds are very good. My computer, (Athlon 2500 with an Nvidia 5700 graphics card) , 
 played the game well at a decent resolution. You will, however, need a LOT of hard drive space 
 (over 5 gigs) . 
  
  My main complaint was with the replay value. About half way through the campaign, the missions 
 began to get repetitive. Afterwards, you can play single missions but those too get repetitive. 
 I love games that have the ability to generate new scenarios so that every time you play, the strategy 
 may be different. Games like Rise of Nations and Civilization do this very well. On-line multiplayer 
 extends the game's replay value but I prefer to play with a strong computer AI rather than having 
 to deal with the hassles associated with on-line gaming (ie. cheating, slow/over populated servers, 
 rules and rude/inconsiderate players) . 
  
  Overall, Act of War: Direct Action is one of the better RTS games out there but the next installment 
 could use some improvements to extend the game's hard drive life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Ninjah
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Honestly, after I beat this game, I felt that there was something missing. It has good graphics 
 and a cool storyline. Cool features and cool explosions. Cool characters and a full storyline...
 
  But the way you know that a game is really good is when you actually get these cravings to play 
 them again, Personally, now that I've beaten this game, I don't think I'll be playing again for 
 awhile... this is a feature that is unlike C&C Red Alert or C&C generals, I always like playing 
 them on skirmish... This game isn't a skirmish type of game, it's got a great campaign, that is 
 it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roastedamoeba
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game accomplishes roughly what it sets out to - immersing the player in a fast-paced story 
 of the Tom Clancy type (or I should say Dale Brown, who actually authored this story) . Right from 
 the  opening, to the finale, the action never really lets 
 up. And that's a good thing, because if it did, the player would have time to notice the dodgy 
 FMV sequences and less than stellar acting.
  
  However, those are minor quibbles - cheesy acting is actually considered something of a virtue 
 in RTS games anyway (see Red Alert) .
  
  My main issue with this game is production quality. Yes, the graphics are pretty, and the explosions 
 are oooh-inducing. However, compared to other examples of the genre such as C&C Generals, Act of 
 War simply lacks polish. This manifests itself in small ways, such as difficulty in selecting units; 
 the inability to deselect units and mistakenly sending a unit directly into the middle of the enemy 
 base (stupid, yes, but I did do it) ; the ability to bypass mission objectives completely without 
 the game noticing; some poor clipping and rendering artifacts.
  
  Again, all of these are minor issues, but taken together, they marred the experience for me. As 
 far as RTSs go, I have primarily played games from the C&C series, and so I have been somewhat 
 spoilt by the attention to detail in those games.
  
  Altogether then, a valiant effort, and I would be interested in whether a sequel could improve 
 on the above points; if so, it would indeed be a game worth getting excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rawoo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I finished the game awhile ago and I've been playing the skirmish mode and online games since then. 
 I have to say act of war direct action really grows on you. The more you play it the more you like 
 it. It is better than Generals in almost every aspect. The game features three sides, their techology 
 structures are all quite different, and there are no nonesense units. 
  The game's main campaign story was actually written by a famous novelist who was also an US air 
 force officer (forgot his name) . With cutscenes filmed in real environment and acted by real actors, 
 the game's production value is quite amazing, it really draws you into the story . If you liked 
 how the SP was done for C&C prior to Generls, you gotta love this one.
  The game's graphix is stunning. The screenshots really dont do this game justice, because you really 
 have to see the battles in motion, the effects are just so nicely done. when you blow up a building, 
 it wont just fall down and disappear, it does what a real building would do that is catch fire 
 and burn baby burn. The most beautiful thing about this game are the maps. There are so many different 
 types of objects you can put into a map and they are just so carefully created, the ubran environment 
 feels so alive. Unlike in Generals buildings in Act of war are modelled with realistic scale, so 
 people can put great amount of details into a map. 
  Some of the gameplay features are also worth mentioning, such as the resource in the game. In act 
 of war there is only one resource that is money$_$. 
  You can get money by three means, drill for oil, occupy a bank, and POW. POW stands for prisoner 
 of war, yes you can get money by capturing wounded enemy soldiers, or downed enemy aircraft pilots, 
 in fact this is the only way to keep a constant income throughout a match. It's brilliant. Another 
 interesting feature is how you use the buildings. You can put soldiers in any buildings, you can 
 do that in Generals as well, but in act of war, with the realistic building size, it becomes more 
 dramatic, it brings out the true feeling of urban warfare. In an urban battle, it's curial to take 
 and hold buildings, tanks in this case are quite useless. There are a lot of other good gameplay 
 feature, but I am too lazy to write them all down, so you just have to get the game and find out 
 for yourself lol.
  The multiplayer part of the game is also pretty good. The game feels already pretty balanced right 
 out of the box, and the patches fixed the minor issues and added a map editor. There is an active 
 online community, it's not huge like warcraft3 but it's there and it's dedicated. There are lots 
 of excellent user created maps, they really add a lot of replayability. 
  In conclusion, although act of war may seems to most of us as a Generals clone, but if you dig 
 it, you'll find out that it's actually a breath of fresh air. It's quite cool, so give it a try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Its like C&C on steroids. Lots of action and definitely some cool units. Its one of those games 
 you cant get enough of. Like others have stated, I thoroughly enjoyed the overall storyline and 
 presentation, however if you have played C&C you know the scenario I still wish someone would 
 develop a total emersion game i. e. stop the cookie cutter approach and allow for more unique game 
 play. If I want a nuke and Im not interested in building defenses let me disable the feature and 
 kick someones arse with overwhelming strategy. I found myself on several scenarios holding back 
 on total destruction just to enjoy the fights. Once the super weapons are online youre screwed. 
 Rather the computer is. Two thumbs up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  "All flash, no substance"
  
  That pretty much says it all. Act of War looks and feels like a real-time strategy game, but I 
 think it barely qualifies in the strategy department. The graphics may be spectacular, and with 
 all the bells and whistles, everything looks amazing. The shadows in particular are something that 
 I don't think I've ever seen quite as dramatically in any other RTS.
  
  But it is a strategy game, regardless of the graphical quality. It is a strategy game in a sense, 
 if you consider "attack-move" a strategy. That's pretty much the extent of it. Oh, also, "don't 
 garrison buildings" is another good strategy, as your units will actuallt die FASTER when garrisoned 
 inside a building, unless of course, the enemy only has infantry. A single tank can kill a building-full 
 of people in a few shots, while the same people spread out over open ground take at least a few 
 seconds to run over.
  
  Strategy in this game is paramount, namely, build a bunch of each type of unit availible to you, 
 then tell them all to attack-move the enemy base. If that doesn't work, just make sure you have 
 a few more guys the next time around.
  
  OF course there are the traditional air units and the traditional anti-air units, and the tanks, 
 and the anti-tanks. A good rule of thumb is: if you have enough of every unit, you'll be able to 
 counteract just about every enemy unit. Then the only thing to worry about is having more units 
 than the enemy. A medevac helicopter comes in handy sometimes, too.
  
  Command and Conquer: Red Alert has Act of War beat on the strategy front. Even the quite repetitive 
 gameplay of Starcraft has at least some strategic element. Act of War: Direct Action is first and 
 foremost a spiffy looking war simulation. Who said war had to involve strategy? Apparently not 
 Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game is not as good as C&C. That being said, think of it kind of as a little brother. Still 
 fun to play. Not as challenging. The plot is contrived and corny, but you gotta love that Jefferson. 
 
  
  Missions are straight forward, and you get "hints" if you are not able to figure it out on your 
 own. While the missions are not particularly inventive, they are generally well planned.
  
  At first I was not impressed with this game, but it grew on me and I wanted to finish it. Not as 
 addicting as C&C, but few are. The graphics are good, sounds are good (especially expolsions) . 
 Music track is repetitive and gets annoying. 
  
  Bottom line: If you like C&C a lot, this game is worth playing. Just don't think you are getting 
 the best of breed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pegzz_pg13
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  One of the best RTS ever made or thats out right now, i see this game competing with command and 
 conquer generals zero hour to be exact which also another good RTS game, i still cant figure out 
 either it or generals which is the best. The game has a A= graphics interface and controls and 
 command are pretty much straight forward nothing is hidden from you what you must do, the game 
 also has this thing that i like about it the ambush action, in which you can let your infantry 
 hiddden amongst various places, in tress buildings and so fort, this game is a must have if you 
 are a RTs fan, truly one of the best out there now  
 one of the few problems that i find is : 1 the rocket guys cant shoot after the air units such 
 as helicopters, i really hate that if you play generals you can use you rocket troopers to shot 
 down air forces, i like that part 2: not a wide variety of units that i expected but hey it still 
 cant pass ............................ those or the two or the one must things that i dont like 
 of the game that i dont really like, its a good game as i said before and thats why i gave it a 
 9.2 our of 100 .................... joke 9.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxUSA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Game is verry Addictive. Whyle it dosent add to much thats Revolutionary. It's pretty traditional 
 in the RTS Sense. Reminds me of Command & Conquer. Extreamly brilliant graphics, Highly detailed, 
 Infantry units have more of a use in this RTS then just kill points. Everything is verry verry 
 well ballanced and gameplay is amazeing. Only downside is there isent to much revolutionary. Other 
 then that this game is suppriseingly well done. A must if you like pretty modern warfare, extreamly 
 ballanced and beautifull graphics. Its a must get if you like RTS's. I just hope Atari and Eugen 
 Systems make a Sequel in the future to this brillant RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewagner501
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I never could get this game to work despite almost two months of back and forth with Atari customer 
 service during which they kept "losing" my emails. I finally gave up. An inability to play and 
 poor support after the sale gets this game a very very low rating.
  
  Its a shame because I was looking forward to playing this game after reading several reviews but 
 with a game that doesn't work and abysmal support from Atari I just couldn't give it a better score. 
 I'm glad others have been able to play it but after reading hours of online posts its obvious I 
 wasn't the only one with problems playing the game. Atari needs to improve thier games and especially 
 their customer support for better ratings than the bare minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocalypseBK
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphicly this game is ok, in terms of gameplay its solid enough but again its not spectacular. 
 It follows all the same classic methods used in C&C and does nothing new, you'd hardly call this 
 game 'original'.
  
  Its driven by an ironicly appropriate and reasonably well though story which ties in with modern 
 day current affairs, but the real life cut scenes used and the voice over acting is not best used 
 in modern gaming, its like watching a crap movie and cheapens the whole experience. The little 
 movies that pop up mid game are also very annoying as they do not fit what is happening on screen.
 
  
  Another annoyance is the way wreckages and dead bodies dissapate into thin air moments after they 
 expire removing any realism credability. Effects are fairly ok, but for me Soldiers heroes of world 
 war two uses much more impressive special effects, particle effects and physics making this game 
 look very avergae to me, despite the fact its over a year newer.
  
  Solid enough for RTS fans, especially C&C fans, but dont expect anything new or innovative here, 
 its just more of the same and only manages to replicate what has been done years before in C&C. 
 It makes some minor improvments but overall i found that after all the hype and reviews i read 
 bumping this game up, its actualy quiet dissapointing and smacks of 'been there played that'.
 
  
  I'd say its worth a shot for die hard RTS fans, everyone else.... give it a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, I loved playing this game. I'm your usual RTS fan: grew up playing the C&C series, 
 AOE series and anything even close to the genre.
  The graphic of the game is great! I loved watching my airplanes bombing the **** out of the enemies! 
 hehe those bombs sound real cool falling and the explosions are so cool that sometimes I would 
 just forget myself and jut watch the air raids. 
  All in all I enjoyed playing the game and the campaign is quite good and soon enough you would 
 find yourself submerged in the plot, my only downside would be the lack of "the bad guys" side 
 of the story! I mean where the heck is the bad guys part of the campaign? 
  Still I enjoyed the game alot. If you enjoy RTS then my advice to you is to try out this baby. 
 You'll like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Act of War: Direct Action is a classic RTS with a twist. Sure, units gain experience, sure you 
 got plenty of units and sure you have a variety of gameplay and strategies depending on which faction 
 you play. And you have fun with advanced weapons, even flexible weapon platforms and heavy machinery.
 
  The single-player story is outstanding. I hardly could stop playing. Sure as the game develops 
 you have the usual twists and turns. Good guys turn out to be traitors but bad guys stay bad guys. 
 But it's like playing an active part in a movie or a book - actually there's a book telling the 
 game's very story.
  
  I can strongly recommend this game to any RTS fan who e. g. enjoyed Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good RTS, but after games like War Craft 3, Generals, and Total Annhilation..... 
 it comes up lacking. For instance, you use a front loader as a construction unit? How believeable 
 is that.... not at all. Even the bulldozer from CandC Generals was a touch more believeable. It's 
 a huge aspect of the game to me because my line of work is in construction!!! Using unproper construction 
 equipment is annoying to me. Another thing that really gets me about the game is it's Red Alert 
 wannabe movie sequences during the single player game. Red Alert's story and movie sequences really 
 held their own back in the day, Act of War's are just plain stupid. Another bad taste I get from 
 the game is the Defcon system, it's really stupid. Having to spend $5,000 to upgrade to the next 
 set of buildings you can purchase is just an annoyance and nothing else. But, what I really like 
 about the game are it's buildings and vehicles. Something about the shading makes them really cool 
 in appearance. The tanks and humvees are stupid in movement at times, but looks real when fireing 
 and taking damage. It's all about the smoke and debry effects that they used that really give you 
 satisfaction when you fire a tank round in the side of a building or a tank. One of the only things 
 I like better about Act of War compaired to Generals, is how they have heli pads that drop off 
 tanks, rather then unrealistically building them on site. And the AI is pretty decent. Definantly 
 the AI and the graphics save this game from complete failure. Bottom line is, Act of War is good 
 to tide you over until Age of Empires 3 or the next C&C are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  I honestly avoided this game for quite some time, I'll be honest the new concept of unit capture 
 left me painfully confused in the demo, and the lack of the Oil deposits on the demo map made it 
 seem that you had to fend off forces and capture units before the game would scale up into the 
 war. I thought it was a cool concept, but I decided it was totaly and in now way what so ever at 
 all something I had the patience for.
  
  I was wrong, clearly. I was looking at it in Media Play and staring at the units, and the building, 
 and how cool and nice they all looked, so with a sort of sigh I muttered "#%&* it." and took it 
 up and bought it. 
  
  I don't regret it.
  
  First off, the units and their animations, and effects all really make it feel real. The big cannons 
 fire and clouds of dust rise up around them and the shells impact with firey death, the sound of 
 shells colliding with the armor plating is fantastic, the units claling out being injured, enemies 
 spotted, hiding in trees, capturing POWs. It's just a frantic experience and looks like raw awesomeness.
 
  
  You ususally have a limited supply of oil, enough to get a really good operation going, but a lot 
 of times you need to supplement that by holding prisoners and... Well I'm not sure what they do 
 to prisoners you hold but they seem to crap money after you get them, the more you got the more 
 they crap and the more you can fuel your war machine. 
  
  It's a good system, a good idea, and it makes you think a bit about what you'll bring into battle. 
 you have to consider how easilly units survive when attacking, as I've found sending helicopters 
 is a great way to supply your foe with a fresh batch of money crappers since the pilots nearly 
 always survive. Alternately, watch out with the big guns, big guns leave small pieces and small 
 pieces can't crap cash for you. I just think it's cool the idea of wanting you beat down your enemies 
 units, but not kill them, and them turn them around and crap money for you to fight their leader.
 
  
  The super weapons are amazingly awesome looking, all of them are just fantastic from the huge Artillery, 
 to the Satelite drop, to the Tactical Missile. All of them are freaking great looking, and you 
 can build them unti your POWs can crap money no more (Not that they ever actually stop) . However, 
 the thing that makes these super weapons reasonable is counters to the super weapons, so in a lot 
 of cases you have to destroy the protection for a base before you can drop Hubble on it.
  
  The single player is, perfect, they use live action for the cutscenes, and they overlay live action 
 onto the screen in video windows, it really just pulls you in. The acting is really quite good 
 and very consistent, it does have it's corniness and weirdness, like one guy seemed to change his 
 accent for a bit which was odd. Fluctuating accent or not it is a fantastic campaign with a few 
 suprises and twists and a really satisfying experience.
  
  I gave it a 10, mainly because it is the best RTS released right now, and you can't find one that 
 really looks, plays, or is better than this one at the moment. I enjoy it more than any RTS right 
 now and find it totaly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthavic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  Act of War is yet another addition to the RTS genre. The difference is that this one is based on 
 a the writings of author Dale Brown. Aside from that the most notable thing about this game is 
 that it revives the almost dead live action cut scenes. AoWs cut-scenes are mostly well done and 
 blend seamlessly with the action. During game play you will often be treated to picture-in-picture 
 like scenes that help add to the story and overall feel. The graphics are detailed even when zoomed 
 in and a rotatable camera helps keep your units in view. The campaign story is good and takes you 
 all over the world from London to Washington D. C. but doesn't let you play as the bad guys. Multi-player 
 is available and well done. A good number of units are available. Resource gathering is streamlined 
 which allows you to focus on the destruction. Overall it doesn't really add anything new to the 
 genre but it is still a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Well this must be the new kind of Action games for the next future. Maybe a little over the top. 
 For me it was just right and I find the in-game video's fine. Other people will not share my opion 
 about that but that's my opinion.
  The graphics are amazing and the storyline is good. You can earn credits by attacking a bank or 
 by resourcing the area with will be automatically. The bank must be hold by your man and it will 
 be a little tricky when the enemie is attacking the bank because the building can be destroyed.
 
  The power of your weaponry can be over the top when you are waiting long enough because when you 
 capture enemies you can gain profit ot them and you will have in no time a lot of credits and willing 
 to upgrade your army at full strength.
  I love this game and I think that all the action games of this kind will be in the same way.
 
  Worth playing but wait for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I've played many games on the PC, and almost all have been real time strategy. So I know what i'm 
 talking about (I know, you've heard that a lot) . I've played: ground control 2, Empires Dawn of 
 modern world, lord of the rings battle for middle earth, Rome total war, medieval total war and 
 its expansion Viking invasion, etc. (don't worry I wasn't going to tell you my entire collection, 
 I wouldn't want to bore you ) . All these games are great in their own way but they lose their appeal 
 after a while either because they were replaced by a new similar RTS game or because you get sick 
 of playing the same thing over and over. As a big RTS player I look for a type of RTS to fit every 
 type of warfare I like, for example: Rome total war. This game is the best when it comes to empire 
 building and huge armies from the old days with swords and archers. But what about a game based 
 on modern warfare? Command and conquer Generals came out a few years ago and was great, but unrealistic 
 and left you wanting something more. 
  
  That's where Act of War Direct Action comes in and unseats Generals as the new king of modern warfare 
 RTS. This game can only be described as insanely realistic combined with real military unit's available 
 today (with some units more future based) . For example you will build plenty of Abrams tanks if 
 you choose the US faction, along with apache and Blackhawk helicopters, as well as paladin artillery 
 (which was a powerful tank in the command and conquer generals game, can you say what the hell 
 is that about?) . There is a total of 3 factions: United States army (marines, best air craft, artillery, 
 tanks, need i say any more) , Task Force Talon (a covert military that is American but unlike the 
 US army these guys are more mobile and have many unique units a lot of which are future based) , 
 and the bad guys the Consortium (a collection of different terrorists that rely more on stealth 
 expensive units or cheaper units to over whelm your enemy) . All 3 sides are evenly balanced and 
 play differently, so after learning to master one faction and then you try another, it wont work 
 the same. Each side has different methods to gain victory, for example the US can win by a strong 
 small army, but the consortiums has weak cheap units so you'll need more, or build powerful stealth 
 tanks that fire slow but are great for hit a run attacks. Task Force Talons units are more multi. 
 purpose and can adapt (the opposite of the US units) , but are not as strong as the US but are equally 
 deadly in every multiple tasks they can perform. So as you can imagine gameplay is very balanced 
 and the replay value is high. But besides great graphics and realistic units, what gameplay elements 
 separate this game from any one else? Here is whats different: Only two resources: oil, but that 
 stuff will run out because there are only a few oil wells on any battlefield so the game has one 
 more interesting resource: prisoners. You can capture enemy infantry that are nearly dead or the 
 non combat personnel left behind after its vehicle is destroyed, and after capturing them they 
 are stored in a building (you must build first) and every 6 seconds or so each prisoner you have 
 will earn you $50 and this resource never runs out as long as that building carrying them isn't 
 destroyed (and each prisoner building can hold up to 10 prisoners, not bad!) . But the catch is the 
 only units that can capture anyone is infantry. I love this because it means infantry are finally 
 valued again. I'm a huge infantry player in any RTS, but I always struggled because the games were 
 not designed for army's having anything but tanks. Well now if you want to succeed you need infantry 
 along with your main army otherwise you can't capture the enemy and continue making money. This 
 can lead to games going for a long time, and it makes you think twice about sending your men off 
 to die, because the enemy can capture them and profit from it, it also encourages you to rescue 
 those wounded infantry or tank/helicopter crews to prevent them from being captured. This is my 
 favorite RTS ever! and i recommend you buy it.
  
  Keep in mind i only play skirmish in my RTS games, which is not the single player campaign (which 
 usually don't interest me) . so for a review on the single player campaign and the story line, check 
 out some of the other reviews. I'm sure you will find another trust worthy source about that stuff. 
 WOW! That's a lot of information above, but its not everything about the game so if your still 
 not sure read the gamespot review or other community reviews that may have included information 
 I did not. Thanks for reading ---B. Hampton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceShaguar
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  A short summary of my opinion...
  
  Graphics: 
  
  This is where Eugen just blew me away, with their extremely detailed designs of locations. Never 
 before have I felt the real urban fighting feeling before in an RTS. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The only slight, and I mean slight down for this game. I would have liked a bit more of some good 
 'kick their behinds' kind of music tracks. Sounds for units and vehicle movements are very well 
 done.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You'll surely have some fun experiencing the game firstly through the campaign. A solid (sort of) 
 story which really feels like it's happening, with constant updates on-screen, and some long cutscenes. 
 Every team has their share of fun units, able to counter each other in many ways, where the balance 
 comes in. I'm a bit surprised about how balanced the game is with almost no complaints so far. 
 This makes the multi-player extremely fun, I've been learning with every match new types of ways 
 to play, which draws me into the game again and again. As probably has been mentioned again and 
 again, the Prisoner-of-War resource system is fabulous... adding a lot more suspense, since it can 
 really come down on you if you lose your men to the hands of the foe.
  
  Value:
  
  No real RTS fan should disappointed in this one. It's not a game that's going to the storage after 
 a month or two. You will most likely want to keep your score on the plus side on the MP stats, 
 which for me is still a target. Got enough to study with these three factions also and the features 
 of the game.
  
  Don't hesitate if you like this genre, get it now.
  Classified it as 'Ambitious' for obvious reasons, Eugen is a fairly new developer and they sure 
 seem to have put tons of work into it, and didn't take it out of the oven cold.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abousamir2002
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign does a good job of gradually introducing new game play concepts and 
 putting them to use. There are many destructible urban environments, as they provide cover for 
 otherwise vulnerable units. Snipers can take up positions in windows and on rooftops. As the GameSpot 
 writers said "Act of War perfectly combines between today's weapons and future weapons". The campaign 
 style will make you feel that the game events are real........ so real. It's the most real strategy 
 game ever made. Another nice touch is the zooming camera, which brings you right down to the soldier's 
 eye view of the action with excellent graphical detail. 
  The only downfall is the sounds, they seem very uninspired.
  
  Act of War: Direct Action is 
 an enjoyable game with great graphics and cool new tactical features to tempt RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Mainly this game was made for campgain cause you see the skirmish maps are strangley put together. 
 Most of the maps leave you exposed to be encircled by anyone and often times leaves you in the 
 center of the map or very distant. Still these maps are too open there are only a few maps in which 
 you may setup a slightly reliable defense position. Things cost so much in the game that defenses 
 are expensive and when you try to build up defenses in this wide open circle of exposure you have 
 around the base. In campaing the game is very fun very awsome effects the tank firing effects are 
 awsome with dirt circle flying up around it and fading off in the wind it just looks really realistic 
 and cool. This game is worth buying depending on if you like RTS's and if you do do you like modern 
 combat. If you like both of those this is the game for you. Great interactivity and all that cool 
 stuff and lots of vechiles and effects this game is definalty a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 26, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you don't like the demo don't buy the game.
  Thats what I thought about it as I played the demo single player mission.
  But despite of that 
 I buyed the game to see if there is something more about it.
  Unfortunately this game is only great when it comes down to the look of graphics.
  Till Age of 
 Empires 3 will surface AoW will simply be the best looking RTS out today.
  
  Let's start with the above mentioned graphics.
  The quality is surely great although the style 
 might not be very innovative or interesting.
  One thing AoW tries to display are correct proportions. While this looks kinda cool the overview 
 over your units gets lost very fast. And for some reason the minimap doesn't have a logic indicator 
 which shows you in which direction your units are facing. It's just a trapeze like cursor and you 
 have to remind which position means west, south etc.
  Another thing is that everywhere one the battlefield you will be overthrown with flashing informationwindows, 
 cursors and stuff like that. Most of these stuff feels like overdone, unnecessary and annoying 
 over time.
  
  The sound was one of the bigger disappointments. While shooting sounds are ok, the voiceacting 
 and some of the vihicle sounds are simply boring and repetitive.
  Could've been a lot more here.
  
  Another thing which couldn't convince me was the gameplay.
 
  Ressources are never a problem. So you will pop out unit after unit very fast.
  Also you don't have very interesting units plus all three sides are pretty the same. This is especially 
 a problem in multiplayer. Because of that there are no real strategies related to to the differnet 
 sides.
  
  AoW tries to deliver all that what is know from the genre king Command and Conquer in a overdose 
 while it never comes near the originality and style of the C&C series.
  
  If you look for a well done RTS with great gameplay and cool useful units, which is also fun in 
 multiplayer, get Generals Zero Hour.
  If you're looking for a long boring single player part with overdone graphics, hours of boring 
 video mission briefings and little gameplay quality get AoW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The biggest difficulty for this kind of game is that it will inevitably be compared to the giants 
 that have controlled the market for decades. That giant is of course the Command and Conquer series. 
 
  
  Act of war does everything Command and Conquer Generals did and adds a little something in the 
 mix. It gives you a hefty amount of vehicles to play with, it allows your units to get battlefield 
 promotions and it provides you with the opportunity have fantastic battles with colossal amounts 
 of tanks and aircrafts at your disposal.
  
  Apart from that, it gives you something else. As you progress through the earlier missions youll 
 find that a lot of effort has been put into infantry combat. Units are quite powerful with the 
 ability to lie down and stay out of view. They also have the capability to enter buildings either 
 through the roof (via Blackhawks!) or on foot. Once inside depending on their current rank, they 
 will clear the building or be killed. Should the building be secured it can be used to defend against 
 tanks and other infantry units. It's even possible for them to take to the roof for a better vantage 
 point, and a sniper in this position can single handedly defend an area from ground troops. Infantry 
 units are beautifully animated as they move nicely between buildings, staying close to cover and 
 crouching down to avoid being shot. In fact the animation for infantry movement is nicer in this 
 game than in many first person shooters on the market. 
  
  Actual vehicle units are rendered very realistically and function in much the same way as all other 
 games of the genera. They can be used as your main defense, letting your infantry move out onto 
 the map to locate the enemy base. Or, due to the fact that you usually have a large amount of money 
 at your disposal, you can build massive amounts of tanks and push the enemy into submission.
  
  It is worth noting that base building and resource collection is not the most important part 
 of this game and to a large extent you dont even think of it as you battle for supremacy. In fact 
 sometimes its hard to lose as you can just keep building tanks, but part of the fun it not whether 
 you win or lose, but HOW you win.
  
  The story is very well put together with twists and turns all the way through. Live acting isn't 
 my favorite in modern day games, but Act of War pulls it off quite well and mixes it realistically 
 with the game itself so you really do feel like you are playing as part of the movie. You even 
 get a strange satisfaction when you win the day. 
  
  Overall the game stands strong against the likes of C&C and adds something to it, but it doesn't 
 add enough to make it truly stand out in the market. I believe this is a great start and an innovative 
 expansion pack could easily make this the best in the market. Perhaps it's time for Command and 
 Conquer to reestablish its foothold in the market!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timintheflesh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  This is the Best RTS Game I have played since C&C Generals Zero Hour. Lets Review.
  
  
  Gameplay: Just like any other RTS, not much knew, but theres just something about it that makes 
 it a 10.
  
  
  Graphics: Just one word, Wow. This is what C&C Generals should of been folks, Great Graphics like 
 this makes people drop there mouths and start to drewl.
  
  
  Sound: Guns sound great, so do the Tanks, Helicopters, and Jets.
  
  
  Value: Value is Great, 
 but im going to have to give it an 8 because you cannot mod this game.
  
  Tilt: A Must get for all RTS fans. This game marks the new age of RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliastse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  SCENARIO : In the near future, a global oil crisis has come up, with its price raised to 1.5 Euro/lt. 
 The situation is critical, cause of the low oil production, which is a result of terrorist attacks 
 in major oil production refineries. Even the big countries suffer the consequences, with major 
 strikes and demonstrations. The game starts in London, where the "Energy Forum" is taking place, 
 in order a solution to be found. Many demonstrators have gathered to protest. YOU are Jefferson, 
 a former commander of Delta Force and current leader of a special military force called Task Force 
 Talon. Houston have recently suffered a terrorist attack and you 're on red alert. Some unknown 
 amateur extremists open fire to the crowd. Your military team will eliminate them easily, but you 
 'll soon face highly trained terrorists. The scenario above belongs to Dale Brown, a writer specialised 
 in U. S. army, global wars and future military technology.
  
  FULL MOTION VIDEO : I must make a remark about something I li every much in this game. The game 
 includes full motion video with real actors. From the very beginning and during installation progress, 
 you 'll watch a talk show, where two CEO of energy industries discuss. Pay special attention in 
 this interview, as many of those stated, are part of the story which you'll come up during the 
 game. Moreover, before, after and even during the game you 'll watch videos witch provide a cinematic 
 sense.
  
  GAMEPLAY : It's so vast. It starts as a simple "troop strategy" with Jefferson being the leader 
 of a small infantry team. As the game progresses, you 'll be able to build advanced troops and 
 buildings, plus you 'll get access to advanced technologies. Your main resource is oil, but you 
 have the chance to arrest enemy infantry units and get some money too. If you 're a fun of building 
 a large vehicle army and begin a "blind" attack, don't try it. A balanced combination of vehicles 
 + ground troops with the proper air support is needed. The A. I. of your army and the enemy is one 
 of the best I've seen in RTS's. You'll notice that if you deliberately leave a weak point in your 
 base, the enemy will hit exactly that location !!!
  
  GRAPHICS - SOUND : The graphics are very detailed. Realistic explosions and fires (sometimes you 
 won't be able to see the ground from the smoke) , battle sceneries (from city infantry fights to 
 desert ones) . If you 've visited London recently, in the 2nd mission you 're gonna love the detail 
 from the yard of the Palace. As for the sound, it will give you the right atmosphere and put you 
 from the beginning in a big agony.
  
  CONCLUSION : The game overpassed my expectations. If you 're an old Command & Conquer and Red Alert 
 fan, i'm soon you 'll remember there words... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYFranc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Let's go to war with America (and some supporting roles from American allies) and fight the forces 
 of evil (oil companies) in this fictional future war game.
  
  The amazing thing about this game is that it plays like Command and Conquer's Red Alert 1 and 2 
 but with a real world twist that gives a bit of deju vu on America's present war on terror.
  
  In short, if you like Command and Conquer's Red Alert 1 and 2 or you want to kick butt without 
 real bullets and bombs liking across you, you'll get a thrill out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgnatiusX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the funnest RTS I've ever played. Most people I've talked to say its a Generals copy, 
 its not, its way far from generals. People look at it and immediately assume its C&C but then they 
 look at it again and their blown away by it. I myself was bewildered that Atari was making this 
 game. The only thing I have to gripe about is that the campaign kind of chokes my computer down 
 at times and it lags but I need a few things any ways and GS is right the story does peter out 
 at the end but the actions good. Theres so much stuff out right now it probably runs crystal clear 
 on other peoples computers. Any ways the story and the campaign are interesting and good but kind 
 of slip near the end but whats the point in buying the game for the campaign. You buy it for the 
 multiplayer of course or at least I do. Well everyones different. So what Im saying is if you haven't 
 played this game play it. Its one out of the box game and it goes places where people have thought 
 they have gone and opened new doors. I just got interested because it was a break from the usual 
 EA stuff they have coming out. Its kind of like eating pizza if you have too much of cheese you 
 get bored a want something else. I don't buy games like these for the story I buy them because I 
 want tanks and cool weapons to blow my friends away with and have fun together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  For me I appreciated the "depth" of this game's story line which begins by immediately playing 
 letterbox movie quality video and real actors. This reminded me of the old Westwood days when installing 
 C&C and during the entire "install process" you were in the world of C&C, including entering the 
 serial number. i like that. The game is very easy going when it comes to leading you into the game. 
 So one can jump right in without reading game manual and begin playing. I played 4 missions before 
 i finally sat on the john and read page 94 which lists the keyboard commands. some are very handy. 
 the C&C Ctrl+F1, F2, etc., is missing but its just as easy to select one unit, give it a Ctrl+# 
 and then double-tap the number to jump to that spot. As for jumping to HQ's you simply press the 
 BACKSPACE. I too also liked the POW resource. As well the game has more depth in terms of strategy 
 and realism. The days of build a force and "rush" are over. You must plan your attack strategy 
 to win. One thing I found worked well was to have tanks "follow" foot soldiers. This way if the 
 soldiers are ambushed, you lose a few soldiers rather than tanks which cost more and are more valuable 
 behind the troops. I also liked ordering my platoon to "crawL" through tree areas and sneak up 
 prior to invoking an ambush on the enemy. Worked well too. Another facet which is rather eery for 
 me. I was born/raised in San Francisco Bay area and the detail is very good. I recognized the Treasure 
 Island area and Marina District and even the streets and buildings. I remember when Red Alert 2 
 came out 10 months before 911... i still have THAT box that EA yanked from the shelves with the 
 Russians attacking New York and the Twin Towers were on fire. wow. I hope Act Of War is not another 
 precursor to terrorism in San Francisco! The graphics ran well on my 64mb Radeon 9600 in my P4 
 3.0 laptop and the game looks great on my 30" Syntax Olevia LCD/HDTV. i ordered a ATI 800XL pci-e/256 
 which has "component" video out which i am excited to "see" the improvement over D-15 VGA and even 
 DVI. Act Of War is a great and fun RTS and is the best one now. I still enjoy playing skirmish 
 battles with ZeroHour against other Generals, the the graphics by comparison are cartoon like versus 
 Act Of War. I wish the camera had the same control as in Warhammer 40,000 where you can pan lower, 
 but it's not a gripe really worth mentioning. Act Of War played well even NOT booted MSCONFIG clean, 
 but did play better booting XP clean prior to play. I would highly suggest this game to any RTS 
 fan. It's C&C Zero Hour on steroids and i like the additional deeper strategy elements combined 
 with the "oh now what am i gonna do now" tension the game builds up as you play. Also, keep your 
 OIL flowing and learn NOT to kill enemies so you collect POW $$$ which helps a lot in some missions 
 where your money supply runs out quickly when you spend it on the wrong stuff. Act Of War has replay 
 value because the cinematic video quality is so well done that you feel like your watching a DVD 
 movie and getting to play in it as well. Selecting units on the map can be tedious but once you 
 learn how to get around that its no big deal. Learn the keyboard commands and you will be just 
 fine. They are very similar to some of ZeroHour's and the rest are not difficult to learn and remember. 
 I even got my copy from BestBuy for $39 on sale. What a bargain! I even want to check out Dale 
 Brown's book (s) in which the story was based on. This is truly multimedia RTS at its best. My wishlist 
 : if they make a sequel PLEASE incorporate the CtrL+F1 thru F9 at least. Would really simplify 
 jumping around the map during battles, managing resources and finding that "lost battalion" you 
 forgot to assign a Ctrl+5 to ;; heh;; but the 3d sound even in headphones makes it easy to "hear" 
 where firefights are. Eugen Systems; my hat's off to you. Thanks for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  In an Act of War, you play the role of Sergeant Major Jefferson, leader of a Special Forces unit 
 called Task Force Talon. Those of you who are thinking of buying the game should steer well clear 
 of the Demo that is available, as it does not do the game justice.
  
  At first sight, the game appears to be a Command & Conquer Generals clone  in many respects this 
 is true however there are a number of differences, which make the game worth owning.
  
  The first few levels of the game will leave you open mouthed  largely due to the dramatic story 
 line of the West being under attack by terrorist forces, interspersed with lengthy and regular 
 cut screens and in game movies. This is one of the better aspects of the game, which leads you 
 to believe an awful lot of money has been spent on production. The early levels feel more like 
 an RTS of Splinter Cell rather than a Command & Conquer style game.
  
  However, after level 3 the game looks and feels like nothing more than a very good Generals mod 
 (you must remember Generals is now over two years old) . Talking of mods, an excellent mod for Generals 
 also called an Act of War was released quite a long time ago so it will be interesting to see if 
 a legal battle for copyright infringement ensues.
  
  The similarities to Generals are startling  Jefferson is all-important in this story and if he 
 dies its game over (a bit like Colonel Burton in some of the Generals missions) . Also, although 
 the game is quite hard, it is simply a matter of killing anything that moves. Fortunately, each 
 level has several objectives and due to the difficulty of the game there are auto saves in each 
 level.
  
  Resource gathering, again like Generals is largely dependant on constructing oil rigs. However 
 a novel approach is the use of capturing wounded enemy soldiers as hostages which raises revenue. 
 Financial buildings can also be captured bring in income.
  
  The game relies heavily on the use of infantry which can be slow and cumbersome at times leading 
 to boredom whilst your troops get around the map.
  
  There is nothing special with regard to the sound , and indeed, what the units say can often be 
 repetitive and annoying. There are often reports of units being attacked when this is simply not 
 true.
  
  Graphically the game is very good. Explosions are realistic and there is a high level of detail 
 on the units and the buildings  in fact too much. You will find the screen very busy and my Geforce 
 6600GT often struggles to play the game on high settings. A major failing however is the minimap 
 display in which it is difficult to identify own and opposing forces. Also you will find it difficult 
 to recognise your own team, particularly infantry which are black and spawn very close to the barracks, 
 and drone constructor units (the equivalent to Dozers in Generals) so its common to build them 
 and forget they are there.
  
  Gameplay is generally good but there is a seriousness feel to the game, which detracts from the 
 fun that can be found in the C & C series. It is a hard game to play and saves have to be frequent. 
 The storyline is immersive and you feel that you are in an interactive movie - you want to finish 
 each level if not only to view the next cut screen. What fails this game is that the theme adopted 
 in the first few levels was not carried on throughout the whole game. The initial impressions are 
 that this is something really different but after being sucked in by the introduction, you will 
 soon learn that there is nothing really new here.
  
  This game is worth buying just to have a look at what another developer can do, however if you 
 are short of cash or are deciding what to buy between titles, you would probably be advised to 
 save your Bucks and download a freely available Generals Mod.
  
  Rumour has it that EA Games is starting work on Red Alert 3. Atari has raised the bar with Act 
 of War, but no doubt EA will return and blow Atari out of the water to firmly re-establish the 
 Command & Conquer marque as the RTS to be beaten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Funny how Jason Ocampo (the GameSpot reviewer) critizises the live cutscenes in the game, when 
 his own performance doing the video-review is so lame. hehe.
  
  Anyway, in my opinion the cutscenes is a welcome change after having the video-game industry offering 
 the same 3D rendered cutscenes over and over. It is the rendered cutscene approach that is getting 
 old, not having some live action in them.
  
  Kudos to anyone who tries to do something new!
  
  But a game is not about cutscenes of course, 
 it is about gameplay first, graphics and technology second. 
  
  Gameplay is highly polished, with lots of action and very balanced gameplay. 
  
  I am not going 
 on and on about details, the bottom line here is: If you like RTS games, just get this one. It 
 is top of the class, and introduces a few fresh blows of wind without doing something radical that 
 breaks a winning formula.
  
  Great game, if you are an RTS fan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 21, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  This game tastes similar to all the other RTS games out there. Don't get me wrong, I am a huge 
 fan of RTS's. Probably my favorite type of game. But this one just seems like it's a bit to much 
 like Command and Conquer. Nonetheless, the story is excellent. Terrorism is a big issue in the 
 United States today , so it's very possible this game could do well.
  Tech wise, the graphics are your typical above the actiona t an angle quality. The units are detailed 
 nicely and the buildings are very ornate. The sound work is also good. Overall, value is pretty 
 good if you like the "typical" RTS game that we'e seen as of late. We need something new and innovative 
 to revolutionize this genre and soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HornyDwarf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Most RTS games nowadays gives us the same. Collect supplies, build structures, put together an 
 army and then conquer. Act of War gives us this too and they do it great. Eugen Systems may not 
 even have had half of the budget that C&C Generals where blessed with but I can say that if I where 
 to choose one of the two games, I would have run away to hide in a barrel. I wouldn't be able to 
 choose. It's like ketchup and mustard. This game reminds alot of Generals, both graphic wise and 
 gameplay wise. 
  
  So, is the world being attacked by crazy terrorists like in Generals? Yes it is. It's a crazy russian 
 badguy that is trying to take over the world with advanced technology and high contacts. In the 
 movies, this guy is laughable and it is here you get to see what a budget can do to a game. His 
 accent is the worst ever and he fails at trying to be hostile. He always say "You are going right 
 into my trap" and things like that after you have completed a mission and we haven't heard that 
 before have we?
  
  Most of the campaign takes place on US Territory in known places like San Francisco and Washington 
 DC. The maps are incredible detailed with the White House actually looking like the White House 
 and not an house from Ancient Greece. Other buildings are nicely detailed too. Buildings are free 
 to capture for your infantery and can hold up to 8 of them inside. If a house if full, just put 
 them on the roof which is a great place for your rocket soldiers to be at. Some buildings makes 
 a small profit to you and these are the banks. Put some of your soldiers there and bam, you start 
 stealing money from the bank. Makes no sense to me that the america's army is stealing money from 
 it's own people but let's go for that. Units inside a building are quite vulnerable to other infantery 
 units. Yes, you heard right. Infantery units can now storm a building if it's occupied by an enemy 
 and if your infantery is more/higher rank you will hopefully take over the building and kill the 
 enemies. Alot easier than to bombard it with your tanks.
  
  Ah well, except for capturing a bank there are of course other ways of getting money and these 
 are new as far as I know to the RTS genre. Oil! Oil generates alot of cash to you and can be found 
 outplaced on the map in different locations. Of course, you need to build a Derrick that takes 
 care of the oil and then a Refinary that makes it into cash. However, the best solution for getting 
 cash is the nifty idea of prisoners of war. Wounded enemies or drivers for tanks who's tanks have 
 been destroyed can be taken prisoners by your infantery. This will take them to prison and give 
 you cash. If you want, you can release them in exchange for them to reveal a bit of the map for 
 you. I love it. 
  
  As in most RTS games, this game also includes Super Weapons. Each side of the three (Task Force 
 Talon, America's Army and Consortium) have something that can destroy these before it hits them. 
 Place these out in strategical important areas and they will provide you with an really important 
 shield.
  
  While you play through the campaign defeating this evil russian on different levels you will notice 
 that during the game the objectives is updated with a small window popup. A nice feature but the 
 best would be if the game was paused during this. I have found myself not being able to see the 
 enemies because of this. Annoying at times and sometimes, it stays there for quite awhile too.
 
  
  The campaign is pretty short, I played it through on 6 hours even though there are 33 chapters 
 and you can only play as american which makes it one sided. I would love to test out the enemies 
 gadgets/units in a campaign to conquer the world. Even though it's short I found it to be very 
 enjoyable. It starts off nice and easy with just a few rebels doing there things to quickly escalade 
 into a big scale war with tanks, rocket weapons etc. 
  
  Overall, great game that I strongly suggest you get if you are into the RTS genre. The only downsides 
 are the actors in the movie and a short campaign. Not alot and these are things you can overlook 
 quite easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradleydick
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game. It took cinematic scenes and integrated them seamlessly. The action 
 was great and to be honest I could really just sit down and watch the cut scenes and be entertained. 
 The audio and voices were very entertaining and kept you really engaged through out the whole game. 
 My only complaint about this games is that I beat it on regular in 12hrs of game play and the replay 
 is not going to be that great, at least the campaign mode. I really can't wait for more games like 
 this, but wow 5gig install haven't they heard of video compression??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whlee87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't be surprised if people think that this game is all about calling in airstrikes and just 
 sit there watching the bombing run after playing the demo (Myself included) ... The demo is a poor 
 one if you ask me, it merely shows off how great the graphics is, which is top notched few would 
 disagree, but none of the amazing gameplay. 
  
  First off, graphics aside, this game offers 3 sides, the Task Force Talon (highly advance side) , 
 the US Army (containing all current US military) and the Consortium (throwing dirt cheap units at 
 the enermy early game, but will become the most technologically advance fraction in late games) . 
 While the Task Force Talon (TFT) might seem almost simliar as the US Army at first glance, it is 
 not. Most of the TFT's units are highly adaptable, most have 2 to 3 modes which allows player to 
 change the mode of the unit to adapt to different suituations, whereas the US Army's unit are mostly 
 highly specialized and their F15 Eagles will ensure total air domination. Consortium will have 
 to throw their cheap soilders to hold the font as they to tech up and over-power its opponent, 
 needless to say, advantage is to Consortium as the game progresses.
  
  This game places an emphasis on infantries, which is unusual in modern era rts where tanks usually 
 rule the battlefield. Place them in buildings or create an ambush in the shades/jungle and see 
 those passing by tanks turn to scrap metals. Infantries are also vital in this game as they are 
 the only one capable of capturing enermy infantry (POW) which is another way of collecting cash. 
 Likewise, you will want to evac your wounded soldiers before they can be captured and thus denying 
 your enermy any resource. By keeping them in prisons, you will receive a constant stream of cash 
 every 10 seconds or so, which will ensure you remain financially healthy even if oil runs out. 
 Otherwise, you may also exchange one prisoner to reveal a section of the map. Infantries placed 
 in buildings may be removed by snipers, stormed by your own marines, assualt from the rooftop via 
 a helicopter or just smash the entire block of building down with a few tank.
  
  Tanks are far from useless in this game, though it's always better to travel in "packs", few ground 
 units can destroy a pack of M1A2 Abrams and they will almost certainly tear down an entire base 
 with ease. Unless they are faced with air units, choppers especially, a few hellfire missles is 
 all that is needed to take a tank down. It's advisable to provide anti-cover as you attempt to 
 move your tanks through the battlefield, otherwise they will just be sitting ducks for your enermy. 
 Superweapons include nukes, Nuclear Artillery Salvo and even crashing satellites upon your enermies! 
 However, unlike other rts, this games also offers your a chance of countering those superweapons 
 by shooting down those missles before they can reach you. The catch is, you'll need to place them 
 in an area where you are certain your enermy will bombard and you'll have to rearm every time a 
 counter measure is used up. Story is griping, been a long time since a rts game manage to "postpone" 
 my bedtime, it makes people dying to complete it before doing anything else. Multiplayer is still 
 where the fun lies though.
  
  The strategy in this game is limitless, you can try a "leapfrog" approach, where you garrision 
 a squad of marines/snipers in a building to provide cover while another squad B advance, then the 
 squad B can then garrision a building to cover sqaud A's apporach till you reaches the enermy's 
 base, or you can just send in tanks with aims to destroy key defenses before calling airstrikes, 
 or sending waves of infantries to abosrb initial punishment while your tanks do a follow up clearing 
 up the base, make use of a superweaon or better yet, make full use of artilleries and bombard your 
 opponent to surrender. Simply a must-have for any rts lovers. This is what C&C Generals should 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darfvader
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Act Of War is the best rts I played since the original c&c games. It is everything generals was 
 not (meaning it has an actual story with live videos and an actual single player) .
  I can't really say anything about the multiplayer aspect since the game is just out.
  But the 
 campaign portion of the game simply draws you in and you can't let go. It has an amazing plotline 
 which is way more along the lines of an actual conspiracy ten the stuff you see in other games. 
 The game looks good (by rts standards) , but the live videos are the real killers. There was even 
 one during the installation so you wouldn't get bored.
  the sound is realistic enough to make you fell that you are actually commanding a battle but I 
 don't believe they really recorded the weapons involved (during game play, I'm not talking about 
 cut scenes) . The game play isn't particularly new but there are nice touches here and there like 
 counter measures for super weapons and POW's as a resource.
  the air combat in this game takes a lot of pressure of you since your planes are not actually taking 
 of from an airport they are just making their strafes from an off screen location (so there is no 
 annoying micromanagement just select a target and watch the fireworks) .
  I didn't play enough but I think they nailed the unit balance.
  This game is a must on any rts 
 fan's shelf
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimr9999us
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The original Command and Conquer game brought me into PC gaming, and the RTS remains my favorite 
 genre, one that has expanded in both popularity and style of gameplay over the years. So much so, 
 that I have 3 categories of RTS:
  
  1. Arcade. The classic C&C approach. Build cool weapons, and watch the fireworks.
  
  2. Tactical. 
 The "Total War" series is a good example. Mastery of hot keys (and flanking) required.
  
  3. Resource. Think AoE. Exploration and peasant management behind success here.
  
  Needless 
 to say, AoW is "Arcade" all the way. A shameless rip-off on C&C: Generals, it succeeds by providing 
 plenty of eye candy, a healthy variety of weapons systems, and a very playable take on urban combat 
 w/ snipers, stingers, Apaches, and the like. And the P. O. W. resource system actually works!
  
  Bottom line: Fans of the C&C games will be pleased; those looking for innovation and/or tactical 
 gameplay may be dissappointed. Personally, I'm having fun with it, even at full retail. The engine 
 itself is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
