-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Act of War: High Treason
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/actofwarhightreason/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 High Treason offers a cool blend of techno-thriller action and modern military combat.
 challenging missions that are a change of pace from those in Act of War.
 beautiful visuals, lush environments, and plenty of glorious explosions to behold.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some levels are almost too hard.
 expansion eats up more hard-drive space than most full-fledged games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eugen Systems
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 30, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
High Treason ratchets up the cool gameplay and techno-thriller storytelling that was introduced 
 in Act of War. 

  With its cool blend of high-tech military equipment and geopolitical storyline, Act of War: Direct 
 Action was a techno-thriller novel come to life as a real-time strategy game. In fact, techno-thriller 
 author Dale Brown contributed to the game and then released an accompanying novel of the same name. 
 Unfortunately, while Act of War (the game) proved to be excellent, it wasn't such a huge hit, which 
 might explain why Atari quietly released the expansion, Act of War: High Treason, earlier this 
 year. That's a pity, since High Treason ups the storytelling and the gameplay even higher.  

          High Treason builds on Act of War by introducing challenging new missions.     

  
 Admittedly, the plot of Act of War was a bit out there, especially when it came to terrorists attacking 
 American cities like it were the D-day invasion all over again. Still, that provided for some cool 
 moments as you battled it out in San Francisco and Washington D. C. The good news is that High Treason's 
 story is a lot more compelling, as it focuses on a coup d'tat in the United States. Task Force 
 Talon, the high-tech military force that saved the day in Act of War, is framed and finds itself 
 on the lam, so the unit must save democracy the hard way.  

  Since Task Force Talon is on the lam, the challenge in High Treason is a lot tougher than it was 
 in Act of War. In most missions, you can no longer draw on the practically unlimited military might 
 of the United States, so you've got to be a lot more careful about how you use your units and resources. 
 This isn't necessarily a bad thing, though, as Act of War was a bit easy due to the ample firepower 
 at your disposal. The missions in High Treason are tough, but for the most part, they're not brutally 
 difficult (there are a couple of exceptions) , and they'll force you to think a lot more. Many missions 
 put you in challenging situations where you have to figure out how to best maximize the forces 
 at your disposal.  

  The good news is that many of the cool features of Act of War return in High Treason. Infantry 
 are very useful in High Treason, since they can storm buildings, expel any defenders, and then 
 barricade themselves inside. The neat resource system that relies less on gathering resources and 
 more on capturing and holding prisoners is back. And you'll once again have the cool mix of familiar 
 high-tech and experimental weapons that you saw in Act of War. These include Abrams tanks, Stryker 
 assault vehicles, Black Hawk helicopters, and infantry power armor. You also have access to some 
 new types of units in High Treason. One of the easiest ways to boost your force is to hire mercenaries, 
 which are specialized, powerful units that cost a fair amount of money to purchase and maintain, 
 but whose presence could turn the tide of battle. For instance, you can hire a team of medics to 
 heal your troops, or summon air defenses to help deflect enemy air raids. The other new addition 
 is naval warfare, which now gives you carriers, destroyers, and submarines to control, though their 
 presence is limited to water maps. Still, that opens up a whole new dimension of warfare. Multiplayer 
 has been enhanced a bit in the expansion, mainly with the addition of more configuration options 
 at the beginning of a match. You can adjust unit lethality, toggle prisoners, tweak game speed, 
 and more. Otherwise, the fast-paced multiplayer remains the same.  

          Infantry can be a potent force if used properly, such as holed up in a building.     

 
  The battlefields in High Treason offer new variety from the urban jungles and deserts seen in 
 Act of War. You'll now be able to plow through tropical jungles, as well as coniferous ones. The 
 visuals remain as sharp as they did in last year's game, and you'll appreciate the highly destructive 
 environments. Explosions can gut buildings, trees can be knocked or blown over, and vehicles can 
 explode in glorious fireballs. Unfortunately, the extensive live-action cutscenes in Act of War 
 have been replaced with computer-generated ones, probably due to the heavy cost of filming such 
 scenes. Thankfully, the voice acting remains the same, so you'll hear the familiar cast of characters 
 heard in Act of War.  

  Perhaps the only real knock against High Treason is the amount of hard-drive space the game requires. 
 The expansion alone takes up about 7GB of free space, which is considerably larger than all but 
 a handful of full-fledged games. Combine it with Act of War (which is required to run the expansion) , 
 and you're looking at around 15GB of hard-drive space for the two of them. Still, High Treason 
 is a great expansion pack that doesn't satisfy fans of the series simply by throwing more at them. 
 Instead, the challenging missions will force players to adjust to a new style of play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I loved Act of War: Direct action, and couldn't wait to start High Treason after I finished the 
 campaign of the original. From what I was reading before hand it was set to be totally freakin' 
 awesome! Naval units, more units for each side, and above all, widescreen support. 
  Unfortunately, the developers decided to make some totally unnecessary changes to the game play. 
 One of my favorite features of the game was being able to swoop in with my medevac helicopter and 
 scoop up downed soldiers from the battlefield and bring them safely back to my hospital where they 
 would be healed and redeployed, or I could send it in to create a forward healing zone for soldiers 
 in the field. Similar systems were in place for vehicles. It added a degree of realism to the game. 
 
  Now there are no more airlifts, instead the repair and health choppers just goto an area of a battlefield 
 and you have to activate a healing action which lasts for about 5 seconds and does close to nothing. 
 The repair and healing units no longer have a constant aura. Even the healing buildings have a 
 lessened effect. You have to watch for about 10 seconds before you see a sliver of health on a 
 tank to come back, and on missions where you are only given a few good units to start with and 
 can't build more, this can be a real pain. I can't imagine why the devs could think that removing 
 these awesome features was a good idea. 
  My second complaint is about the campaign and the AI. Basically, the AI has infinite resources. 
 It was the same way in the first game, but, since the enemy was more defensive, it was ok, but 
 now, they send a constant stream of attacks forcing you to micromanage the few units you have into 
 defending your base, all the while running out of the limited resources you can have, and many 
 times, you won't be allowed to take prisoners. So basically the game turns into you doing all you 
 can to defend your base, watching your money go down and knowing that once that cashflow stops, 
 you're sunk. The original campaign was more fun, the enemy was less harsh, and you could get enough 
 money to use some of the games better features like getting an airborne strike team to land on 
 a rooftop, or sending out patrols of infantry, and not worrying too much about defending your base. 
 In high treason, these riskier moves are impossible because you are constantly in desperation mode 
 frantically trying to make sure you can juggle selling certain buildings to put up another turret 
 or wondering whether it is worth risking that marine to go out and capture a POW, all while trying 
 to micromanage your one stinger soldier that is your only air defense. Some missions even become 
 impossible if you don't capture enough POW's early on to build the refinery later, you wont be 
 able to build a base because you will be out of money with no way to get it.
  There were some minor improvements to the AI, I noticed the enemy Hind gunships started using the 
 rocket barrage ability, and seemed a little better utilizing units unique aspects better like having 
 mortars and snipers stay farther away, and stuff like that. 
  I guess all in all High Treason wouldn't be a bad game if I didn't know about the features that 
 were removed. But, with the very different campaign style and the changes in the healing systems 
 and stuff like that, it just doesn't feel like Act of War, and feels like just another RTS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrianstalker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  RTS is most likely my favorite genre for gaming. Since the old days back in the mid 90's ( well, 
 my old days at least :] . And no other modern game, made me feel the rush of adrenaline I had to 
 the classic ones. Somehow, this game gave me some flashback of the emotions I felt when I first 
 played Total Annihilation, my favorite RTS ever
  
  The game itself is not similar to TA though, many will say its a CEC Generals clone, but with the 
 difference that is is better in every single way. 
  
  The possible strategies available are infinite superior and the game flows in such a unique way. 
 For example, most units, don't matter how powerful they are, or expenesive, they are very vulnerable 
 and most things can die at a good shot or three at most .Some may think that is disappointing but 
 its the realistic sense of war that is the fun here, not the  
 You will not send your troops into batlle without fear losing them. You will actually care if a 
 unit die or tank is destroyed, since so much was involved and it can be destroyed so fast if you 
 don't look out for it. This helps create the realistic sense of war in this game. In a way that 
 you have prevent casualties carefully, just like in the real world. There is also a great rock-paper-scissor 
 system. 
  
  The only true downside is the excessive cheating AI. I love to suffocate the enemy economically, 
 but here is not possible. Admirable AI behaviour however on most things, and the PC can be quite 
 clever on hard mode. Its one of the hardest RTS out there, and with some mods like Special Force 
 AI mod, its almost impossible. Mostly because of the resource cheats AI use for themselvs, wich 
 is dissapointing for me. It should be great to have an option to disable all cheats in skirmish, 
 for AI and you of course. Final Point: Amazing RTS. Strongly recommended to every fan of the genre 
 that dont have the high end specs PC to play the new ones. Like I do..... God bless AOW 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncipitOmega
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Well it's an expansion pack, that gives a huge amount of new stuff, if u compare it at other strategy 
 games that throw a couple of new units and a new "mostly identical to others" faction in their 
 expansion pack. The depth of new strategy that is possible with the naval units and the mercenaries 
 is amazing, actually overwhelming at times, as u simply can't control the air, land and naval forces 
 effectively at once. It's also good to see that infantry still matters even at the end of a skirmish 
 game. It seems though, that the expansion was a bit hurried, because there is no AI for naval units, meaning 
 they come into play only on-line. But that was also fixed by Salsifi.... The man made a wonderful 
 mod that adds the AI for the naval units (Thank u Salsifi) ) , so u can play skirmish with all that 
 the game has to offer. His mod also enhances the difficulty of the game from "Hard" to "Very Hard", and 
 with that kind of difficulty, I must say that I personally get a gray hair every now and then.... seriously 
 ;) .
  All in all it's still my favourite Modern Warfare RTS game, despite the arrival of C&C3 and Kane's 
 wrath... C&C hasn't seen a naval ship from the first C&C and Red Alert, back in the 90's.....
  
  I only hope (My personal wish) is that some developer will make a game like this (Or mod AoW: High 
 Treason, I wouldn't mind :D) united with a FPS. (The concept was fantastically introduced in Dungeon 
 Keeper and an RTS called Machines.
  Thank u for reading, High Treason gets a 10/10 from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be one of the greates real strategy game of the year it feals so reallistic well 
 its just one good game. the new units the added are the hit both land and see but most the see 
 units stand out of all the dinamic and reallistic of the warte and the unit make it unic i think 
 this are one of the best depicted see units in game ever one thing i didn't li thoug whas that 
 in skrimich mode you coulden't use land units you only can use them during the campain and multiplayer. 
 some one came out with a mod called navy invader that made it possible to play see units in skrimich 
 mode but you coulden't use land units so it a littel of a contradiction they should have made it 
 so that one could play both in skrimich mode land and see but over all it one HELL of game with 
 action all the way to the end despite that littel thing in the skrimich mode the game is owsome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game i got a day before the beginning of my 10th grade and i was so excited to play it!
  
  The story is still good and now the good thing is that the plot is much more specific about 
 'you' (Jefferson) and also the new sniper guy who is a new guy in the group and like before if 
 he or Jefferson is death the game is over. The plot is about terrorists who attack USA they will 
 use the same Consortium equipement (you still have the same 3 armies from the original game) . And 
 while the Army frame you, you must find the source of the problem and protect USA with your own 
 power against the government.
  
  The game has now 2 cool new features the first is the 9 types of mercenaries who are available 
 to all the armies and devided to 3 groups from a special force units who cost 5000$ and 100$ for 
 every 5 seconds they are active if the the unit is retrieved safely you get the 5000$ back and 
 if not... so... not... and of course you have also the ones who cost 15000$ and 300$ for every 5 seconds 
 they are active and it includes the big guns like a Nulcear Truck!
  
  The second and cooler feature is... Navy forces!!! - Yes you can now have a set Attack Ships, Carriers 
 and Submarines each army. Unfortunately they are available only in the Campaign itself and if you 
 want to play with them in the Skirmish mode you will have to download a special navy mode for the 
 game...
  Battle with ships is even cooler and more enjoyable than battle with land forces. This game, must 
 say, has a lot of new upgardes and some new units each army so it can keep you smile for a while!
 
  
  The Graphic is, of course, as same as the first game but it's still amazing! as well as the Sound 
 of the game
  
  The MP is the same but a lot of good maps that keep the experience fresh
  
  This game is a classic worth expansion pack for the first game if you played the first game 
 it's a must game for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Act of War: High Treason takes the series further with additional units and new war zones.
  High Treason centres around a coup in America, where a Consortium sympathiser gains control of 
 America through the assassination of the president. This in turn sends loyal-to-the-president US 
 forces against the truth seeking Task Force Talon.
  The campaign takes you from New York, to Mexico, to the Caribbean, and finally on to the Taklamakan 
 desert in China.
  More than 50 new units and upgrades are available, including Future Force warriors, supersonic 
 bombers, and best of all, naval vessels and submarines.
  High Treason sets the new benchmark for RTS games, and the only hope is that there will be a third 
 game in the Act of War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eraa
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 6, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I played RTS that makes me really think first and
  then push a button. The game is full of surprises and made me try different strategies. Usually everything 
 is so logical and obvious ,just the bigger the better ,so you can, t make any mistakes while climbing 
 up the tree of technology. Usually I don't like to spend much time reading the manual ,especially 
 RTS manual, so all the warfare caught me by surprise and made playing more challenging. The soundtrack 
 was not very good, but the graphics was certainly above average, the sorroundings looked quite natural, good 
 effects (special weapons) and detailed objects. It is good to find a tank looking even more like 
 one after zooming in, the helicopter really looks like a helicopter not a kindergarten sculpture 
 or a box with along nose.
  The storyline was not boring but too short. After i had learned what is what i had to quit. So I 
 think a sequel won't be a bad idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  As I said in the header.. the joy of AoW has changed in the expansion.. no longer are you able 
 to complete maps with just your starting units or wipe out half the map using one lvl3 heavy sniper 
 since the enemy rushes you. Nor are you able to slowly build up an army and just wipe out the enemy 
 in one swoop. It is more like pushing out troops until you eventually win. This just ruined the 
 game for me.. I had tremendous joy with the original game.. But perhaps one should look at this 
 expansion as a game within itself.. and as such it is a great game. Although, it is not my type 
 of RTS game, but it is still great.. The graphics have improved.. for one thing the game supports 
 widescreen. Something missing from the original.. also the soldiers are a bit more detailed than 
 they were in the original.. The lighting is better.. heck graphically it is an eye-pleaser. Sound.. 
 pretty much the same. which is great even the original still holds up very well. Storyline.. I 
 have to agree with a previous reviewer that it was pretty much killed.. even as a separate game 
 the storyline is okay at best. Value: typical RTS replay.. don't think anyone would want to replay 
 the campaign after struggling through it once. My personal taste aside I give this game a solid 
 8... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeJack
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved Act of War. While underappreciated, the game ended up being awesome to play, immersive 
 in presentation and just plain classy. The High Treason expansion pack only enhances the experience, 
 making Act of War THE game for RTS fans with a jones for modern combat.
  
  Unfortunately, the first thing that players will probably notice when firing up High Treason will 
 be what it's missing -- the live-action cutscenes that were so campily present in the original. While 
 it's an understandable omission (why spend the money for such a small project?) , many, including 
 me, will be sad to see them go.
  
  Almost everything else, though, is just as action-packed and fun as the original, if not moreso. 
 The centerpiece of the expansion is a lengthy singleplayer campaign that takes players all over 
 the globe, from hostage rescue missions on the tops of skyscrapers to an Army base overrun with 
 treasonous soldiers to urban Mexico. The campaign also introduces players to the new units added 
 to each side, as well as the new gameplay mechanic of mercenaries.
  
  Each side receives an array of new units and new capabilities for old units. Task Force Talon, 
 which was sorely lacking in the long-range artillery department, receives the Spinner Titan Launcher, 
 which has the longest (read: unlimited) range in the game, though its munitions can be shot down 
 by anti-air units. They also receive the Objective Crew Served Weapon, a versatile weapons platform, 
 and the ability to upgrade their Task Force Commandos to Future Force Warriors -- basically Commandos 
 on steroids.
  The US Army gets the Kiowa attack chopper, a stealth-capable helicopter that can transport infantry, 
 launch rockets, and use Ping Radar to reveal stealth units and scout. They also get the unarmed 
 Electronic Fighting Vehicle, which can confer an array of abilities to units surrounding it or 
 power down enemy structures, and a soldier armed with a Stinger anti-air missile launcher. The 
 evil Consortium get the fast and fragile Polaris sniper buggy, Kamov stealth anti-air chopper, 
 and the Blackjack heavy bomber, a stealth-less analog to the US Army's B-52. Existing units also 
 gain upgrades, like a TOW missile launcher for the Bradley IFV and cluster bombs for the A-10.
 
  
  Additionally, each side receives a number of naval units. Naval units can only be used on specific 
 maps with available shipyards, but are a blast to use. They're also a blast (bad pun, I know) to 
 see in action: Act of War and High Treason don't play with scale to the extent that other RTS games 
 do, so the added naval units end up being huge compared to land units -- so huge, in fact, that the 
 camera has to automatically zoom out when over water. Naval battles are wonderfully rendered as 
 ships pound on each other with cruise missiles, deck guns and launched aircraft. An upgraded graphics 
 engine handles new water effects and ships sway with the waves. While not playable in skirmish 
 mode (though a mod exists to enable the AI to use the ships) , the naval battles are showcased in 
 the campaign and players can duke it out online with their friends.
  
  Instead of adding a fourth side, the developers opted to add in a sort of mini-faction in mercenaries. 
 Each side can use mercenaries, though only one player can use a specific mercenary unit at a time, 
 giving players impetus to use them both to bolster their own forces and deprive their enemies of 
 their services. Mercenary units range from close-assault shotgun soldiers to a single big-rig armed 
 with a suitcase nuclear device. When their services are purchased, mercenaries initially take an 
 insurance fee that is refunded at the end of their contract, then extract a small rolling fee from 
 the player every five seconds, making mercenaries units that the player more rents than purchases. 
 The mercenary mechanic serves to add more variety to the game's battles and shore up holes in players' 
 forces.
  
  Add to all this new heavy artillery mechanics, updated handling of medical and repair units, a 
 wide array of new multiplayer options, and an unscripted, challenging AI that adapts its forces 
 to what the player attack it with, and you have an expansion that those who enjoyed the original 
 game simply MUST have. If you're looking for an extended modern warfare fix, look no further than 
 Act of War: High Treason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ase290406
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've got to admit- I'm not the average gamer. Even in the times of Red Alert in1995/96 I was so 
 confused as to why 20 MG's can destroy a tank.
  For me games are an imitation of reality. A chance to be someone you'll probably never be. The 
 only RTS to date to really adress this issue is Act of War. On the top it didn't seem any different 
 than C&amp; C, but you'll see the difference in the first battle. When a mortar shell hits a group 
 of enemy soldiers they fly to the ground, instead of losing 50% of health and still firing away. 
 When a soldier is badly wounded he has to be evacuated to avoid capture, and he can't do anything 
 other than tell you Goddamn it hurts! .
  
  Now how many movies of evacuating wounded and saving POWs in Vietnam have you seen? Who has ever 
 implemented this into a RTS?
  
  The almost perfect unit balance, the combination of authentic military hardware used today with 
 futuritic designes, the attention to detail, all add to the atmosphere of A Real War. A war that 
 might happen even today.
  
  In Act of war not only numbers and technology are important, but also tactics. And that's what 
 matters in the real world.
  
  My only complaint is the lack of an Naval AI in scirmish . The Navy adds so much more depth to 
 the game. But I guess you can't have it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdiza
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  I recently got hold of this game, I've been looking for it and have ordered it more than once but 
 because of stock problems, never ever got it.
  
  Eventually I got it and I wanted to mention a few things.
  
  1. The voice acting for this game 
 seems poor, there are a few voices that are back from the previous game but overall I find the 
 voice acting very corny, almost embarrasing but I'm hoping it will get better as the game progresses.
 
  
  2. The game starts out slowly and to me, it was boring basically because I had NO idea what was 
 going on, only by the 3rd mission did I actually start to get the idea of what was going on and 
 lets just say that the games name kinda gives the game away.
  
  3. The graphics initially (first few missions) looked below standard, for those who want to argue, 
 I suggest looking at the chopper that is early on in the game that 'follows you' around the map, 
 it looks blocky, even some of the textures looked blocky and i wasn't zooming in at all (not allowed 
 too actually)
  
  4. Yes, the HDD hog is drastic! with both AOW's installed, it comes to almost 15gb and the v1b 
 patch for this game is almost 200mb which is redicolous (spelling!)
  
  I think this problem could've been fixed if AOW: DA was only used as identification because the 
 game don't even share the same install folder so they probably dont even use each other's data 
 which means its almost completely unnecessary to have both installed.
  
  Anyways!
  
  A good buy, if you can find it!!!!! (Here in South Africa this was almost impossible to find) and 
 I'm broke now because when i did find it, i didn't really have money to buy it but i had to buy 
 it because someone else would've taken it had they found it. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 because AoW is a good game and this expansion does well to add to it but has a few minus points 
 but i've mentioned them and they are 'okay' i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Being a CnC player for some time, this game brings visuals and gameplay to a new level over what 
 I've seen from EA did with Generals and Zero Hour.
  
  I don't have much to say because I need to play it more.... but from the time playing this game, 
 I really love it.
  
  The right clicking instead of left to do some things is a bit confusing but you get used to it. 
 Having a limitedish supply of resources makes it challenging to me since I am the type to sit back, 
 build up a decent base, stock up on money and make regular assaults on the enemy as it is my way 
 in the CnC thanks to easy modding.
  
  Modding is another thing that baffles me a bit... no INI files but NDF files and most comments are 
 in French! Why not have english comments for us American and other english speakers to mod stuff 
 easier?
  
  Other than a few nitpicks and the occasional CTD and the weird STOP error on certain skirmish maps 
 (Probably ATI related) , the game is very good overall, even viewing units close up have more detail 
 than seen in the last CnC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  The game itself is the same mechanics and feel as the first, but takes away you're infinite supply 
 of money/units. The new units are welcome additions, though they could have sprung for better voice 
 actors. Like I said, its mostly like the first one just excrutiatingly hard.... so yeah.... At 
 times you'll be doing alot of try and die type gameplay, but as you learn certain things about 
 each map, i'll make this move a little bit more smoothly. The graphics engine is unchanged from 
 the previous game so it looks a little dated, but nothing that would seriously put you off though. 
 Its a solid rts with a good story, just don't give up, becuase its alot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since the original AOW surfaced, and I nearly forgot all about it, but deicded 
 to give this expansion a go as I love RTS games.
  
  I expected a game that would look a bit weared down by time, with blocky graphics and none of those 
 sweet shader effects so common today. But, I was pleasantly surprised by a game that looks and 
 feels as fresh as any other game today. In fact, it is still one of the very best RTS games around.
 
  
  The new features include a lengthy campain that provide you with a lot of diverse gameplay. Everything 
 from pure stealth missions to full head to head confrontations with nuclear weapons and great all 
 new naval battles.
  
  The game is tougher to beat than what I remember from before, and that's great as I have grown 
 tired by RTSes where you have no reason to think or plan. In this expansion you need to carefully 
 plan your attack and defense, and you will most likely retry each mission several times before 
 you succeed.
  
  Some bad points also exists. The naval battles look great, however the ships are so huge they often 
 have trouble navigating around as they get stuck in the landscape or stuck in each others. This 
 part seems a little bit rushed. Also, some missions give you a sudden game over without any clear 
 reason, like a bomb blowing up the rooftop where you are without warning nor explanation after 
 you are suddenly dead. Some units are also way too powerful, like the new long range missile artillery 
 which allows you to fire an unlimited number of missiles that can fly forever and be moved around 
 like any other veihicle, even in parts of the landscape not yet discovered. After you got this 
 it is simply a matter of itme before you win.
  
  One more annoyance is that the game makes the AI seem smarter by cheating. It always knows where 
 you have your most precious structures for example, and will target a building by airraids or tactical 
 weapons even if it never saw this building through any of its units. And in stealth missions the 
 enemy comes straight at you sometimes, even when you are in stealth mode hiding somewhere in the 
 jungle, and then they suddenly "discover" you. This annoying cheating really ruins the strategy 
 element big time.
  
  However, none of the AI problems are worse than what is found in most other RTS games, so, it says 
 more about the limitations of the genre than about this game in particular.
  
  After you finish off the long new campaign, there's a bunch of new skirmish maps available to you 
 as well. So, all in all his expansion offers great value. It's a modern, sexy and very playable 
 RTS, one of the best you can hope to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan314
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is fast pace and interesting i highly recemend this game to all u stragey lovers. The 
 only thing is that u have to be a little up to date with war and stuff. also for the new people 
 that might pick up this game i suggest playing the first then moving on to this game cuz it will 
 make more sense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocafrost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Direct Action was a fun game that suffered from poor marketing. The quality of the game was never 
 an issue. High Treason adds more features to an already great game, but makes some ill advised 
 moves as well. I'll talk about the negative aspects first.
  
  Direct action required high computer and graphics card specs. High Treason requires even better 
 video cards because of pixel shading. That stopped me from playing on my desktop and was a hurdle 
 at first.
  Here and there features are altered, such as the way US units are healed. Now they are healed in 
 the field instead of being returned to base. The option to do either would have been better. Now 
 the functions of the repair depot/hospital are less flexible and no longer unique. That and other 
 little changes may just be a matter of player preference but they're there. The biggest negative 
 depends on perspective. The navy wasn't set up to work in skirmish. You get excited about a navy 
 being in the game just to discover that it can only be used on-line and in the scripted campaign. 
 It seems like it would have been better to leave the navy out completely. Then players wouldn't 
 have a bad taste in their mouth about not having it in skirmish. Theoretically it's better to have 
 some navy than no navy, but maybe not in this case. That turned a lot of people off. But that ends 
 my criticism and leads to the games strengths.
  
  The games first patch comes with map and mod making tools. Excellent mods already exist that allow 
 you to play with navies in skirmish games and more importantly keep you guessing against the skirmish 
 AI. The game is only limited by what the community contributes. Players are supplied with the tools 
 to adjust the game to their taste. New multi-player modes were added. Pre-game for single and multi-player 
 involves options for adjusting cash, cash flow, pow's, aircraft use, and many other features. In 
 game, you have the option to use mercenaries. All sides draw from the same pool of mercenaries. 
 It's a real good way to spend the money that you shouldn't have been floating in the first place. 
 Mercenaries allow you to augment your abilities or compensate for your side's weaknesses if you 
 have enough money. High Treason adds the Mercenary units, a few new units to each side, and many 
 new upgrades to existing units (like the Bradley TOW) . The campaign isn't as impressive as Direct 
 Action but only weak by comparison. It is entertaining and challenging. High Treason will only 
 get better as the community grows. Don't miss out on a great game (not to mention a price of only 
 $20) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  I just dont get the terrible player reviews for such a good game. For those of us who played the 
 original Act of War: Direct Action know this game has some great features and very unique game 
 play. Just because Eugen decided to cut the cost on the real actors and the cut scenes, doesnt 
 mean squat. Everyone knows that actual game play is where the war is won and lost. Think about 
 this for a minute - If you spend all the development cash on the latest and greatest graphics, 
 exceptional sound, actors/acting and voice over and then drum up some crappy game play the fan 
 base is lost. I much prefer to see the money spent on the game itself all of the niceties can come 
 later! With that said, for all those who say the game is hard the reality is youre not trying 
 hard enough or thinking smart enough to beat the game. After all a strategy game is just that. 
 I cant tell you how many times I have played games and said way to easy. I would much rather 
 have a game that challenges my mental ability and leaves me pissed rather than beating the same 
 type of game time after time. High Treason is just such a game and when it is all said and done 
 I truly enjoyed the games finer points including the new units, mercenaries, naval warfare and 
 the balance of AI. In the end, the game is solid with much replay value (skirmish mode) and no 
 serious bug issues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky86
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I have to say I am really dissapointed in this sequel, expansion hell I'd be ashamed if I had heard 
 about this "thing" was coming out and been waiting for it...
  
  First step to screw up a good game, easy, cut the best elements...
  
  The actors and crew must 
 have cost a lot of canadian dollars if Eugens and Atari decided to remove the movie aspect of the 
 game after Direct Action... 
  Hell, the first game was filmed in Quebec where professionals costs less than americans and do 
 more (no offense to Hollywood but those guys are paid a lot more 'cuz the industry there is more 
 developed) they did an amazing job making us believe a sand pit in the woods 30 mins from Montreal 
 could be an african or Middle Eastern desert... The actors were ok, well better than most games 
 so I gotta say good, but the quality was really there, it really seemed like a real movie... And 
 now in this brand new Act of War, we get crappy animations with bad voice overs, new voices that 
 don't sound close to the old ones, and really how many times must I say it, it just plainly sucks....
 
  
  Second step, cut on the writers paycheck....
  
  The scenario is awful, you don't believe in the story at all.. You never get to be immersed in 
 the story, there's no introduction so you need to play the first one to get at least an idea of 
 whats going on... Also, you don't believe in this new threat, it was like a bad VVS movie (for 
 all of you who are working in videostores) hell I was like: ( Are they really going to modify a 
 virus to kill millions, plunge the world into mass panic???? Oh my god I never heard of a story 
 like that, they must have hired Tom Clancy or Seth MacFerlane for that one!! ( THAT WAS SARCASM!!) 
 **** i wasn't even able to see that those terrorists (I can't call em Consortium cuz they are jsut 
 a bunch of amateurs to me) had any hostile intentions other than pissing off the Major, Jefferson 
 and Vega (Where's her bikini btw????) lol... Cut the the paycheck of the writers and they deliver 
 you a story even Hollywood considers not buying the the rights for it...
  
  Third Step, Cranking up a weekness doesnt always means it becomes a better game...
  
  See in 
 Direct Action the AI wasnt all that good, but here I must say the AI is great, maybe even a bit 
 too great... In DA i could do campain or skirmish at the most hard difficulty blind folded, here, 
 well I'm just happy I know my controls by heart and my tactics even better.... They made the AI 
 so good that I was actually happy to play skirmishes in single player, but reading some reviews 
 here and thinking about it it a bit, the normal difficulty for this game is still pretty rough 
 for begginers or even for hardcore RTS fans who never played Act of War... They did their job a 
 bit too perfectly here also aiming for the hardcore fans of the serie...
  
  Fourth Step, When the new **** isn't that great....
  
  Naval units, I thought hell, THIS is 
 gonna be fun, i was half right...
  Sure naval units and the concept of it in this games makes it cool, but there are flaws which must 
 be adressed... Controls may be realistic it doesnt mean it's not sometimes a pain in the ass to 
 move a single unit on water... Well let me just say it's nice but be a bit patient cuz realistic 
 here means a bit less fun than if you were playing a game, it sounds more like a job tro move those 
 thigns around... The new units are cool yes i must agree but they certainly dont balance things 
 out, the only unit that may balance somethigns is the sniper vehicule for the Consortium which 
 gives the 3 factions use snipers now... 
  
  The mercenaries, (mercs) should not even exists in this game.... Let me explain, the idea is great, 
 put a bunch of unit anywhere you want on the map for a fee... Problem is the units arent that cool 
 except maybe for the search and destroy squad to pick up POWs and the Nuke truck but still a nuke 
 costs 3ks and flies wherever u want it to, so 10k for a Truck moving a nuke around??????? sounds 
 like a waste to me.... Anyway it's just that it's a waste of money, a waste of time cuz the cooldown 
 ( not a bad idea) is just too damn long, and well it makes mercs hard to use strategically cuz 
 u need 1 plane to fly over your merc chopper and u have dead mercs on ur doorstep claiming an insurance 
 policy... All you can do is laugh with despair and scream: Duck and cover!!!!! just before ROFL 
 with a sick desperation in your laugh... If you're friends with Riddick dead mercs MAY sound good 
 to you so I recommend using a lot of mercs and let them die, costs less than going to a comedian 
 show althought you may like 
  Chris Rock more than mercs dying in AOW.... lol I'm just too pissed to be serious... (Chris Rock 
 does rule thought )
  
  Fifth Step, Doesn't new version of a game means better sound and graphics???
  
  I'll be short 
 and sweet, graphics and sound and this game, well, THEY SUCK.... I'm done what could I had to that, 
 I've seen better, you did too, AOW DA was just plain better...
  
  So For all you game developpers out there if you want a wellfare check more than a new contract 
 follow theses guidelines and you shoud be in bussiness ( or out of it actually)
  
  Thx for reading me, I know it was long.....
  
  Anarky86
  
  P. S. AI is great in this game 
 so please dont cry like babies cuz u find it too hard, you should be ashamed of yourselves, beaten 
 by a computer ;) lol practice some more and show them who's the boss
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Act of War: High Treason is the hardest RTS game that I have ever played. It seems that the developers 
 deliberately made it hard due to a short campaign. If youre an average gamer, it may take a couple 
 of tries and hours to finish a single mission because almost all of the single player campaign 
 would pit you against wave after wave of enemies. If youre trying to establish a base its hard 
 to get a foot hold. Enemy units are too powerful and you have to contend with the limited unit 
 selection that you have during the campaign. Another thing is that the units tend to be quite expensive 
 and yet they can be easily destroyed. The game also has some path finding issues. The ships are 
 hard to control; it can really get frustrating when youre trying to send them from point A to 
 point B. As for the three factions, it seems that there is no balanced at all. US units are powerful 
 while the Task Force Talon, although hi tech, is ridiculously weak compared to the Consortium (Russian 
 faction) . To make matters worse, the AI has almost unlimited resources. You can defend as much 
 or you can go on offense as much and you will still lose the battle due to the lack of resources. 
 In other words, the enemy is overkill. All I can say is that this game could have been better but 
 due to the sheer difficulty of this game I cannot recommend this to other casual players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  It is one of the biggest dissapointments. Act of war Direct Action had a few things that are missing 
 in this expansion. One is the FMV Full motion Video they removed all the Acted out stuff. Thats 
 one thing that made the original and C&C such successes. It was like playing a movie. Another thing 
 they remvoed the actors they used to have. They use new people that sound nothing like the old 
 one. I guess because they added naval was pretty cool but its missing so many things. The sound 
 was kind of bombed because of the voice overs and because they made them not sound as good. The 
 textures and models for the new stuff for example the Future soilgers is bad. The textures sometimes 
 looks horrible the textures are all messed up. It has a good value because its like 20$ i think 
 it was. The Shadows are awfull especially like the one for the helicopter sucks. It is pixelated. 
 I had the graphics at max and it was all messed up. The story was a big bomb it sucked. It was 
 not as fun and as engaging and getting you into it as the old one. It was a complete bomb on that. 
 The gameplays fun but because the story sucked i need to give it a 3. One thing that made Act of 
 war Direct action rule was that the story was awesome. But now it sucks. The multiplayer and the 
 naval stuff makes the multiplayer more fun. But it still can't lift it self up. The Single player 
 was a complete bomb.
  
  I need to say I would not recommend this product. I would recommend the original if you havent 
 bought that already. But i think you might be better saving your money if your more into single 
 player. If your a multiplayer youll enjoy it more but still be mad of the Singleplayer. The addition 
 of Mercenaries and stuff helps but can't make it way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Act of War, Direction Action was superb. Act of War, High Treason is just a piece of frustrasting 
 trash. 
  
  I'd like to know when game designers decided that having a map full of enemy manufacturing points 
 and activating them as soon as you 'land' on a mission and sending them all your way was a good 
 idea. 
  
  I kid you not, near the end of the game, there are like 4-6+ unit production points that are sending 
 units to your home base constantly and you cannot shut off the tap because your pinned in (and 
 running out of money) and you can't really proceed in the game because you can't shut off the tap.
 
  
  Where Act of War, Direct Action is a good SP experience, High Treason is total frustrastion, nearly 
 from the get. Why is it that we cannot build any Prisoner of War Facilities? Why is building a 
 Field Hospital 'Haram' (forbidden) ? Why is it that on 95% of the maps, the things that made AoW, 
 Direction Action so great are replace with things that just irratate you to no end.
  
  For example: 
  1) Pressing F5 to quick save responds with a message that you need a forward base 
 of operations. 
  2) The FMV cutscenes are gone, replaced by just voice and rarely 
  3D-modeled graphics. 
  3) The In mission update movies are gone, replaced by simply a terse "Updating 
 mission objectives" window, where you must manually enter the objectives window to see what it 
 is you're supossed to do.
  4) The AI is set to 'hard' and kill you on sight, hunt you down and shoot your corpse full of holes 
 mode, even on the easiest difficulty (Army Reserve)
  5) Medivac helicoptors no longer work. They don't pick up wounded troops, instead they just come 
 to the area where the troop was shot up, land and disperse a 5 second healing wave that doesn't 
 even heal your soldier.
  6) Repair helicopters no longer work. They don't ick up wounded armor, instead they just come to 
 the area where the armor unit was shot up, land and disperse a 5 second healing wave that doesn't 
 even heal your unit.
  7) Why can't we build any healing units in the Single Player campaign???
  
  It seems the designers 
 thought it was a good idea to take away ALL healing abilities and ALL secondary revenue sources 
 (POWs) and put an AI with unlimited funds to throw unlimited numbers of enemies your way from the 
 minute you step foot on the ground on any mission and wrap it up and call it an expansiion. 
  
  Uh, No.... That's not an expansion.... That's a frustrating piece of shi*. 
  I tried several 
 of the late game scenerios many, many times and 
  
  The only thing I can advise you about is if you intend to play the SP campaign is this : "yeepeekaye"
 
  
  I attempted many of the late game scenarios many, many, many, many, many times and I seriously 
 doubt the SP campaign is complete-able without resorting to nuclear cheats to take out some of 
 the enemies production centers. Perhaps there's some hard core RT strat fanboy out there that can 
 prove me wrong (likely a game devo) ; however for the casual gamer, I'd have to say steer clear 
 of this.
  
  I think the only good this expansion is worth is for multiplayer where it introduces naval warfare. 
 But even when it does have naval warfare, its so gimped. There's no carrier, ala C&C. The best 
 you get is a destroyer of some sorts that can hold two planes.... 
  
  I've got to reccommend you stay away from this POS.
  
  Alz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game but the original was better because it was new. Graphics are excellent and the sounds 
 are enjoyable. The mean cons are trying to figure out to steer the boats. They do NOT what you 
 told them to do and that's frustrating because they're sinking very easy after a small attack of 
 anti-ship vessels. That's a huge shame on the developers. But in general the game is pretty fast 
 and furious and worth playing.
  I hope that there will be a third sequel and maybe a longer because the length of this one is indeed 
 very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Act Of War is a great game with OK graphics, sounds and well-developed story but the game is too 
 hard, its almost like impossible to play, like you have little amount of money and unit cost is 
 unbearable one unit of strikers cost around 1500 but you only get 4500 to build up you base create 
 units and protect your base. Ill tell you a secret its almost impassible to do all really its 
 like your Tome Crouse and your acting MI III real life, I mean the game is RTS but and theres 
 nothing to with MI III but Im saying MI III is impossible right? So this is too, I have played 
 hard games I have finished Heroes Might and magic V without a sweat, but this is heard really really 
 heard,
  
  But overall its a good game if it was a bit easy 
  
  I say first rent it before buying it or wait until prices goes down
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Hi, this is my first review so don't judge it too hard :) . 
  I was really happy when I saw that Act of War is getting an expansion. When there was some screenshots 
 out I was even more eager to get my hands on, but when it was out... well thats something 
 what I WASNT waiting for!
  Graphic was ok, but the AI!!! AI is so dumb & stupid that I just cant stand it. Not in some 
 real RTS. And the AI cheats triple time! Its horrible. Well, its ok for AI to cheat 
 a bit, to get some more resources & so, but to cheat completely?! Well, let me explain. Like in 
 all RTS there is some unit production, some resource gathering & some base building. BUT in this 
 particular strategy for AI there is NO resource gathering & base building. For example, if you 
 destroy AIs barracks it wont build new one (if its not its primary base) . And AI 
 does not gather resources at ALL. Well, if you see him gathering & if you destroy it, there will 
 be NO changes in speed that its producing units! So when you start a mission with no base 
 and few bucks try to get as many resources as you can, because AI has an unlimited amount of them. 
 
  Another really annoying thing is that AI sees the whole map all the time. In one mission I had 
 to run with my units for 15 minutes because it was always able to EXACTLY locate & attack them 
 with an air strike, it didnt matter if I moved them to other part of map or not.
  I finished single player campaign in few hours on hard level & there wasnt much fun. Let 
 me sum up the score:
  
  Pros: graphic, unit proportions
  Not here not there: sound, game play, story
  Cons: AI, unit variety
  
  So, let me say for 
 the end  graphic is good & sound is fair but pictures and music doesnt make good 
 RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozporaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  this game continue the great in-game experience that was in the original .
  the graphic engine is renovated and know is more flowing. even so sometims the game crash. and i 
 have a strong computer. but,
  you have planty of new maps and you know can decide the speed of the game, the amount of money you 
 will start with, you can limit the units, and choose the winning alternative. you stil got the 3 regular 
 armys, but you can choose to observe.
  in the in-game you got the the new navy force but just in single player, and NO in skrimish-why 
 not?
  in the ground forces you have new ability that include calling mercenary
  to halp you out and to fill some special tasks.
  you got a new tank for the task force and new 
 upgrads for the vehicles.
  and a new per of soldiers that carry mag
  u. s. army got a new MLRS and new vehicle that i'm not sure what is it's 
  purpose, and new soldier 
 thet carry a stinger.
  over all this is solid and good expention.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
