-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Advanced Battlegrounds: The Future of Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chromegoldedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful outdoor environments.
 RPG-style inventory.
 Branching storyline.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Other graphics don't hold up as well.
 Lackluster first-person action.
 Frustrating AI.
 Bad voice acting and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Techland
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 27, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its fancy name, Advanced Battlegrounds is simply a repackaging of the 2003 game Chrome, 
 and it shows. 

  There's not much that's advanced about Advanced Battlegrounds: The Future of Combat. And when you 
 get down to it, there's not much that's new about it, either. Despite the fancy name, Advanced 
 Battlegrounds is simply a repackaging of the 2003 first-person shooter Chrome. There's nothing 
 notable or new here that we could detect, aside from the fact that it's now been patched to address 
 some of the stability issues from the original release. Unfortunately, the passage of more than 
 a year hasn't made the gameplay of Chrome any better.  

          You'll battle it out on a variety of worlds, but in general, your opponents will present 
 a fairly lackluster challenge.     

  In Advanced Battlegrounds, you assume the role of Bolt Logan, mercenary to the ruthless corporations 
 that run outer space. After being double-crossed by his old partner, Logan hooks up with a new 
 one and takes jobs to protect the miners looking for "chrome," the most valuable substance in the 
 universe, though it's still not quite clear what exactly chrome is or what it does. Anyway, it's 
 hard to like Logan, mainly because he comes off as a complete jerk. He's not even a lovable jerk. 
 Just listen to the way he constantly puts down his partner Carrie, and you'll wonder why it is 
 they even bother sticking together. Still, though poorly conveyed, the game's plot does show some 
 promise, especially in the way it branches near the end, allowing you to decide which faction to 
 side with.  

  Ultimately, Advanced Battlegrounds comes down to Logan traveling to a planet and blasting his way 
 through huge outdoor and indoor levels with a variety of weapons. However, it's not all about shooting. 
 One of the interesting aspects of the game is that you can loot bodies, RPG style. This means that 
 instead of simply picking up any weapons and ammo that the enemy dropped, you can search him for 
 equipment. It also means that it's practically impossible to run out of ammunition, medkits, or 
 even weapons, as you can always loot enemy bodies along the way. Logan also has access to different 
 implants that can improve his abilities -- such as hardening his skin against damage or toggling 
 heat vision to see through walls -- and these have their obvious uses in places.  

  As with most first-person shooters, the heart of the game is in the combat, and in this regard, 
 Advanced Battlegrounds is a lackluster affair. Even though you can be armed with a variety of pistols, 
 shotguns, submachine guns, and assault rifles, most of your weapons feel decidedly underpowered. 
 However, this won't stop the enemy from being hurled into the air, as the rag-doll physics are 
 over the top in this regard. It doesn't help that the AI is a bit frustrating, alternating between 
 complete ignorance of the fact that some of its buddies may have just been blown up a hundred feet 
 away and knowing your exact position at all times. The latter can cause some headaches when you're 
 going room-to-room in a building and the AI fires on you the split second a door opens. And in 
 terms of tactics, the AI doesn't do much other than stand its ground, crouch, and shoot at you. 
 It doesn't look for cover or fall back when wounded, so it's fairly easy to take enemies down. 
 Meanwhile, you don't have to worry so much about the damage enemies inflict upon you, as the tactic 
 of loading up on medkits and activating them before a fight still works. Basically, even if you 
 are at full health, you can activate several medkits, and they'll delay their healing effect until 
 you start to sustain damage.  

          Logan does have access to some cool implants, such as heat vision, which allows him to 
 see through walls.     

  There are also vehicles in the game to help you speed through some of the larger outdoor environments. 
 These include a speeder bike, an armed transport, and a two-legged walking tank. While some of 
 these vehicles look good, they're a mess to handle, as the driving controls and vehicle physics 
 are awkward. It's far too easy to slam into objects by accident, whether they're buildings, trees, 
 or rocks. Meanwhile, the vehicle combat isn't that exciting. For example, there's one notable vehicular 
 sequence in which an AI character is driving and you're manning the main gun as you move through 
 an enemy base, and the entire affair feels like a low-speed police chase with no energy, despite 
 all the attempts by the music to rouse you.  

  Graphically, the game hasn't changed at all, which is both good and bad. There are portions of 
 Advanced Battlegrounds that still look quite sharp, in particular the lush forests and jungle terrain. 
 However, other parts of the game look downright crude in comparison -- especially the facial animations, 
 which look like the artists just pasted some textures on a flat polygon. The sound effects are 
 another issue, as most of the weapons sound weak and underpowered, and the music is completely 
 forgettable. And to compound things, the voice-overs sound like they were recorded by actors who 
 just weren't trying. You get the feeling that you're supposed to relate more to these characters, 
 but that is completely undermined by the poor quality of the voice acting.  

  The multiplayer in Advanced Battlegrounds is still limited to the traditional gameplay modes of 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and domination. Despite the fact that Chrome has 
 been available for over a year, there are barely any servers online, and most of them are empty 
 throughout large parts of the day. And there's still not a lot of content to chew through in terms 
 of maps and such. Finally, despite the fact that Advanced Battlegrounds is the patched version 
 of Chrome, there are still a few crash bugs, as well as some inordinately long load times, even 
 on machines that far exceed the minimum recommended specs.  

          The vehicle controls and physics are clunky, which makes trying to drive through forests 
 harder than it should be.     

  Though Chrome showed a lot of potential in 2003, its current incarnation feels dated. Chrome benefited 
 from the fact that so many high-profile shooters were delayed until 2004. But then 2004 arrived, 
 and the genre made a huge leap forward with games such as Half-Life 2 and Far Cry, which raised 
 the bar for graphics, physics, animation, and AI. Prior to this evolution, the gameplay in Chrome 
 displayed some promise. But it's left in the dust of its competitors in 2005.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 14, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The fact that this game is basically a sequel to the notorious Chrome shouldn't be considered a 
 letdown. The characters are the same and even the story hasn't changed but that's what was such 
 a great thing about the original game. You still are a galactic mercenary trying to make a living 
 out of interstellar companies that hire you for dangerous missions on exotic planets. Even though 
 the premise is pretty good there are many things about this game that just don't feel quite right. 
 Compareing it to other games on the ever expanding shooter market you'll see what I mean. All the 
 action in this one seems dull even though you get to do things that in some sci fi shooters you 
 just dont really get to see, picking up weapons and driving vehicles to name a few. Even if you 
 will find a great variety of weapons (both picked up from dead soldiers and from your personal 
 stockpile) they all sound drastically underpower takeing away all that realism that is just a must 
 in first person shooters. But the maps are quite big (it can take a while to move around) , giving 
 you complete freedom in how to approach a certain location. You'll also have a set of different 
 inplants in your body that will be available after a few missions that will grant you speed, accuracy 
 and sight. But these will overheat eventually if used for too long and you will have to switch 
 them off when they are not necessary. Other than that, this is just a sufficient but not good future 
 based shooter. I wouldn't recommend it to someone who is looking for a solid sci fi FPS. It simply 
 lacks the basics of gameplay, sound, effects, and overall just the realism. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
