-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Advent Rising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/adventrising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A decent variety of special powers, which can all be upgraded.
 Wonderful musical score.
 No more horrible frame rate problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terribly derivative art design.
 Character control can be a serious pain during combat.
 Game is way, way too easy.
 Short and unsatisfying storyline.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 839 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: GlyphX Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Aug 9, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Advent Rising is a disappointing effort on all fronts, and probably isn't worth your time. 

 
  Released earlier this year on the Xbox, Majesco and developer GlyphX Games' Advent Rising was 
 one of the most tragically ambitious games to come along in a long time. In development for a few 
 years, Advent Rising tried to do an awful lot of things at once, attempting to combine a cinematic 
 gameplay experience with an all-new sci-fi universe and some unique control and combat mechanics. 
 Unfortunately, it failed, thanks to a fairly uninspired storyline, extremely irritating gameplay 
 flaws, and a whole smorgasbord of technical problems that completely wrecked the experience. Now 
 on the PC, Advent Rising has improved. The hideous frame rate problems that plagued the Xbox version 
 are all but gone, as are some of the sound bugs and control issues. With that said, the new control 
 scheme devised for the PC feels a lot more generic in comparison with what the Xbox version tried 
 to accomplish, and the story and general difficulty of the game have remained relatively untouched. 
 It's a better game overall, but it remains a problematic one in its own right.  

          Apart from his spiked hair and malformed body, Giddeon Wyeth doesn't make for a particularly 
 interesting hero.     

  In Advent Rising, you play as Giddeon Wyeth, a hotshot rookie space pilot who lives in a fairly 
 typical futuristic scenario. Giddeon gets on with his hero-pilot older brother, has a loving fiance, 
 and generally lives an average life of the future... until a mysterious alien spaceship arrives 
 at a nearby space station. Giddeon and his brother are naturally invited to the greeting party, 
 along with a human ambassador. Thankfully, these aliens are friendly; unfortunately, they've come 
 to warn the trio of another race, known as the seekers, which is coming to kill every human that 
 breathes. Sure enough, it doesn't take long for the seekers to arrive, and when they do, they start 
 blowing the human civilization to smithereens.  

  Any fan of even the most boilerplate sci-fi will immediately see all of Advent Rising's inspirations 
 from a mile away, which is especially disappointing since its script was purportedly cowritten 
 by noted sci-fi author Orson Scott Card. Thoroughly ripping off everything from Halo to  Star Wars 
  to even  Titan A. E. , Advent Rising's plot has little in the way of originality going for it, 
 and it doesn't help matters that the story is told fairly shoddily along the way. Giddeon and his 
 cohorts are rarely given much chance for character development, and in those instances when they 
 do get to say something, they're given nothing of meaning to talk about, instead spouting cheesy 
 one-liners that even George Lucas himself would be embarrassed to put on paper. The rest of the 
 time, they're just running around, trying to avoid things that are blowing up around them. In fact, 
 the vast majority of the cutscenes just involve a lot of overwrought battle sequences with lots 
 of scenery exploding all over the place, impossible amounts of laser gunfire flying about, and 
 no meaningful story development whatsoever. All this sort of comes to a rather unsatisfying conclusion, 
 too.  

  In terms of gameplay, Advent Rising is a fairly run-of-the-mill third-person shooter. You're handed 
 plenty of futuristic weaponry, including pistols, machine guns, laser rifles, rocket launchers, 
 and more. The basic shooting feels pretty good, especially since you can both dual-wield any combination 
 of guns and pick up new weapons pretty much on the fly by standing over an unused gun and pressing 
 buttons corresponding to your left or right hands to assign them. The Xbox version of the game 
 had an interesting but flawed targeting system known as "flick" targeting, where you tapped the 
 right control stick in either direction to switch your focus to another enemy. Well in this version, 
 the capability has pretty much disappeared. Instead, you can use the mousewheel to select your 
 closest target and then roll the wheel to cycle between other targets. While it's understandable 
 that the developers would try to maintain some level of targeting system, this one seems almost 
 superfluous, as you can just as easily manually aim. And often trying to cycle through targets 
 makes basic character control a lot more of a pain than it needs to be, since Giddeon moves a lot 
 more slowly when he's focused on an enemy.  

  When not using guns, Giddeon can eventually learn and then use a number of psychic powers that 
 he gains because... well... he just kind of does. Seriously, the setup for Giddeon's special powers 
 is pretty hacked together, but once he does gain these powers, combat becomes immensely easier. 
 You'll be able to use everything from telekinesis to a sort of psychic push move that knocks anything 
 around you back on its ass. These powers can be combined with your weapons to a certain degree, 
 so you can, for instance, use telekinesis to pick up a bad guy. Then you can either toss him aside 
 or start pumping him full of lead. Unfortunately, these powers, at least against the majority of 
 enemies, do really tend to make things much too easy, as you can just fling them every which way 
 and leave them hanging (for what feels like forever) while you just blast away. The one particularly 
 cool thing the game does have to offer, with regard to combat, is its upgrade system, which automatically 
 rewards you with power-ups for both your psychic powers and guns just for using them frequently. 
 Sadly, few of the upgrades really feel that significant, but they're a nice touch, regardless. 

          Just call them the 'Not-Covenant.'      

  Some of the exceedingly annoying control issues from the Xbox version have been fixed here, but 
 they've been replaced by new ones. Moving around during combat is just not nearly as intuitive 
 a thing as it seems like it ought to be. Before you get any of your crazy psychic powers, running 
 around and shooting enemies just feels clunky, partly because trying to dodge with only your base-level 
 dodge move is terribly ineffective, and also because many of the more-powerful guns fire at a seriously 
 slow rate. But then, once you do get your psychic powers, the whole thing becomes a breeze, even 
 on the hardest difficulty level, thanks largely to the lousy enemy artificial intelligence.  

 
  Your average enemy, the seeker, isn't very smart. It's programmed to shoot at you if it sees you; 
 it will run around a little bit if you shoot at it; and it occasionally leaps at you (a move you 
 can very easily dodge) . Even when you're facing a bunch of enemies, the combination of your psychic 
 powers and the seekers' relative stupidity makes it a breeze to get through most every confrontation 
 fairly unscathed. And even in those few instances where you're up against bigger, more-daunting 
 foes, odds are they'll get stuck in a piece of the scenery, or they'll bug out in one fashion or 
 another if you just wait around long enough.  

  The game runs quite smoothly, even with every graphical setting turned all the way up. But there's 
 more to graphics than just a smooth frame rate. The environments are pretty bland, the characters 
 don't feature much in the way of varying animation, and even when there's a lot going down onscreen, 
 it's usually centered on heavily scripted events, which, incidentally, won't trigger from time 
 to time, forcing you to start the sequence over. The art design is boring and terribly derivative. 
 Take the seekers, for example. They're a conglomerate of neon-colored aliens that shoots lasers, 
 carries big neon-colored melee weapons, uses energy shields, growls a whole lot, and is hell-bent 
 on wiping out the human race. If you've played Halo, you might be familiar with another, all-too-similar 
 race of bad guys. If it were just relegated to that one example, it might be forgivable, but Advent 
 Rising really does look like a third-person Halo. The heads-up display is practically the same 
 as in Halo, the game's main vehicle type (the "Scythe") looks a whole lot like the Warthog, and 
 the game even uses similar fonts. Even when you get away from all the Halo aping, the remaining 
 components just aren't interesting. The human characters are bizarrely designed, with legs that 
 take up two-thirds of their bodies. Giddeon and the rest of the main characters barely show any 
 emotion at all during cutscenes, and their mouth movements don't quite come close to matching what 
 they're saying. While you can certainly laud the game's technical improvements, there are still 
 a lot of problems with the overall visual design.  

          Seriously. What the hell is up with this dude's legs?     

  One of the problems that 
 plagued the Xbox version was its sound design, specifically its musical score. Advent Rising featured 
 one of the best-produced musical scores ever put into a game, and then it was mucked up by the 
 whole editing process. Thankfully, this has been alleviated somewhat. The issues where the score 
 would just disappear from time to time are gone. However, there are still some rough cuts, and 
 too many sequences where big, dramatic choral lines will pop up while you're not doing anything 
 particularly exciting. The rest of the game's sound is fairly average. The voice acting is predictably 
 overwrought in some areas, and it's underwhelming in others. Meanwhile, the sound effects are adequate 
 for what science fiction demands, but that's about it.  

  Undoubtedly, Advent Rising is a better game on the PC than it was on the Xbox, but it still isn't 
 especially good. Though it's hard to blame anyone for aspiring to create something that goes beyond 
 the usual sci-fi action adventure sameness we've all grown accustomed to, Advent Rising rarely 
 feels like it legitimately has such aspirations. It just seems like it thinks it's a lot more original 
 and interesting than it actually is, ultimately coming off as kind of pretentious and pastiche. 
 The game doesn't really do anything mechanically that you haven't seen before; the story never 
 finds a way to grab you; it's pretty short overall; and though several of the technical problems 
 from the Xbox version have been corrected here, it isn't enough to make it a compelling product. 
 Although GlyphX and publisher Majesco are billing Advent Rising as the first episode in a trilogy, 
 after playing through this game, we think it's unlikely you'll be interested enough to care about 
 any possible sequels. Advent Rising is a disappointing effort on all fronts, and probably isn't 
 worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jedi3468
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I recommend to anyone who's ever used there imagination while reading a comic book. Plenty of weapons 
 & moves. Awesome effects using slow motion to capture the pinnacle of every action. Powers are 
 cleverly and imaginatively executed. Very engaging story & soundtrack is an epic must have! Its 
 to bad It did so poorly. This games is worth giving another chance through an improved sequel & 
 the story definitely has movie potential! Of course this game has its share of technical problems 
 like any PC game, but the positives greatly outway the negatives in my opinion. And lastly don't 
 go by the critics view until you actually try it yourself, else you may miss out on a gem of a 
 game. With that said, take a vacation from the stress & uncertainty of real life. Be demi-god-like 
 for a day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InaneBasura
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  If you do you will find that you're practically unable to play the game due to it somehow being 
 incompatible with more recent CPU's, making the game run at approximately 20 times the intended 
 speed. And no I'm not talking about frames per second. Gideon will teleport across a room in a 
 split second when you press the movement keys, making it nearly impossible to play the game. There's 
 no real support for the game either so this issue won't ever be fixed. 
  
  You can turn the additional core (s) off for the advent. exe application using task manager, but 
 in my case that resulted in the game running in slow motion instead. It's playable, but extremely 
 sluggish and annoying.
  
  You also can't change the resolution to anything above 800x600, so the game also looks like a mess. 
 But I guess that would be a minor issue... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this wasn't a revolutionary of a game. Overall, it did have more positives than negatives. 
 The graphics were decent. Personally I liked them. They didn't completely drag my PC to the floor 
 with system requirements. The storyline was fairly intriguing. It made you want to play to see 
 what kept happening. The sound track was beautiful.
  
  There were plenty of weapons to choose from and the ability to dual wield every gun in the game 
 was pretty cool. The melee combat was also interesting (after it leveled up) . There were also tons 
 of psychic powers to choose from. The ability to level up your skills based on which ones you use 
 the most was also a decent concept. 
  
  Granted, it was not the most difficult game but it was fun to rip through it a few times. There 
 were multiple vehicles to drive in game which also added a nice depth to it. It was a fun shooter 
 and is in most bargain bins now. It's a decent game to add to your collection.
  
  PROS: Lots of weapons, powers, and explosions. Plenty of targets. Great sound track
  
  CONS: 
 Buggy in some spots, Somewhat bland looking enemies getting boring, Linear gameplay
  
  OVERALL: Decent bargain buy to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer239102
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game quite a bit but it was frustrating as to how many people would come at you 
 at once and with the flick aiming it makes it pretty difficult.
  
  I didnt like the ending but because its a trilogy I can see why they did that BUT I dont think 
 they are going to continue with the last 2 games just because of the bad reviews.
  
  I really liked the game but I can defineatley tell where there are faults that NEED to be fixed.
 
  
  The more you play this game, the more fun it becomes.
  
  SPend the 20 or so bucks it costs to buy the game now. You wont be dissapointed... unless you're 
 a perfectionist... then you might be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all we seen how crappy this game is in xbox now in pc!
  
  The story starts nice like a blockbuster film, you are a pilot in a shuttle and going to a space 
 station to meet with your brother, for the first contact with aliens, your receive your training 
 you catch up a fight and blah, balh, blah an outher alien spiece apeears that looks like convenat 
 from halo... and then they destroy the space station you escape to your planet which is under invasion 
 and it gets destoyed to along with the human race... very lame and then the alien so you that you 
 ahve some powers and that all the humans have, extremly lame... so you became a hero... nice story, 
 after that you destoy the convenat... ehhmm i mean the seekers and you face hundrends of stupid 
 idiotic bossses which are in the game because the designers couldnt think any good main boss , 
 very crappy, anyway the story starts nice, but later on it turns awful and pathetic and an extremly 
 awful ending!
  The game isnt small but it isnt big, but it has awful levels and small enviroments, so you cant 
 dodge enmy fire, very boring levels and but jumping controls so you may fall in lava accidntly, 
 or should i speak about a corridor with glass on the floor, i dodge-jump and as soon as i land 
 i fall into lava...
  
  Graphics the graphics use unreal technology but the look like halo... well a little better, but 
 they look like cartoons nothing special, sometimes objects stuck inside walls! Bad physics, and 
 because of the hundrends boss attack you hit the floor, the celling, the walls, as a result to 
 see whats in the outher side, rhe water is awful and the fade in effect applies even on your character! 
 the humans legs are very long , thats a bit weird in the game!
  The sound is averafe nice effects and dramatic soundtrack and nice dialogues but nothing special! 
 Why cant they just for once to amke a game with a plot with out destroy the rest!
  The game has no value and every level is boring and extremlty difficult, the game is really difficult, 
 nothing special and noone care thats why it was canceled for psp!
  
  The gameplay is like true crime and max payne or jedi knight, you can use too weapons simutianly 
 the more you use them you get upgrades, eg: 1- 2accuaracy- 3 more damage 4 grenade launchear/ zoom/ 
 lock on/ super charge blast. allthough they are all pathetic and the most are blasters and laser 
 you ll find human weapon only in the beggining, each weapon has too use and its later unlocked... 
 you may aslo dodge with shift and unlock more dodging are jumping styles as long you use them, 
 but the aliesn fire som amny blast that you cant dodge them all, you can throw greandes with g 
 which often miss the target and your health can be filled by health stations, later onj it fills 
 automactly like the shield in halo... The powers you use are unlock as soon as you reach a point 
 like second sight, but second sight is beter!
  
  Powers
  Lift -telekinesis (you have to lock on a target to use with auto aim and it doesnt do anything 
 special, later you can lock more ,scuge like force- push, but you need to charge up first, pfff 
 it also works as weapon steal but you have to lock on, and it often misses, regate shield, actually 
 it places energy shileds like the ones the convenants were placing on the floor in halo, later 
 you can use a shield around you but you have to move slowly and you cant shoot! also there are 
 ice shards and lighting bolts which are worthless and they dont cause much damge either, timeshift 
 which can be used to telport few metters forward, useless but later on its ues like slow motion, 
 actually you move fast but they move slow!
  Also f is meele attack you get many auto maoves all long you use them, at this point i would like 
 to say that facing huge four leged like aliens and usinf meele while you are the chosen one is 
 extremly lame, however the jump on you and run you over, that makes you really pissed!
  The game has only 2 vehicles, but you dont use them much, the ai is pathetic and many times the 
 game actually crashes and there is not patch, the very few fans of this game think that if they 
 eimail the fouls that mayde this sh#T will encourage tham to makee another, pfff the game is really 
 leam pathetic full of bugs extremly difficult crashes often no patch, the companies that develop 
 it are uknown, and the bosses can be defeated with only one way, many time i am using scourge to 
 destroy the incoming rocks, that all bosses are throwing at me , and thae rocks are destoyed but 
 i still take hits, i also dodge the rock and when i see the rocks falling 1 meter awasy from me 
 i still take hit!!! while i am in the air dodging!!! i falll down on the air i am floating in air, 
 oh and i also fall of the level, once while i was reaching an area at the game , it reloaded the 
 previous checkpoint???? and i have to play the game form the beggining
  also near the beggining you decide which to save your brother or your girlfriend, dont worry they 
 die later on on a very lame way, and then you face them as the last boss in avery lame way....... 
 as a spirit as a god, many crashes bugs and awful gameplay!
  
  If you still wanna try it go ahead but it sucks, trust gamespot!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I had nothing to do last sunday so because of all the good reviews i wanted to check out Advent 
 Rising and bought it through Steam. Advent Rising is technically quite unstable but if you continue 
 to play the game you probably oversee the fact that it has quite a few bugs and glitches and the 
 graphics are not superb. Advent Rising is using a clich&eacute; Sci-Fi story, the humans get attacked 
 by the aliens and so long but it does a great job so i think every Sci-Fi Gamer will love this. 
 I must say i did not finish the game yet so my opinion might change.
  
  The gameplay feels like an oldschool type of adventure game. The speed of the game is faster than 
 most games of this type so it's more like a hit and run game. I think i said all there is to say 
 about Advent Rising. I think Advent Rising is deffinetely worth checking out if you're looking 
 for a cheap Sci-Fi game (15$ via Steam) and you're not a graphic-whine type of person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  When the work on Advent rising began the developers promised the players a revolutionary game, with 
 godly powers and such...
  and when the game came out it wasent as good as it was promised to be...
  But, it is still a fun 
 game...
  
  Gameplay:
  In advent rising you basicly get a more then avrage arsenal of weapons
  and you can wield a single 
 gun/pistol/rifle in every hand. witch gives you the abilty to experiment a bit and you can level 
 each weapon up to level 5.
  You level up the weapons by just using them meaning: You kill, kill, and kill some more aliens and 
 you eventually level up the weapon and making it more deadly. Of course there are also the special 
 powers,
  and like the weapons you can level them up to level 5.
  After you pass the few first levels you will learn the Lift power (Telekenesis) .
  using the powers 
 themselves is a great fun and lets you feel like a badass.
  as the game progreses you will learn more and more powers... and become stronger
  
  Story:
 
  You play as Gedeon Wyth.
  one of the last human survivers, i wont tell the entire story to avoid spoliers.
  but the story 
 is great and is intresting.
  One of the only problames about the story is that near the begining of the game you got to choose 
 who to save: your brother Ethen, or your Fiance.
  It dosent really matter who you choose to save becose it wont affect the story at all, only some 
 of the cutsceans will show who you saved.
  And even if the choise who to save seems like those charecters have
  a great impect on the story... it 
 dosent.
  And the ending is one of the things that botherd me....
  i know that they wanted to make a trilogy, but now they said that they wont make it... that means 
 that MANY questions still left unansweard....
  
  i dont understand why they chose not to make a sequel... i mean capcom screwd with devil may cry 
 2... but they still made DMC 3 and it rocked.
  Personly i want to see the stor finished... it got potential.
  
  Sound:
  The music in this 
 game is, in one word, Epic.
  when you faciing a boss or fighting tons of enemis at one time, it really makes it (the fight) better.
 
  
  Graphics:
  the game works on Unreal engine 2.0
  but sometimes scripted events either dont accure, and you got to suicide and try again from a chekpoint.
 
  and there are also some Weird glitches.
  
  Final words:
  if you know anyone who got Advent rising i suggest trying it before buying it.
  
  7.5/10 - 
 VladX12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenobi6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Advent Rising started out (in my opinion at least) as a stupid sci-fi game. The characters were 
 dressed kinda funny and I found the scenery seemed colourful. But after the first half hour of 
 gameplay, when the main storyline gets thrown at you it quickly becomes an in depth game to combat 
 the race known as the seekers, who seek the destruction of mankind. Early on, you're a typical 
 human with guns and some more futuristic weaponry. You can fight in melee, but it's realistic in 
 the sense that you'll be ripped apart seeing as you're not a martial artist. But as you get a bit 
 farther into the game you discover that humans are actually a powerful species with the ability 
 to use magic-like skills. As the story goes on, you become spectacular at melee combat, have the 
 power to use a force-push like skill and (my personal favourite) the ability to launch several 
 ice shards at enemies whilst doing awesome Matrix-like dives!
  
  While the gameplay is not too difficult, there are some parts that are actually fairly challenging. 
 Alot of the time you'll find the only way to win a fight is to set up force-fields using your powers.
 
  
  I myself was amazed at the fact that, in Advent Rising when you make a decision, it will actually 
 alter character deaths (who dies, not how) and actually changes the final battle.
  
  The ONLY problems I see in the game are: 1. The company is bankrupt or somesuch and so there will 
 never be more games...
  2. I wish it were longer (probably only because there won't be other games)
  and 3. The main 
 character's hair pissed me off all game except when it was wet and no longer spiked up (he looks 
 kickass like that) AND at the end of the game where he has sweet long hair! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddurant27
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently completed this game on the PC. I feel that even with the technical issues 
 (crashes for the most part) that the game was amazing. Music was superb possibly the best I've 
 ever heard in a game. The graphics are sub-par but get the job done, granted this game originally 
 came out on xbox. The storyline is what really drew me in though, it has a very epic feeling to 
 it and made me want to finish the game despite glitches. The gameplay was questionable as far as 
 targeting but is fun anyways. The only thing that disappoints is the fact that the trilogy wont 
 be completed. Finish the trilogy please!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zizaz11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Everything I have ever wanted to do in a game is here. Powers, guns, moves and the STORY. I have 
 not checked this game out do it NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The gameplay is the perfectly balanced and 
 just plain fun. Forget halo and gears of war. Those 2 are great games but Advent Rising is in my 
 top 1!!!!! No I am not a fanboy. Okay enough review. Check out these links to forums where I am 
 collecting thoughts for why advent 2 should be made and will be made with your help!!!! If I get 
 enough I will arrange to talk to the developer and send the posts to them!!! Only you can help!!!! 
 So please do so. The story is just absolutely amazing and leaves a huge cliffhanger!!! POST NOW!!!!
 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/forums/show_msgs. php? topic_id=25826470
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/adventrising/show_msgs. php? topic_id=m-1-37253610&amp; pid=914753
 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/xbox/action/adventrising/show_msgs. php? topic_id=m-1-37253729&amp; pid=914754 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: au25
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all we seen how crappy this game is in xbox now in pc!
  
  The story starts nice like a blockbuster film, you are a pilot in a shuttle and going to a space 
 station to meet with your brother, for the first contact with aliens, your receive your training 
 you catch up a fight and blah, balh, blah an outher alien spiece apeears that looks like convenat 
 from halo... and then they destroy the space station you escape to your planet which is under invasion 
 and it gets destoyed to along with the human race... very lame and then the alien so you that you 
 ahve some powers and that all the humans have, extremly lame... so you became a hero... nice story, 
 after that you destoy the convenat... ehhmm i mean the seekers and you face hundrends of stupid 
 idiotic bossses which are in the game because the designers couldnt think any good main boss , 
 very crappy, anyway the story starts nice, but later on it turns awful and pathetic and an extremly 
 awful ending!
  The game isnt small but it isnt big, but it has awful levels and small enviroments, so you cant 
 dodge enmy fire, very boring levels and but jumping controls so you may fall in lava accidntly, 
 or should i speak about a corridor with glass on the floor, i dodge-jump and as soon as i land 
 i fall into lava...
  
  Graphics the graphics use unreal technology but the look like halo... well a little better, but 
 they look like cartoons nothing special, sometimes objects stuck inside walls! Bad physics, and 
 because of the hundrends boss attack you hit the floor, the celling, the walls, as a result to 
 see whats in the outher side, rhe water is awful and the fade in effect applies even on your character! 
 the humans legs are very long , thats a bit weird in the game!
  The sound is averafe nice effects and dramatic soundtrack and nice dialogues but nothing special! 
 Why cant they just for once to amke a game with a plot with out destroy the rest!
  The game has no value and every level is boring and extremlty difficult, the game is really difficult, 
 nothing special and noone care thats why it was canceled for psp!
  
  The gameplay is like true crime and max payne or jedi knight, you can use too weapons simutianly 
 the more you use them you get upgrades, eg: 1- 2accuaracy- 3 more damage 4 grenade launchear/ zoom/ 
 lock on/ super charge blast. allthough they are all pathetic and the most are blasters and laser 
 you ll find human weapon only in the beggining, each weapon has too use and its later unlocked... 
 you may aslo dodge with shift and unlock more dodging are jumping styles as long you use them, 
 but the aliesn fire som amny blast that you cant dodge them all, you can throw greandes with g 
 which often miss the target and your health can be filled by health stations, later onj it fills 
 automactly like the shield in halo... The powers you use are unlock as soon as you reach a point 
 like second sight, but second sight is beter!
  
  Powers
  Lift -telekinesis (you have to lock on a target to use with auto aim and it doesnt do anything 
 special, later you can lock more ,scuge like force- push, but you need to charge up first, pfff 
 it also works as weapon steal but you have to lock on, and it often misses, regate shield, actually 
 it places energy shileds like the ones the convenants were placing on the floor in halo, later 
 you can use a shield around you but you have to move slowly and you cant shoot! also there are 
 ice shards and lighting bolts which are worthless and they dont cause much damge either, timeshift 
 which can be used to telport few metters forward, useless but later on its ues like slow motion, 
 actually you move fast but they move slow!
  Also f is meele attack you get many auto maoves all long you use them, at this point i would like 
 to say that facing huge four leged like aliens and usinf meele while you are the chosen one is 
 extremly lame, however the jump on you and run you over, that makes you really pissed!
  The game has only 2 vehicles, but you dont use them much, the ai is pathetic and many times the 
 game actually crashes and there is not patch, the very few fans of this game think that if they 
 eimail the fouls that mayde this sh#T will encourage tham to makee another, pfff the game is really 
 leam pathetic full of bugs extremly difficult crashes often no patch, the companies that develop 
 it are uknown, and the bosses can be defeated with only one way, many time i am using scourge to 
 destroy the incoming rocks, that all bosses are throwing at me , and thae rocks are destoyed but 
 i still take hits, i also dodge the rock and when i see the rocks falling 1 meter awasy from me 
 i still take hit!!! while i am in the air dodging!!! i falll down on the air i am floating in air, 
 oh and i also fall of the level, once while i was reaching an area at the game , it reloaded the 
 previous checkpoint???? and i have to play the game form the beggining
  also near the beggining you decide which to save your brother or your girlfriend, dont worry they 
 die later on on a very lame way, and then you face them as the last boss in avery lame way....... 
 as a spirit as a god, many crashes bugs and awful gameplay!
  
  If you still wanna try it go ahead but it sucks, trust gamespot!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borat23zx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  this a really good game with alot of alien shooting .... using ur power own to kill them really 
 kool and awsome .... the only thing that i was dissapoint about this game was that how come this 
 game rating a so low... but when i play it look fine . graphic are good ... sound ok .... action a 
 great .. there are always action in this game .. every sec++ but at the end (spoil game should not 
 read a head) - this game was said to be continue so i guest that they might make another one out 
 of xbox360 hope they make a better for the game producer to see how great this game is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlgtiby67
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Overall Advent Rising has a pretty good storyline which keeps you interested enough to play through 
 it; however, this game has its flaws. First of all it's as if the programmers and everyone who 
 created the game just stopped randomly and didn't test this game for bugs because there are quite 
 a few of them, even more so on the pc version. But if you can suffer through the bugs well enough 
 to look past them the game play is better on average than most games out there and is kind of unique. 
 There's a good assortment of weapons and powers and leveling up. The graphics on the other hand 
 are weird. The game seems like it had parts designed very well and everything else looks as if 
 its a n64 design. So for the most part if you ever decide to consider buying it if its cheap I'd 
 say get it or rent it. Theres not really any replay value so maybe renting it would be a better 
 idea if at all possible any more if you can find it. I know a few stores still carry it around 
 these days. If you want a game with a good storyline get Advent Rising, and if you'll go insane 
 with the vast amount of glitches and bugs then pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtkt15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The best aspect of this game is the cool superhuman powers that you acquire as the game progresses. 
 I actually played through this game multiple times to try out the different powers. There is something 
 extremely satisfying in being able to dispatch wave after wave of enemies with your powers. There 
 are also multiple types of weapons to use. The more you use a weapon, the greater your skill. The 
 same applies to your superhuman powers. Levelling up in a skill unlocks abilities. However, I found 
 myself primarily using the superhuman powers once I acquired them.
  
  The voice acting is perfect. The music is the best you will ever hear in a video game. The graphics 
 are okay but probably require a bit more polish. The character models are unique and nice to look 
 at, though. The story is extremely engrossing. I must warn you that there is a cliffhanger ending 
 that leaves you craving for more. However, I am disappointed to hear that there will not be a continuation 
 to this saga anytime soon : (
  
  In my opinion, the only drawbacks in this game are some vehicle driving sequences which feel kind 
 of flat and unexciting.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed this game tremendously. Give this third person shooter a try. Furthermore, if 
 you love sci-fi, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyon85
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to ignore the negative reviews Advent Rising has received. For a long time it was these 
 reviews that stood between me and the game. It was a joyous day when I chose to ignore the negative 
 comments and try for myself the game that could not find acceptance.
  
  After installing the game I was confused to find that I strongly disagreed with most of the criticisms 
 found on all of the review sites I respect, Gamespot being one of the biggest. Normally Gamespot 
 does a pretty fine job of finding real flaws in games that gamers would recognise, but this time 
 I couldn't help but feel Gamespot had some personal vendetta with the developers!
  
  As soon as the game begins, you understand that the story will present itself with a mix of dramatic 
 flare and a playful humour. For the most part, the game knows when to use humour (and it is a charming 
 humour) and when to put on a serious face. The story itself I was pleasantly impressed with, I 
 was drawn into the cinematics, I thought the dialogue was well done and the plot to be interesting. 
 The inconsistency with regards to the FMV is unusual, and a little annoying. Half of the cinematics 
 are low res captures of in game footage, some seem to be more compressed than others and often 
 run at what feels like ten frames per second (Xbox caps maybe?) . The other half is CGI, probably 
 not handled in house. The big finale was seriously lacking, only because it has been left wide 
 open for a sequel, which unfortunately will now never come to be. If the end had been handled differently, 
 the game would have left less of a bitter taste.
  
  The presentation is unusual, there are no draw dropping visuals technically and artistically the 
 game is a little nutty. Before your eyes adapt to the style, you will be controlling Barbies legs 
 attached to a hobbits body. This is no big deal and once you do adapt you will probably warm to 
 it as well. Saying all this, I did actually enjoy the presentation. Gamespot are correct when they 
 say the game borrows from a number of sources though (Hello Halo) .
  
  Here's the big one; gameplay. I don't know quite how to write this, because Gamespot and all the 
 other reviews are generally bang on the money, but they are wrong. It is hard for me to write that, 
 because it confuses me to have such a conflicting opinion. Never have I disagreed with a review 
 with such passion. The fighting in this game is my primary drive for writing this review. I understand 
 the Xbox targeting system that has been ported across has its problems, luckily being a PC game 
 you have a choice. You can use the targeting system, which really does come in handy, or you can 
 manually aim using the mouse and keyboard, this works perfectly. Half of the game will see you 
 dual wielding human and alien weapons (mix and match to your hearts desire) , and the other half 
 introduces powers. The gun fighting is great, you will dive and dodge, unload, reload, take cover 
 and so on. It's a good idea to get up close and personal too, your fists become a valuable weapon. 
 Advent Rising has a levelling system, where you are rewarded more accuracy, more damage and special 
 moves the more you level up. You level each different weapon or power separately, so if you stick 
 with pistols for example, they are going to be much more useful an hour into the game than they 
 were at the start. Gameplay changes a considerable amount once you unlock your powers. The human 
 race, are seen as a god like beings to other alien races. They have powers that have been dormant 
 for some time, and with a little help from your new best intergalactic friends you manage to discover 
 these powers. Once this happens, you will probably leave the gun fighting in favour of your new 
 Jedi like powers. Weapons or powers are assigned to both your right and left click, which means 
 you could have one weapon in each hand, firing independently or two powers, or one power and one 
 gun... you get the picture. The problem is, you're left with a only two buttons, and you will have 
 in your arsenal; two weapons and several powers. Melee and grenades have their own keys at least. 
 As you progress through the game, you are going to want to try new powers, but you're also going 
 to want to continue to use the powers that you are comfortable with (and have become much more 
 powerful over time) . This means you will quite often find yourself pausing the game to re-map your 
 controls. This is unfortunate, as the powers are immense fun, but you have to try your best to 
 juggle them. To give you a little insight, ill briefly go through my experience with some of the 
 powers. You start with a lift power, this lifts objects which you can slam into enemies, or even 
 lift an enemy and slam him into a wall, or his buddies, for a while I enjoyed the ability to hold 
 an enemy in the air with my mind, then pump him full of lead using my other hand. As I progressed, 
 I unlocked projectile powers that were pretty damn effective at taking down the enemy Seeker race. 
 Then I discovered each weapon or power had an unlockable 'secondary fire' mode (through the levelling 
 system) , which all felt like a considered power and not just an energy chomping powerful version 
 of the standard power. One power gave me the ability to travel at incredible speeds and slam my 
 fist into an enemy, the alternative fire allowed me to slow time down to an incredible level. Using 
 this slowmo power, coupled with a levelled up melee attack offered me some of the most fun I have 
 ever experienced in a game. If I was being shot at with some crazy ass laser rifles from a squad 
 of barbaric Seeker aliens I could just slow time down, duck and dodge between laser fire, take 
 a big running jump up to an enemy and come flying down to his level fists flailing, then take care 
 of the rest of the squad before the first guy has even touched the floor from my initial attack.
 
  
  The game isn't exactly challenging, and it feels far too short. It isn't as easy as Gamespot makes 
 out however, once you receive your powers the games difficulty does not remain static, new challenges 
 are introduced to keep you occupied.
  
  There is at least one aspect of the game that even the meanest review would not slate. This is 
 the soundtrack. It's fantastic, end of discussion.
  
  Everyone I have recommended this game to has loved it equally, but I understand that there is clearly 
 something about my character that allowed this game to effect me so. Reading all the reviews, I 
 realise this game is a real Marmite Sandwich, you will either love it or hate it. I personally 
 dont understand Gamespots review, but I will say my level of respect has only been slightly compromised 
 through all of this. You may find that Gamespot did a great job on the review, but I have this 
 piece of advice: There may be something about your personality that will allow you to love this 
 game, you are either in our camp, or Gamespots. At least give it a try, you may find an absolute 
 gem in the process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soraky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  There no too much to say about it.... Just play and enjoy!
  The combine of powers, melee attacks and guns is perfect for anyone who likes action!
  Lots of 
 weapons, while every weapon has 2 modes and 5 levels.
  Lots of powers, also with 2 modes and 5 levels. I had fun to finish the game a lot of times and 
 every time I enjoy like it's a different game.
  
  Graphics are cool and the environment looks great!
  
  Sounds of blasts and guns also really 
 good.
  
  The story isn't bad at all.
  
  In short word this game is great!!!...
  
  Because i have empty place i just say:
  WILL THEY MAKE ADVENT RISING 2??? NO ONE KNOWS... (At 
 least I don't know...) THE END. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cakeloverdueman
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I thought the powers could be better but the game itself and the story is good for the price of 
 10 bucks pretty damn good  jjdjvjdvjbvjdv vjdsv djvjd 
 vdvjd vdkvj d  
  djvjd vjsdv sdbvj sd. v dsjvbjdsbvjsd 
 vjksd vjsdjkvbksdj bvjkds. b vkjds vb. skjd. bv. kjdsb. v. jksdb. vkjsd .kv fnjknfewn. jwrjnjrvjrjv. rjv 
 jnjjvrjnr. jk g. r gjr gjr gjr hgj rhgjrjkg. jergn rkjngj. kren. gj dr. jgr. jvr. jvkrdn vjr .vjrn. vrkej 
 vjr. v er vjkre. vjre v. jr. vnerj vjrkvk jrv krj. v rvd v r vjre. nvjre. v r .v. rkjvnrk jvn rkjv rjv 
 rj vjrk .vjrkev .erkj vjr nvjr n. vj rjv rn jv. r vjr vj rjnv .jr vjre ver vrej v rv rev rv rverj 
 verj v v rv rev erav erv er ver ve erv rev earv earv er vrea vear v rv er ver ver i wrote all that 
 cuz it needed to be 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure how gamespot's reviewer gave this game such a bad rating. I love this game, and I 
 am glad I have not listened to gamespot's review. I think it is the best game to really give you 
 the feel of been a God (though totally different Okami gave you the same feel of being in control 
 of the environment) . If you play this game using the regular weapons it would probably suck, but 
 playing it using the powers is just an amazingly fun experience. I definitely loved raising hell 
 with the powers and crushing my enemies like a God should. LOL. Anyway, I really loved this game 
 and would definitely recommend it. Do not get put off by the beginning of the game, at first the 
 game seem like a lackluster shooter, but the fun starts after you get your god powers. You start 
 throwing boulders at you enemies, raising the enemies and throwing them off the platforms you can 
 go crazy.
  The worst part is after the bad reviews it seems unlikely that this great game will have sequel 
 which specially sucks given the cliffhanger ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  I don't know what it is with the Gamespot reviewers, it seems they play consoles mostly and are 
 not good at reviewing PC games. This game deserves a lot more than just a 6.8. It has a fantastic 
 story, good graphics, lots of different things to do: drive spaceships or ground based vehicles, 
 use different weapons and PSI powers (lots of both) , dodge &amp; jump, you name it. Majesco seems 
 to have had a knack for capable heroes in their stories (e. g.: Bloodrayne, Psychonauts) , to bad 
 they stopped making triple-A games.
  
  The mini summary: Aliens invade the earth and you have to fight your way through them. You learn 
 new skills, both mundane like fighting as well as PSI powers that you gain and develop over time. 
 The whole game has a very immersive story, written by SciFi co-author Orson Scott Card, and some 
 nice cinematics. The cinematics set the scene and you let your protagonist go through fulfilling 
 the objectives. This is a shooter with some RPG elements, you can play first or third person view.
 
  
  The main theme of the game is winning against the evil invaders (the Seekers) and growing ever 
 stronger in you fighting and PSI powers. The story is very excellent, the best I have ever seen 
 in a shooter.
  
  What is nice is that you really like the hero and the story develops both him and the other protagonists 
 as well as the world around you. You have a lot of options so it lets you choose how to solve the 
 levels as you take them, if you like shooting then there are lots of options, if you prefer PSI 
 powers, then go with those. The controls are easy and well thought out (standard mouse and keyboard 
 with good defaults) .
  
  This is a truly original game, much more interesting than Far Cry, Prey or most of the shooters 
 I have seen in recent years. It seems they concentrate on graphics wow and forget about game play. 
 Not the the graphics in this game are bad, they are good (Quake 4 level, but nicer color schemes 
 ;-) The moves are really nice and add a lot of fun to the game play. The PSI powers are original, 
 you have a wide variety so you can choose your style and it levels well.
  
  What is bad: is not a lot. I had one or two crash-to-desktop, during game play but the game auto 
 saves so I took up right where I started. It has less bugs than other games out there now.
  
  What is good:
  superb music score that underlines
  excellent story,
  lots of variety,
 
  good graphics and cinematics, easy to use controls that let you concentrate on the game play. 
 There is some replay value as well as there are some choices you make early on that effect how 
 things go.
  
  All in all definitely rates a 9. x if you like third persons shooter games with depth. Higher if 
 you like original games with that let you decide your style, less if your aim is need to have your 
 newest super duper machine showing it's strength.
  
  This game is not new, so you should get it for less than $20,-. Go for it: recommended for all 
 gamers.
  
  -- Cheers,
  Duncan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rithemking
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This product should have never reached store shelves in the buggy state it is. I am surprised gamespot 
 even gave it a Fair rating. Should have been poor. Movies don't even utilize the Anisotropic capability 
 of my 8800GTX/3.6GHz E6600 system. They don't even have any patches available to fix any of the 
 numerous reported bugs! Lift power won't cycle through everything on the screen before starting 
 back at the beginning. Lift power also throws the camera viewing angle askew every time you throw 
 an object with it, so good luck being able to properly see what you are doing. Unable to defeat 
 Skinwalker (Turning Tides Part G) because he doesn't seem to be stunned like the script claims 
 when hitting him with his own stone (when you can even target it) . I'm un-installing the game and 
 forgetting I ever purchased this piece of garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Jazrin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  It's too short yes, it bites off of halo yes, but the storyline was very captivating. Truly a shame 
 it's sequels were given the axe before we could see the true conclusion. You play as a god-to-be, 
 how cool is that!? The answer is very when you start to rip through the seekers as they were nothing.
 
  
  The graphics were good, especially the water ripple effect of the doorways.
  Music is comparable to the level of John Williams himself.
  
  The control could have been better, 
 but considering how quickly they ported it over to PC, I guess I'm not surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I managed to fly through this game in 2 days (not constant play) You can do it in 
 a day if you so desire. The Game although not really replayable since by the end you would have 
 maxed out all your powers and 3 guns.. Considering also your powers are far more lethal and don't 
 consume ammo.. :P I REALLY enjoyed the game.. the action is varied and the storyline is just kick 
 butt.. More cutscenes I have seen in a game than ever before. I would call it more along the lines 
 of an interactive flick than a action-adventure game. I got this game via Steam.. as it says on 
 my header and it plays flawlessly on max settings. The ending gives you a bit of a twist.. but 
 I won't spoil that for ya ;)
  Let's just say that the ending was what I think Prey copied from :P
  
  On with the breakdown:
 
  
  Gameplay: Perfect.. I didn't have difficulty whatsoever... it played like Tomb Raider!
  
  Graphics: for 2005.. this game is just great graphically.. Makes me think of Jedi Academy in 
 a sense.. same type of graphics :)
  
  Sound: I noticed a bit of sameness from some of the weps and music scores.. from other games I 
 have played.. so I have to say the sound was good 
  
  Value: Good.. but not Great... since there is not much replay value to be had here.. that being 
 its only fault.
  
  I had to give my personal score of 8.. because it is a GREAT game in my opinion and should be played 
 with anyone with an itch to play more action adventure games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_shameel_14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I usually agree with most of gamespot's ratings. Almost all the ratings agree with what i think 
 of the game, but here, i totaly disagree. Advent Rising is one of the most entertaining games i 
 have ever played. Sure, this game has shortcomings, but which game doesnt? All that matters to 
 me is that this game had me hooked, from start to finish, and its one of the few games i have played 
 where i was actually sorry to complete it. I have completed the game twice now, and loved every 
 minute of it. I want more of this game. Hopefully, they will decide to complete the trilogy. Whatever 
 people may say about this game, i would advice trying it out for yourself. The critics may say 
 some bad things, but most gamers agree, Advent Rising is a really great game. I'm glad i played 
 it, and i want to see the series completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Pluses: cool, engaging story; extremely cool powers; multiple outcomes (I think) ; it looks pretty good 
 and isn't a system hog; cool characters; great sounds and stuff;
  
  Minuses: no Multiplayer (allthough i don't blame them) ; suffers from movie lagging; few varieties 
 of enemys; few varieties of weapons; it's short (i finished it in 6 hours!) ; many annoying bugs and 
 little glitches (i once falled and catched the air)
  
  Yeah so this is Advent Rising. I wanted to play this game for a long time, and I finaly got to play 
 it. It was a great experiance with a great story great characters and superb gameplay with a few 
 bugs of course but still it's a superb game and it's 100% fun especialy when you get powers. At 
 the end of the game there is a very BIG cliff-hanger that a guy saves the leading character and 
 it says on the screen To be continued...... soo there must be a AR2 (Advent Rising 2) there must 
 be!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  What was this reviewer thinking... or... drinking? The game is certainly NOT SHORT, it is loooong! 
 Too easy? He HAD to be using CHEATS! It is not the least bit easy, and the strategic maps are excellent. 
 There is even a map similar to the Normandy invasion, only with laser artillery!
  
  Have we become so jaded? The story, though based on a much over used premise of an invasion of 
 the earth (or human populated planet) has truly been exhausted, but the alien politics, the twists, 
 the turns, the spies and fifth columnists make this a truly enjoyable and even believable story 
 (though the aliens look like tall fish-creatures) .
  
  The story is 1000% better than the much bally-hooed INDEPENDENCE DAY! The aliens are smart, have 
 a believable agenda for WHY they want to exterminate humans (unlike in Independence Day's alien 
 cock-roaches) .
  
  It is spiced with drama, a little sexual tension and the cockiness of a main star that suffers 
 from (TCS) Tom Cruise Syndrome (cockiness) , so much so that he actually gets on the friendly aliens 
 nerves.
  
  The script is both funny, yet dramatic, serious and tense. What would it take for this reviewer 
 to not be impressed with such a well carried out and extremely AMBITIOUS plot, to say that is not 
 worth buying? Does he have a grudge with someone over at the development house? Because his review 
 is like he reviewed some other game, not Advent Rising.
  
  Sure the graphics could have been a bit more ANTI-ALIASED, but the artwork itself is absolutely 
 mesmerizing in both style, color, depth and sheer grandioseness (epic size of some of the structures) .
 
  
  The action never lets up, but when it does, its a nice breather and more often than not humorous 
 or something dramatic to carry you into the next phase of fighting to keep the human race from 
 becoming extinct.
  
  The evil aliens are not just jump out at you Doom-like aliens, but have a purpose, and the MAKE 
 YOU ANGRY!!!
  
  I found nothing more satisfying than picking them up with my spiritual-psychic abilities and throwing 
 them over a cliff or out into space - REVENGE IS A DISH BEST SERVED ... COLD! And the explosions 
 are extremely well done. I especially enjoyed the escape from the planet during an asteroid shower 
 - AWESOME!
  
  The heroines are both smart and sexy, with just enough female bravado and attitude to make you 
 like them.
  
  Sure homeboy's legs look weird when you first meet him, I had a good laugh at them also, like always 
 riding a horse, but once the story gets going, you are so busy moving, running, jumping, shooting 
 or using your other abilities that you will rarely see him standing in that odd pose for too long 
 - if so - he's about to be dead!
  
  All in all, what a phenomenal HUGE and EPIC story and game.
  
  My biggest disappointment of 
 my Advent Rising experience was actually reading GameSpot's horribly biased and unfair review - 
 FOR SHAME GAMESPOT - FOR SHAME.! You need to get someone else to check on this reviewers review, 
 because it truly discredits and otherwise credible review staff.
  
  Bottom Line: What an AWESOME GAMING EXPERIENCE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Energenix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that I was utterly disappointed when I saw that Gamespot's stance 
 was 6.3 on this title. There seem to be countless people comparing this masterpiece to Halo, which 
 is impossible. Not only does AR boast a much better, involving and emotional storyline, but the 
 gameplay and combat style are truly satisfying and unique.
  
  Gameplay:
  Initially, I bumbled around a bit and couldn't quite figure out the scheme for the controls. It 
 took me about a half-hour to really get a good feel for how the weapon system works, and I say 
 its one of the most innovative and fluid combat systems ever devised for a game, end of story! 
 The mouse wheel targeting is perfect, and greatly enhances your ability to switch targets on-the-fly 
 while never taking your finger off the trigger. You can either wield dual weapons, or, later in 
 the game, equip a mixture of weaponry and superhuman powers. Most weapons (human and alien) and 
 powers also have alternate fire modes and can each be taken to higher levels of mastery providing 
 enhancements, adding to the complexity of attacks you can execute and allows for customization 
 of combat style. Also, any weapon an enemy drops, you can use. Halo doesnt have nothing on this! 
 As you progress through the game, you'll find your character discovering new and increasingly powerful 
 abilities to add to your arsenal, and make it possible to further customize how you fight. Should 
 you find yourself without a weapon or low on ammo, you can resort to powers and hand-to-hand melee 
 fighting.
  
  Story:
  At first things move somewhat slowly, but after the first half hour, I was completely hooked. It 
 was like living an Orson Scott Card sci-fi novel, which says a lot. The character of Gideon Wyeth 
 evolves so much in the span of this title. From a cocky and complacent military officer and pilot, 
 to a man who has lost almost everything and has the responsibility of trying to save humankind 
 from extinction, at the expense of all other considerations. You will experience hardship, death, 
 personal loss, and a host of other emotions as you guide this unfortunate soul toward his destiny. 
 This is one of the few games, if any, I have ever been emotionally attached to. The screenplay 
 and scenario are set forth in such a way to actually make you care about what is happening to Gideon 
 and his comrades, something most other games cant begin to touch!
  
  Sound:
  Of utmost importance in a story-driven game is a great and well-implemented soundtrack. I am happy 
 to say that Advent Rising delivers in this department as well. Every track seems to fit the environment, 
 and the battle and boss fight music is terrific - sent chills down my spine the first time I heard 
 it! Truly great material. Weapon sounds, voice acting, all the audio was very well implemented, 
 and was never out of sync or felt misused/misplaced. Graphics:
  This is the one area that could have used some improvement, however I feel it was their goal to 
 present this title with a certain distinctive look that could only be accomplished with the art 
 and animation style the developers chose. While it isnt great by, say, Doom 3 standards, it doesnt 
 have to be. And every fan of a good author like OSC knows that somethings are better left to imagination. 
 And while the graphics arent anything special, they dont undermine the game as a whole and are 
 quite acceptable.
  
  Overview:
  I love this game! I am so glad I picked it up online. I had browsed by it countless times, without 
 giving it a second thought. But one day I decided to take a chance and see what kind of game this 
 is - it was the best game purchase I have ever made and ever will make unless GlyphX finishes the 
 trilogy! 6.3? I dont think so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schmts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I just don't understand, how Gamespot could say, that this game deserves only 6.3. The environments 
 are just beautiful especially outside areas. The story is quite interesting and the soundtrack 
 is just great. The controls are a bit difficult to get used to, but when you get them, it's a piece 
 of cake to kill around :D. The difficulty is a bit easier to what you are used to, but it's not 
 disturbing at all. The telepathic powers are just awesome and weapons are also very interesting. 
 If you want to play a great game, there it is, just grab it and it will just suck you in the world 
 of Advent Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuji_San
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Advent Rising is a title based on a comic you may have never heard of before... At least, I have 
 never heard of it... But from a first look, this game sounds and feels very engaging. And it is! 
 I personally enjoy more of this style of games, where majority of it is driven by a well-developed 
 story-line. This game truly provides all my needs. However, the review that GameSpot provided (About 
 it feeling like an incomplete project, and more time was needed to make this better.) was true. 
 Now at first, I thought that playing through a game and being able to feel its level of completion 
 was a skill that only professional game-critics can perform. But no, I too can see that something 
 is missing in the game and that more time should have been spent on this project to fill up that 
 hole. Even though there were some kind of disadvantage in the game, it is still worth buying, if 
 you are a fan of story-driven games like me. Or if you are not, it at least deserves a rental. 
 But this is definitely a game that can satisfy anyone in one way or the other... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pot-noodle
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  After reading the review from gamespot I'm kind of in two minds as to agree with what was said 
 or not, To start with, when you fire this up you can tell its a console port, the textures are 
 bland and not detailed enough in areas and the FMV (cut screens) are not quite what we are used 
 to seeing with a good PC game.
  
  Saying that, there is a good game here if your into your sci-fi adventures with a very strong resemblance 
 to Halo, The colors are somewhat the same, as are some of the environments, monsters also tend 
 to have similar characteristics to the afformentioned game, and yes in a way the HUD and health 
 system are pretty much halo too, yet don't let this put you off, as it leads to a feeling of familiarity 
 which i found to be a good thing.
  
  To be perfectly honest, i love this game, it set out to try and give a cinematic feel and it pulls 
 this off greatly, The cutscenes do give you the story line in a cinematic style that a lot of games 
 are lacking, even if sometimes it leaves it a little short, yet it does deliver them with some 
 panache, this game is tailored to the sci-fi fan, and for obvious reasons.
  
  Basically its the old classic story, humans are in danger from a crazed alien race hell bent on 
 killing the entire species, friendly alien race tries to help by teaching humans how to unlock 
 that hidden part of the brain and thus to use Jedi mind tricks, you start in space and after a 
 quick first section of flying your craft to the space station, your off on your feet, legging it 
 around in true 3rd person shooter style, you then have to take the (now) obligatory tutorial before 
 your whisked strait off to find out who the new visitors are, what they want, and why they are 
 so interested in trying to help you?
  
  Your pretty much thrown right into the thick of it, soon as the tutorial section and short movie 
 are over.
  
  If your looking for a open style game then this is not for you, the level design is pretty much 
 strait forward linear, get from A to B and shoot things along the way, with enough big explosions 
 and scenery demolition to keep you happy The musical score i found very much atmospheric in its 
 application, there are a few slip ups here and there, as mentioned in the gamespot review, yet 
 i didn't let this put me off, i will say that the voice acting in this game is very good, OK some 
 times it wanes a bit and although the lip sync is kind of none existent most of the time, it is 
 still refreshing to have at least some talent behind the voices.
  
  The weapons sound meaty with lots of base being thrown around my speaker set up, and ambient sounds 
 are nice and clear, with explosions making my cat uneasy on its feet.
  
  The weapons them selves are plentiful with the use of a two handed gun system, Q to pick up a gun 
 for your left hand and E for the right, then the two mouse buttons for left and right handed fire, 
 most weapons also have a secondary fire mode yet i have never found a time in combat to use this 
 option, weapons also feature upgrades depending on how much you use them and what weapon you currently 
 have equipped (NOTE you also get upgrades on your melee attacks) , though this could have been better 
 implemented, as there is no way to pick what upgrades you can have for any given weapon, and with 
 the choice of upgrade not being particularly good for a vast majority of your favorite killing 
 tools.
  
  The combat its self is quite nice and tinkering about in the options gives you a auto aim ability 
 which coupled with the duel wield, i some times found that i was targeting two different enemy's 
 at the same time, then come the Jedi mind tricks, well not quite Jedi but still, they do tend to 
 make the going easy though sometimes i still found my self having to repeat bits because i got 
 my bits handed back to me on a plate.
  
  The graphics are not to bad in there own right with some nice touches here and there, at 1600x1200 
 i still noticed some jagged edges and clipping problems that I'm sure could have been avoided with 
 a bit more polish, yet even at this resolution with all settings and draw distances maxed out, 
 i had no slowdown even in some of the most intense battles. scenery and cityscapes are good with 
 some nice neotokyo feel and look about them.
  
  The controls are OK, yet i found that if you have a joy pad AND a mouse that use USB, it made the 
 camara rotate around the player as if a button was stuck, just unplugging one of the control devices 
 that wasn't in use fixed this problem.
  
  Well on a hole a good game, if your into your sci fi then this game is itching to be played, OK 
 its got some bad points here and there, but nothing major. If you can rent it or get a demo first 
 i highly recommend you try it out, you will either love it or hate it.
  
  happy gaming Pot Noodle
  
  P. S your going to love the cut scenes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDon24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The game has an well writen storyline, inspired by star wars like fantasy, while exploring an age 
 old philosophy on human powers. Keeping in mind that neither Halo or Star Wars are totally generic, 
 where they get their influences from elsewhere is just a part of life, a big cyclic patern. The 
 same story will be told a thousand times but a million different ways. Exploring the story is meant 
 to maintain in ones imaginary mind, afterall thats where we come up with great stories in the first 
 place. Gamplay was fun although there is always room for improvement. NO GAME IS PERFECT!!! NOT 
 EVEN HALO, which in my mind is very un-original, just another retold story through a different 
 lense. I still loved playing Halo, was a great game, but nothing in that game bloated authenticity 
 except for a few things about plot. This is all i realy had to say. Always remember that we all 
 have a different lense, so dont take a critic 100 percent seriously, only use their words for guidline 
 purposes, and if mojority of their words are negatively written chances are they're just upset 
 with one minor flaw and so it chain reacted their whole entire analysis. So do your own investigations 
 find multiple sources of different reviewers. Cause if you just trust one, then thats being biased 
 in itself. Thank you and have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tojo2000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay takes a while to get used to, but once you get past the learning curve, it's a really 
 fun game if you like playing games for the story. The awkward controls get a lot better after you're 
 used to them for a while, and the music was very nicely done.
  
  I just bought this game last week, so I was a little disappointed with the graphics, especially 
 on the cutscenes, but it's well-paced and keeps throwing just enough variety at you to keep you 
 from feeling that you're just running around shooting things. Toward the end you have to start 
 employing more strategy to make it though. Thank goodness they got Orson Scott Card to write the 
 screenplay (along with a guy whose name I forget, but who I'm sure did a stellar job as well) , 
 because without the engaging story I wouldn't have enjoyed it so much. I agree with the GameSpot 
 reviewer when he says they didn't give enough time to develop the characters, but I disagree about 
 the difficulty. You have the option of turning up the difficulty if you want, but my take on it 
 was that this was meant to be played as sort of an interactive movie. Making the game too much 
 more difficult would have made the pacing off and would have broken up the story too much.
  
  Top it all off with the fact that you can buy it on Steam for $20 and I recommend buying it, 
 leaving it on the default difficulty, and blasting through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kugelbl1tZ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game as a budget-title, but it's worth the money, although i beat the game in less 
 than 10 hours because, when you gain all these powers you can basically rush through your enemies. 
 It's pretty cool as you can choose to not use any weapons at all later on, your powers are all 
 u need, but if you want, you can still use weapons or even fight with your hands and foots, there 
 are also some special moves that are pretty cool when going into close combat. The story is great, 
 i'd really like to see it finished, sadly i fear it'll never happen due to the bad sales of this 
 one, who would make a sequel to a game that didn't sell so well? You probably really need to know 
 this one to understand a 2nd advent as there is a great cliffhanger in the end. The atmosphere 
 is underlined by a good soundtrack, just the cutscenes looked somewhat blurry, don't whether it's 
 my computer or the game. I didn't notice any glitches in the game, except that it crashed maybe 
 3 times within 9 hours or so. But that's not much of a problem since there are alot of checkpoints 
 in the game that are saved automatically, though you cannot save the game seperatly. I had alot 
 of fun because this game is a lot different from other shooters or action games, it feels a bit 
 like jedi knight but on steroids, no need for a lightsabre here :D
  I'd buy the sequel immediatly if there was one just because i want to know what will happen next... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassmike187
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. I made a mistake buying it.
  
  Maybe Oblivion ruined me for single player games, but this game is really just awful in so many 
 ways.
  
  The graphics are really sad, no 1280X1024 option... too many boring cut scenes, bad japanimation 
 style... the more I think about it, the more I wish I could get a refund. I should have sone my 
 homework on this one.
  
  I'm suprised Steam would carry this junk, I had more faith in them. p
  
  This game is terrible. 
 I made a mistake buying it.
  
  Maybe Oblivion ruined me for single player games, but this game is really just awful in so many 
 ways.
  
  The graphics are really sad, no 1280X1024 option... too many boring cut scenes, bad japanimation 
 style... the more I think about it, the more I wish I could get a refund. I should have sone my 
 homework on this one.
  
  I'm suprised Steam would carry this junk, I had more faith in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics of the game resemble those of a Doom/Halo (ok but not great) , the variety of 
 monsters and friends you find in the way offer enough detail to admire. Gigantic ships, bases with 
 plenty of details. There are no puzzles in the game. Many things about the mechanics are rather 
 daring, you can drive a car, tourrete, spaceship and your walking, jumping and dodging are fun 
 too. This game feels like as close as an fps fun will ever get to playing an RPG. The story will 
 involve you and make you ask for more level to level. The music is absolutely fantastic, all sound 
 in general is very well represented. The game lasts abou 10-12hours just the same as a Half-Life 
 or a Max Payne, so for those who think is short then maybe you liked it too much ; ) and you should 
 pray for a sequel. I myself would love to play the continuation to this game.
  
  Cons: This is completely a console game, everything moves a bit retarded for a PC player. Graphics 
 do not match those expected by a PC game either everything from the way things move and look will 
 remind you of playing in front of a TV. Because of the controls made with a gamepad in mind it 
 is rather difficult to throw things, all keys need to be mapped for those two abilities and two 
 abilities only (more crippled stuff from console)
  
  P. S. I think games like these should have a label that indicates made for console. The learning 
 curve is 4 or more hours becaus you keep on getting new powers you have to exercise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocketroy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Like any other sci-fi epic, this game has a definite fan base of sci-fi people. But I liked this 
 game so much that I played it until I almost beat it. In one day. I am usually quite critical of 
 sci-fi games because a lot of them are made poorly and the audio is done over the phone. You couldn't 
 catch that in this game.
  
  The story is great, the graphics are good, and the sound quality/music quality is fantastic.
 
  
  Now i have to type more to reach the hundred words.
  
  good game.
  
  I think that I got to the part where you go to kill the Seeker transmitter. Maybe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Advent Rising (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Advent Rising fails to disappoint even the hardcore gamers. With a story to die for and style that 
 kills how can someone not enjoy this game. You play as Gideon Wyeth a captain who has had his home 
 world destroyed by aliens called seekers. 
  
  As Gideon tries to stop the seekers from destroying other worlds he gains special powers that he 
 never knew he had. This game is the first of 3 attachments and doesn't fail in any way at all but 
 rather delivers to all gamers.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As you progress through the game you gain special powers, which you can use to your advantage. 
 From slowing down time to shooting ice shards Gideon is well equipped. But that isn't all, you 
 also have guns and alot of them too. Ranging from normal blasters to rocket launchers called Gnashbone 
 Fury, this game has it all. 
  
  The controls are also well adjusted and are fairly simple to get into. The flick targeting works 
 so wonderful on the pc version compared to the console. You use the mouse wheel to move the targeting 
 from one enemy to another. 
  
  This takes away the problem that was said to be in the Xbox version of the game. Where you had 
 to use the analog stick to control the camera and to also control the targeting system. This caused 
 major frustrations for a lot of gamers.
  
  But this game isn't all cake and ice cream, there are problems. And this review was going so good, 
 oh well. First off what is going on with the cut scenes. I remember in one of them Gideon's brother 
 died. All of a sudden there he is fighting beside you, and then he dies again in the following 
 cut scene. 
  
  At this point I am like what the hell. But not only that there are some slowdowns it isn't anything 
 major but if you like your frame rate to be normal throughout your games, you will be mad.
  
  Besides these minor problems Majesco did very well in controls and the overall gameplay. Advent 
 Rising doesn't fail in this department.
  
  Visuals
  
  Well what can I say; the visuals aren't as stunning as I wanted it to be. Yes the special effects 
 of your powers look okay but nothing is mind blowing. The graphics could have been better I expected 
 more but im sure that this wouldn't take down the fun value of the game. 
  
  Sound
  
  Tommy Tallarico Studios did the music for this game. This guy is a genius; he did such a wonderful 
 job. Everything sounds great and so professionally done. The only problem is that it sometimes 
 gets repetitive and you will be hearing the music over and over. This gets really annoying. 
  
  The sounds effects are alright also. They are just like the visuals not mind blowing at all 
 but rather just average.
  
  Overall
  
  Wonderful game, excellent story, superb music. Advent Rising really starts off the trilogy the 
 right way and doesn't fail at anything. Make sure to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerules1990
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Starting off, this game sorta caught my eye in one of the few old magazines i'd been skimming through 
 and decided to pick up and i was very pleased with this game from start to finish now then, the 
 character models, even on the highest settings, can still look blocky at times, but i doubt you'll 
 really care once you get used to it. The games story will surely catch your eye, leaving on the 
 edge of your seat at times, but can die down a bit, after running and gunning your way through 
 alien's and the like, your equipped with some power's later on in the game which prove extremely 
 useful throughout the game, and can be very fun to use, replay value.. i can't say there is much 
 of that.. i remember sitting down and trying to go past a few parts again, but it just didn't really 
 leave that same feeling of excitement it did the first time through, also onto the voice acting, 
 it's actually pretty good, with emotions actually taking over the character that you can believe 
 through they're voice, which is nice... onto the music, as alex says it gets and stays sappy and 
 dramatic throughout the whole game even if nothings really happening, but it really fits the mood 
 and atmosphere of the game in general in my opinion, some other weak points... sometimes the game 
 will just sort of drag on with the usual running back and forth trying to find the right door, 
 which brings me to something that would have been nice in a game like this, a map. I guess they 
 just wanted to make it more like a movie, but you'll get pretty confused at some points, but its 
 nothing you can't overlook, so if your looking for a good action adventure game, for a $20 little 
 dent in your wallet i strongly recommend picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeshaX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  I fear that Alex Navaro's judgement was immaturely based over the looks of the game and the characters 
 as well, given how he analyzed Gideon as 'unfit' for the role of Hero. Uninspiring Storyline? Are 
 you sure that it wasn't just Gideon's sleeping seconds in his space shuttle was what all that you 
 saw? Readers will say that each of us retain our own tastes and I acknowledge their statements, 
 thus concluding that the game was rated only on a personal basis and not 'Gamespot' as a whole. 
 Unfortunately, this is how journalism works nowadays.
  
  With no doubt, Advent Rising could use a tune up in the graphics and a dozen of fixes in the game, 
 as even in the PC version. Example, while walking on water, the texture of your character's edges 
 will deform to razor-like particles, giving off a sense of irritation. However, this can not and 
 should not prove opposite to the fact that IS indeed one of the most impressive games one could 
 ever play. 
  
  There are points that 'Gamespot' does not exactly ask you to rate, which I give an 8.1 for each 
 of the following. The fitting voice-overs, the spine-shivering storylines, the elegant orchestra 
 and the drama that promotes some near-truthful recognition of what truly is conflict and strife, 
 despite the superstitions involved in the game. Once you make it past the credits, (and yes, there 
 is further game-play after the credits and even cutscenes) you will come to know just how hard 
 - and very disappointing it will should there be no Advent Rising 2. 
  
  The storyilne is indeed short - but not worth missing.
  
  This game - along with its poorly 
 judged siblings - deserves more praise then what the main reviewers have to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I really dont understand how this game got such low ratings by most of the sites. I would say at 
 least a 7.4. First off im not sure if im right but it has to be one of the most cinematic games 
 ive played with the cutscenes adding alot to the game. It does get alot of its ideas from other 
 movies and games but it is executed really well. The story is basically a hostile alien race called 
 the seekers is out to wipe out mankind and they suceed except for killing a small amount of humans. 
 another race warns the humans of the attack and they play a big part in the story as well. Of course 
 you are out to stop the seekers and there is quite a few human and alien guns but once you start 
 getting your abilities thats pretty much all you need to win. The games category would fit under 
 3rd person run and gun game i would say. At first the game didnt seem that great but after playing 
 it all the way through i thought it was a really great game and deserved a higher score. The major 
 problem is the games graphics do take some getting used to and they could be quite a bit better 
 in the enviroments. The sound and music are fantasic with many people saying some of the best music 
 ever put in a game. I am rather disappointed that i hear the game was a commercial failure and 
 they wont be completeing the trilogy as was planned. I would definatley get the next game if they 
 ever make one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrvw
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game actually wasn't that bad. Sure it could have been longer maybe the improve the vehicle 
 physics. But it was fun. If you play the game and get past the first few cut scenes it gets better. 
 Specially once you can charge up and send a blast to knock back an entire room of creatures. You 
 can beat the game through on normal in a day. Couple different cutscene options depending on how 
 you choose your steps. (girls are hot too btw) Mix of Halo - Oni - and Max Payne...
  play the game through and it sets you up for a second! Hopefully Advent Rising 2, makes it to the 
 selves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a breath taking, immersive, fanatical game. I was a bit lost at first but then I realised 
 I am getting the chance to live a sci-fi novel.
  The game takes you in immediately, with cinematics and superb acting all the while taking you on 
 a tutorial to learn the games mechanics. I think they get some hyped up junior or a tainted reviewer 
 who just feels these types of games are a waste of their time and they rather be off performing 
 repetive mouse button tapping in Doom 3. 
  If you love story driven games with great graphics and wonderful gameplay, then this is it. Otherwise 
 waste your life listening to the reviews of gamespot which I grow to ignore more and more every 
 day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numbasss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  yeah it is a little bit to misjudged,, i donoo i really have a problem with gameplay.. in games... i 
 haven't played the game but of what i've sen in the trailers and game movies.. i think it's worth 
 my time... i'll see how the character moves around and find out for myself if the game is that much 
 of a dicapointment.. anywayi'm a hudge fan of halo.. so i would mind playing a thjird person version 
 of it... in any case i rate this game verry high i liked the producers in ther interview.. and i 
 hope it will be to my lieking.. Anyway if the ost comes even close to that of halo's i'm in love 
 with this game :X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solaris222002
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that just isnt worth being made or played. Even since Majesco Games 
 made Pulse Racer anytime I see that name Im expecting disappointment and Advent Rising doenst let 
 me down. I heard great things about this game about a year before it came out, saying it was going 
 to be one of the best games of the year. Story was predictable, graphics were terrible, gameplay 
 was boring and repetative. I got stuck in the levels so many times I just gave up trying to beat 
 the game. The cut scenes were so long and drawn out that it became predictable and boring that 
 it makes you skip it and miss out on a big part of the story. Dont buy or even rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace_starfighter
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The game actuallly will run with a setup under 2ghz (my own 1.8ghz) , if ya got a good vid card 
 (visiontek card, radeon 9600XT core, with 256 mb vram) and some ram (640mb @100-133 mhz) the game's 
 easy on easy and game play is ok but mouse steering on vehicles get pretty funky. I would recommend 
 this game for all space/sci-fi nerds worldwide. The animation looks animated, slight down side, 
 but halo like quality where enemies are aliens. looks like it'll get interesting. A cheaper, different 
 halo where you CAN fly. AWESOME. Puts breed into its place! AHHH 100 words is too much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well after some time playing the game after an easy installation on my PC I've come to a conclusion, 
 this isn't a bad game by far!
  
  I'm offering up a quick review for Advent Rising, PC version:
  
  Gameplay: The controls on 
 the PC work pretty good, it's kind of like a FPS except it's 3rd person action game, though you 
 can switch into first person when you want. The gun play works and it's extremely easy to pic up, 
 the wheel scroll targets an enemy or you can apply "auto target" in the Options menu and when you 
 shoot your character, Gideon, automaticlly hits the closest enemy. I play with Auto Aim since the 
 action can get pretty intense. Once you achieve your godly powers the whole fighting becomes exceedingly 
 addictive with the ability to lift multiple enemies at once, shoot shards of exploding ice, and 
 surge energy at a group of enemies while exploding the glass all around you. Vehicles handle well 
 but they aren't the focus so it's no big deal.
  
  Graphics: Advent Rising some reason feels alittle like halo, i fell the style and it's very futuristic 
 but the enemies seem to close to Halo along with some of the vehicles. It's not to original but 
 when it's done it looks good. The game does suffer from low resolutions textures and that hurts 
 the game with some of the huge landscapes and character skins. The character clothes are cool and 
 very simplistic but work. The character's themself have short torsos and incredibly long legs but 
 my drawings do the same, so I'm biased in liking the style. The game is full of cutscenes and they 
 execute the story really well and best of all look good.
  
  Sound: Some of the most epic tracks I've heard in a long time! Fit perfectly into the story and 
 seems to work well with what's going on. The voice acting is really good but not perfect. Gideon 
 carries himself really well and the secondary characters each have their own humurous personalities.
 
  
  Value: Love it so much I'll be playing this just for the abilities to kill the creatures in some 
 of the coolest ways i've ever played in a game.
  
  Story: Engaging and has a great concept with Humans being the gods, not the other way around for 
 once. The character, Gideon, is real and feels real. You can feel the burdon on his shoulders and 
 the choices you make alter the story, it's highly immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  id read about this game and it had quite a few bad words said. i found it to be challanging and 
 fun. The main figher gideon changes throughout the game. going from boysish to deff manhood. of 
 course he earned it. had a girlsfriend lost her, finds another and finds looses finds her throughout 
 the game. two teams,. good beings that want to save humanity, and lizard dino beings that want 
 everything that doesnt bow to them destroyed, great powers lift surge guns of all types ice balls 
 from hands as you progress more weapons come to you. the colors and graphics remind me of halo 
 and parah with life saving stations of halflife thrown in. your movements in the beginning are 
 choppy at best but you as the gamer get better. drive flying tanks through lava beds that you can 
 almost feel the heat. fight dodge fight. run. the story line is realistic and easy to follow a 
 lot of video to tell you where your going. what i found interesting and not in any other game was 
 that when the credit arrived and you thought it was finally done. WRONG it is far from over. you 
 get the best fight for last. the boss fights are not that easy eather. they nail you left right 
 and center in my opion a really fine little game worth a try in any gamers table. very pretty to 
 watch the reason it took me so long to finish is cause i always snoop around and die just to see 
 things. hate to rush only thing i didnt like was sound effects to mch music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  ummmmm...... what can I say. This is a fantastic game with one of the best stories I have seen in 
 a video game. But with some annoying glitches and a control system that takes a little time to 
 get used to it could of been alot better. You assume the role of Gideon Wyeth and plunge head long 
 into a sci-fi story written by the famous author Orson Scott Card. Basically alien cultures think 
 that humans are mythical beings that hold awesome powers and before the end you will be harnessing 
 all of them. But there are some races of aliens that think humans are the scum of the universe 
 and should be wiped out and this is where the story kicks off. First contact has been made by a 
 race of peaceful aliens (the Aurelians) to warn the human race of an impending attack by the Seekers. 
 Then all hell breaks loose and the action is non stop. There are a good range of weapons and you're 
 able to pick up the enemies weapons that lie about. A nice touch I thought is that you can "map" 
 what weapon/power you want in each hand. At first you'll only have weapons, so you can dual weild. 
 But as the game progresses you find that you have powers i. e lift, time shift, surge, negate, aeon 
 pulse and shatter. These can then be "mapped" to either hand. By the end of the game you will have 
 almost no need for weapons as the powers are so good that the game almost becomes to easy. You'll 
 find yourself just walking around picking up the bad guys and throwing them around or using some 
 of the projectile powers to launch them into next week. This is where the first flaw becomes apparant, 
 as the game progreses and your powers become stronger the game just gets really easy. Where most 
 games get more difficult as they go on, Advent Rising gets ridiculously easy. And before you know 
 it it's all over within 10 hours. The graphics are sublime in parts, with huge levels that seem 
 to go on forever but you can't explore it because you are on "rails" and is very linear and this 
 is where the second flaw comes into play. You can see all this beutiful level but can't get to 
 see it because there are mountains in the way or invisble walls etc. It seems to push you in the 
 direction it wants you to go and thats that. The game needs a fairly decent PC to play it aswell 
 and there are some levels where the frame rate drops dramaticaly and when you're in the middle 
 of a fire fight this isn't the best thing that can happen. Apart from this the characters and the 
 levels are well made and do look fantastic. The sound is great and seems to fit the type of game 
 with a lovely orchestral sound track to boot. Now comes the third and final flaw, the flick control 
 system. On paper it sounds great but in practice it can become very annoying. You use the mouse 
 wheel to lock onto your enemies, up for left and down for right. So in the middle of a fire fight 
 with upto 10 enemies on the screen it can lock onto anything. Then as the game gets going and you 
 get your powers, especially lift, the target system seems to want to lock onto everything that 
 can be thrown. I found myself screaming at the screen, NOT THAT, THAT!! just a shame my computer 
 dosen't understand me. LOL Overall Advent Rising is a good game but if a little more time had been 
 spent on ironing out the glitches and making sure the control system worked properly this could 
 well of been a higher score. This is only the first game of a trilogy and hopefully things can 
 only get better. But, as I read somewhere on the internet the sales from this game haven't been 
 good, so I don't even know whether the other two games will even see the light of day. Personally 
 I hope that they do make them as I did enjoy this game and it can only get better as the story 
 unfolds even more, by the way if you do play this game don't skip the end sequences....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Right out of the box and my first installation of this game, left me annoyed. I started up a new 
 game and as soon as I was able to take control, the camera just spun in a 360 degree counter clock-wise 
 motion; making the game unplayable.
  
  I had to uninstall and then reinstall the game to have it working properly. After that, the only 
 other issues I had come across were the bad frame rates that caused lagging problems during cinematic 
 scenes. After the first cut-scene, all others had problems with the audio matching with the characters' 
 movements.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game was a little on the older side of what was available out there (Doom 
 3 and Halo, for examples) , but that aspect didn't really hurt the game at all. More could have 
 been done to make the overall appearance more pleasing and more inline with other high-end games 
 out there, but I do believe that the story line more than makes up for most of the smaller issues 
 here.
  
  Controls took a little time getting use to. Advent Rising implemented a different form of controlling 
 for tracking targets; they have what they call "flick targeting". Flick targeting has its pros 
 and cons:
  
  Pros: Easy to jump from one target to the next, it gives you the quick ability to attack enemies 
 from different directions (i. e. if you have an enemy in front of you and one behind you, you can 
 start attacking the guy in front and then simply "flick" [roll your mouse wheel] and you will turn 
 around and you can continue your attacks on the second guy) .
  
  Cons: Too sensitive, it takes longer then it should to get used to using it and sometimes it was 
 more of a chore to actually get the "flick targeting" to lock on to enemies.
  
  I've had people tell me that this game is just a take-off of Halo, only because of how they see 
 the story set up. However, they're wrong. I see this game as how Halo should have been.
  
  This game provides several different ways you can make progress through the game. You can either 
 decide to gun your way through or once you end up learning your super-human powers, you can just 
 rely on them to advance you through the game. You could even mix and match your powers and the 
 use of weapons if you like.
  
  The other great thing about the fighting is that you can actually do hand-to-hand fighting and 
 take down enemies that way. I see this as something that Halo should have had. I mean, in Halo 
 you are the Master Chief... you have on your special suit.... shouldn't it help give you the abilities 
 to do some butt-kicking with hand-to-hand, instead of simply relying on shooting guns?
  
  This game is faster paced then Halo and the story line is much more compelling. If Majesco took 
 a bit more time to hammer out the frame-rate issues with the cut-scenes and took the time to more 
 finely tune the targeting system (and made the game a bit longer) and if they created a multi-player; 
 this game could have been a large competitor to Halo.
  
  The story and the abilities provided for fighting are enough (just barely) to help this game be 
 something that everyone should try out, if they are Halo fans or like games like Halo.
  
  I truly hope that Advent Rising was a big enough hit with Majesco and they decide to follow up 
 with the next two games. It would truly be a shame to see this story line die off, from a few let 
 downs in the graphic, frame-rate and targeting departments.
  
  Overall, the game rates 8 out of 10 for me. The storyline plays the largest role in my decision 
 and the fact that you can play through the game several times -- trying out new fighting styles 
 -- using just weapons, using just your powers (once you get them) or using them together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyD473
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  First and foremost the story for this game is amazing. They also combined the normal guns with 
 some special powers which, other then for 3 of the bosses are not required for you to use. instead 
 of just strafing you can flip back, dive forward, or cart wheel left or right, and shoot while 
 you do it. They also slow the game down to give it that Matrix feeling when you are doing one of 
 those four moves. Everything, from jumping, dodging, strafing, and powers have there own exp points 
 and move up throughout the game.
  
  The cut scenes are amazing and make the story go really well. It is also interesting that early 
 on in the game you must choose either your girlfriend or brother, and your choice will come back 
 to haunt you later on in the game. I can't wait till the other two games of the trilogy come out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Advent Rising is the first in a trilogy that was written by Orson Scott Card. The story puts you 
 in the shoes of Gideon, a pilot that has been selected along with his brother to meet an alien 
 race that has come to visit humans. The Aurelians seem to think that humans are the second coming 
 of super beings and practically worship us. While you meet with them, you find out that a second 
 race of aliens, the Seekers, is coming to exterminate humanity from existence.
  
  The story in the game is the first thing that will catch you. Extended cut sequences that sometimes 
 last for up to 10 minutes, will move the plot forward. The story is top notch and shows the skill 
 of Orson Scott Card. The man can flat out tell a story. I really found the story was what kept 
 me involved in the game. If I ran into trouble, I would keep playing, because the story is just 
 so good. I am not sure if there is an Advent Trilogy novel out there, but if there is, I have to 
 get it, because it is a fabulous story.
  
  The game plays out in a third person view, with a camera over the shoulder type view. You can wield 
 two weapons at the same time and you will need to as the enemies come fast and furious. As you 
 start playing, you notice the environments have a lot of polish to them. They seem different and 
 give you a good sci-fi vibe. The enemies are a bit generic at times, but they are somewhat intelligent 
 and they will try to flank you.
  
  The graphics are where things start to be a problem. While they look good and I was able to get 
 the game to run at 1920x1200 with full detail on, it was choppy at best. I tried running at lower 
 resolutions and with less detail on, but it was still choppy. This is normally a sign of a poor 
 port job from console to PC. I think due to the rushing of the game to shelves, you ended up with 
 poor testing of the PC side of things.
  
  Sound was just as good. Voiceovers were great and the actors really believed in the story. No phoning 
 in of roles here. Weapons sounded good and ambient sounds are great. The theme of the game is good 
 although can be repetitive after several cut scenes.
  
  Game glitches are also a huge problem. Several times I had to reload to a checkpoint, because an 
 elevator I needed to take would not accept my command or a door would not open. Normally loading 
 a checkpoint solved the problem, but it should not have been that way. Also enemies getting trapped 
 in a wall or something like that would end up needing a reload.
  
  The game seems to have a lot going for it if they would of just taken the time to fine tune the 
 game. I do not blame Glyphx for this problem, but Majesco. They were having a lot of financial 
 issues at the time and they pushed this game out the door. Shame on them for ruining a great game 
 by pushing for sales instead.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the fact that it just becomes too easy after you start getting 
 special powers. Yes, you come to realize in the game that humans have talents that allow them to 
 have super powers. You are trained to use these powers against the enemies. Problem is that you 
 just become too powerful from this moment on. A little adjustment in powers would go a long way.
 
  
  The game is part of a trilogy, but due to poor performance, it will probably never be finished. 
 I am upset as the game had a fantastic story and even with all of its flaws, I was able to continue 
 playing due to that story. If you get a chance, play this game as you will find it to be a flawed, 
 yet satisfying game that offers so much, but just needed some more fixit time before being released.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  The game eat a lot of disk space. But its really worth it. Every minute in the game always have 
 something interesting. The variety of storytelling is good.
  I don't know why Game Spot gave only 6.3 points. Its a good game. 
  the graphics OK and the sounds 
 cool! The enemy is tough. Many says that the game was easy. But me and my friend always died in 
 the game. Its really challenging. i think Game Spot gave a false review about this good game.
 
  Its a little like Halo but the enemy in this game is a lot more cooler than Halo. And the story 
 a lot better than Halo. The world in this game really alive. The story in this game feels like 
 i'm watching a movie. Every cut scenes are interesting. I'm sure you might don't want to skip the 
 cut scene. Because if you do, that is your loss my friends. 
  
  A must have game for sci-fi fans. Period! I really cant wait for the second game and third game. 
 Its trilogy anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinoru
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  this game is all about the powers. most of the gliches are minor but can be a problem sometimes. 
 The character development doesnt do much but it helps with the story. Once you get your powers 
 you will never go back to weapons again except in some instances. the use of the Unreal engine 
 makes this game as awesome as it should be but Since it is 2006 it is over shadowed by alot of 
 other games like the Xbox 360 lineup. they could have done a lot more but i love this game either 
 way. besides the had Orsen Scott Card help with the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaiden1024
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game was one of very few in a long time that I've thouroughly enjoyed. The story was awesome 
 , the gameplay fun , the plot always moving along.
  
  The story is the real draw for this game. It is a huge sci-fi epic, distant advanced human civilisations 
 , space stations and grand aliens. It's great. And super powers! We can't forget those. I would 
 seriously watch this as a movie which show the calibre of it.
  
  Moving onto the game engine , it's not great all the time , but the view distance is really good. 
 The characters animations are believable and the variation of moves is quite good too. It uses 
 the unreal 3 engine , but with a draw like that I would have expected more , thankfully the graphics 
 are 'good enough' i'd rate them at about 7 (with the art direction added in this is a very fair 
 value should probably do 7.5 really) .
  
  That beings me onto the art direction. Simply it's AMAZING. The worlds , the ships , the vista's 
 every just reaks of style. Textures are sharp and varied and you never get the deja vu feeling 
 of I've been here before while running down a new corridor or when you're on a different planet.
 
  
  Gameplay is fun , but sometimes can become a chore , my character got stuck a few times while i 
 was playing and I had the occasional glitch where a required cut scene didn't start and I'd be 
 stuck in a gamplay purgatory. These were quite irritating , but the worst part was never knowing 
 if I was lost or if the game had broken again , cause restarting is a pain.
  
  My biggest gripe would likely be the save system and the buggy intermission cutscenes. Not knowing 
 where you'd have to start from if you reloaded was a real pain and this being different to if you 
 quit out the game was also really sucky.... I don't know why they did it this way , but on uninstall 
 I found out my entire 10-15 hours of gameplay were rolled up into a 7kb savegame file. That was 
 a nice change :)
  
  Finally if you like sci-fi , engaging stories and anything epic on scale. This is something you 
 shouldn't pass up , this adventure will be with me for a while to come , and a sequel will not 
 be amis in a year or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbm5g
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game got some media coverage at the time of its release, to the surprise of all who listened 
 to the ads and bought the game. First impressions of the game is that it has a good theme music. 
 As you get into the game, you will notice something as soon as you see the characters, their LEGS. 
 Their freakin' toothpic-gigantic legs. I'd say that was a serious flaw in character design. Another 
 graphical flaw you will notice quickly, and even more so later on in the game, is that the developers 
 recycled people/enemies way too much. There's hardly any variety. On a brighter side the game does 
 have a decent amount of levels, with enough variety to keep them from going stale. The characters 
 aren't the best looking ones you ever saw. And you most likely did see better effects in your lifetime 
 of gaming. But they are decent, except when you talk about the cinematics. There seems to be 2 
 kinds of cinematics, one that is done in a decent FMV kind of way, and another that is just a dull-downed 
 version of your gameplay graphics. The FMV stuff is decent, but the cutscene graphics which use 
 a low screen resolution is horrible. If Advent Rising 2 comes out, I hope they do learn to use 
 the most recent graphics techniques.
  
  Soundwise, the game is sound. With a decent set of orchestral backdrop and onpar weapons and power 
 sounds. There really isn't much to comment about here, except that maybe the developers should 
 have used some EAX support with their game.
  
  In the gameplay department, the game scores average. The storyline is what is keeping the game 
 alive. The targetting system of the game is what is insane. You get to control your character in 
 a sort of Diablo-like way. You get to control each hand seperately. The view shows each hand's 
 ammo, loaded weapon/power. Each hand doesn't affect the other in any way. So you can load a strong 
 power or weapon in each hand and use them simaltaneously, which is cool considering the powers 
 in this game are pretty useful and powerful as time progresses. The enemies are not very hard. 
 There are some bosses, who are all easy enough to defeat without any trouble. Overall, I'd say 
 the game was worth it. Especially the ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obsidiansnpr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game a lot. It reminded me of Halo, but without the annoyingness and with an 
 actual story (one that involves more than just shooting things) . There's character growth, and 
 great gameplay. I actually enjoy the weapon system. Although at first it was a bit awkward its 
 actually fairly simple to use. there is a fair amount of difficulty, and despite what the review 
 says, getting your psychic powers doens't make the game easy. The gameplay actually changes to 
 different settings that make it more difficult to simply use the throw tech to win battles. Obviously 
 you could do that but it would take a long time and be very boring. using a mix of psychic powers 
 and weapons makes the game a lot faster paced and adds a lot of action. The two systems are supposed 
 to be seemless but the review makes them out to be completely seperate.
  
  I find that these reviews often miss the point of the video game. who cares if you can cheaply 
 beat the game and write a review, you aren't taking advantage of how the game was meant to be played. 
 Anyways, that's my rant.
  
  I'd like like to see the rest of the trilogy...
  
  lobo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzaar
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The Lowdown
  One of my most looked forward to games of 2005 was the super hyped Advent Rising. Advent Rising 
 promised sweeping storytelling, fantastic graphics, epic music, and sound so sweet you can taste 
 it. For the most part alot of that is there. The storyline is pretty monumental (if short) and 
 the score is easily one of the best (if not THE best) I've ever hear in a video game. The voices 
 are pretty good as well.
  
  The Good
  The story is something to be applauded. Boasts an epic story by Orson Scott Card and it shows. 
 Also the music is damn good too. 
  
  The Bad
  The controls are almost HORRENDOUS. You do, however get very used to them and it isn't all that 
 bad about 5 hours in, which brings me to my next point. The game with one of the most epic stories 
 is also one of the shortest. Beatable in 10 hours on the easy setting, the game could have fleshed 
 out characters, brought you to different planets and more. More could have happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The game, as all you might already know, takes place in a near future where humans first come in 
 contact with an alien race. You play a pilot wich has been assigned to fly the embassador's ship 
 to the alien vessel hovering above earth. These aliens end up warning you that theres another species 
 out there, the Seekers, that are out destroying everything and they are headed right for Earth. 
 As soon as you understand that, the Seekers pop up and start blowing everything up and the real 
 fun begins.
  
  The best aspect of this game is probably the gameplay. It's a little bit like Halo some users have 
 added, and indeed it is. A great aspect is the fact that you have so many powers sometimes you 
 will be undecided one to use in the right occasion to pick out enemies. The targeting system takes 
 some time getting used to though, the default for targeting something is the mouse wheel i think, 
 but theres an option that makes your character automatically shoot the closest target. Some people 
 say it's too hard to get used to and not worth your time, but I highly disagree, it's not that 
 bad.
  
  The graphics for this game overall aren't great, but then again, why do you really need high end 
 design that just slows down your pc and is all flash and no substance. I don't understand why people 
 would hate this game just because you see an alien laying on a slope and not falling down, or a 
 body just dissappearing suddenly. I defently prefer some flaws of that kind that give me smooth 
 gameplay rather than buying a computer just for high end gaming. 
  But other graphics of the game are very well done, the powers you will use are one of them, I just 
 love to concentrate and use the surge power wave at its maximum and make a bunch of enemies fly.
 
  
  The sound is amazing too, you just need to love the orchestra music playing in the background making 
 you feel more into the story. The dramatic opera playing while you see defenceless humans getting 
 blown to bits or while something crucial happens is just... wow... 
  
  The only true thing that this game is missing, and a lot of games recently, is the poor character 
 feel. The game starts out alright introducing your brother and you soon start to get to know him. 
 But that won't happen for the rest of the characters. Things just seem to happen so fast that some 
 other person or alien joins your party and you don't even know why. At one point in the game you'll 
 meet a women who, only through the video, will help you escape Earth. But all that happens in such 
 a way that it seems you've been friends for years.
  
  In some other moments, during a mission, you would reach your objective, and all your party members 
 will stay back next to that objective while you head back into some other room. And all that will 
 happen without explaining why your objective is THAT or why your buddies stayed back.
  Me being a Sci-Fi addict, I loved the game, but I personally belive it needs those small little 
 things that make a game just perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Now before i begin the review know that no matter what Gamespot or Gamespy say this is a very good 
 game (atleast on the PC) , IGN is the only one with a positive review.
  On the first look this may seem like Halo in 3rd person but it is as fun as what Halo was with 
 some amazing non-stop action that'll keep you excited for hours.
  Graphically the game is pretty good there aren't any serious frame-rate issues on the PC plus their 
 aren't many bugs, glitches or crashes.
  Gameplay is good as well but it may be even better with a joypad but mouse & keyboard combo is 
 alrite to play this game.
  The sound & voice acting are nice but the music is excellent, cheers for Tommy Tallerico.
  The 
 game is a bit short & can be beaten in under 10 hours but it's still one hell of a ride.
  Their are dozens of weapons & some powers as well like TK, time damp & few more.
  In the end if 
 your looking for a good 3rd person shooter on the PC with a good story & cinematic action then 
 play Advent Rising at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  The words To Be Continued appear on the screen when you complete Advent Rising.
  
  How painful.
  
  This game had it all: a brilliant plot, great gameplay mechanics (at least 
 on paper) , a big budget, and a big name (Orson Scott Card, author of the Ender novels) behind it.
 
  
  It is fun, frustrating, emotional, uninspired, beautiful, and ugly all in itself.
  
  Advent Rising is about hope rising from desperation. You play Gideon Wyeth, co-pilot of the first 
 ship from Edumea to make contact with extraterrestrial species. It turns out that the aliens, members 
 of a race called Aurelians, have come to warn us of an imminent threat: the N'Kuls - also known 
 as the Seekers. As is conveniently summed up everywhere but in the game, the Seekers are a great 
 race who travel to planets all over the universe, bring gifts of resources and technology to the 
 people they meet, and almost single-handedly created the Galactic Senate.
  
  Fortunately, the game does tell us that the Seekers' true goal is to render humans extinct.
  
 
  It appears that many civilizations believe in 'mythical' beings of great power known as humans. 
 The Seekers seek us out to deny us the chance to recognize this power. Gideon makes it off the 
 planet just in time. Aboard the Aurelian ship, he learns of his hidden powers and goes on to wipe 
 out the Seeker presence on Aurelia.
  
  Compelling plot, if you ask me. Especially when it is backed up by the best musical score in any 
 game ever. IGN's review said that Advent Rising's soundtrack is the sort of thing which makes you 
 go look for MP3s. I say it's the sort of soundtrack that draws you in for another run through the 
 game just to hear it all again.
  
  The first hour is great enough. While the graphics is definitely below par, the game does manage 
 to evoke an atmosphere of desperation with other tools. It's truely haunting when you see Gideon, 
 dragging his injured brother Ethan alongside, forced to walk away from a group of marines locked 
 in an impossible battle against the Seekers.
  
  Then it starts to break down. The action is overly simplistic. The AI is kind of like the one in 
 Dynasty Warriors. The controls aren't quite handy. The camera goes mad sometimes. The art design 
 is mind-numbingly derivative. The storytelling becomes shoddy.
  
  Then you're swept up in another brilliant cutscene, raising your nape hairs and pushing you head 
 first into another alien encounter.
  
  I'm still recovering from the pain of hindsight, so I won't say much else here. Advent Rising is 
 an enjoyable game, but it's nowhere near great. Its peaks are high enough to make you want another 
 go at it, a sequel.
  
  But now that Majesco's given up on big-budget titles, not to mention the game's disastrous sales, 
 I guess it's the end for Gideon Wyeth.
  
  Goodbye, Mr. Wyeth. I'll look forward to our next meeting, whenever that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r_mossey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I've never written anything about a game on the internet before but when I came online 
 looking for reviews and stuff like that for this game having already played and beat it, I was 
 SHOCKED to see it got such a bad ratng... not to say that I dont partially agree with some of the 
 problems people are having with the game (i. e camera, dodge button - also pick up button) but I 
 think the pros like good storyline, awesome music, easy controls and wicked visuals definately 
 outweigh the cons 
  
  the main downside in my mind would be the camera lock-on. Running away is very important when the 
 time comes, and that's kinda of hard to do when you lock on the enemies all around you BUT still 
 do-able. Another con I guess would have to be the story? according to some people... but i'd have 
 to COMPLETELY disagree! I can't wait to find out next. 
  
  I'm just saying that the game has a very cool story accompanied by some pretty good cinematics. 
 the game looks good 99% of the time which is saying something right there, since most games mainly 
 advertise the cinematics and not the gameplay specifically, which this game didnt do, all game-play 
 baby!
  
  The music is a big plus. great epic music during some slower parts, and even BETTER fast-paced 
 epic music during the fight/adventure parts. While on the topic of audio in the game, the voices 
 were done very well too. Tommy Tallarico, one of the main hosts of Electric Playground, was the 
 script editor not to mention a voice in the game if I'm not mistaken. His job is critiquing games. 
 That right there let me know that I wouldn't be let down in that department, which I wasn't.
  
  I've read some reviews about Advent Rising ripping some other series off, like Halo 2 and Titan 
 AE. but I dont think it did purposely or enough for people to whine about. I dont want to give 
 away any of the story for those who haven't played it, but in regards to ripping offHalo 2, that 
 had a very different outcome not to mention Halo is a completely different kind of game, but the 
 only rip off would be the 4-wheeler thing you drive around in near the beginning. and Titan AE.... 
 did people actually SEE that movie? if this game can salvage anything from that movie and make 
 **** into gold, then hey, why would you want to stop that?
  
  Advent Rising is definately my type of epic, space combat, action adventure, save the world kinda 
 game and even though I personally would like to change some things... that's what sequels are for 
 right? It's a trilogy and just because the game didn't hit the bulls eye the first time doesn't 
 mean it won't, and it was pretty damn close the first time anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toingtoing
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gamespot was completely, utterly wrong with this review. 
  
  Lets examine the so-called "bad points" from the review. 
  
  -Terribly derivative art design- 
 
  Deriative art design my ass. This looks nothing like Halo. Halo was one drab grey corridor after 
 another. Then one plain green field after another. Advent Rising takes you from space station to 
 planet surface to city to alien homeworld to volcano. 
  
  And the enemies do NOT look like Halo's baddies. They look, act, and sound differently, and much 
 much better than Halo. They seem alive, whearas in Halo they look like bumbling clowns.
  
  Besides, as soon as you start the game you'll notice much effort has gone into creating a distinctly 
 stylised world. It feels right. It feels credible. It has its own identity. 
  
  One more thing, that turnip head Alex Navarro claims that the character design is bad, not quite 
 anime and not quite real. Who cares? Why does it have to conform to set designs? You didn't gripe 
 about Fable's disproportionate characters, did you? Plus as said in another reader review, the 
 planet Edumea has weak gravity, hence the slight elongation of the characters. 
  
  -character control can be a serious pain during combat-
  This is only true if you happen to be 
 a vegetable with no arm control. The controls feel natural, and the targeting system is only necessary 
 for the 'Lift' power and to lock your guns on a target. The latter needs no explanation. The former, 
 is perfectly credible. You need to select what you want to lift, hence the easy-to-use mouse wheel 
 system, which lets you select and lift in a split second.
  
  -game is way, way too easy-
  Not for the first half it isn't. Once you get your powers, the game ramps up the challenge for 
 you. More enemies, perhaps, or tougher ones. Even near the end of the game when you're practically 
 a demigod the game doesn't let you off too easy. 
  
  -short and unsatisfying storyline-
  Now this is utter tripe. Its a TRILOGY. The story will be continued! The length is just right for 
 this installment. And a great story it is. Advent Rising has one of the best stories in a game 
 ever. Period. 
  
  Some people have complained about the lack of moral choices. In fact there are only two. But these 
 two are choices that will keep you thinking and hesitating. Unlike most games such as Fable and 
 Black & White, where the choices are shallow and simple 'good or evil', the choices that need to 
 
  made in Advent Rising are more subtle, and they have an effect later in the game. 
  
  This game is pure gold. Its excellent, in every possible way. You'll feel like playing it over 
 and over again. Conveniently, the game is split into chapters, and you can opt to replay a certain 
 part or an entire chapter to relive those glorious moments of gaming goodness.
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  When I first saw a comercial for this game I was pretty excited. I was glad too see that games 
 were trying to get back some measure of story. When I read the gamespot review I was sure it was 
 wrong. Seeing that the pc review was just a cut and paste of the xbox game I was sure that they 
 probably didn't even play this version. But it was pretty accurate. The graphics are kind of poor 
 for this age of gaming. The controls are clunky. The story, which I was most hopefull, was short 
 and really quite bland. The game is also buggy. Cut scenes sometimes don't play or they just don't 
 trigger so you have to reload from the last checkpoint. Which brings me to the point that you can't 
 save your game. The game does it for you. And when you want to quit I was never quite sure where 
 I'd have to pick the game back up. All in all it is a fun game to play. Even with it's flaws it 
 still has some charm to it. Just wait till it's in the bargain bin first. It's not worth full price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allan_X
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I came expecting the worst, seeing as how so many editorial reviews had utterly trashed this long-anticipated 
 "Sci-Fi epic", only to be surprised when I found this game to be a rather pleasant experience. 
 Admittedly, the only reason I got so enamored with it (going on to complete it a few times over 
 the course of a couple weeks) was because the developers and I think alike, in many ways. We appreciate 
 themes of human triumph, dramatic use of super-powers, and a series of levels in which one can 
 liberally apply boot to ass. I don't know why, but I found myself engrossed in the idea of being 
 in Gideon Wyeth's shoes, (grabbing aliens and breaking their necks... downing dropships with beams 
 of energy shot from his hands, etc.) . Seeing this spindly-legged guy leaping, rolling, punching, 
 and projecting a vast array of superpowers... the whole experience grew on me.
  
  The gameplay is superb, and highly free-flowing, if a little repetitive and a bit on the easy side. 
 However, this gameplay is marred by a few technical issues brought on by poor design. Firstly, 
 whoever thought it was a good idea to have enemies spawn by "popping in", in plain sight of the 
 player (this occurs on some levels) , should be fired. Secondly, the audio code occasionally mishandles 
 the volume of certain things, and some of the sound work seemed a little sloppy. Thirdly, there's 
 some inconsistency with the player character's model and what he's wearing in cutscenes between 
 what he wears before or after the scene. Finally, some of the levels don't blend together too well, 
 like a bunch of disparate set pieces where they cut out the stuff that was supposed to go in-between.
 
  
  A few notable positives... the musical score is fantastic. Tommy Tallarico should work on higher-profile 
 projects than this. Also, the general concept behind the story leaves a lot to be expanded upon, 
 and I can only hope for a sequel... Unreal Engine 3-powered, of course! (If they can afford it.)
 
  
  If you can overlook the game's flaws, there's plenty of entertainment to be had, here. I can only 
 hope for a sequel. Still, if you're a bit skeptical, look in the bargain bin someday. You're sure 
 to find some enjoyment in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Advent Rising is said to of been a great game for it is being written by Orsen Scott Card. So the 
 only thing to expect great about this game should be the story. I guess you can assume that some 
 fun gameply will come with this. That is where this game could have been improved. A little more 
 work and this could have been better. Even though it could have been better I still had fun playing 
 this game. 
  
  The storyline is good, you can see some other sci-fi stories in this, but it is put together well 
 enough that it never distracted me. Most people say this game copies Halo, that is of course if 
 you think of Halo as you play other video games. Some of the aliens are mixs of other sci-fi creatures 
 from movies. Ignoring this you can see that this story is interesting and will bring you in and 
 want to know what will after these few humans left in the universe keep going through hell to survive. 
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. Just pick up weapons and shoot. Can be fun and sort of repetitive. 
 Then some bosses will come around to change up the normal stategy of shoot everything. These bosses 
 will bring along some challenge and usually come around when the game starts to become repititive. 
 Atleast they were able to stop it from becoming one thing. The first part of the game you mostly 
 use weapons and can use a really lame mele attack that will get you killed before doing anything 
 else. I really did like the way he reloaded his weapons though. Within about 1 or 2 hours you get 
 a type of force powers. This is the best part of the gamplay. If you liked the force powers in 
 games like Jedi knight then you'll have just as much fun in this game. 
  
  Graphics do need some improvement before the next game!
  
  Overall since this game is worth 
 $30 on the PC it is worth checking out. If your a Sci-fi fan, you'll like this game. If you are 
 for just gameplay, try something else, this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowbob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  The first and most important thing to know about Advent Rising is this: you shouldnt read any 
 game press reviews about it. The reviews will tell you that this game isnt very good. And they 
 would be wrong.
  
  The game does have a few technical glitches (not the least of which is terrible collision detection) , 
 but in the PC version I never encountered a single bug that made the game unplayable.
  
  The graphics, while not super high-end like Doom III and its ilk, are superb. The visual effects 
 are very well done, especially the volumetric and distortion effects. The final boss was a visually 
 stunning encounter. Sound was great (at first I couldnt figure out why I could hear people falling 
 to the ground so loudly  later I realized why) . The music was great as well.
  
  Advent Rising is supposed to have a good story, which it does. The story is hastily told at times, 
 but this is ultimately a short game. A little bit more narrative would have helped flow the plot 
 better, but if youre a quick study you can follow along. The ending has a few nice twists which 
 left me wishing the sequel was out already. I thought the script itself was well-written and the 
 voice acting was perfect.
  
  But its the way this game plays that truly makes it good, and I found this game to be particularly 
 innovative and fun to play. It plays exactly like Halo for the first few chapters (which is fine 
  didnt we all love Halo?) , but then it descends into what truly makes this game great: Gideons 
 psych abilities. Youll be able to play the game however you want with the immense variety in these 
 abilities. They will make you feel really powerful, but not in an unbalancing way. The game just 
 keeps scaling up and up until youre single handedly destroying virtual armadas of enemies and 
 huge engineering tech with nothing but your bare hands.
  
  Everything in this game screams movie, from the rampant cut scenes to the use of widescreen aspect 
 ratio throughout the game (even on a 4:3 monitor) . The presentation is slick and the controls (once 
 you get used to them) are intuitive. It makes for an awesome cinematic experience the whole way 
 through.
  
  Innovative games are the best to play. Its games like Indigo Prophecy and Advent Rising, with their 
 radically different approaches to control styles and game play, that blaze the way to true fun. 
 I could play another standard FPS any time I wanted, but this is something new.
  
  Advent Rising isnt without its flaws. But with a solid science fiction storyline, a good twist 
 at the end to hook you in, visually intense special effects and innovative game play, this is definitely 
 a game to check out.
  
  If you hate it, you can always go back to reading those reviews again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwazzle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying that I really enjoyed playing through this game. I felt that the gameplay 
 was phenomenal. There is no feeling like running into a huge group of Seekers and unleashing your 
 weapons and powers on them, while jumping around and dodging in slow motion. The mechanics and 
 controls were a little awkward at first, but once you're able to get a feel for how the game is 
 played it can become quite immersive. There are tons of large scale fire fights where you'll be 
 taking on large numbers of adversaries, and you'll find yourself diving around in slow motion unleashing 
 torrents of energy blasts or knocking your enemies back with your Surge power. You will find, however, 
 that, with the exception of a few specific instances, the actual weapons become essentially superfluous 
 once you begin to build your arsenal of telekinetic powers, because it is much much more fun to 
 wack enemies with a Star Wars-esque push than to fire bolts of energy at them. The vehicle combat 
 element wasn't quite as fleshed out as it could have been, and the tank felt a little bit awkward 
 to handle, as well as being a bit overpowered. The storyline is a little bit tiresome, as is very 
 typical for this type of a game. I expected something a little bit better from Orson Scott Card 
 on this front, but all the storyline really does is provide short cinematic breaks between action 
 sequences, and the cutscenes become more about which power you're going to get next rather than 
 the actual storyline. Overall, I felt the gameplay was entertaining enough in and of itself to 
 cover for a lackluster storyline and keep me engrossed in tossing enemies about for a good 10 to 
 15 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Opening Statement: Here's the deal, if it wasn't for all of the hype about this game being "revolutionary" 
 it would have been better. I went in expecting a masterpiece and instead found a decent game with 
 targeting and frame rate problems. 
  
  Pros: Good story with good charectors. Weapons are unique and fun to fire. Powers are unique and 
 fun to use. Gideon "John Woo" style moves are awesome in appearance, but can be a problem in the 
 heat of the moment. In the begining you can choose to save either your Brother or Girlfriend, which 
 effects the cut scene but not the story (**SPOILER** The person you save dies anyway, which really 
 makes the first part of the game seem USELESS. Did all that work, and they die anyway.) 
  
  Cons: FRAME RATE. They have all these cut scenes that could be good, but just aren't because of 
 stupid glitches. I would be imbarrised to release a game in the state that Majesco released Advent. 
 It's rediculous the amount of graphics glitches throughout the game. Also, the targeting is so 
 frustraiting to use, it's sometimes just rediculous. Try hitting a turret miles away while it's 
 shooting at you, then you'll understand how frustraiting it is. With about 4 months of fine tunning, 
 Majesco could have made Advent the best game you've ever played, it has SO much potential that 
 it didn't even try to use. And whats good about the game, IS REALLY GOOD. I hope we see a sequal 
 that keeps the good aspects and fixes the problems of Advent, a flawless Advent could be truely 
 epic.
  
  Add ons, improvements, and changes I hope to see in next installment:
  
  1. FIXED FRAME RATE
  
  2. Better targeting
  
  3. **Spoiler** Rewarding quests, unlike saving 
 your brother just to watch him die, and then you kill him again because he's the final boss. Why 
 did I save anyone in the beginning again?
  
  Final Word: In the end, Advent could have been HUGE. But, it turned out to be just another game 
 that couldn't live up to the hype.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaoticdivinity
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  What made this game a good play for me was the uniqueness. Not many games incorporate a first person 
 shooter with creative powers and abilities. It has a touch of role playing in it from the development 
 of basic categories, the leveling up process is simple but the simplicity works. The plot in the 
 game is above average and the twists are outstanding. The only draw back in my opinion is the length 
 and the bugs in the game. Sometimes the framerate can be slow and the game can freeze up. But other 
 than those small problems i think the game should be played by anyone that enjoys a creative unique 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I found it to be a quite charming game to play. Granted it didn't bring some totally new something 
 to the genre, but then I don't think that its creators had that in mind. Too many reviewers dismiss 
 games like this if it isn't new or ground-breaking and they never really get into the spirit of 
 the story.
  
  Does it share elements with other stories, absolutely, but I hate to tell you Alex so does every 
 game that comes out. So don't rag on Orson Scott Card's storyline. Hell, you're probably foaming 
 at the mouth for Quake IV (as am I) and it certainly doesn't break any new fictional territory. 
 If you take the time to actually listen to the story as it unfolds you might just find it quite 
 interesting. My one gripe was the way that Ethan and Olivia were "cast aside". 
  
  Is it a bit on the easy side, sure, but I like a fun comfortable game sometimes. Why on earth do 
 all games have to test us to the max?
  
  As for the character design, do you like Anime? Why? Those characters mostly don't reflect reality. 
 I personally don't know many gorgeous women with eyes the size of saucers. If you'd followed the 
 story line, you'd have found out the Edume (sp?) was a lighter gravity planet, hence the long legs.
 
  
  I do agree with you on the controls. It suffers from console-itis as do a number of recent games. 
 Flick targeting seemed pointless on a PC. On a console, sure, on a PC hell no.
  
  Also, the boss fights were pure console. You couldn't just fight them. They'd only take damage 
 if you followed certain actions. That seemed a bit bogus and caprecious to me. I have the same 
 complaint about Cold Fear but that's another review.
  
  So, is it the most innovative game? Nope Does it expand the genre? Nope 
  
  It is however the 
 perfect game to play when you've had a bad day and would like to play something fun and not too 
 demanding.
  
  I hope that the rest of the trilogy is developed. Orson's got my curiosity up about what happens 
 next...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CmdrMcNeil
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The best way to describe this is Tomb Raider's and Halo's secret lovechild. The ripoffs (especially 
 from Halo) are all in plain sight. But that's where I stop complaining, becuase when you get right 
 down to it Advent Rising isn't that bad. While most shooter vets will find no real challenge here 
 I still found it enjoyable at least in terms of quantity of enemies thrown at me. While you can 
 mow them all down fairly easily I still found it fun. There are several nice elements to the game, 
 most noteworthy is the special powers you can yield and the dual weapon ability. While dual wielding 
 isn't brand new, it never gets old for me, that and I think the crazy one-handed reload animations 
 you go through are cool. (I want to be able to spin an assualt rifle on my index finger while reloading 
 too T_T) The story sounds great but is very flat in delivery, I never truly felt a sense of belonging 
 in the universe depicted, very unlike Half Life 2 in which I really was immersed in the universe 
 by strong characters all of these seem to be your typical stereotypes from sci-fi, and they act 
 like it too. That's not to say that the story is horrible, but it's execution isn't very good. 
 The sound is decent, all the weapons sound appropriatley powerful and the soundtrack while generic 
 is good. There's just nothing that really sets this game apart from the rest of the shooter world, 
 that and it feels like a port (which it is) . All in all it's a fun time to play a fairly no brainer 
 shooter, but if it's depth you're looking for move along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Just this summer I was torn on wether I was going to buy Advent Rising for the X-Box, or skip it 
 all together because of poor reviews. Now I am not going to lie, Advent Rising on the X-Box was 
 flawed at best, it's poor framerate made it nearly impossible to play. I struggled to finish the 
 game and immedately got rid of it. But for some reason, the game lingered with me, for days after 
 beating it. I know the game had some serious problems, but if you were able to look past those, 
 the game was simply stunning. The games graphics were really good and the sound was unlike anything 
 today. A soundtrack so good, it should have been in theaters, and gunshots that were absolutely 
 unbelievable, the games sound was perfect. So I guess my main problem with the game was the framerate, 
 it unfortunely took me out of the game. But now the PC version of the game has been released and 
 it has fixed all the problems I had with the X-Box version. So as you can tell, the game is near 
 as good as it will ever be, and believe me, thats pretty good. Once again I am not going to beat 
 around the bush, I have never been a big fan of sci-fi shooters, yes I dispise the HALO series 
 (Killzone is better) . But beyond that I would have to say this game impressed me 10 fold even on 
 the X-Box and now it is only that much better.
  
  The games visuals while not steps ahead of the curve are really quite good. Some of the textures 
 are non-exsistant, but this doesn't take away from the games experience. On the up side, the special 
 effects in the game are amazing. Explosions kick up dirt and dust and gunshots do the same, everything 
 in this games visuals fit the mood.
  
  Advent Rising's sound is unlike anything I have heard before. The gunshots are appropiately boomy 
 and the explosions are as well. But the thing that makes this game better than the rest it it's 
 score. Tommy Tallacrio has more than outdone himself with this game, and it's so good sometimes 
 I would almost rather just listen to the music. I don't think you can really understand how impressive 
 this soundtrack is until you visit the offical site and listen to some sample clips.
  
  I am so happy to say that this game beats out HALO as best sci-fi shooter ever made. I won't even 
 compare the two because this one is so far and away better. If you don't own this game yet, what 
 are you doing sitting at home, why haven't you picked this game up yet. Get going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Advent rising: its a good game. But its not nearly as "epic" as it tries to be. It has a good story, 
 good voice work, good music, solid graphics, fun powers... but they just needed to work on the 
 game more, before releasing it. 
  
  I hate when a reviewer bashes a game, for small technical issues. A little "slow down" during a 
 single level, is not even reason to bad-mouth the whole game. But the technical issues I had with 
 Advent Rising (the PC version) were not small.
  
  The technical problems of Advent Rising are as well know as the game itself. Personally, I had 
 a problem with the game "crashing to the desktop". Some of the cutscenes never played properly, 
 and the sometimes there were "clicking sounds" or small bits of "skipped dialog". These are not 
 small problems, and they can not be totally ignored. But the game is "playable" even with the sound 
 problems and crashing. The game has large clipping issues too. I could often see enemies appearing 
 half-way through a closed door, or laying dead in mid air. I also got "stuck" here and there, in 
 the scenery. And when you get stuck in the "Falling/jumping" position, the game assumes you have 
 fallen off of something, and it automatically restarts you back to a previous check point.
  
  Speaking of "check points". They really should have ditched the XBox saving system. This is 
 a PC game, we dont need Save points. This was particually frustrating, because of the game crashing. 
 Resulting in me having to replay the whole section again (and again)
  
  The PC version can be controlled with the keyboard and mouse (thats what I did) . But I ran out 
 of fingers. I had one hand on the AWSD keys, and the other on the mouse (it basically controls 
 like a FPS) . But at the same time, I needed a finger for the melee button, the dodge button, the 
 powers change button, and the crouch button. I found it impossible to hit all of these keys, as 
 quickly as I would have liked. Because you really need to have a finger on all of these buttons 
 at the same time.
  
  But setting aside the technical problems, the game itself is more "ordinary" than I would have 
 hoped. Its good, but its not amazing. You have to save the world. And to do it, you have to blast 
 400 million aliens. A large amount of time, is spent playing rather ordinary shooter-style gameplay. 
 The game is completely linear, and weather your outside or inside, its always just one big hallway. 
 And the story, while good, is not "epic" either. The world needs to be saved from alien invaders, 
 and your the man for the job. Its pretty much the story of every sci-fi tale, isnt it? I think 
 this is another game, where hype made the game look worse then it is. Because it is a good game, 
 just not "That Good".
  
  While you could string the cut-scenes together, and make a decent movie, you dont have a part in 
 that movie. A cutscene plays, you blast aliens, another cut scene plays, and then you blast more 
 aliens. The solid plot in the cutscenes seems devorced from the actuall "gameplay". There are a 
 few spots, where they try to merge the story and the gameplay, but it is very seldom (like escaping 
 an exploding ship) . You rarely see anything important during the gameplay, everything happens during 
 the cutscenes. I hate when games do that.
  
  There was one section (on the evil alien ship) , where it seemed like all I did, was ride elevators. 
 Kill some aliens, ride and elevator, kill more aliends, ride another elevator. This sort of thing, 
 should not have appeared in a game, as good as Advent Rising 'tried' to be.
  
  Early in the game, you do get to make a "story based" decision. But, because of a glitch, the computer 
 will sometimes reverses the decision you made. That goes back to the whole technical thing. This 
 game is simply not ready for prime time. If you ignore the technical problems, it is a good game. 
 But even then, the game itself still needed more polishing. 
  
  Driving the vehicles was fun, but a bit too clumbsy with the mouse and keyboard.
  
  In the 
 end, I like Advent Rising. But I would not recommend it to anyone. Because I dont want them coming 
 back and yelling at me, because they could not get the game to work properly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellypj
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off the Xbox version of this game failed with its flick targeting system. But the PC 
 version totally redid this with the mouse scroll, and made it so if you didnt touch the mouse scroll 
 there wouldnt be any auto aim. Sure the graphics arent way up there, but the gameplay rocks and 
 never gets old due to as you progress through the game you gain more powers. Scott Carson Osberon 
 did a magnificant job with the story, this is the only game EVER that i felt like I was actually 
 in the story. The guns are all diffrent, and suited for diffrent situations, and the hand to hand 
 combat looksa amazing. They also added an RPG element where using diffrent guns/powers/hand to 
 hand oculd level up, and even your jumping can be upgraded and look astounishing. As I said before 
 Gamespot was wrorg on this one, and I really hope they finish this trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chetwebb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  SINCE IT SEEMS TO BE STYLISH TO PAN 'ADVENT RISING' LET'S START WITH WHAT COULD BE BETTER:
  
  1) An occasional save point goes amuck. For example you might lose a vehicle you had at the 
 time of the save point. Fortunately, this does not happen often and if it does the gamer can restart 
 the level. Restarting is not as bad as it may seem since the game generally has short segments.
 
  
  2) The controls can be awkward, particularly for vehicles, but you get used to them.
  
  THAT'S ABOUT IT SO WHAT'S GOOD?
  
  1) The graphics are excellent and the cut scenes are 
 ample. The player is often rewarded with a seamless cut scene following an interesting segment. 
 The cinematics move the story along and are quite a pleasure to watch.
  
  2) The segments vary quite a bit. You can fall out of a space vehicle in one, fight in open terrain 
 in another, battle it out in a completely unique alien city, and struggle with hordes of foes on 
 the hull of an enemy spaceship.
  
  3) Battle is sometimes easy and at other times frenetic, particularly as the game progresses.
 
  
  4) After a slow (not too slow) opening the game is fast paced moving along in surprising ways from 
 one cut scene to another.
  
  5) The characters are likable. The story is interesting. If you read a lot of science fiction, 
 as I do, it steals amply from some of the best writers in the genre. Why this is bad, I don't know!
 
  
  6) The game is smooth. It doesn't crash or even stutter.
  
  I understand the X-Box version had problems. I wonder if some reviewers spent too little time with 
 the PC version. If you like Sci-Fi, a good story, lot's of cut scenes, and plenty of action Advent 
 Rising is a steal at $29.95.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylvrfonic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was very excited to say the least. It seemed that it would 
 have all the makings of just the sort of game that I would love. Now that I have the game I have 
 to say that were it not for the numerous negative reviews I may have been disappointed by the final 
 product.
  
  For every promise that is not delivered upon in this game there was another that was met beyond 
 expectation, Graphically this game on PC does not hold up. Textures and models do not hold up to 
 the likes of games like Half-Life and Doom. Other issues that plague this game include poor enemy 
 AI, occasional control issues and the odd scripting hang up.
  
  That out of the way I can express why I choose to give this game high marks. The musical score 
 in this game is hands down one of the best that I have heard in a long time. It's moving and paints 
 a depth to the events that carry the story from one impossible tragedy to the next. Which brings 
 me to my next point. The story in this game is wonderfully well crafted. Despite what I have read 
 from reviews of this game I found the characters to be some what complex and very human almost 
 immediately. There are a few scenes that I had a forced feel to them but considering how well this 
 story unfurls by the end it is easy to forgive the arbitrary bar fight here and there.
  
  What is apparent is that the design focus of this game was to tell a human story set against a 
 backdrop of aliens and imaginative locations. Had I purchased this game to mindlessly blast away 
 at aliens or to be impressed once again by what the technology that we posses can accomplish I 
 would have been sorely disappointed. Thanks to the negative reviews I knew not to expect the greatest 
 gameplay or technical prowess. But, because I wanted this game to tell me a story and allow me 
 to participate I am elated by what the folks at GlyphX Games have accomplished 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
