-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/aerialstrikeyagermissions/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Better graphics on PC.
 Multiplayer mode!.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No real changes or improvements.
 Multiplayer mode.
 Who cares at this point?.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  3, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 58 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Yager
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Feb 4, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's probably best to let Aerial Strike fly under the radar. 

  Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions is a PC version of last year's Yager, which was a middling-to-decent 
 dogfighting game for the Xbox. Not surprisingly, Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions has a few advantages 
 over its console cousin: The graphics are improved on the PC, and the game also benefits from the 
 inclusion of a simple multiplayer mode. Unfortunately, this remix doesn't really add enough to 
 the formula to justify another purchase for Yager fans; in fact, it's hard to understand why it 
 was reissued at all, given the severely dated nature of the material.  

          The plucky Magnus Tide returns for an encore in Aerial Strike, but we were kind of hoping 
 he'd change his tune a little.     

  Your protagonist in Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions is one Magnus Tide, a bed-headed ex-Marine 
 who balances the chip on his shoulder with a carefully honed aura of insouciance. Tide lives in 
 a future world where the nation-state has faded away entirely. This world has been divided up politically 
 by large corporate entities that maintain their own military wings in order to wage war for territory, 
 technology, and resources. It's helpful to consider Aerial Strike's narrative scope as a gigantic 
 space opera -- only conducted near the surface of the planet with myriad futuristic fighter jets, 
 frigates, submarines, and other vehicles, in place of spaceships and UFOs. Tide is a scrappy mercenary 
 pilot, known as a "freelancer," who contracts out his wits, assault jet, and itchy trigger finger 
 to whichever corporation can write him the biggest check. The lucky company in this case is Proteus, 
 which is akin to NATO and Vault City rolled up into a single, verdant island mass. As you learn 
 in the game's opening sequences, Tide has been hired by Proteus before, to ill effect. In fact, 
 a past mission failure under Proteus' employ destroyed the freelancer's reputation, as well as 
 his ship. Aerial Strike's story arc represents Tide's last-ditch attempt to salvage his career -- and 
 to patch up his relationship with Sarah, a lovely but icy Proteus commandant.  

  In the brutal, turbulent world of Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions, you'll have to do more than 
 root for the underdog to help Magnus Tide come out on top. Over the course of the game's 22 missions, 
 Tide will gradually unravel the grand conspiracy that has let loose the dogs of war over Proteus' 
 tropical shores. The plot's a little on the ludicrous side, jerking you from lush islands to Teutonic 
 forests to Chernobyl-like industrial wastelands and back again with very little regard for logic 
 or narrative continuity. This isn't a big problem, however, because you'll always know what to 
 do when waves of Cockney-accented sky pirates or harsh pseudo-Imperial German fighter aces approach: 
 blast them out of the sky using the Sagittarius, your state-of-the-art jetcraft. Your ship is a 
 fantastic confection of JATO jets, turboprops, and weapons, and it is both extremely maneuverable 
 and extremely deadly. It's capable of two flight modes. There's hover mode, which provides a slow, 
 stable, helicopter-like feel for the purposes of stealth, careful maneuver, and wide-area weapons 
 targeting. And then there's jet mode, which doubles your throttle and lets you perform dogfighting 
 techniques like barrel rolls, flips, and sharp turns.  

  In order to make much progress in Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions, you must learn how to transition 
 seamlessly from one mode to the other so that you can jet into a location, stop on a dime, start 
 strafing, and then beat a hasty retreat. The standard controls for each mode are a little different, 
 so gaining this level of mastery is no easy feat; however, learning how to fly using a PC keyboard 
 is actually a little easier than on an Xbox controller, since the controls don't switch around 
 so much. Also, the game does a great job of building your skills slowly through its mission structure. 
 Some levels may frustrate you by requiring quantum leaps in your skill level, but when you finally 
 get the Sagittarius to respond intuitively, your achievement will feel worth the trouble. Thankfully, 
 the game simplifies matters with a liberal auto-aiming system, which functions in either flight 
 mode. Provided you have an appropriate weapon selected, pointing your cursor near an enemy that 
 is close enough to your ship will engage your targeting computer, which will then begin to follow 
 the hostile. Furthermore, you can "lock on" to a single bandit at a time, which provides you with 
 a red targeting reticule that shows up on your radar screen and keeps tabs on your opponent as 
 it goes through obstacles. Aerial Strike's auto-aim is generally a boon, although it can be inordinately 
 difficult to manage in swarms of enemies or in situations where you need to switch targets rapidly. 
 For example, heat-seeking missiles seem to pose a particular problem for your supposedly defensive 
 machine guns, which will often fail to lock on in time.  

  On the plus side, the Sagittarius has plenty of hardware to deal with threats, from standard lasers 
 and missiles to a sniper railgun. Most of these guns require ammunition packs, which are strewn 
 throughout each expansive level. If you want to maximize your combat effectiveness (and level score) , 
 it's a good idea to search every bit of territory for power-ups. Many of your weapons have secondary 
 functions that can prove useful in certain situations, too. All told, the game's weapons are generally 
 well balanced and fun to use -- especially the sniper gun, which can save you a lot of trouble if 
 properly used, and it is absolutely vital to some missions. However, it does seem as though your 
 ship's basic laser, which will be your most frequently used weapon, runs out of juice entirely 
 too quickly. Your enemies range from simple pirate rigs and air mines to stationary turrets to 
 heavily armored droids and huge battleships, which must be dismantled sequentially. You can pretty 
 much give your enemies the bum's rush through the first 10 levels or so, but after that, you must 
 start implementing hit-and-run tactics and looking ahead to survive. Indeed, the last several levels 
 of the game will pit you against large odds, forcing you to resort to guerrilla tactics.  

  You'll run up against a couple of big ships fairly early on, which will make for a few interesting 
 boss battles. Unfortunately, you will also need to wade through many, many entry-level jets, drones, 
 and ground guns before you start getting to the really interesting bits. If you're looking for 
 variety, this business will test your patience. Another strange choice in Aerial Strike's design 
 involves the interspersion of special robot-repair platforms throughout each level. Land on these 
 puppies, and you'll refill your health to full, even while your ship is taking heavy damage from 
 a multitude of sources; wait a minute or so, and you can refill again. On some levels, this lets 
 you camp more or less indefinitely by a healing point and waste enemies as they go by.  

  Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions' levels are definitely on the huge side. The largest of them 
 require up to two minutes of sustained jet time to transit entirely. You receive your primary instructions 
 at the beginning of each level, and more commands and objectives arrive from headquarters on a 
 consistent basis. Most of these objectives are appropriately marked on your overhead map, but some 
 are unnecessarily confusing and will require a good deal of frantic flying and several wasted lives 
 to identify. There are also auxiliary tasks to perform in most of the levels, and if you complete 
 them you can gain extra ammo and props from the locals. If you do everything right, you'll rack 
 up bonus points and unlock a ship library as well. A lot of these special tasks are silly non sequiturs; 
 their inclusion feels like a stab at making Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions seem less like the 
 straightforward adventure that it is. This game makes a lot of pretensions toward being nonlinear, 
 but you'll still turn around automatically if you try to take an unauthorized shortcut through 
 a level. That said, one of Aerial Strike's best features is its varied terrain, which consists 
 of many valleys, peaks, rivers, and hiding spots. It's a lot of fun to duck in and out of canyons 
 and gullies at will, seeking cover when necessary.  

  There are also a few obligatory stationary- and moving-turret levels that are intended to break 
 up the core gameplay. But their inclusion in this game was a mistake. These boring, slipshod sequences 
 are set up by lame plot contrivances, and the turret mechanics themselves range from jittery to 
 almost broken. Aerial Strike's creators had another chance to improve the game by ditching them 
 during the porting process, but they dropped the ball.  

  Aerial Strike's graphics and sound are better than Yager's on the Xbox, but this is due solely 
 to the platform's increased horsepower -- it doesn't look like the developers put much extra effort 
 into retrofitting the presentation or fixing the previous version's problems. For example, Aerial 
 Strike: The Yager Missions' water still doesn't look realistic, and you can still fly right through 
 the obviously bitmapped trees and telephone poles with no collision or sound at all -- it's literally 
 holographic. Some level of persistent damage effects, like scorch marks, would be pretty much standard 
 issue at this point, but the developers didn't bother to add them for Aerial Strike: The Yager 
 Missions. On the other hand, the game suffers none of the performance problems of the Xbox version, 
 which is a plus.  

  Aerial Strike's audio is of higher quality on the PC but is otherwise identical to that in Yager. 
 The game uses bursts of music very effectively to increase dramatic tension or to indicate a firefight, 
 and the sound effects, while not remarkable, are crisp enough. Voice acting is a very important 
 feature for a game like Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions, which relies heavily on in-engine cutscenes 
 for narration. The voice actor playing Magnus Tide is generally pretty strong, especially in sustained 
 monologues; he doesn't do as well when delivering Tide's trademark deluge of one-liners, however, 
 and they begin to sound kind of stilted after a while. The other voices are a mishmash of strange 
 accents that can amuse and annoy by turns. The  A Clockwork Orange -style sneering of the pirates 
 is great, but listening to your querulous Russian comrade whine incessantly on one level will make 
 you want to tear your hair out.  

          Yager hits the PC 16 months behind schedule, which isn't a winning number when it comes 
 to video games.     

  Aerial Strike's multiplayer mode is certainly a nice touch, but it's also totally obligatory on 
 the PC, and it feels like more of a dutiful addition than a purposeful one. You get six ship types 
 and 10 multiplayer maps to choose from, but that's about as far as this mode goes in terms of innovation. 
 There are no multiplayer game types other than deathmatch and team deathmatch, so any sort of tactical 
 thought outside of getting munition A to enemy ship B is out of the question. Furthermore, the 
 game lacks any sort of server infrastructure for Internet games.  

  Overall, Aerial Strike: The Yager Missions is an ever-so-slight improvement over the console version 
 of the game, which in turn means it is a passable dogfighting game for the PC. Still, this game 
 is coming out a full four months after the original Yager, which was itself delayed by a year. 
 This type of math doesn't work in any game's favor, and unless you're a big fan of aerial action 
 games on the PC, it's probably best to let Aerial Strike fly under the radar this time around. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of misleading. Judging by the title you may expect a fast paced game of flight, 
 bombing, and dogfights. Instead you get some sort of slow moving, hovering, piece of crap, sort 
 of thing, and an extremely annoying lead character. The whole story is lame and unbelievable with 
 terrible characters. And the box says you can pilot several different aircraft. Maybe I couldn't 
 bear any more before I quit but after 15 or so hours the only aircraft I flew was the original 
 piece of junk my annoying character came with. On the upside the graphics are pretty nice but this 
 doesn't save this lame-o from the recycle bin. Thank God it was only 6 bucks at EB!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
