-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Afterlife
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/afterlife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 12, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 172 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Strategy
Date:     1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a semi-omnipotent being, you are responsible for laying out a functional heaven and hell to reward 
 or punish the denizens of a strange planet. 

 Afterlife represents one of the most unusual videogame concepts to ever make it to store shelves. 
 As a semi-omnipotent being (I know that's a bit of an oxymoron, but this game's full of things 
 like that) , you are responsible for laying out a functional heaven and hell to reward or punish 
 the denizens of a strange planet. To do so, you must keep an eye on the most common sins and virtues 
 of your people (who look a lot like the monsters from Critters) , the balance of temporary to permanent 
 souls in each of your buildings, and more mundane tasks like the building of roads and training 
 facilities. For each soul you process you are rewarded with pennies from heaven, which may in turn 
 be used to purchase more edifices and services.  

 Once you've dived into the game, there's a lot of interesting things to experience, including a 
 view of the planet itself that shows you what the living beings are up to, tons of hysterically 
 funny rewards and punishments (my favorite is heaven's The Good Spot, a parking lot 
 in which you can always find a great place to park) , and an amazing soundtrack that features everything 
 from disco music to bizarre arias. Helping you make your decisions are an amazingly (even sickeningly) 
 cute angel character named Aria, and a more conservative (and slightly sarcastic) demon called 
 Jasper. These two characters provide an excellent way to stay in touch with what's going on in 
 the game, and add flavor to the already humorous atmosphere of this title.  

 While all of this may sound very original, once you get to the actual gameplay, you'll discover 
 that Afterlife is little more than a spiritually supercharged remake of Maxis' SimCity 2000. Players 
 wade through the difficulties of housing souls in their prospective areas and face new 
 challenges in the form of bad vibes (equivalent to Sim City's crime) , lost souls (equivalent to 
 Sim City's dissatisfied residents) , and powering rewards and punishments with a substance called 
 ad infinitum (equivalent to Sim City's power plants and power lines) . They'll also have to deal 
 with the perils of crowded streets (equivalent to Sim City's traffic snarls) and weird problems 
 like the Disco Inferno and Heaven's Nose (equivalent to SimCity's disasters) . While all of this 
 won't matter much to newcomers, SimCity veterans are likely to find themselves pretty bored by 
 Afterlife in just a couple of days.  

 Afterlife has a few other serious problems as well. Although the game looks pretty good most of 
 the time, players who choose to zoom in to the closest viewpoint will be treated to a grainy, pixelated 
 mess instead of a display. Certain structures, like those used for creating power, cannot be turned 
 on or off, making it sometimes impossible to determine whether you can or can't build in certain 
 areas. But the worst problem of all is in the one area where LucasArts did decide to deviate from 
 Maxis: the lack of useful documentation. While a small booklet explains the basic functions of 
 each of the game's buttons, and a tutorial will get you through the first few problems that you'll 
 face, you'll need to cough up about $15 for the Afterlife strategy guide if you really want to 
 know how buildings interact with each other or the various values of different property types. 
 When you've got the guide, you'll find it provides little than the information that should have 
 been included in the manual in the first place.  

 In the end, Afterlife's incredible sense of humor and great story development made me like it despite 
 its multiple flaws. Those who don't mind fighting a little with an interface or coughing up a little 
 more cash for a hint-book in order to get a good laugh should definitely give it a look. Fans of 
 economic simulations looking for a new challenge are almost sure to be wholly disappointed.    
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ROXLYDE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best light hearted games I've played. The 2 helpers angel and devil and their 
 banter made it pretty funny. It took me awhile to understand that you had to make the roads looooong 
 to make hell better. The folks their wanted to be punished with looooong walks. I had played simcity 
 and I thought this was a great twist on the sim genre. I can recall some huge nose showing up to 
 inhale all my stuff in heaven as I watched in wifde-eyed horror. It was really different at the 
 time and was one of those games that helped me appreciate computer gaming in the first place. Thanks 
 LucasArts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroSonicT
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I'm a bit biased about sim games. I think that most of the time they 
 are a waste of time and are a too complicated for their own good. But, seeing how many sell yearly, 
 I'd say I'm a minority. 
  
  Afterlife had just enough quirkiness to keep me interested. It's premise is simple: you're a demi-god, 
 building a heaven and hell for an evolving alien planet of people called Embos. For reasons I don't 
 understand, you have a budget, economy, and needs for the Souls in your afterlives. For your heaven 
 you create and maintain Rewards, that evolve as more Souls move into them. Similarly, in hell you 
 build Punishments for your Souls. In both heaven and hell, you build a Gate, Limbos (bars) , banks, 
 embassies, Karma Stations (trains for reincarnation) , Universities, Utopias, and other city structures. 
 As your afterlives improve, the Higher Ups will reward you with Gifts, structures that improve 
 your Souls everyday liv- er... deaths.
  In traditional Sim City fashion, Bad Things befall your afterlives such as Birds of Paradise, Hell 
 Freezes Over, and as a tribute to Lucas's brainchild, the Death Star. But not to worry, you'll 
 have help from your senior Angel and Demon who give you advice and tell you when you have problems, 
 as well as give humorous commentary whenever something happens.
  But your heavenly and hellish cities aren't the only thing you need to worry about. Your live Embos 
 on that little blue planet need attention too. Disasters happen if you don't help them out every 
 now and then. You can influence the Embos (somehow) with Pennies, speeding up their technology 
 and they're belief system, and influencing their religion, morals, and government. Those happy 
 (or not so happy) Embos directly effect your afterlives, so you need to treat them good.... Or 
 you can just completely ignore them, your choice really.
  One problem I have with the game is that it is almost impossible to completely excel at, as it 
 contradicts itself at almost every turn: "The Souls in Hell need to walk farther for their punishments, 
 make your roads longer. Don't make roads so long, the upkeep is too much! Heaven loves mingiling 
 with other Souls, build Rewards closer together! Heaven's people are too cramped, build Rewards 
 father away from eachother! You need more Universities! What are you doing!? Now your Angels are 
 rioting because you have too many Universities!!" It's a neverending joy-ride of complaints. I 
 could have just watched Soap Net (*ba-dum-dum-PISH!*) .
  Afterlife by LucasArts is a refreshing side-trip from the normal Sims game. It's bizarre humor 
 will have you smirking the whole game through, from the witty dialogue between your trusty Angel 
 & Demon, to the macabre descriptions of Hell's Punishments. The music compliments the scenery well. 
 Soothing melodies with flutes and pianos for Heavens, and a veritable arsenal of pipe-organs and 
 war-drums for Hell. The graphics are nothing to be amazed over, they show what you need to see 
 and that's really all they need to do. Replay value, like any Sim, is whatever you make of it. 
 Build a new afterlife when you feel you're finished with yours, or keep adding on to your own. 
 There are four difficulty settings so you can try your hand at those too.
  My advice on Afterlife is to buy it and keep it for long trips. It's not a good rental because 
 you'll have to return it sooner then you can get anywhere with it. Check your bargain-bin sometime 
 and pick it up. It won't cost you much, and you'll have a good time with it. As the cover proudly 
 states, 'It's the last word in Sims'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubesmind
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  
  To this day this game stands out in my mind. I wish someone would re-make it. It was a humorous 
 spin on the city building genre, where the player controls the building and management of both 
 Heaven and Hell.
  
  You start out with an interesting view point being able to see the planet and the astral plans 
 of Heaven (above) and Hell (below) the world. Takes a minute to understand how the view is laid out.
 
  
  You have the typical points of a city builder:
  -Making money, which you accumulate from the two coins each time a soul passes over to the after 
 life.
  -Building the buildings that house the souls and building the rewards or punishments for the souls 
 that have crossed over. I always enjoyed the ever famous "Taco Hell".
  
  On top of that you have the ability to influence the planet itself. If you need more residence 
 for Heaven or Hell, or just want people to kick the bucket faster, you can manipulate various things 
 usually through money or some super natural act to get more of the living to believe in the next 
 life.
  
  Now, construction of your glorious AfterLife follows the theme of Heaven and Hell. Such that, you 
 basically have to do the opposite on each side. Like in Heaven when you build roads you want to 
 build everything as close to the gates of Heaven as possible so that as soon as souls come into 
 Heaven they don't have to walk far to get to their eternal reward. Now in Hell you need to build 
 everything as far away from Hell's gate as possible so that the souls have to travel a long and 
 tiring distance before reaching their eternal punishment.
  
  Now aside from all this you can click on anything in the game and it gives you a description of 
 what it is and how it works. A very detailed game in this aspect. It made it interesting cause 
 if I needed a break I could go around the map clicking on various buildings and seeing what souls 
 got to go through. Which I always found the Hell stuff very interesting, I mean really have to 
 tried to think of what an eternal punishment would be like? But the creators of this game did a 
 good job and making me think, "Wow that would suck."
  
  Well if you still aren't sure what I am talking about I suggest, at the very least, to check out 
 a demo of the game. If you like city building, or if you just like the punishment of souls it's 
 a good game to play around with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is an instant classic game that i own! Am actually still playing this sometimes with my classic 
 running on window 95 pc. 
  
  Its a nice game where you get to build ya own heaven and hell thingy. Its very fun too! Its innovative 
 and creative that you can actually see what in heaven and hell by imagination? 
  
  Pretty cool and needs lotsa planning and laying out like sim city. Another tycoon type of game. 
 But its still nice, due to more animation!
  
  Overall, i did enjoy myself, sometimes i even laugh over it! people who enjoys tycoon game will 
 enjoy this, but is only able to run on low end machine! Cool~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  The game is fun... simple :) If you bought this game you cant go wrong, especially if you get it 
 in the lucas arts fun pack 2. The game is simliar to sim city however it gives you the ability 
 to make a very good designed city (heaven) and a very badly designed city (hell) the ability to 
 effect sciences and natural disasters on earth is awsome. Never before has a religous aspect meant 
 so much in a game. The games sound is what youd come to expect from lucas arts.. plain wonderful. 
 The game can go on forever and thats always fun. The game has a great tutorial and you will be 
 laughing the whole through.. its a splendid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamauldi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first Lucasarts games I ever played besides Monkey Island and Full Throttle, 
 and yet I thought it was very interesting to begin with. Afterlife is a very unique game with humor, 
 patience, and color all rolled into one. This game is pretty easy; all you have to do is build 
 stuff for your Souls, Angels, and Demons, and they practically take care of everything else themselves 
 afterward. Just make sure your plan for building a town in either Heaven and/or Hell works out 
 for them all, and that includes road formation, the planting of Fate Structures, etc. What I love 
 much about this game is the humor. The descriptions they put for the different buildings in both 
 realms are hilarious, although the ones in Hell are funnIER. The rest of the humor comes from the 
 Helpers that exist in your game. Whenever you are stuck with some little dealy or so, Aria and 
 Jasper can help you out with whatever advice they have in mind. They always mix in the advice with 
 funny remarks among themselves, so that's why they are funny. Welcome to your Afterlife, and whatever 
 you've done in your mortal life will decide where you will go after death. Remember: only the real 
 spiritual can go to Heaven. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
