-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Agatha Christie: And Then There Were None
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/andthentherewerenone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, moody soundtrack.
 Well-mannered, believable voice acting.
 Includes Agatha Christie's original ending.
 Consistently dark, ominous tone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Takes many liberties with original story.
 Graphics look dated.
 Gameplay occasionally superfluous to the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.5, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 452 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: AWE Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 30, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It hits certain points well enough that fans of the genre who are willing to overlook the somewhat 
 tired gameplay formula will be rewarded with good atmosphere. 

  Agatha Christie's  And Then There Were None  is peerless within the literary genre of mystery novels 
 in terms of popularity. Its high-contrast blend of early-20th-century upper-crust British civility 
 with a series of brutal and seemingly unsolvable murders all but define the tone and setting of 
 a proper murder mystery. Expectations, then, may be unreasonably high for an adventure game based 
 on this modern classic, and indeed, those looking for a completely faithful adaptation will be 
 at least a little disappointed, and maybe slightly offended by certain liberties taken. On its 
 own terms, though, The Adventure Company's interpretation of And Then There Were None can be enjoyed 
 as a competent adventure genre exercise with some good atmosphere.  

          The Adventure Company invites you to the darkest of dinner parties.     

  Set in the 
 late 1930s,  And Then There Were None  saw a group of 10 strangers invited under various false 
 pretenses to a mansion on a remote island off the coast of Devon, England, where they were all 
 exposed as perpetrators of murders whom the law, for various reasons, could not touch. The guests 
 then begin to die in accordance with a nursery rhyme hung inside the mansion, and the guests soon 
 realize that one of them has to be the murderer, creating a mind-boggling mystery and an increasing 
 sense of dread and paranoia.  

  As those who have read the novel will know, the story's dark progression makes it a difficult game 
 translation, an issue that is sidestepped here by inventing an 11th character, one Patrick Narracott, 
 who supplants his brother Fred Narracott as the boatman who takes the 10 guests to the island. 
 Due to a case of mistaken identity on behalf of one of the guests, Patrick Narracott finds himself 
 trapped on the island, trying to unravel the mystery and possibly prevent all 10 of the guests 
 from meeting a grisly fate. Despite the presence of a character fabricated for the sole purpose 
 of being the player's proxy, the story largely unfolds as in the original, though its resolutions 
 (there's more than one) are unique to the game, though none are nearly as chillingly satisfying 
 as Christie's own.  

  Some of the compromises made are easier to swallow than others. It's unfortunate and a bit distracting 
 that the "Ten Little Indians" nursery rhyme has been altered to "Ten Little Sailor Boys" for the 
 sake of political correctness, but it's not detrimental to the overall plot. The biggest victim 
 is the nearly palpable sense of paranoia, which never really gets as deeply rooted into the story 
 here as it ought to. For what it's worth, the game makes a small attempt to appease fans by playing 
 out Agatha Christie's original ending as an addendum, though this just serves to make you wonder 
 what the game would've been like had it stayed truer to the book.  

  The whodunit aspect of the mystery, however, remains fully intact, as does the game's dry British 
 tone. The story goes a long way toward establishing the group of archetypal Britons, but a cast 
 of journeyman of voice actors takes them the rest of the way, each doing a competent job of creating 
 characters whose motivations are simultaneously convincing and questionable. The sound also plays 
 a huge role in establishing a sense of dread, specifically the foreboding arrangements of piano 
 and strings that play for nearly the entire course of the game. It can certainly become monotonous 
 at times, to be sure, but it works wonders for the overall feel.  

  The graphics, though technically dated, also do their part to help create an elegant atmosphere 
 rife with shadowy corners. The inside of the mansion feels warm and modern, with plenty of inviting 
 comforts and distractions, while the out-of-doors is so chilling and windswept it's hard to resist 
 the urge to head back inside, regardless of what kind of deranged killer there may lurk. The game 
 uses a traditional point-and-click adventure game interface, in which you use your mouse cursor 
 to guide your animated avatar across static backgrounds. The advantage of such an interface is 
 that it makes creating detailed environments quite easy, though it also disconnects the characters 
 from their surroundings to a degree -- a problem exacerbated here by the fact that, even when a character 
 interacts with the environment by, say, opening a door, the environment rarely reflects this interaction. 
 The game is also quite reliant on prerendered cutscenes, which suffer from some nasty video compression 
 and aren't so complex or detailed that they couldn't be rendered in real-time on a modern PC.  
 

  As Narracott, you don't have much direct impact on the direction of the story through most of the 
 game. The cause of each character's death is usually fairly obvious, so you put your amateur sleuthing 
 skills to work by going after the bigger questions of character motivation and the history of the 
 island. Because of this, you'll spend a lot of time questioning the surviving guests, learning 
 about their checkered pasts, and finding out where their own suspicions lie. The guests will occasionally 
 drop clues as to ways you can later coerce them into revealing more information, but your conversations 
 rarely have many twists or turns to offer, and are mostly just expository.  

          You'll learn plenty about the guests, but never quite enough to prevent their deaths.  
    

  The challenge within And Then There Were None lies almost entirely in the exploration of the island 
 and your ability to find, combine, and use various items found on the island to further your exploration. 
 Adventure game fans will find the rhythms of fastidious observation and arcane object combinations, 
 peppered on occasion with very transparent puzzles, to be familiar and oft predictable. This doesn't 
 stop the game from being rather challenging and mind-boggling at times, as the solutions themselves 
 are rarely obvious. Some of the challenge feels artificial, though; certain necessary item combinations 
 are patently arbitrary, and you're regularly tasked with backtracking back and forth across the 
 island with only a vague notion of what to do in order to progress the story.  

  Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None is most successful as a mood piece. The music, the voice 
 acting, and the visual style all conspire with the basic framework of Christie's original story 
 to immerse you in a polite but gruesome situation, which it sustains for most of the game. Unfortunately, 
 the actual gameplay often feels like filler designed merely to fill the time between murders, and 
 it's hard not to be at least a little disappointed by the game's final resolution, whether you're 
 a fan of the original story or not.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  -- Overview --
  
  "And Then There Were None" is an adventure game titled after the book of the same name, penned 
 by none other than the infamous Agatha Christie. But even a vague knowledge of the original isn't 
 necessary to pick this adaptation up.
  
  Ten guests are invited to a rather remote island, promised a weekend retreat of rest and relaxation. 
 You play the boatman, Patrick Naracott, who is unfortunately trapped there with the rest when your 
 boat is scuttled due to a mistaken identity.
  
  After dinner on the first night the guests are greeted by a recording on the Grammophone, declaring 
 they are all murders and must be brought to justice. Sure enough, one by one they are picked off, 
 and it's up to you to discover who the killer is before you join the rest of the "Ten Little Sailor 
 Boys" six feet under.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Like most adventure games nowadays, "And Then There Were None" uses a simple point-and-click interface 
 to interact with the environment and objects in your inventory. The icon changes depending on whether 
 you can pick something up, interact with it, talk with another character, or move in a certain 
 direction.
  
  This will all come across as very familiar to any adventure gamer. What will surprise you, however, 
 is some of the inconsistency with which this is accomplished. On a couple specific occasions the 
 game breaks convention when it comes to the point-and-click concept, forcing you to use an object 
 on a location on screen you could not otherwise interact with. This is a big no-no when it comes 
 to point-and-click, as players are accustomed to using the point-and-click method to determine 
 what objects and areas they can interact with, and which they cannot, to solve puzzles and drive 
 the game forward.
  
  Also, moving about the house and island is not especially intuitive. The camera views change dramatically, 
 even when moving from place to place within the same room, resulting in a lot of disorientation. 
 It takes some time to remember which path takes you where, as the game has no sense of north, south, 
 east or west.
  
  The puzzles are mostly logical, but there are a few that make little to no sense. You also don't 
 need to complete all puzzles to finish the game. In fact, only 60% to 70% of the puzzle solving 
 is required. Much of the "puzzle-solving" runs more along the lines of dialoguing with characters. 
 Complete certain elements of dialogue, the game moves forward.
  
  Even so, you may be forced to consult a hint guide before tearing all your hair out. Objects in 
 random locations, and puzzles with solutions that you receive little to no previous information 
 about. Combine that with the point-and-click problem mentioned earlier, and there are certainly 
 some frustrating moments.
  
  Thankfully the storyline holds up quite well, and is mostly cleared up by the time you reach the 
 end. The finish of the game is satisfying enough, though anyone familiar with the novel will notice 
 the liberties taken by the developers long before they reach it.
  
  -- Graphics & Sound --
  
  The graphics in "And Then There Were None" are not much to look at. 
 Decent 3D rendered characters laid over pre-rendered 2D backgrounds, a tactic seen plenty over 
 the last decade when it comes to adventure games. The cinematics are pre-rendered as well, though 
 one wonders why as they don't look all that much better than the in-game graphics.
  
  The game does allow for anti-aliasing, and most modern computers should be able to handle it no 
 problem, since the screen resolution is only 800 x 600. The characters blend into the backgrounds 
 a little better this way, and help keep the environments from looking too static.
  
  The audio overall is quite good. The sound effects are decent and appropriate, and the music sets 
 the mood quite well. Though you will find its repetitiveness a bit irritating here and there as 
 many areas within the game use the same track, especially when exploring the island.
  
  The voice acting was really quite good, for a production of this overall quality. Each character 
 is well-defined and well played, giving them greater reality than their blocky 3D shapes would 
 otherwise have you believe. You will find yourself wanting certain characters to live and certain 
 characters to die, and you can't help but begin guessing who the killer might be, even by the second 
 or third chapter.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  If you enjoy adventure games, or you enjoy Agatha Christie, you will likely enjoy this game. It 
 sets the mood well, and plays the murder mystery angle as best it can. Plus the storyline, despite 
 its departing from the original, and the characterizations, will help you overlook some of the 
 minor troubles this game suffers from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patofilio
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  It is a real nice game it is better than murder on the orient express i liked the graphics but 
 it was to much runing around the fans of mysterie novels will love this game i love but it should 
 had have a menu like in oriente express to go anywere you want in no time. I will recomend this 
 game to many people but it is also to much clicking around, it has very few puzzles you only need 
 to talk to everybody but the storyline is great and also the different endings and the real ending 
 when you pass the game. this game makes you wich you have the book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  In my point of view adventure games are always the best choice and of course there are great adventures, 
 mediocre and bad. This one, in my opinion, is mediocre in all points of view.
  
  The graphics and sounds does not impress, it is a light game but fun to play. I'm not a fan of 
 Agatha Christie's books and i rather play the games then read them, i never was into cop stories. 
 The story is quite nice a bit of a thriller with some suspense, it offers lots of items that made 
 me a bit confused - there were too many and at some points i got stuck at combining items in order 
 to use them properly. There is not much to explore on that Island - you have the house and the 
 surroundings which are limited and is becoming repetitive at some point. During the game it becomes 
 irritating that you are the only explorer of all those peoples in that house and nobody is helping 
 or at least developing their own theories. The only busy person is the killer of course.
  
  The puzzles are some logic some ... but all in one are great.
  
  So if you finished playing 
 all the best and popular adventure games and the only alternative is a shooter game - take a look 
 into Agatha Christie's collection of adventures you might like it...
  
  Personally i rent it first then i bought it, it is not a bad game though.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jugg3rn4ut
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  This is a classical adventure game in every sense of the word. Don't get this game expecting gameplay 
 innovations. What makes this game stand out of the crowd, is the fact that it's based on a book 
 by one of the finest mystery novelists, Agatha Christie. Playing the game certainly has the feel 
 of reading one of her books, but with all the solid gameplay elements of an adventure game to go 
 with it. This is game adventure genre fans should no miss. It's well thought out and done right. 
 The graphics are mediocre at best, the sound is better and the gameplay everything a point-and-click 
 should be. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 10, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the storyline. I read the book and was excited to play the game. The graphics, scenery 
 wise, were good. But the characters' graphics are outdated. Also there isn't any life to them. 
 My real problem with the game is there is a lot, A LOT, of pointless running around. There are 
 screens in there that have no other purpose than you have to run through it. I think I would of 
 enjoyed the game a lot more if I didn't spend half the game running from one place to another. 
 The game is fun if you get past the constant travel. I would say it be worth it if you got nothing 
 better to do. As for money wise, wait for it to go on sale, cause its not worth the full price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  You see the game itself is not that bad but yet again it's not that good. The plot as we all know 
 is very VERY good but that's Agatha's fault as we all know ;) The developing team would have had 
 an all time classic had they used an engine say like Fahrenheit's but hey if u like the all time 
 queen of mystery and you love the story then, like me, you would probably want to be part of it. 
 There is this strage feeling you get when you go about places you read of in the novel and I guess 
 the best fun I've had from this game was seeing myself part of the mystery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I don't wanna be hard on adventure company coz brought for us alot of good games in the bast but 
 this game was totaly fu**ed up - sorry for the F word- but after finshing this game i felt i just 
 wanna to say 
  ""..!! I R baboon !!.. Stay A way From I R !!! ""
  -very un discriable buzzels 
  -too hard to walk on the right track
  -the characters was like 
 the statues of wax
  -oh plz'' at ch.5 before mrs Brint die she was sitting on a chair out side the house but if u went 
 to her room u 'll find her dead????!!!!!!
  - hell of unused inventory
  Enough talking about this game i just hopping to forget it quickly
  but to be honest the best 
 part of the game is the Judge confession
  
  ( ( (OH ONE THING FOR THE GOOD COMPANY LEAVE AGATHA REST IN PEACE) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiesenthal
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  A few years ago, I read "And then there were none" by Agatha Christie. Then I never thought about 
 the fact that it was excellent raw material for an adventure game. It has everything: murder, betrayal, 
 treason and a constant, yawning, feeling of a presence of pure evil. The game however, has not 
 been able to adapt these features to the top. 
  First, the characters secrets are not explained as much as in the book, and (and this is the biggest 
 loss in the storyline) the ending is not the same as in the book. I can understand that the Adventure 
 Company wanted to change the story a bit, so that the people who have read the book, are surprised 
 by the ending in the game. However, then you have to have a satisfying new ending, and this is 
 unfortunately not the case!
  The game isn't all bad. I think it's great that someone makes a game of one of Agatha Christie's 
 novels, since I love them all.
  And then there were none (or "Ten Little **** as the original 1939 title is) is a pleasant game 
 to play. The voice acting is rather good, and the graphics (at least of the house) is beautiful. 
 
  Some of the puzzles are quite hard to figure out, and running around the island without a map, 
 quickly becomes boring. 
  
  Conclusion: If you are planning to get to learn more about Agatha Christie's books, and have not 
 read any of them before, you should not judge her magnificent work, only by playing this game. 
 Read the book. Then you can play the game, and laugh at its stupid ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  You'll probably enjoy this game if you're a fan of Agatha Christie. Otherwise, you'll find And 
 Then There Were None a journey of boredom. To put it simply, there aren't really many things to 
 do in this game apart from walking around, picking up items, and then using them. Yes, this basically 
 sounds like a typical point-and-click adventure game, but one can't help but feel that the developer 
 could've given the game a better boost in terms of gameplay. 
  
  Based on Christie's popular novel of the same title, And Then There Were None puts ten people on 
 a desolated island, and has them killed off one by one by their invisible host. Playing as the 
 11th man, you've to find out the truth before the murderer kills them all. You do so by exploring 
 the various areas on the island, including the mansion where the lot of you stays in, and its surroundings. 
 Unfortunately, there aren't much you can do to prevent the deaths of these people, not until late 
 in the game at least. As such, most of the time, you'll be simply exploring areas for conversations 
 and events to trigger the beginning of the next chapter of the game. Before long, you'll be wondering 
 why do you even bother. 
  
  The good thing of this game is that it offers a different murderer (and motive) than what the book 
 prescribed. This would certainly please Christie fans, who must have read the book several times 
 before playing the game. Also, depending on what you do during the later part of the game, you've 
 the opportunity to save some characters, and therefore unlock different endings. Regardless of 
 which ending you achieve, however, you'll get to solve a last puzzle to view the original ending, 
 so players who've not read the book can still admire at how amazing the plot is. 
  
  What the game really lacks is a better challenge. Despite being an adventure game, the amount of 
 puzzles to solve is few and far between. They're also extremely easy to solve, making the experience 
 more like going through the motion at times. Players who're expecting a reasonable amount of challenge 
 could find themselves really disappointed by this game. 
  
  The situation isn't help by some inept attempts at graphical and audio presentations. The characters 
 modeling look decidedly slipshod, even though you do have an option to sharpen their features in 
 the main menu. Needless to say, this requires more memory from your PC. Therefore, if you prefer 
 more defined looking characters, and don't have a high-end machine to run the game, you may have 
 to do without them. The music is actually quite nice, and fits the mood of the game greatly. However, 
 there's only one number throughout, and two chapters into the game, you'll be wondering whether 
 you'll have to listen to this for the full ten chapters. The answer is yes. 
  
  Now, it may sound like I'm slating this game throughout this article, but that's hardly so. I enjoy 
 the game despite its flaws, and I thought it was a credible effort from The Adventure Company on 
 the whole. However, as a Christie fan, I find the game too ordinary for gamers who're not fans 
 of her to engage in. At times, it feels like a trimmed down version of Trace Memory (for the DS) , 
 albeit with much lesser puzzles to solve. I'd still recommend this game for Christie fans though, 
 if only as a tribute to the author. Otherwise, you should consider other options. That said, I 
 do hope to see more of her books get adapted into adventure games in future, since it's a genre 
 that I particularly enjoy. 
  
  And for that game, I hope that's it's a little more difficult than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely NOT NOT NOT worth purchasing. I read the book for the first time a few 
 weeks ago and was pleasantly surprised to see this game on a shelf at a local store. I read the 
 box and quickly decided to purchase. My biggest fear was that the game would be exactly like the 
 story. Well, it pretty much is. Normally this would be a good thing, however, it is most certainly 
 not in this case.
  
  If you have not yet read the book you may be able to enjoy this game. It's interesting and well 
 put together. Follows the book very well I'd say. Minus of course for the political correctness 
 of the sailor boys rather than the indian boys that Agatha Christie ACTUALLY wrote about. That 
 aside, it stays fairly true to the book.
  
  If you've read the book before, do not do not do not buy this game. If you've forgotten who the 
 murderer is. Re-read the book. Or, just re-read the ending since that should refresh your memory 
 pretty well.
  
  Graphics are good, details are in depth, plot is well written. By that of course I mean Agatha 
 Christie's plot is well written. 
  
  Bottom line is this: Save your money on a better game. If you're still interested in this game, 
 buy the book and save yourself time and money. I cannot stress this enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ams714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has outstanding graphics, sound, and Storyline in my eyes. The Storyline is well planned 
 out . Had a neat twist from the ending I got after playing it. You are able to interact with basically 
 everything in the game. All though there are some things you can't touch or do, most of the things 
 you can push, pull, pick up etc.... After putting several hours into this game i was still intrigued 
 by this game, wondering and wanting to know whose going to be next. Keeps you on the tip of your 
 PC seat, wanting more. It Isn't scary by all means but typical drama based thriller game. Once 
 you get toward the end even when your sure you know who it is, the game keeps you in awwwww thinking 
 to yourself, geeze i didn't see that one coming, lol. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjbigham
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I'll make a confession right up front -- I didn't finish this game. Time is too short and there 
 are too many other things to do in life than spend hours on a game you really don't enjoy. 
  
  Frankly, I like my games fairly leisurely paced, without a lot of running, jumping and shooting. 
 But even I thought this yawn-producing game was a bore. Click click click ... move the character 
 to that room, look around, try to find a hotspot. Then click click click ... move the character 
 to another room. Talk to each of the other characters (again and again, asking the same questions) . 
 Click click click.
  
  If a game requires a great deal of environmental exploration, the setting must be interesting and 
 this one isn't (as far as I got anyway) . There is the obligatory large mansion, with a large number 
 of items that serve absolutely no purpose and elicit the same remarks from the main character (and 
 no way to shut him up once he gets started) . Compared to a Myst-type game or Syberia, Longest Journey, 
 the Broken Sword titles, etc., this is absolutely claustrophobic. 
  
  Game movement is tiresome, with static paths that must be followed to get from one place to another 
 and the graphics are mediocre. 
  
  There is no logic to the so-called puzzles (which amount merely to finding inventory items, combining 
 them, etc.) . Why, for instance, were the flashlight batteries hidden in the flour sack in the pantry? 
 That makes no sense whatsoever.
  
  Finally, the game is so linear that it should come with its own ruler. At one point, you cant 
 progress to the next stage until youve talked to everyone in the room. Miss one of them and you 
 can wander for hours without anything changing. Once you get that last bit of dialog in, zap! The 
 scene shifts and you can move on. 
  
  Judging from the other reviews here, Im definitely in the minority so perhaps I needed to be more 
 patient with this game. Maybe it gets better as time goes on. But have you ever played a game to 
 the end even though it had become a chore, just because you hoped it might improve and actually 
 be worth the money you paid for it? I didnt want that to happen to me with this one!
  
  If youve already bought this one, I hope you enjoy it as much as the other users here. If not, 
 well, theres always eBay!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banjo4321
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great game for fans of the book; faithful, for the most part, to the Agatha Christie legacy; 
 great voices and backgrounds; decent playtime; easy to learn interface; satisfying and unexpected 
 ending; relatively large number of locations despite being trapped on an island
  
  Cons: Useless inventory items and puzzles; unrealistic character reactions; confusion because of 
 linear chapter endings within a very non-linear game; inability to skip dialogue lines; little 
 replayability despite claim of multiple endings; poor character models
  
  Story and Technical:
  
  And Then There Were None (PC) is based on the classic novel by mystery 
 writer Agatha Christie. The premise consists of a group of strangers invited by the mysterious 
 U. N. Owen to an isolated island mansion. When the characters start dying one by one, suspicion 
 is raised as to who is the killer and why everyone was summoned to the island.
  
  Fans of the book should be made aware that the game makes changes to the original story written 
 by Agatha Christie. These changes are welcome for the most part and keep the story fresh for those 
 who are already familiar with what happens.
  
  The game is rated T for Teen and consists of 2 CDs. The U. S. edition from The Adventure Company 
 features paper sleeves and a manual, and a free copy of the ATTWN book by Agatha Christie. A full 
 install allows you to play the game without any CD ever in the disc drive. No known copy protection 
 is present. System requirements are low.
  
  Gameplay and Puzzles:
  
  The game is split up into 10 chapters. This is a good idea in theory, but in reality it causes 
 some confusion as to how to progress to the next chapter. This is because of the fact that the 
 game is very non-linear at times, while the steps to get to the next chapter are very linear. Many 
 puzzles can be done at various times, which is a good thing because it gives the player some freedom. 
 The problem comes when the game forces you to perform specific unknown actions before proceeding.
 
  
  Often you will have to talk to all of the house guests, complete a certain puzzle or action, and 
 then talk to everyone again. It can become very frustrating trying to locate all of the characters 
 over and over again in different places. More often that not you will walk around the mansion countless 
 times just trying to find a trigger event. This is one of the games biggest flaws, trying to discover 
 these vague triggers.
  
  A journal is provided for use to keep track of guests and other information, but it isnt very 
 helpful in guiding you in the right direction. Clue cards can also be found throughout the scenes, 
 but they are sometimes difficult to decipher.
  
  Another major thing about ATTWN (this may be a good or bad thing depending on who you ask) is that 
 there are tons of useless puzzles and inventory items. By the end of the game you will have countless 
 items that didnt serve any real purpose. There are many optional puzzles you can complete that 
 provide no satisfaction or reward. You will finish an elaborate puzzle within a puzzle and then 
 ask yourself, what was the point? It didnt progress the story or affect the characters at all.
 
  
  One minor thing to mention about the interface: For the most part it is very easy to use. My only 
 complaint would be that some objects in the game world are not identified as being interactive 
 hotspots (no hand icon) . They are seemingly part of the background, yet you can use objects in 
 your inventory on them.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  
  Graphics are a mixed bag. Most of the backgrounds are very well done, especially those inside the 
 mansion. The character models, however, are rather poorly done and detract from the experience. 
 Special effects such as waves splashing, as well as movie cut-scenes, were sufficient.
  
  The music is very appropriate for the game atmosphere. The only downside is that it can get very 
 redundant at times. They should have added a little more variety. Voice work is very well done, 
 as well as sound effects.
  
  Value and Tilt:
  
  There are rarely any options to change the story direction. All dialogues go in a single direction. 
 You have no real opportunity to affect the outcome of the mystery. There are around four unique 
 endings. All contain very minor differences, though, and all can be achieved by changing one or 
 two actions near the very end of the game, making replayability not as high as one would think. 
 Also, dialogues cannot be skipped and some might not want to sit through the abundance of lines 
 for a second time.
  
  As an added bonus, after you beat the game and get through the ending cut-scene you get to watch 
 the original ending to the story from the book, if you solve one last puzzle. If you havent read 
 the book yet, you may or may not want to watch this.
  
  Overall, I would say And Then There Were None is a decent adventure game brought down by very obvious 
 design and game play flaws. If you are a fan of the original source material, I wouldnt hesitate 
 to buy the game. If you arent a devout fan, it might be best to wait until the game goes on sale, 
 or look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsouthern
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  After playing Aura, this was a breath of fresh air. There were actual characters... there was an 
 actual plot! Yes, the puzzles were easy and everything was pretty much laid out for you, but in 
 this game, the story's the thing. My only major complaint were some discrepancies. For me the most 
 noticeable ones actually had to do with Emily, once where she acted as if we had already spoken 
 on a subject and another where the silk sheets I was supposed to give her were magically already 
 in her possession! Wha..? My other major complaint was the end with the noose... I won't spoil 
 it, but suffice it to say it was a bit of a stretch. This is a must-play for adventure gamers though. 
 I wouldn't have missed it for anything and after Alfred Hitchcock's The Final Cut, I'm glad to 
 see a game get a movie right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Warning: spoilers ahead concerning both the game and the book.
  
  Its finally happened; someone stepped up to the challenge of developing an interactive game based 
 on an Agatha Christie book. No small task, her works are treasured the world over, and designing 
 a game based on such a well-known property as And Then There Were None carried with it several 
 risks. How do you draw in new players unfamiliar with the book? How do you create challenging puzzles 
 aimed at fans who know the original story? Would they dare tamper with a classic? The end result 
 gets many things right, and some things wrong.
  
  * Gameplay: In balancing the needs of both new and old fans, The Adventure Company chose to add 
 some new elements and twists to the original story. Fans of the original should not be too dismayed 
 at the changes. Expecting an interactive retread of the story would not have been very fulfilling. 
 The real question is, were they faithful to the material, and the answer is yes. The addition of 
 an eleventh guest is modeled after known facts from the book, so it doesnt feel out of place. 
 The same goes for twists in the plot revealed later. Everything makes sense, and the script is 
 well written. All the characters are fleshed out and faithful to their literary counterparts. The 
 decision to change indians to sailors should not be looked on as a sleight against the original 
 novel. If one were concerned about title origins, they have only to look at the original title 
 of the book to see that it could have been much worse. As for the puzzles, well, here is were the 
 flaws of the game are glaring. A rule of adventure games is that objects on screen that invoke 
 a mouse icon mean you can do something with it, and if the mouse doesnt register it, its just 
 part of the background art. But here, objects in your inventory can work with objects on screen 
 that do not register as objects in any manner. Other objects receive the manipulate or get 
 icon, but have no purpose and cannot be taken. There are far too many useless objects, including 
 objects that you gather and combine together, yet serve no purpose other than to trigger the next 
 story scene. For example, you go to all the trouble to build a smoker, then collect an object that 
 serves no purpose. You build a parachute, just to go nowhere and collect an object with no purpose. 
 Puzzles that simply serve to extend time and load the next scene are poor puzzles. Some combinable 
 objects require an exact amount of single objects to be placed in the four combinable slots, and 
 with over twenty objects in your inventory at any given time, it can become frustrating. I was 
 particularly irked by a fingerprint puzzle, which placed square blame on the correct murdering 
 culprit, yet wouldnt let me do anything about it! The guests are often scattered around the island 
 simply to extend the playing time. Thankfully, the save system is extremely easy to use, and so 
 is the in-game inventory. Every action in the game can be done with a two-button mouse.
  
  * Graphics: All the maps are beautifully rendered, both interior and exterior, and the detail here 
 and there is downright stunning. The maps often dont follow rules of screen direction, often 
 resulting in you getting twisted around in getting from place to place, but the small size of the 
 game world allows you to get used to that. The characters exhibit detailed expressions. The storms 
 and general weather effects outside are marvelously detailed, especially the sea and waves, and 
 they work well with the accompanying sound effects. Best played in a dark room.
  
  * Sound: The piano-heavy score sets the mood quite appropriately, occasionally feeling redundant 
 during long stretches of puzzle-solving. The voice work is first-rate. Every character sounds exactly 
 like youd imagine they would. Sound effects often take advantage of stereo capability, adding 
 to the mystery atmosphere.
  
  * Value: There are multiple endings, depending on how quick you are to save the lives (or not) 
 of the remaining guests, but the most satisfying one is the extra reserved for the very end, 
 which fans of the book will appreciate the most. There are no ways to up your life-saving count 
 by being more diligent in your detecting, so theres no challenge to replaying the game. It would 
 be better to just read the enclosed book, which is a nice value in itself.
  
  * Tilt: I had read the book a long time ago, but I still had remembered whodunit when I started 
 this game. The book is worth reading, and this game is worth playing. Im anxious to see what other 
 Agatha Christie properties will be developed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Some of my idiot friends think that if a game has a woman's name on the cover, it automatically 
 is a girl's game. This is NOT true. In fact, it's one of the best adventure games I've played!
 
  
  The story faithfully follows the book, and even adds its own sparkle, which I must say is fantastic. 
 Those of you who've read the book, the ending's changed, don't worry. ;) . Art is fantastic, gameplay 
 is tense (not as scary as some games, but you probably won't be able to play without it being daytime) .
 
  
  And There Were None is worth every penny, or any half-penny, for that matter! The only thing I 
 didn't care for much was the main character, Patrick Narracott's voice acting. For me, it lacked 
 the emotional impact that mystery movies or games need. The rest of the cast sounded Oscar-worthy. 
 And it has a little replay value, too (some interesting optional puzzles set up by the house owner, 
 Mr. Owen, and there are also 4 different endings, depending on what you do. Do what? You'll find 
 out soon. ;)
  
  Final word: BUY THIS GAME!
  
  P. S. I forgot to mention the puzzles. They're great. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetxshots
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Agatha Christie: And Then There Were None, brought the sense of the book back alive, me personally 
 loved all her books, and poems, so this game was outstanding. As good as the story line was the 
 technical work on the project wasnt that strong, with glitches and bad camera angles all the way 
 through. But with such a strong storyline the player gets to enjoy the new style of games; to choose 
 your path to differ the ending , which in a way could leave the player to feel that they have not 
 completely finished the game, but at the same time give minor freedom to the ways the player finishes 
 the game. Unfortunately, i found this game set, as in the player HAS to follow the order of the 
 game with the exception of the ending like so many other adventure game which is a big failure 
 to the process of adventure games.... but besides that the game proves out to provide a good time, 
 and reccommended for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riftling
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------
  Positives:
  
  * Great Premise
  * Good Voice Acting
  * Beautiful Environment Renderings
  * Intuitive Interface
  * Faithful 
 Adaptation of the Book
  
  Negatives:
  
  * Graphics
  * Linear Plot Bugs
  * Poor Story Transitions
  * Pointless Tasks and Items
  * Misleading Replayability
  ------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Let me start by saying that I was really looking forward to this game. I love the premise of a 
 juicy whodunit, and I am far enough removed from the original AC novel to not be predisposed 
 to the course of events or outcome.
  
  I should mention that there are some mild spoilers in this review, though I will flag them in sections 
 so that you can avoid them if desired.
  
  I. Graphics:
  
  Lets start with the graphics, which are a mixed bag. First, I was disappointed in the lack of 
 resolution control. I dont know what the game was being displayed at (640x480 maybe?) , but there 
 was enough evidence to suggest it was low. It would have been nice to be able to crank up the resolution 
 for some smoother representations. Given that the games environmental depth doesnt come anywhere 
 close to most games available today (not an indictment in and of itself -- the story simply doesnt 
 call for it to) , this oversight appears to be either because they couldnt figure out how to do 
 it, or wouldnt spend the effort/money. 
  
  Second, the character renderings are antiquated by current standards, but passible. While I wasnt 
 necessarily expecting Half-Life2 renderings, some of the character details appeared either sparse 
 or just plain lazy (Veras hair comes to mind as a really bad case of helmet design) . And outside 
 of the few cut-scenes in the game, the character animations are extremely limited. Characters you 
 are to interact with always are either standing or sitting stifflysome occasionally fidget, but 
 they mostly just stare straight forward until you interact with them. Case in point: if someone 
 says they are leaving the room, the screen goes black, and then reforms with the person gone. Again, 
 apparently it was either too costly, or too difficult, for the design team to simply animate the 
 character walking away.
  
  The one exception to the lackluster graphics are the background environments. These range from 
 very good to quite stunning in detail (at least, under the circumstances) . The dining room in particular 
 stands out as an environment where it looks like they tried to make every pixel count. What the 
 environments lack in sophistication and intricate 3D modeling is made up for in the artistry of 
 the presentation. Even with the predominately gray exterior locale, theyve added enough detail 
 to make it interesting to look atquaint gardens, rocky outcroppings with waves crashing on them, 
 stone hutsall have character enough to look like they belong in a different game than the one 
 the rest of the development team was putting together.
  
  The bottom line is that the graphics overall are serviceable at bestwhich I suppose is all we 
 could hope for from a game likely not given a large budget to work with. Still, it appears that 
 in some areas they could have done a better job within the confines of the degree of modeling chosen, 
 and thats disappointing.
  
  II. Interface
  
  The interface is inspired in both its simplicity and ease of use (even if not particularly original) . 
 All of your interaction is done with the mouse. The cursor changes to indicate the type of interaction 
 you can perform on whatever object/person/area you pass over with it. If its something you can 
 study, the cursor becomes an eye, if its someone you can talk with, the cursor becomes a mouth, 
 etc. All of these are clear and obvious, and clicking will perform the action.
  
  You only have two screens to worry about apart from the main viewing window: your inventory and 
 your journal, both of which can be accessed with different keys and/or mouse buttons, but which 
 also have conveniently placed unobtrusive icons in the upper corners of the viewing window that 
 can simply be clicked on to have the screens slide in and out of view. The inventory window is 
 straight-forward and intuitive. Items can be arranged however you like and there are plenty of 
 spacesmy one minor complaint is that items cannot be swapped out by dragging one over the other 
 and clicking (instead you must move an item out of a slot you want another item to occupy firsta 
 slight pain when you want to shuffle a large number of items around) . The journal is your collection 
 of facts you discover throughout the game, broken into four sections: general, characters, documents, 
 and books. And the items displayed in each section resemble the hand-written scrawl of a personal 
 journal as a nice touch. Most written items you find are automatically transferred from your inventory 
 to your journal for reading and recall by simply studying them.
  
  Some inventory items you find can be broken down into more basic parts, while others can be combined 
 together to create new items. Up to four items can be combined in this manner. Unfortunately, while 
 some partial combos are allowed on your way to building specific items, others are not. In those 
 instances where it isnt, this leads to frustration because you are left wondering if you are even 
 on the right track. It would have been much better if all partial combos were allowed so that you 
 could at least know if two items were supposed to be combinedeven if you needed more components 
 to have a final useful item. Again, it was done for somebut it should have been done for all.
 
  
  III. Gameplay
  
  Herein lies the bulk of my criticism of the game. 
  
  A. InteractivityWhats That?
  
  Lets begin this section with the least of the offendersthe 
 inconsistent application of observable items. In each environment, there are typically a few things 
 you can observe (ie. click on) for a detailed description: a painting on a wall, a towel rack, 
 a flower setting, a study globe, etc. The problem isthe vast majority of these serve absolutely 
 no purpose; however, there are so few of them that you wind up believing there must be something 
 significant about them. So you wind up clicking on everything you can just to make sure you didnt 
 miss a clue. They should either have made more mundane items observable, or they should have done 
 away with them entirely except for those items that actually do bear scrutiny. For example, there 
 may be several paintings in a hallway, one of which has a painting of a flower. That painting is 
 clickable to study further while the others are not. Upon doing so, your character says: Its 
 a painting of a flower. OK. Why was this necessary? I can see that its a painting of a flower, 
 yet the other paintings in the room are just as obvious, but not clickable. Theres quite a bit 
 of this illogical partial-interaction in the game for no apparent reason. Sure, they might be going 
 for red herrings, but its such a half-baked attempt that you have to wonder why they bothered 
 to waste their time and yours in the process.
  
  Which brings me to the next lesser negative critique in this area: red herring inventory items. 
 Whether intentional or not, there are quite a few things you can pick up in this game that you 
 never use. These run the gambit from the mundane to the intricate. It would be one thing if most 
 objects in the game were interactive, but they arent. As with observational items, the objects 
 you can collect are scarce enough to be considered potentially useful by the player, thus leading 
 to you spending a lot of time trying to use them with the environment or combine them with other 
 itemsall for naught. If this is done intentionally, its a very poor excuse for trying to make 
 things challengingtheres nothing intellectually stimulating about adding frustration and time 
 to the experience. 
  
  Worse than the inclusion of items you can interact with that never go anywhere is the inclusion 
 of items that you can interact with that ultimately prove useless to the plot. These involve elaborate 
 schemes to combine or use items and/or collect information thatalthough they do lead to action 
 arcs for your characterdo nothing to advance the story or help you in solving the mystery. These 
 action arcs simply die without any cause or fanfare, and you are left wondering why on earth you 
 had to go through all that trouble to find out facts, solve puzzles, and/or combine items when 
 the result is zero reward beyond the fact that the game will not go forward until you have accomplished 
 one of these tasks. This isnt just bad storytelling, its bad game design. It would have been 
 no trouble to close the loop on a number of these arcs with scenarios that would have been somewhat 
 satisfying and add at least some minimal interest to the overall experience. Its like they were 
 just fishing for things for your character to do and ran out of time or steam to care to finish 
 the full reasoning behind having your character go in that direction. 
  
  The flashlight is a simple (and less irritating) example of this. You go through the trouble of 
 finding the parts and putting it together. The reward is that you can walk around in two certain 
 hallways at nightthey even go to the trouble of blacking the screen out in those areas except 
 where the circle of light shines. Its a nice visual, but then, nothing is done with it. You never 
 find a single piece of evidence or even a necessary item while using the flashlightnor do you 
 catch anyone sneaking around in the dark. Its simply a means to go from point A to point B in 
 a small hallway, even though all the other rooms are still fully interactive without the flashlight 
 even being turned on (they appear like in twilight) . If they wanted it to be atmospheric or deemed 
 as usefulwhy not require it throughout the house? Why not add some things that you can only witness/obtain 
 if you shine the light in the right spot? So many missed opportunities for what should be basic 
 interaction concepts.
  
  Then some of these elaborate interactions are put in place so that other characters will respond 
 to you in a different way. However, the insights you gain from their resultant reactions are minor, 
 fruitless and ultimately inconsequential. Again, you are left wondering why you went through the 
 effort at all. To add insult to injury, a number of these side quests can be skipped entirely and 
 it wont make a lick of difference in your perceptions or the outcome of events.
  
  B. Linearity is For Suckers
  
  If this story had blinders on any narrower it would be headed 
 straight for the glue factory. The conversations are outright steered in a single direction. There 
 are no options that lead to different reactions, and no way to avoid saying exactly what the script 
 calls for. You simply follow the lines that are fed to you by clicking on them one by one until 
 you are spent and then move to the next character. To make matters worse, you are forced to listen 
 to your character and the character you are speaking with verbalize the entire diatribeeven if 
 you can read the answer faster. No amount of key-pressing will cut off the speech. This is especially 
 aggravating if you are replaying an area for some reason. Theres no way for you to hasten these 
 interactionsyou just have to trudge through at the pace the developers have set.
  
  Nor can you skip them. Certain events and conversations trigger the progress of the storyand since 
 you have the freedom to move about and change the order in which these triggers occur (believe 
 methis is not as non-linear as that suggests) some of these transitions can be awkward at best. 
 At their worst, they can be completely irrational. There are bugs and/or loopholes in the transitions 
 that leave you scratching your head and require you to completely suspend disbelief. An extreme 
 example of these is that I once discovered the body of someone in the house who I then proceeded 
 to go outside and talk with on the porch afterwardseems one thing I did triggered the body, but 
 another trigger hadnt yet been fulfilled to remove the person from being interacted with. This 
 is really bad programming, and might be forgivable if it didnt happen several times.
  
  Still other triggers are there for that purpose alonethey dont add to the story or make sense 
 to help the logical progression of your understanding or events, they just simply must be carried 
 out in order for the next cut-scene or chapter to begin. Again, this is poor design that does nothing 
 to enhance the overall experience.
  
  C. An Uninspired End ---SPOILER ALERT!!!!
  
  
 
  
  Probably the most damning critique I can offer for the game is the ultimate revelation that nothing 
 you do or discover in it could have ever led you to solve the mystery. Thats rightthe game is 
 one big red herring and your amateur sleuthing is a waste of time. All the clues, fingerprints, 
 bits of info, and facts you collect throughout the game are all for naught. Not a single clue you 
 find, nor a fact revealed in the game will give you a hint of the truth behind whats going on. 
 While some of these things tie into the conclusion, they are merely backstory alonethey would 
 not have aided in a deduction, for the key pieces to the mystery that would have allowed you to 
 potentially discover the truth are not included.
  
  
 
  
  END SPOILER 
  
  As for replayabilityforget it. The important aspect of the endingthe killer (s) identity is fixed. 
 The only thing you can change is who else survives in the last chapter, and theres no point in 
 replaying the exact same linear story all the way through again to see a slight variation on the 
 same theme. You can save the game before the last chapter and try a few different things with your 
 final choices to see the possible variationsnone of which are huge divergences that deliver on 
 the promise.
  
  IV. Conclusions
  
  In the end, this game has style, atmosphere, a solid interface, and not much else going for it 
 (well, the voice acting is quite good too) . Unfortunately, the game play is so unflinchingly linear, 
 hackneyed, ill-conceived, rushed, and illogical in execution that it overshadows those positives. 
 You are instead left with an interactive mess that does a second-rate job of trying to turn a classic 
 book into an immersive experiencean attempt that ultimately fails on most fronts. If only more 
 time, money, talent, and thought had been applied to this game, I think it could have been something 
 really special. Thank goodness the book is includedIm sure it at least is a satisfying read. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDoore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game was a fairly good mystery game I do not complain about the point and click picture, I 
 like to see who the character I am playing is. But the worst part about the game is the graphics 
 in it which I remember playing the Sherlock Holmes game the Silver Earring which came out about 
 one and a half years ago. Well, they had pretty good graphics then but those are the same graphics 
 as And Then There Where None which comes out in late 2005 actually in my opinion the graphics 
 in Sherlock Holmes where even better. There was great sound, I thought with the game that brought 
 you into a thrilling murder mystery game. And the characters I thought had fairly good voice acting 
 but I would say to buy it but you wouldnt want to replay it over and over again but it was a good 
 mystery game from the Adventure Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  the game is normal a little boring because you always have to do the same (talk and walk) but the 
 game it's good it's an adventure game, it could be better though but i like it.... i hope you like 
 it too. i like the graphics and the sounds it's good to... it's a little hard because you have 
 to combine elements and a lot of more thing, you have to be VERY smart to do it without a guide, 
 but the game worth playing...
  it's a little exasperating because the enviroment it's very large and you have to walk a lot, that's 
 pretty boring...
  
  in conclusion: if you like the strategy/adventure games you're gonna like this game, it's not exellent 
 but it's quite good...
  the graphics are good (especcially if you active the antialiasing option) ... and it's easy to understand...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krul32
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The good: Agatha Christie material (honestly, how CAN that be a bad thing?) , reasonable system 
 requirements, decent production values, fairly true to the book
  
  The bad: insanely involved side quests, outdoor navigation a nightmare, not always clear what to 
 do next, too little clues to the killer
  
  What can one say about this one? While the redoubtable Dame Agatha probably isn't spinning in her 
 grave over this, it's unlikely she's singing novenas to it in Heaven, either.
  
  First, the good.... it's very hard to go wrong with such excellent source material, and Adventure 
 Company was careful enough with it that one doesn't think their artistic license should be revoked.
 
  
  This game is another one that surprisingly stable out of the box (only two random crashes) and 
 seems to run quite smoothly, with no hiccups or insane frame rate drops, even on my modest system.
 
  
  The voice acting was respectable, if sometimes somewhat flat. The actress who played Miss Brent, 
 however, is a well known voice that did an excellent job with her lines.
  
  The sound effects were passable, if nothing inspired, and the musical tracks were suitably understated.
 
  
  The plot shouldn't be too hard to follow; even for those who may not have read the book or seen 
 any of the movies on the subject matter, and stays fairly true to form.
  
  Now, for the bad.... the side quests were, frankly, ridiculously complex and sometimes highly illogical, 
 and rarely being critical to the storyline, could often be skipped. Which is a shame, since if 
 they could have been more critical to revealing or clarifying the plot, people could justify taking 
 the time and effort to unravel their Gordian knots.
  
  Outdoor navigation was a (perhaps unintentional) maze that would confuse the Minotaur of Crete. 
 A better system would simply have been to provide an overhead map that allowed you to click on 
 destinations you could reach and instantaneously travel there, rather than having to waste time 
 either wandering about pointlessly or going to the nuisance of drawing oneself a map.
  
  As with a LOT of adventure games, it's not always clear what you must do to advance the plot and 
 move forward, but one can make allowances for that.
  
  Finally, there's the matter of "whodunit?" The clues to who that is are extremely sparse, so much 
 so that not even the vaunted Hercule Poirot could have made sense of them. The final denouement, 
 I might add, I thought to be frankly silly. Not only did this choice of murderer seem to be neither 
 the most or least likely person, it seems like somebody so completely out of left field that left 
 you stupefied with shock that they could make such a totally bizarre plot choice.
  
  All in all, it's not a bad little game for those who plunk down their money, but those expecting 
 the sort of atmospheric detail and excellent character development of a Christie novel are likely 
 to feel shortchanged 
::::::

::::::
UserName: view136
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  ... way to static. That ruined the game. It would have been almost perfect for a mystery, for this 
 great story, if there was a little more life put into it. The interactivity and characters 'acting' 
 are in a way worst then Discworld Noir or other classics. Take for inst. that pool game... (Or 
 other similar scenes) .
  I wanted to mention this bad aspect cause there's nothing else wrong with the game. More than that, 
 there are the impressive surroundings and the suggestive music playing which make it lovely for 
 the greatest mysteries of all (at least that's what they've been saying about the movie) . Like 
 i've said. It would have been perfect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shansun83
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  A suprisingly good crime solving adventure with a superb story and interesting plot isoffered to 
 gamers in the form of Agatha Christie: And Then There Were None.
  Although there is not much puzzle solving involved in the game, the way the plot is uncovered makes 
 it so exciting
  The dialogues and interrogating can be a bit boring but it is the life essence of the game. Also 
 the game is non-linear which is unusual in an adventure game.
  
  The graphics are plain but OK, the 2D textures are nice and scenic, though the character expressions 
 could have been worked upon more. The ambience is solid for this genre. Also the game is less taxing 
 on your PC, you dont need a monster rig to run this game
  
  Conclusion:
  Adventure gamers specially those who enjoy crime solving would really enjoy this game.... Dont let 
 this go by !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rixel
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  And then there were none is one of the latest adventure games to hit the shelves from The Adventure 
 Company, the company to bring you Syberia and Still Life.
  
  And Then There Were None places you within the fictional book-based story created by Agatha Christie, 
 where you play a man merely responsible for making sure that a large amount of guests arrive safely 
 at the mansion of a Mr. Owen who is based on the mysterious Shipwreck Island. Suddenly, you're 
 boat get's trashed and a storm hits thus forcing you to stay on the island yourself. It's from 
 here that you seemingly discover that every single person on this island, with the exception of 
 yourself, has commited some kind of murder. With this, as each day goes by, one of the 9 other 
 guests in the house drops dead in an array of different fashions.
  
  First off, And Then There Were None is a game that is very non-linear. So if you're used to having 
 the path laid out in front of you when it comes to playing this kind of game then you'll probably 
 just get frustrated for the most part. You can get from beginning to end in by completing a minal 
 amount of objectives if you desire, but for hardcore mystery/adventure fans there is alot more 
 to unfold should you wish to do so. In some respects this makes the game kind of pointless, because 
 you can complete a chapter by merely doing such things as searching guest rooms for somewhat obvious 
 clues. However, despite the simplicity of the game there is just enough story line to keep you 
 interested: even if you just want to see the outcome.
  
  The games interface is fairly simple, with the cursour changing over certain enviroments and objects 
 that you can interact with. The inventory has a serious amount of slots to house the many objects 
 you will pick up in game. You can also try "merging" things together via you're inventory screen, 
 to create objects that will help you progress.
  
  The sound for the game is very good, and, in true Agatha Christie fashion, keeps you on edge, especially 
 when your exploring the house of a night time. The only problem is that there only appears to be 
 one music score, so while it is a good one it can get a little annoying just repeating itself. 
 It's one of them "soundtracks" though that has the ability to make you jump completely by accident 
 just through sudden high notes. The voice acting is also fairy decent, although, again, repetative. 
 
  
  The games graphics are nice, although not revolutionary. As with still life, the in game graphics 
 are certainly capable of giving the game a good look and feel, which is certainly a good thing 
 for adventure games as alot of noticability is required when it comes to exploring you're surroundings. 
 The cutscenes are done in a somewhat cartoon-like fashion, but are nicely rendered never-the-less.
 
  
  When you blend all these features together, you end up with a half decent game which stays true 
 to the story that it was designed to follow. The only warning that I would give, however, is that 
 although And Then There Were None is a game that's certainly worth you're time, you'd have to be 
 a hardcore adventure fan to truly get anything out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inthezone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Agatha Christe is renowned for her mastery of the pen, and finally one of her stories has come 
 alive in The Adventure Company's 'Agatha Christie: And then there were None' for the PC.
  
  ATTWN starts with a young man ferrying a group of hosts to the desolate 'Shipwreck Island' in the 
 middle of the Indian Ocean. Once there, you attempt to leave the island but find your boat to be 
 scuttled and destroyed. Following this initial incident, the game unfolds into a melodramatic series 
 of horrible murders which follow one after the other, the ten guests at the house each dying in 
 turn because of sins they commited in their past life. The characters are beautifully depicted 
 and so is the house in which they stay. The game also has many outdoor locations such as an apiary, 
 which are all stylishly shown as well. 
  
  The game is a standard point-and-click game played from a third-person perspective, allowing for 
 interesting camera angles. Movement is easy, and exploration is also a simply task of clicking 
 in the direction you want to move in. The game's protaganist Naracott begins to sleuth around the 
 mansion. Picking up, putting together and breaking apart objects is made easy by the inventory 
 screen which is displayed as a small icon in the top left corner of the screen. A notebook is provided 
 on the top right corner for copying letters and other important documents into. 
  
  Another point about the game to be mentioned is the system used to determine the ending of the 
 game. There is the option of multiple different endings, all spurred by different events. Many 
 side-quests are also available that deviate from the plot and offer players a chance to delve further 
 into the game.
  
  Sound in ATTWN is absolutely appropriate for a murder mystery, with a slow, subtle track complimenting 
 the dirty deeds being performed under the noses of the guests. Sound effects are also good, but 
 unfortunately character dialogue is not performed to the same level of satisfaction, instead leaving 
 something to be desired. 
  
  Agatha Christe: And then there were None is a masterpiece of point-and-click adveture. An intricate 
 web of lies and deception crawl across Shipwreck Island as the guests begin to die, and solving 
 the mysteries posed is both satisfying and suprising. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
