-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Agatha Christie: Murder on the Orient Express
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/agathachristiemurderontheorientexpress/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice atmosphere, thanks to good voice acting and pleasant artwork.
 Some clever puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Secondary plot twist is contrived and emotionally manipulative.
 Cumbersome inventory interface.
 Constant backtracking and busywork get old fast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: AWE Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 21, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The newest Agatha Christie adventure game suffers from monotonous tasks and contrived plot twists 
 that drag it down to mediocrity. 

  Agatha Christie's mystery novels remain popular to this day, thanks to their skillful and compact 
 blend of British sensibilities and tight plot.  Murder on the Orient Express  is perhaps the late 
 author's most recognizable title, so its transition to an adventure game was a certainty in light 
 of last year's adventure adaptation of another of the author's works,  And Then There Were None 
 . Yet it's hard to say what audience AWE Games was seeking with this adaptation. Christie purists 
 will undoubtedly be annoyed with the story's liberties, not to mention the tacked-on "heartwarming" 
 ending. Adventure gamers may enjoy some rewarding puzzles but will be annoyed by multiple plot 
 gaps. If nothing else, at least it nails the proper atmosphere, thanks to a largely solid voice 
 cast with character actor David Suchet leading the way as Hercule Poirot.  

          Only in an adventure game can you get a butter knife and a punch bowl to run a ham radio. 
     

  Murder on the Orient Express is a typical point-and-click adventure game, dropping you in the shoes 
 of train company employee Antoinette Marceau. It seems Antoinette is an amateur detective, so she 
 eagerly takes the lead as Poirot's eyes and ears after he is injured when the train is overtaken 
 by a surprise avalanche. Of course, the train isn't the only victim: One of the passengers is stabbed 
 to death in his sleeping quarters. From there, you question the suspects, search for clues, and 
 tap Poirot's "little grey cells" for a recap of everything you have learned.  

  Christie's novel ended with one of the finer surprise twists of her illustrious career, and fortunately, 
 the game doesn't fiddle too much with the basic plot. Obviously, concessions were made, but unlike 
 in And Then There Were None, the famed conclusion isn't completely replaced. However, it's extended 
 to make room for a second melodramatic plot twist that detracts from the original ending. If you're 
 familiar with the novel you'll welcome the surprise, but you can't help but wish the drama was 
 reserved for the novel's original finale. The new addition was meant to be touching but is just 
 manipulative and contrived, completely missing the spirit of the book.  

  Other original touches would have been better left out. There is a significant plot twist towards 
 the end of the second act that sets up the additional ending, but it's barely even mentioned before 
 the final scene. Other story issues just reek of poor design. At one point, you mention to the 
 barman that the chef was temperamental that day, before you actually speak to the chef to discover 
 that tidbit. In another, you question a porter about his lateness before the engineer tells you 
 it was even an issue. These and other moments make it obvious the game wasn't prepared for you 
 to carry out tasks outside of a specific order. They also make you feel disconnected from the story, 
 which is already coldly crammed with a ton of clues and plot threads to sort through.  

  But first you have to uncover all that evidence. You'll interrogate a healthy list of suspects, 
 including a count and countess, a princess, a typewriter-ribbon salesman, an American grandmother, 
 and plenty more. There is a lot of dialogue to wade through, particularly in the game's central 
 act, and thankfully the voice cast is excellent. There are a few suspect accents, but the actors 
 do a fine job of bringing life to a large group of characters that have relatively little to work 
 with.  

  It's a good thing, because Murder on the Orient Express requires a whole lot of repetitive questioning 
 and backtracking that's emphasized by the confined setting. For instance, you'll spend a good chunk 
 of time collecting passports. It feels like pointless busywork, since you have to question every 
 passenger and crew member and then explore every sleeping quarter, when only one or two of the 
 passports do anything to advance the plot. Then, you have to get fingerprint samples from everyone. 
 Then, you have to compare every pair of shoes to the footprints outside the dead man's room. It 
 requires trudging from one end of the train to the other, so the game not only has you repeat the 
 same task ad nauseam, but also rarely changes the scenery. The excursions into a chilly forest 
 and the opening scenes in the station are your only respite.  

  Some of the more traditional puzzle elements are easier to swallow. One puzzle has you pouring 
 cake batter into the snow to take a cast of a footprint; in another, you must find a pipe to fix 
 the broken heat ducts. Brainteasers like these fit reasonably well into the story and aren't insanely 
 difficult. Some later puzzles, like one in which you craft a makeshift telegraph machine, demand 
 a lot of inventory combining but are still reasonably satisfying to solve.  

  But if fiddling with your collection leads to gratifying puzzles, the inventory interface itself 
 is a big cause for frustration. To merge items, you must choose them from your inventory list and 
 add them to a separate combining interface. Why not just let the player combine them in the list 
 like every other adventure game? Needing two tabs is a headache, because you have to keep clicking 
 back and forth between them. In one instance, you must lift fingerprints by combining three items -- two 
 of which are always the same -- over and over. Each time you lift one set, the items you need to 
 take the next prints are removed from the combining interface, and you have to add them again. 
 It's yet another instance of the game giving you worthless tasks that detract from the game and 
 pad its length.  

          Collecting more than a dozen passports is as much fun as it sounds.     

  Murder on 
 the Orient Express is not a technical powerhouse, but it gets the mood just right. The room interiors 
 are nicely designed, and details like lavishly decorated dining tables are quite attractive. However, 
 character models are very stiff and lack facial expressiveness. While more and more adventure games 
 feature moving elements in the environments, there are few to speak of here, so the train feels 
 more confined as a result. The cutscenes are nice to look at, but they're too pixelated due to 
 the poor video compression. The mysterious atmosphere is further accentuated by a generic but nicely 
 understated musical score and a good voice cast.  

  Unfortunately, its prim pedigree can't elevate Agatha Christie: Murder on the Orient Express to 
 anything more than another mediocre adventure. Longtime adventure enthusiasts may still enjoy the 
 mysterious milieu and some agreeable puzzles, even amid the mind-numbing backtracking and endless 
 collecting. But if you play adventure games for the story, you're better off reading the enclosed 
 copy of the original novel and skipping the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  First I haven't played the game all the way through, in fact I have only spent a few minutes playing 
 the game and it was so awful that continuing would be an absolute waste of time.
  
  The first thing the game bombards you with is terrifyingly uninteresting dialogue that is so pointless 
 that you can't believe that the makers of the game were bold enough to have in the game. After 
 engaging in three absolutely pointless dialogues and obstacles I have come to the conclusion that 
 there is no way this game can get any better, especially since the madness continued after the 
 first three obstacles that were nothing short of stupidity. If I am chasing after someone, I would 
 not be held back in the manner that this game presents. What makes it worse is that the "options" 
 that are available to you are truly useless since the outcome are the same and basically lengthens 
 the inevitable.
  
  So basically within the first few moments of playing this game I have grown to hate it. No story 
 can be that good for me to overcome the hurdle of time wasting and illogical obstacles that this 
 game presents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  A few days ago I was just wondering if I could ever work for Gamespot. It ocurred to me that it 
 would be the career of my dreams. So I just thought about "living" the feeling you have when doing 
 what the guys from Gamespot do. So i went to the nearest gamestore and bought a game, one of the 
 cheapest, but not the cheapest one. Agatha Christie - Murder on the Orient Express. I went home with 
 the game with the idea of installing the game playing and finishing it ,and after that i would 
 make a review about the game. Thats what the guys from Gamespot do. This is probably going to be 
 one of the hardest games I have ever played because I won't be playing it out of fun, but because 
 I have to.
  So as I promised, I finished the game, it took me I think about one day, and I have to admit that 
 I never used cheats or things like that just to make the experience more difficult.
  The game wants to tell a beautiful story but it doesn't succeed. It is a very bad game, a very bad 
 game.
  To start of I would say that the installation is very annoying. On the backround there is a music 
 playing, I would personally take away 0.50 from every single game that has music during it's installation. When 
 you start the game the same music continues. This is really annoying because you were probably not 
 expecting to hear that annoying music ever again. But it continues during th whole game.
  The graphics are absolutly awfull and the animations horrible. Even though it may seem that the 
 game looks actually nice it isn't a 3D game. Only the charchters are, the rest are foto-realistic 
 landscapes and well not really landscapes as all the action takes place in a train. It want's to 
 be something like Syberia or The longest Journey. It fails. Everything about this game is bad. The 
 storytelling is very bad, the characters and voice acting is bad. The only true good thing about 
 the game is it's title, and some small things that make it look like a good game. For example the 
 guy from the train comes from one end of the train to the other one while speaking with the passengers. While 
 the camera is on the opposite end of the train as him, his voice increases in volume as he aproaches 
 the other end. This is a nice touch, but it could be forgotten because of many other flaws. For example 
 during a cutscene two men are sitting at a table and are talking. One of them tells the other one 
 that he would like his bacon from his plate. But his plate is empty!!!! Both of the plates on the 
 table are empty. An other huge stupidity is Poirot sitting in bed with a blanket over him complaining 
 that he is ill. But he wears a a suit with a tie under the blanket and he even has gloves.
  The game is a very bad game but if you really liked the book and you really want to play this game 
 only because of it's story go ahead. But it will just make you hate the book. That's what happened 
 to me because of the game. I strongly recommend you not to buy this game. This isn't even good for 
 renting. You would be better of downloading a demo or something to see for yourself that it isn't 
 worth the money.
  
  My Score 4.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhprime
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I think the rating given this game is quite harsh. If you like playing adventure games, Murder 
 on the Orient Express is a very well done, polished and fun game. The graphics and art design are 
 superb and are compplimented by excellent voice acting, especially David Suchet's Hercule Poirot. 
 The game play is typical adventure game fare; there is nothing new there. However, the developers 
 did a great job creating an atmosphere of isolation and suspense which helped create a rich gaming 
 experience. They also did a wonderful job tweaking the story, so there were surprises for those 
 players familar with the novel. All in all a great adventure game. I can't wait for Evil Under 
 the Sun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anathemic
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have a question.
  How the hell could anyone finish this game?!
  Must say, I am so pissed off.
  Like I said, BUGS. I couldn't finish the game cause of the bugs 
 and the patch didn't help me.
  At first, I didn't know that there were some problems with the game when I made it to that stupid 
 'hot spots', 2 hrs I was looking for the answer, I tought I do something wrong. And then I saw 
 patch, which didn't help at all.
  Ok, you get my point now. Let's say something about the game. At the begining, I didn't like the 
 tasks, after that I was desperately waiting for that murder to happen and then just like nothing 
 someone was killed... hmm..
  This is a very complicated case, so, I like it. Many people, clues, stories..
  But Poirot was 
 so annoying... And the main character is in the spirit of `30. Environment was good. Storyline, 
 too, but that stupid bugs... agrh.
  The end is dramatized, but I didn't cry, of course. It rather looks lame.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitzo1720
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  For long have I anticipated this game, for I am a Poirot fan and a Dame Christie's reader. But 
 quite frankly I was really disappointed.
  There are only two good things about the game: The graphics - quite good, but not the best in the 
 gender, and the great David Suchet's voice as Poirot.
  But we can't play with Poirot!!!!! That's right. It's a Poirot game and we can't play with Poirot!!!!! 
 What were AWE thinking? But this game can still deliver a few hours of entertainment to adventure, 
 but mainly Poirot fans.
  
  Let's hope the next title Evil Under Sun is better, well... you can play with Poirot... that's 
 a step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I had played And Then There Were None early in 2006, 
 and really liked it. When I saw this at the local Best Buy, I was very excited! Finally, another 
 entry to the series! This one even had David Suchet, the man who played Hercule Pirot on the famous 
 TV series! A Hercule Pirot game! I knew that I wouldn't actually be able to play the master detective 
 himself (they wouldn't let adventurers bring shame to his name) , but that didn't bother me.
  
  As I started playing, I was having a great time! Many of the same elements I loved so were 
 included, and I had a blast matching wits with Pirot. Yes, some of the voice talent wasn't exactly 
 perfect (The Swede sounded like those farces they do of the Sweedish, and the woman who Pirot classified 
 as having the strongest character did okay for some parts, but others it sounded like the actor 
 got sick, the developers were running short on time, and decided to use the Text-To-Speech program 
 to deliever the missing lines) .
  
  What really got me, though, was the ending. Not only did it come far too soon, but...
  *SPOILER* 
 *SPOILER* 
  At the end, Hercule Pirot tells you that you have 3 descisions for who killed Mr. Rachett. He presents 
 the facts, but as you watch the cutscenes, something immeadletly becomes clear to you... you won't 
 have any control over the damn ending. At this point, I threw my arms up in disgust! It's like 
 The Matrix; you're given what appears a choice you must make for yourself, but in reality, the 
 problem is choice, or lack thereof. Look, I wouldn't have minded that they had said, We are giving 
 you no choice. Deal with it. Many games benefit from that linearity, because many times alternate 
 endings feel like they were the cancelled endings of the original, but wanted to be like everyone 
 else ( Everyone else has alternate endings. Smalls! Dig through the waste bin and see what you 
 can find! We will have our own, so people will think we're sophisticated, and the years we took 
 to make the damn thing were all well-spent! ) . Instead, they tell you Yeah, Pirot, the greatest 
 detective in the whole world, is leaving the fate of the case up to you, a nobody! He'll give you 
 three choices, and you choose whatever you wanna choose! Instead, you are forced into this sissy 
 ending that was probably the most retarded thing EVER. That girl is suppossed to be DEAD! It ruins 
 the whole story! All the hatred geared towards this kidnapper, and they can't be ANGRY at him? 
 Note to aWe Games: When you tack on an emotional ending to an Agatha Christie story, you better 
 be damn sure it fits with spirit of the novel! You just can't look at what those Oscar-winning 
 emotional endings did and tack it onto a MURDER MYSTERY!
  **END SPOILER**
  
  Look, I know how you think that changing the ending to a game will make it better for people who 
 have already read the book, but when you change it like this, it's a boneheaded move! I would've 
 expected from your first foray into the subject of Dame Agatha's novels, And Then There Were None, 
 that you knew how to make a plot twist! That game had an amazing plot twist! The ending is what 
 pretty much ruined the whole game for me, and I am sorry about that. Alas, I can give no mercy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhiannon-e
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes detectives but isn't bored enough to try and figure 
 out nearly impossible and wildly illogical riddles that some point and click games present.
  I have enjoyed the riddles in this game which were not particularly difficult but just interesting 
 enough to enjoy solving them. The story is straight forward and the game play involves lots of 
 talking and not as much thinking (that is, you don't necessarily need to know what's going on, 
 since Poirot will explain it at the end and all you have to do is get the clues and question the 
 suspects) .
  Never having read the book I can't comment on the truthfulness of the game plot to the classic 
 but the two twists at the end were unexpected and maybe even touching. However, knowing that adaptations 
 are almost always worse than the originals, I can be sure that if you've never read the book you 
 will enjoy the game better... and maybe go on to acquaint yourself with the works of Mme Christie. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biskit58
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  this second agatha christie game was no where near as good as the first. there wasn't anything 
 speacial about it, in fact it was quite boring.
  
  the game involved way too much backtracking, and the item/information menu was frustrating and 
 took way too long to do much with.
  the worst part was all the talking you had to listen to, i mean eighty percent of the game was 
 just listening to people rattle on about stuff that barely held my interest. the graphics were 
 nothing speacial, and the voice acting was boring.
  
  and since this is a puzzle game i'll talk about that a little. most of the puzzles were item based 
 and overall a pain in my........ and i got so sick of walking in and out of the compartments looking 
 for the stupid items i needed to finish the puzzles. basically, i should. ve known this game wouldn't 
 be very good, i've read the book and it was good, but a game that takes place almost entirely on 
 train doesn't have much to work with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoB0782
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The title should say it all. This game was ripe to be the Agatha Christie game of all time. David 
 Suchet and supporting cast make the voice acting beleivable and this is what ultimately saves this 
 game. Although the last AC release completely changed the ending of the story, it was a much more 
 substantial release. The player actually was expected to understake most of the tasks and you spent 
 about 70-80% of the time doing things. This release seems to have been rushed out in the hope that 
 David Suchet playing Poirot will save the day.
  
  For my liking there are too many times spent just waiting for other characters to finish what they 
 are saying, and the puzzles are not always too challenging. Some are honestly ridiculous in their 
 solution, which actually gets quite funny.
  
  The game could have been made more balanced by allowing the character (you do not play Poirot, 
 but a Train Company employee) to have more challenges and tasks. This is a shame, as the graphics 
 are great, the sound (esp. voice acting) is wonderful and the interface is easy to use. Here's 
 hoping that AC will continue to release more Agatha Christie games, and spend a little more time 
 on the deveopmet of plot/story/puzzle.
  
  Overall I would say that if this game retained the graphics, atmosphere and polish of this release, 
 and combined it with the more user led system of the first release (Then There Were None) , it would 
 have scored in the high 8's or maybe even into the 9's.
  
  Come on Adventure Company, you so almost have the formula right - how about another stab, say another 
 Poirot (ABC Murders, Evil Under the Sun etc) or even a Jane Marple (4.50 From Paddington, A Murder 
 is Announced, A Pocket Full of Rye, etc) . The only question left - who would play the voice of 
 Miss Marple now that Joan Hickson is no longer with us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  I was expecting much more from this release, i have played the first A. C release and somehow i 
 liked it but Murder on the Orient Express let me down.
  
  First of all, i was expecting to have more space to explore, more stations that you can visit and 
 cities, why not? It has the same let down points as the previous release. The story, well the story... 
 is common , no particular distinctions and what's more irritating it's the fact that you have to 
 investigate the whole murder case with all the minor details and all of this just because the the 
 character is a big fan of detective crime solving books published by a well known detective who 
 happened to be on that train. And because this detective was injured you will have to take his 
 place and gather all the info needed and then share it with the injured detective who is lying 
 on the bed.
  
  Practically i have already toled you the whole game, it's irritating that you have to circle between 
 all the peoples there in the train asking all kind of questions , you will say that this is normally 
 for an adventure game, and you are right , but asking those questions over and over again will 
 not get you any further and that feeling that an adventure game should implant is very uninteresting 
 or maybe it's absent. Because, in my opinion, an adventure fan will play this games especially 
 for the story.
  
  Ok, the graphics are ok, not very impressive considering other releases, the voice actings are 
 mediocre, it's annoying that the voice of the detective keeps saying something dull during exploration, 
 not that the voice is irritating...:) . The story is not so interesting , just as well the previous 
 release of A. C but there were some thriller involved which gave it color.
  
  I am an adventure fan and no matter how bad the game is i will play it, i respect the developers 
 wish and i have nothing to object. Of course this is only my opinion. I would say this game is 
 mediocre in all points of view : graphics, sounds and story, and you should play it if you enjoy 
 the genre.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkz_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game since I finished And then there were none the first Agatha Christie 
 game. I really enjoyed the 1st instalment, which too had a great storyline so much so that you 
 yourself are part of the story. The only problem with And then there were none was the graphics 
 and poor audio casting for each of the players, this time round the developers got it right!
  
  Murder on the orient express is one of the best adventure games of the year. If you havent 
 already played it and are an adventure game fan then I suggest you go and buy a copy now! The storyline 
 is just so captivating it will keep you wanting more and thats actually the only downfall I found 
 with the game  it seems a bit short. Other than that the graphics and gameplay are definitely 
 up there in the 9/10s.
  
  So a big applause to the developers for this title, I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys playing 
 adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Switched
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  The First game (Agatha Christie: And Then There Were None) was definitely better than this one. 
 What went wrong?! Anyway, i loved the idea of bringing Hercule Poirot in as a character. And the 
 first impression was promising, but the further on it came quite obvious that there's nothing more 
 to it. Some might prefer theoretical part but i personally expected more puzzles. I can't say there 
 weren't any for there were some. Still, the game was playable. Let's just hope the next one (if 
 there will be such thing) will be better one.
  PS! I haven't found another adventure game that would be comparable with Siberia or Siberia 2. 
 These two were the top and (as it seems to me) beyond other's reach (and definitely out of this 
 one's grasp) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DERBEST
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I liked reading Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie... It was a smart novel... So when 
 I found out that a game is going to be created after the novel and launched in November I decided 
 to purchase it...
  I still haven't finished this game but I am going to... For me it is very interesting and I find 
 it a good adventure, much like Syberia 2... If you consider the fact the Adventure game has been 
 very scarce this year, I would consider the Murder on the Orient Express game as the Adventure 
 game of the year... This is why I don't understand the criteria with which gamespot gave it only 
 5.8...
  This is the first time I dont agree with Gamespot...
  In my opinion 9/10...
  P. S.: This game has the ability to make one go crazy if you don't discover the clues or do the 
 puzzles, but this makes it more charming...
  Best adventure since Syberia 2. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
