-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Agatha Christie: Evil Under the Sun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/evilunderthesun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great visuals and voice acting bring the 1940 setting to life.
 Features all of the memorable characters from Christie's great novel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Completely rewrites the original story.
 Detective work replaced by mundane scavenger hunting.
 Pace is weighed down by endless backtracking and endless conversations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 112 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: AWE Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 16, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This adaptation of one of Agatha Christie's classic mysteries ruins great acting and atmosphere 
 with lots of tedious busywork. 

  Agatha Christie was a mystery-writing machine. Over the course of a career that stretched some 
 50 years, she pretty much created the modern whodunit genre through over 80 detective novels and 
 the creation of two famous sleuths in Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple. So you expect good things 
 from Evil Under the Sun, the third in a growing series of adventure-game adaptations of the author's 
 best works. Unfortunately, we're once more left somewhat disappointed by developer AWE Games. The 
 strong story and atmosphere lifted from one of Christie's best books fail to compensate for a ponderous 
 pace and the many clichs aped from adventure gaming's past.  

  Nevertheless, fans of Christie's works can't help but get a little thrill from simply being able 
 to guide Belgian detective Poirot through one of his most famous capers. Well, sort of. The plot 
 only vaguely follows the events of the 1941 novel about the murder of a skanky actress at an English 
 resort on Seadrift Island. AWE takes the same sort of liberties here as it did with its previous 
 adaptations of Christie's  And Then There Were None  and  Murder on the Orient Express . All of 
 the characters from the book seem to be in their proper places, but a new ending has been tacked 
 on to keep bookworms guessing. Purists will undoubtedly howl at this sacrilege, although it's hard 
 to see how AWE could do anything else but alter the conclusion of a famous 66-year-old book. A 
 straight rehash of the original would have just bored the core audience to tears. At any rate, 
 this revamped take actually doesn't do any serious damage to the tale.  

           The game's afoot! Oh, sorry, wrong legendary detective.      

  Yet that's not to say 
 that the game makes a lot of sense. On the contrary, it comes complete with the pick-up-everything 
 nonsense that troubles most point-and-click adventures. Given that AWE exercised a bit of imagination 
 when it came to playing with the ending, the company could certainly have used yet more creativity 
 when it came to rigging up adventure-game puzzles around the  Evil Under the Sun  plot points. 
 Everything here is deeply derivative, which is to say that you collect all sorts of apparently 
 useless junk wherever you go and then later throw it together to solve bizarre, impenetrable mysteries. 

  Poirot isn't so much a detective quizzing suspects as he is a kleptomaniacal MacGyver with a fruity 
 moustache. He swipes rope and ladder posts from a beach to craft a bird blind needed to win the 
 sympathies of a little girl. He steals a spatula from a chemist for the pure hell of it, somehow 
 knowing that it will come in handy to clean mud off a cave wall at a later date. He robs a fellow 
 hotel guest of his mineral oil for kicks, later realizing that it would be the perfect chemical 
 to use to clean oil off a sea bird. At one point, you can actually stroll down the balconies that 
 run alongside the second floor of your hotel and enter most guests' rooms at will, at which point 
 you can rifle through their possessions to your heart's content. Maybe Miss Marple should hunt 
 down Poirot for petty larceny in the next Christie mystery game.  

  At least all of the goofiness is logical when viewed from that peculiar adventure-game perspective, 
 where it's assumed that you know to pocket things such as stray sandwiches in case you need to 
 distract a dog later on. Or that you should grab big boulders on the off chance that a kid wants 
 you to make a bird-watching blind for her. Or that you might find it helpful to sneak into hotel 
 rooms to steal typing paper and cut the strap off a suitcase -- that sort of thing. If you've played 
 any adventure, you've been down this road before.  

  There are no set-piece logic puzzles here and only a little bit of detective-style sleuthing. The 
 latter generally amounts to visiting locales again and again to ask nosey questions of everyone 
 that you encounter. You typically revisit every location during each act of the game, and if any 
 characters have moved, you'll recognize this as the universal adventure-game signal that they now 
 have something new to say. Far too much time is spent wandering around the hotel and the beach, 
 and enduring one slow-fade transition screen after another as you patrol the game's environs like 
 a cop on a beat. It doesn't feel much like you're a detective trying to solve a mystery; instead, 
 you come across as the stereotypically single guy on vacation, the loser desperately trying to 
 stave off loneliness by chatting up anyone unfortunate enough to sit down beside him.  

           You would think that a sleuth as great as Hercule Poirot would be solving crimes, not 
 committing them. Or wasting time helping kids watch birds.      

  At least the atmosphere of the game is just about perfectly realized. All of the memorable characters 
 from the novel are brought to life here with excellent visuals and voice acting, most notably Poirot 
 himself, as well as femme fatale Arlena Marshall. The interactions between Poirot and his assistant 
 Captain Hastings are nothing short of brilliantly written, with lots of little jokes and asides 
 that develop the Belgian detective's fussy personality almost as well as Christie did in her novels. 
 However, humor is played up so much that Poirot veers dangerously close to Inspector Clouseau territory 
 at times. Graphics are nicely handled in that they give a great art deco vibe to the hotel and 
 a rustic charm to the island environs where you do your junk collecting -- er, detective work. All 
 of the cutscenes are rather blurry, though, and the character art is all over the place. Some of 
 the cast here have detailed, distinguished features, whereas others have those mushy video game 
 faces that make them appear to have some sort of birth defect.  

  More of a souvenir of a classic novel than any sort of worthy companion piece, Evil Under the Sun 
 doesn't seem like it'll please anyone but adventure game traditionalists unattached to Christie's 
 original fiction. If you like the idea of an alternate take on the original book, there's some 
 content of interest here... as long as you can stomach the utter lack of innovation and tortuous 
 tempo.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Well ok its a mistery game, but for the Mistery maybe if you were a fan of Poirot Series maybe 
 you allready watched this episode long before the game came into existence.
  
  So maybe youll say I allready watched that, but no, this is something different, maybe you know 
 hows gona end, but the mechanics of the game puts you in the hands of asting driving Poirot (And 
 Hastings loves driving) , and thats something soo funny that if you are a fan you cant miss it.
 
  
  Poirot its the greatest Anti Hero that will ever exist, with all this shooting games, war games, 
 and sensseless killing games of all kinds, watching poirot its like breathing clean air of the 
 mountains (Poirot dont like mountains allways full of savage nature)
  
  So well If you like a game that makes use of your "little grey cells" in times when the people 
 and society were more predicatable usinge them, join the great Psychologyst investigator Hescule 
 Poirot and the naive hastings in this old mistery with a different scheme.
  
  It was just to bad that it didnt had more than one ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debbackus
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm not one to review things often, unless I feel fairly strongly about the item. This game has 
 an enticing cover, and having never played the others in the series, I grabbed it up based only 
 on the box. That was my first mistake. My second was thinking it was going to get better after 
 the first few scenes. And my third mistake was being stubborn enough to finish it. The graphics 
 were fair but limited to just a few small areas. I got sick of going over and over the same things 
 again and again trying to figure out what it was needed to get on with the game. There are alot 
 of older adventure games out there that have much more to them. It would be nice to see the developers 
 make a game that is actually fun to play, instead of just trying to throw anything out there, just 
 to make a profit. Save your money and your time for better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morzedecoder
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Old-school adventure
  -Interesting story (which is probably due to Agatha Christie's original work)
  -Interesting characters
 
  -Good use of flashbacks (you play as Higgins inside of Poirot's body, which adds interactivity) , 
 which provides some humor along the way
  
  Cons:
  -Poirot shown as a peeping Tom who commits trespassing, burglary and invades privacy before murder 
 is even committed. Ironically, at one point in the game he has the nerve to ask hotel attendant 
 about security of the hotel.
  -Some loose ends and holes in motivation when the identity of murderer is revealed
  -Illogical 
 puzzles
  -Traveling long distances can be tedious (keep in mind: double click of the left mouse button will 
 move you instantly to the next screen)
  
  Verdict: Evil under the sun will appeal to fans of old-school adventure games (think Goblins or 
 Space Quest) . If you think that there should be logic in how you get from point A to point B, - 
 stay away from this game. But if you don't mind doing McGuyveresque puzzles, you will probably 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Although this game is a true point and click adventure and PC is lacking of this genre these days, 
 i have been waiting for it a long time and sadly it didnt fulfill my expectations. The game have 
 a charm of real adventure/investigation and uses mouse pointer to find objects vital for future 
 progress in the game. From the graphic side... this game have 3d engine but also it looked like 
 older then it is... shame for nowadays graphic cards we have. Sounds in game are little boring and 
 lacking of true composed music as seen in other great point and click adventures and also poorly 
 voice acting conversations. The good side of a game is that is great optimized for lower systems 
 with maxed all options on high and running without glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Some people believe that adventure games are about solving puzzles - they are partly right, but 
 mostly wrong. At the very core of all good adventure gaming is the ability to tell a story and 
 convey emotion. If a game fails to do that it falls flat, and that is just what has happened here.
 
  
  The story is by Agatha Christie so it can't be that bad, but the graphics are uninspiring and ordinary, 
 the voice acting feels forced and unnatural, there is no "joy" in the game. Poirot is just some 
 old fat bloke walking around; there is none of his usual seductive charm here.
  
  I can't recommend this game at all, I was hoping that this Agatha Christie series might at last 
 spring to life but that doesn't seem to be happening, it's as stiff and boring as ever. Buy something 
 else, like Syberia, The Longest Journey, The Black Mirror or The Moment of Silence for instance. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
