-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Wonders: Shadow Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofwonderssm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.4, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 587 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Triumph Studios
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Jul 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the new stand-alone game reuses graphics and sound from Age of Wonders II, it has plenty 
 of great features to keep turn-based strategy fans playing till the break of dawn. 

  The turn-based strategy genre is rooted in classics like Warlords, Master of Magic, and King's 
 Bounty, and it remains alive today thanks to the efforts of developers like Triumph Studios. The 
 company's previous game, Age of Wonders II, featured a huge amount of new content and improved 
 graphics when compared with its predecessor, as well as a sizable single-player campaign and loads 
 of single scenario maps. However, rank beginners found the game to be too difficult in parts, while 
 veterans complained about the game's lack of a random mission generator. Triumph Studios has attempted 
 to address both of these concerns with Age of Wonders: Shadow Magic. Though this stand-alone game 
 reuses graphics and sound from Age of Wonders II, it has a far better tutorial, a random map generator, 
 and plenty of other great additions to keep turn-based strategy fans playing till the break of 
 dawn.  

          The syrons are one of three new playable races in the rebalanced roster.     

  Triumph 
 Studios' considerable experience in crafting turn-based strategy games is evident in Shadow Magic, 
 since the game offers polished, well-balanced gameplay and an interesting story. The saga of the 
 wizards Merlin, Julia, and Meandor continues in the new game, and it helps introduce the three 
 new playable factions and the new playable units in the original 12 races. Apparently, a dimensional 
 rift has opened into a mysterious new plane of existence known as the Shadow Realm, which bears 
 a distinct resemblance to the plane of Myrror from the classic strategy game Master of Magic.  
 

  And as you play through the many scenarios of the game's single-player campaign, you'll see that 
 Triumph Studios paid a great deal of attention to its fans. Like in other, similar games, in Shadow 
 Magic, you'll begin the game aligned with a single fantasy race (though you may eventually recruit 
 followers from other races, depending on the situation) , start from a home base of operations, 
 and explore colorful overland and underground areas with assorted armies of monsters led by powerful 
 hero characters, until you conquer the entire map, either by wiping out your enemies in their castles 
 single-handedly or winning an allied victory.  

  Yet the series' fans have demanded more balance among the armies and abilities of Age of Wonders 
 II's fantasy races, so many units in the new game have had their individual strengths and weaknesses, 
 as well as their production costs, tweaked so they stack up better against rival races and remain 
 more useful over the course of the game. In addition, the game's new races represent interesting 
 and distinctive new playing styles -- especially since two of the three can travel quickly through 
 the Shadow Realm (in which several campaign and scenario maps take place) , and the third, the nomads, 
 are an exceptionally mobile race with the ability to pick up entire fortresses and move them to 
 new locations.  

  Likewise, the developer has also sped up the game's lengthy castle sieges, which could often be 
 tedious, especially since smaller, inferior armies could stall their attackers by hiding within 
 heavily fortified castles that took forever to breach. The new game has an all-new set of magic 
 spells and units that help expedite the business of siege combat, including new siege weapons and 
 new spells that can help attacking armies close the distance with their enemies -- though just like 
 the previous games in the series, Shadow Magic also gives you the handy option of choosing to automatically 
 resolve any battle. You can also expect to see plenty of other new spells over the course of the 
 game, especially since Shadow Magic revives the concept of studying multiple schools of magic from 
 the original Age of Wonders (and Master of Magic) . Choosing to study varying schools of sorcery 
 adds even more variety to your custom wizard, who can, as usual, also choose to begin the game 
 with advanced skills and ally with a specific race.  

          Shadow Magic looks just like Age of Wonders II, but with hydras.     

  In fact, with 
 all these new additions and enhancements, it's a shame that Shadow Magic looks and sounds practically 
 identical to Age of Wonders II. That's not to say that Age of Wonders II's 2D art has aged poorly, 
 because despite the fact that its military units are still extremely small onscreen, they're still 
 highly detailed, well animated, and good looking, as are the game's colorful special effects. Similarly, 
 the game's audio has largely been carried over from Age of Wonders II. Most of the new game's music 
 and unit sounds are the same as before, and the military units sound just as silly as they did 
 in the previous game. The game's interface has also been improved slightly, though it still has 
 a few issues, such as its hard-to-read text messages, which appear in a cramped window at the bottom 
 of the screen.  

  However, Shadow Magic features an enhanced version of Age of Wonders II's map and campaign editor, 
 including a random map generator that lets you quickly and easily specify concentrations of monsters, 
 resources, and treasures on the map. It's clear that between the enhanced editor, the random map 
 generator, and the game's own dedicated fan community of mapmakers, Shadow Magic offers plenty 
 of replay value right out of the box and will continue to offer even more in the future. You can 
 even find competition online from the game's most dedicated players, and while the multiplayer 
 can be remarkably time-consuming, it works well for what it is, especially with the rebalanced 
 races.  

  Age of Wonders: Shadow Magic does a great job of improving on its predecessor's shortcomings and 
 offering deeper, more-balanced gameplay. Despite its great complexity, its tutorials should help 
 most new players figure out how to play the game, and its considerable depth should be more than 
 enough of an incentive for experienced strategy fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  
  I have played the other titles in the series as well. And while the game mechanics and the atmosphere 
 always appealed to me, I deeply missed the opportunity to let the world be randomized. This stand-alone 
 expasion to AOW2 features just that which makes it, IMHO, the best game of the series and the only 
 one which will bring you back, if any. 
  
  When it comes to exploring a fantasy world with its caves (actually a huge underground tunnel system) , 
 the outer worlds (a kind of paralell dimension) , it monster dens, towers, magic nodes, enemy cities, 
 mines, and so forth, it is just dozen times the fun never to know what might be coming around the 
 corner.
  
  Besides this key fact, the game plays out very well. Send your heroes around, let them fight and 
 explore and gain levels. Train units, build houses, research new spells. The game resembles Master 
 of Magic, but is a bit more streamlined and refined and focusses as much on exploration than on 
 empire managment.
  
  The graphics are very richly illustrated, which makes this game feel very oldschool in terms of 
 RPG.
  
  Another good thing are is the combat system. As soon as an encounter takes place, the game switches 
 to a tactical combat view where order your troops aound, letting them move, attack, cast spells 
 etc. A very nice features which adds on more level of strategic depth to the game.
  
  great game
  
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Perhaps if you have not played games like this I might suggest you play it. Its like Civilisation 
 and with a good combat (final fantasy esque) scenes and good graphics its quite a good strategy 
 game. But once you can beat one strategy game you could certainly beat this. It just a matter of 
 time till you do, or get fed up with the sound effects of the druids "ahhhhhh" or pixie noises 
 or repetitive orcs grunts. Its not a bad game and I still own it, but PC games are really starting 
 to annoy me. Crashes, loading times, and specs and of course hard drive space are annoying and 
 this game isn't full of action. Yet a strong detail and you can see why this game is appealing. 
 There are better games, and this is not certainly the worst game. But if you want to spend your 
 time in a worthy manner with something to talk to your friends about then I wouldn't recommend 
 it. If its in the bargain bin and you want a different challenge then sure, at your own peril because 
 it gets tedious. If you liked Might and Magic you will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TodoBond7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Probably the best turn-based strategy game I have ever played! Even after all these years I still 
 have it installed in my computer and every once in a while I enjoy playing it.
  The campaigns are immersive and highly addictive!
  The possibilities of the Editor to create 
 scenarios are endless and very easy to get the hand of it. Besides, there are loads of scenarios 
 downloadable from the internet (some bad some good) which provides great variety. There is also 
 the possibility of item creation even during a game which takes the game to another level of possibilities.
 
  I truly hope that another Age of Wonders game is released because they really got the formula 
 right! This is a turn-based strategy game where you have to think to win but it is simultaneously 
 very simple to play. It isn't like the recent ones which overwhelm us with data (like Rome Total 
 War and sequels) and became boring after a while. 
  
  This game is a classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The title says everything i guess!!
  The game is really great and i do not get bored to play it even now 5 years after the first series 
 of it came up!
  A very smart game that needs lot of thinking.
  You will love the battle system + the hero customization and level up system!
  Unlimited items 
 to wear and unlimited different ways to play each scenario.
  The Community of the game is great people make new scenarios all the time.
  Some scenarios have 
 incredible background and stories that keep your interest really high!
  For me AOW is the game that i play again and again every time after i try a new game.
  It is 
 especially good for multiplayer game even for a hotseat scenario!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  After I played Age of Wonders II, it made me want more of this type of gaming experience. I have 
 played all of the Heroes games and find them very challenging and fun, so more games that are like 
 these I like to dive into. The story in the game was interesting, kept me wanting to play more 
 and made it difficult to stop until I actually completed a mission (which sometimes took days) . 
 There was a large gap of playing time in between AOW II, but it was easy to pick up. Some of the 
 missions were too challenging and I had to lower the difficulty level, but it was still enjoyable 
 to finally get to the end of the campaign. The only part I did not like was the fact I played the 
 wizards in the initial part of the game, but there power was not showcased when the final mission 
 came to be. Otherwise, it was a great experience and I would purchase another sequel if it would 
 be created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Being an old Heroes of might and magic freak not many turn based games have been able to catch 
 my attention for very long.
  
  First time I tried Age of Wonders shadow magic I wasn&acute; t exactly overwhelmed by it. Just played 
 it for a couple of hours... which only gave me a tiny peek of what this game has to offer.
  
  So a few months ago I decided to give it another run. MAN this game is good!
  
  Graphics: 
 Considering the graphics are about 5 years old (2002-07) they hold up quite well. The game is smooth, 
 and apart from a few times when lots of units stand really close together everything is easy to 
 separate. Units look really cool and they&acute; ve made a great job making every unit seem and 
 look unique.
  
  Sound: Nice sound fx and a nice soundtrack. Nothing that really stands out but it gets the job 
 done.
  
  Gameplay: Here&acute; s where the game really shines. With 15 (!) playable races there are just heaps 
 of different units which is awseome. The battles are very strategic, especially the siege battles. 
 The game is pretty easy to get going, and then offers just a myriad of different things to learn. 
 The simultaneous turns is just awesome and makes the game flow at a much faster pace than just 
 turn-based games. Getting to watch the other players battles also gives you something to look at 
 while waiting. Haven&acute; t enjoyed a strategygame this much since Heroes of MM 3. Strongly recommended 
 to all strategy-fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I have played. I love it so much. First of all, because Evil &amp; Good 
 is very obvious in the game. The way you build cities &amp; Armies, shatter Evil &amp; distribute 
 Good on the World, it is a very good feeling you feel when you think you want to something for 
 Good. I think this is why Age of Wonders is the most close to my heart till now, even many games 
 is released talking about the same subject but with different way. Thank you very much for this 
 game. It is really Perfect at least to me..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  In Age of Wonders: Shadow Magic, Triumph Studios addresses all the things the fans of fantasy turn-based 
 strategy have been asking to have. I was always a big fan of the Heroes of Might & Magic series, 
 but this game completely blows that series out of the water thanks to it's charm, strategic gameplay, 
 and cohesive style.
  
  Everything in this game "feels" just right. The races are well balanced starting from the stock 
 lower level grunt units to the higher-end specialty units. Even the hero units don't completely 
 unbalance the tactical battles, yet have enough power to make you want to use them in the skirmish. 
 User forums are overloaded with debates about which race/unit is the "best" in particular situations 
 - a great indicator of balance when there is no clear favorite.
  
  The mechanic of keeping your wizard character in his or her tower to amplify spellcasting power 
 is a terrific innovation. It evokes memories of the LoTR movies when Saruman stands atop Orthanc 
 tower to cast a storm at Gandalf's party in the faraway mountains. Awesome!
  
  Best of all, if you're an old-timer, the game will immediately remind you of the hoary classic 
 "Master of Magic" by Microprose. If you've cried about the abandonware status of that game, this 
 is the fix you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is a turn based strategy game centered around building your cities, hiring troops, 
 researching spells and using heroes to whack your enemies. 
  
  It may sound like a clone from Heroes of Might and Magic but it's much more than a mere clone. 
 Although some features do resemble a Heroes' game, the city production queue and research management 
 reminded me of my beloved Civilization series.
  
  Let's start from the beginning, shall we? The game takes place in a fantastic world torn apart 
 by a wizard war. The use of magic has been the source of nature's impoverishment as wizards drew 
 their mana from the world's very resources. People grew weary of magic and abolished it after the 
 war.
  
  You start the game as a young wizard whose quest is to show the world that the misuse of magic 
 in the past does not mean that it's not necessary to the protection of the peoples of the world. 
 With a handful of followers, you create your first settlement.
  
  Managing your settlement is not an easy task. There's only one production queue. That is, you'll 
 either produce troops or buildings. Hiring units and creating buildings require "production resources", 
 which are gained by the growth of your settlement and empire. Yep, you can hire settlers to create 
 more cities and enhance your overall production.
  
  Cities also produce: research, used to research mighty spells and special skills; mana: used to 
 cast your spells; and fame, which affect the moral of your troops and call the attention of special 
 units called heroes.
  
  Heroes are special units that can advance in levels, carry magic items and allow you (the mighty 
 wizard in the tower) to cast spells during combat.
  
  Your troops will be based in the race you choose to command. There are classic races like halflings, 
 undead, humans, dwarves and some pretty weird fellas such as archons (champions of light and good) , 
 Tygrans (a felyne race of fierce warriors) and the Syrons (dwellers of the shadow world) , not to 
 mention a couple extra, to a grand total of 15 races.
  
  Although one could classify troops into categories like basic footmen, cavalry and ranged units, 
 every race bestows some kind of special ability/inability to each main category in order to make 
 it somewhat different from the rest. For instance, Orc footmen are tougher than any other; felyne 
 "cavalry" (a large charging black panther) can climb walls; dark elf cavalry drains life from opponents 
 and shadow demon ranged unit has area of effect bombardment ability.
  
  the feeling of being unique is enhanced by the fact that every race improves one of your resources. 
 Tygrans improve wealth, undead improve research and so on.
  
  Combat takes place in an open map, X-Com style. You move your troops, then I move mine. Every unit 
 use its ability, attack or cast spells 'til one of the side is the winner. Careful strategy is 
 required in order to lay siege in enemy castles, defeat ber units with a horde of weaklings or 
 to fire cannons and catapults without frying your own troops.
  
  On the main map, you can choose to control key points like bridges, mines and mana nodes or simply 
 destroy them. This choice will affect your relationship with the gods, that will reward or punish 
 you accordingly.
  
  There are simply zounds of strategies one can adopt to win a game. Expand like a madmen, focus 
 on ber units, research the most powerful spells or building an impenetrable fortress.
  
  Multiplayer is a fun and rewarding experience. There's nothing like beating a 4 player free-for-all 
 or winning a 3x3 match against Emperor A. I. opponents. A must for strategy players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2004 4:04 am PT
Review:  I really like turn-based combat games but I wish the combat was more fun in this game. The overhead 
 maps are fantastic, but when you go to battle, you get a battlefield that is often much bigger 
 than it needs to be. So you end up having to move your army around and it takes too long. The figures 
 in your army are just too small to make the visuals fun to watch. Heroes of Might and Magic 3 does 
 combat and battle-magic much better. There is an auto combat resolve option but what is the fun 
 in that?
  
  Its a shame the combat wasn't more compelling because there is a solidly good game here. I still 
 much prefer Disciples 2 or HOMM III over this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalOZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2004 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is a first rate fantasy turn based strategy game featuring addicting game play, attractive 
 graphics, and lots of units. This is an expansion of Age of Wonders II which already is a fun strategy 
 game. The expansion adds significant game play and includes the original AOW2, so it is not necessary 
 to own AOW2 to play this. It added several new races, many more units, improved balance between 
 the races, and added the Shadow Land. The Shadow Land is another level on which your exploits can 
 take place. In the Shadow Land, units move considerably faster, but also suffer from Shadow Sickness 
 unless protected from it through innate abilities or magic. 
  
  As for the new races, a lot of depth was created with the new additions. I have personally had 
 a lot of fun playing the nomad troops. 
  
  AOW2: SM includes a new campaign which is much more engaging than the one included in AOW2. It involves 
 uniting the world against the onslaught of the Shadow Demons. You prevent the demons from consuming 
 the world through several scenarios with the various races. 
  
  AOW2: SM offers the same addictive, one more turn, style of the previous games and is an excellent 
 expansion on all accounts. If you are a fan of turn based strategy, in particular fantasy strategy, 
 it is not a game you can do without.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2003 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Age of Wonders is back in full force, in what is surely the best installment of the series to date. 
 Any fan of Strategy gaming on the PC is sure to enjoy this one.
  
  Shadow Magic is an incredibly deep game, with practically infinite replay value. In addition to 
 the massive single player campaign, the game comes with several preset single scenarios, a random 
 map generator, AND a full editor. Victims of the "Just one more turn" disease had better get their 
 lives in order before installing this; consider yourself warned.
  
  The game's graphics are mysteriously maligned, and nothing could be further from the truth. The 
 map, spell effects, and overall appearance of the game is gorgeous, and each of the DOZEN playable 
 races has a very unique look to it. Sound is equally well done, with a beautiful orchestrated track 
 giving it's all, as well as excellent sound effects for practically every selected unit in the 
 game. (i. e., Orcs grunt, manticores growl, etc.)
  
  Multi-player is smooth as silk over a WAN connection, and the computer AI has proven to be a challenge 
 again and again. Best of all, saving the game allows any human to be inserted into one of the cpu 
 slots, so other players can jump in during an active game.
  
  I can't reccomend this title enough. Please give it a shot if strategy is your vice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddog00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2003 3:48 am PT
Review:  Top-notch game! If you like either strategy or role-playing games you would be remissed not to 
 get your hands on this baby! I am new to the Age of Wonders series so I cannot compare this to 
 the other two AoW games. But after playing this title I see no reason to!
  
  My two favorite genres (role-playing and turn-based strategy) finally get a game that is just pure 
 bliss. Being a gamer now for about 25 years I can honestly say that this is one of the best games 
 I have ever played! The options and variety available in this game is just wonderful. I will be 
 playing this game until the cd is warped!
  
  Having no previous experience with the AoW series I was unsure whether my expectations and hope 
 for ShadowMagic would fill the void in my gaming library. The game itself is very in depth and 
 creates a great fantasmal atmosphere for one to lose themself in. Strategy and planning (not quick 
 mouse clicking) is on the menu of this game. There are many many types of units for your army depending 
 on which race you decide to play. And each individual troop has their own special abilities which 
 leads to numerous outcomes for the scenarios and campaigns contained in the game. There is a nice 
 tutorial to start things up when you are wet behind the ear. This tutorial will have newbies to 
 the series (like myself) up and battling in no time.
  
  Trust me when I say there is just so much to this game I could write a novel about it (but thank 
 god I will not) . If you remotely like the genres of strategy or role-playing I highly recommend 
 you pick up this fine fine piece of software. It will be a great investment for quite alot of incredible 
 game play!
  
  reddog00
  CANTON, MI 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
