-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's Throne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/ageofwonders2thewt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 17, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 643 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Triumph Studios
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 12, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it may seem difficult for beginners, Age of Wonders II sounds good, looks great, plays terrific, 
 and improves on every aspect of the original game. 

 Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's Throne is the third entry in the fantasy-themed turn-based strategy 
 race of 2002, and it's every bit as good as its competitors, Disciples II and Heroes of Might and 
 Magic IV. Developer Triumph Studios clearly set out to address the problems that fans had with 
 the original game, especially the long-standing complaint that the original game wasn't challenging 
 enough -- though the sequel may have gone a bit too far in this direction. And though some die-hard 
 fans may wish that the game included a random map generator, this really isn't a major concern, 
 considering how huge the game's maps are and how its loyal fan community will more than likely 
 make good use of the included scenario editor to make new maps. Beyond that, Age of Wonders II 
 is an excellent sequel that no self-respecting fantasy strategy fan should miss.           Age 
 of Wonders II is a very complex, rewarding game.    

  Make no mistake -- Age of Wonders II is a very complex game, much more so than the original. While 
 this added complexity adds a great deal of depth, it also tends to make the game difficult for 
 newcomers to pick up, especially considering the sequel's increased difficulty. Like in other fantasy 
 strategy games, you create an army of fantastic creatures to explore a large, colorful map, seize 
 resources and treasure, and fight groups of enemy soldiers or wandering monsters. Like the original 
 Age of Wonders, the sequel lets you fight each battle in a tactical turn-based combat mode or use 
 a quick-resolve option to save time. But you'll find yourself concerned with lots of other things, 
 including the progress of your cities and their buildings, the next powerful magic spell or new 
 ability you're currently researching, and the constant encroachments of your computer opponents 
 in the single-player game. These resemble the sorts of things you'd concern yourself with in the 
 classic strategy game Master of Magic, but they're more complex, and the computer opponent is much 
 tougher. So if you're new to fantasy strategy games, you'll want to make sure that you play through 
 Age of Wonders II's tutorial missions and flip through its hefty manual before diving in.   

  A standard session in Age of Wonders II begins with selecting your wizard, a character who will 
 appear on the map and can be moved and brought into combat, but won't gain any experience levels. 
 It's best to keep your wizard in one place, usually in your starting city, and recruit armies from 
 your own ranks and any hero units that show up randomly or are called up by the "summon hero" spell. 
 You'll also choose which playable race you want to control. Age of Wonders II has a dozen playable 
 races, and most of the original game's races return, though the aquatic lizardmen and the desert-dwelling 
 azracs have been replaced with the swift tigrans (a race of cat people) and the powerful draconians. 
 Each playable race can recruit armies that include priest units (which can heal and perform other 
 actions) and siege engines, such as catapults and cannons, but the real diversity among the races 
 comes from their different sets of military units. Like in Age of Wonders, the lowest-level units 
 of each side are roughly similar, but the more-powerful units are increasingly divergent, and many 
 of them have interesting and often devastating special abilities.           You'll have a lot of 
 things to keep track of.    

  In the meantime, you'll conduct research each turn, either to learn a new spell or gain an additional 
 wizard's skill -- Age of Wonders II's wizards all have at least one beneficial skill that lets them 
 cast spells more easily, allow their units to gain more experience from fights, and so on. That 
 you can research additional attributes instead of nothing but new spells is intriguing, but most 
 of the time, you'll find yourself researching another spell. You'll also want to keep an eye on 
 each of your towns, which will periodically grow until they reach the size of a city (the largest 
 size) . This growth can be sped up by developing the population or building certain buildings. Towns 
 have a uniform technology tree -- the most important structures are generally your wizard's tower, 
 which increases the power of your residing wizard, and your war and siege engine buildings, which, 
 when continuously developed, let you create your race's most powerful units and the most powerful 
 siege weapons.   

  You'll also want to form adventuring parties to scout out the land to capture the game's two resources, 
 gold (which can be acquired from structures such as mines and windmills) and mana (which can be 
 acquired from magical fountains called nodes) . Should you encounter any enemies (and you will) , 
 you'll be given the option to fight them in tactical or quick combat. Tactical combat takes place 
 on a 3D isometric map, as in the original game, while quick combat lets the computer automatically 
 resolve the fight and is a great time-saver. And finally, while you're adventuring, you'll come 
 into contact with other wizards and races, who may be hostile or friendly to you, and with Age 
 of Wonders II's gods, who may offer you certain short-term quests in exchange for rewards of resources, 
 items, and magic spells.    

 It's a lot to take in, though the game's interface does a decent job of letting you quickly jump 
 to any points of interest (such as each of your towns and your next active stack) . As in the original 
 game, Age of Wonders II has a scrolling message box that indicates important actions, such as battles 
 and captured resources, and you can click on each message to jump to the part of the map where 
 the action took place. Unfortunately, the interface isn't perfect. It's a bit cramped, and the 
 game doesn't have many hotkey shortcuts, or any kind of quick reference card that shows its hotkeys, 
 so you'll often be stuck with clicking on the game's small text and icons. There are also other 
 minor issues with the interface, such as the fact that you can't cancel a move order for a stack 
 on the map -- meaning that if you assign a stack to move a long distance, as you'll generally want 
 to do in the later game, you can't change the order once the unit begins moving, which can be inconvenient 
 if you happen to pass by an enemy who wasn't there the previous turn. Though there are a few other 
 minor issues of this sort, there aren't any really serious problems with Age of Wonders II's interface 
 otherwise, even though there's so much going on.           Age of Wonders II does have a few minor 
 issues.    

  There are some other issues in the game itself, though they don't significantly detract from Age 
 of Wonders II's otherwise superb gameplay. For instance, even though the sequel has an expanded 
 diplomacy system that lets you contact other wizards and races, it's still rather meaningless. 
 A hostile wizard is just as likely to declare war on you, offer a treaty, steal your resources 
 on the map, or attempt to negotiate a joint declaration of war against a third wizard. However, 
 diplomacy has been improved with new options, including the handy ability to trade resources and 
 researched spells, much like in Master of Magic and the Civilization games. Also, even though Age 
 of Wonders II still has ancient ruins, small camps, and other map structures that are guarded by 
 monsters, the sequel no longer has the fog-of-war-covered dungeon-crawls for these structures that 
 were in the first game. Some fans may be upset by this, but others will be glad they're gone. Furthermore, 
 like the original retail release of Age of Wonders, Age of Wonders II doesn't let you group-select 
 multiple units in battle to move them all at once, which can be inconvenient in large sieges in 
 which you want to move all your armies into place -- though a patch was released for the original 
 game with this feature, and hopefully the developers will make a similar patch for the sequel. 
 In addition, Age of Wonders II no longer has double underground levels. The original game's maps 
 had up to three levels to explore: outdoors, underground, and deeper underground. The sequel lacks 
 the third underground level, but the maps still tend to be huge, and the game's map editor lets 
 you build even bigger ones.           The sequel has improved tactical combat.    

  Despite these things, traversing Age of Wonders II's large, sprawling maps in search of treasure 
 and resources is extremely engaging, and it's a great way to spend a relaxing afternoon or a late 
 night. It can be highly satisfying to watch your kingdom grow because you've captured and held 
 important locations on the map and wisely allocated just enough resources and troops to fight off 
 your enemies while not spreading yourself too thin. But you should be warned that if you're playing 
 a single-player game, your computer opponent will often be very aggressive about trespassing on 
 your territory and stealing your resources, especially on higher difficulty levels. Age of Wonders 
 II also features multiplayer options via LAN, Internet, and play-by-email. Playing a turn-based 
 game such as this can be extremely time-consuming, though in the case of Age of Wonders II, this 
 is alleviated somewhat since by default, players take their turns simultaneously.   

  Tactical combat in Age of Wonders II has even more to it than in the previous game. More units 
 have more special abilities, and wizards can research summoning spells that create powerful allies 
 as well. It's as fun as ever to pit an army against an evenly matched foe and, through superior 
 tactics and planning, come out ahead in the end. Unfortunately, tactical combat has one pretty 
 severe flaw -- your units' ability to hit and damage their enemies can fluctuate wildly, and often 
 for the worse, despite the fact that many units can attack multiple times. Every so often, you'll 
 see your powerful, high-level unit or hero miss repeatedly, or hit for a measly one point of damage, 
 while receiving a savage beating from low-level units that should barely even be able to score 
 a hit. This problem is especially severe for ranged units, since Age of Wonders II features a whole 
 lot of penalties for ranged units that make projectile attacks weaker when they're outside a certain 
 range. In effect, ranged units that have only one attack, such as ballista and crossbowmen, are 
 severely underpowered, as they tend to miss across any kind of distance and often do a very small 
 amount of damage even if they do score a hit. This has the consequence of making ranged units with 
 multiple attacks exponentially more powerful than their single-shot counterparts, since they simply 
 have more chances to hit per turn.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Age of wonders 2 picks up from where the first game left off, where the valley of wonders has been 
 saved from all out chaos and has been returned to its rightful owners. it seems that some power-hungry 
 wizards who used to be united have gone awol and the world is again under threat, as the magical 
 balance from the first game has been broken. you must unite or destroy these wizards to save the 
 valley of wonders from them. this premise seems sound, and it is for the most part - some of the 
 twists from the storyline are compelling and overcoming the various challenges is rewarding - however, 
 i played the first game and it seems to me that there are quite a few continuity errors that stumped 
 me for a while. to name a couple of these problems:
  
  In the first game, Yaka is a God. now he is just a man and this isnt fully explained.
  
  The 
 Azracs and Lizardmen have been replaced, seemingly wiped out by something but it never describes 
 how properly. also the new races are intorduced without any adequate explanation of their motives 
 or history.
  
  Anyway, as i said, if you can avoid being caught up in these aspects then the game is highly rewarding. 
 Although there is little in the way of voice acting, the characters seem to have personalities 
 from the text messages they send you in the middle of a level.
  
  The only other thing to note about the story is that there is no multiple endings, unlike AoW 1
 
  
  The gameplay is fun and well balanced - it takes longer to produce a factions best unit thus giving 
 weaker units a purpose. before in the first game i used to just go gun-ho with red dragons or nature 
 elementals etc rather than using a proper army. It makes the game deeper. this is furthered by 
 the way the base system works. obviously all of these new features take a long time to learn, especially 
 for someone set in the ways of the first game. its drastically different, and to learn the features 
 in competitive games is drastrically hard. (The tutorial is not much help either) . if you can learn 
 it then you are bound to find an affinity for the outcome of your troubles... well, you would be 
 able to if not for the spells...
  
  Picture this - your playing a fun game against the AI. you have been playing for about an hour 
 when suddenly they start using global spells that weaker units simply cant do anything against. 
 Everything that the game should be in late game is squashed under the weight of some idiot using 
 'fire domain' and the gameplay becomes restricting and, well, boring. Who on earth came up with 
 these over powered spells? the mind boggles.
  
  As a Turn based strategy, this game is decent, just so long as you can wipe out your enemies before 
 they can use OP spells. in the end though, the first one must be said to be better because of its 
 moderate use of magic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshianup06
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Fantasy characters, beautiful fairyland, classical turn-base game play, extremely beautiful music 
 following game sequence and makes you feel mentally buffed after a victory. This is an awesome 
 game full of fun and easy to pass time with. Lots of variations is types of characters and power 
 of variety of wizards. This game will keep anyone busy and music will keep refreshing the player 
 as they keep planning their strategies. By the end of the game, you wish it were longer and continued 
 throughout months. The loading times are really fast for any average PC and the game is always 
 ready to lock and load anytime. this game gives you so much with so little.
  
  Hierarchy of army from cheap, and weak to massively strong and expensive army units will keep motivating 
 players to play more and more rather and end up everything in few turns. The upkeep system that 
 regulates your units will limit your advancement and will motivate you to keep active with motivation 
 of invasion. But the most fun thing about this game is there are lots lots and lots of different 
 units that you can control or battle with and there are NP units that will just go around messing 
 through the map with you as well as with your enemy. It is fun to mess back with them. 
  thought looks tough, learning to play this game will only take few minutes and before you know, 
 you are good enough to challenge your friends online, easy to learn and easy to play as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcarer2569
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  really enjoyed playing this game and still would but my disk broke in half : ( enough different 
 civilizations to keep you playing, loads of different units, large maps. its got everything really. 
 similar fighting style to a total war game with a overview campaign map and a separate battle map 
 which changes depending on where you are in the campaign map. although there aren't thousands of 
 troops in the battles, they have enough kick in them to make the dozen or so troops you would normally 
 take into a battle feel like a powerful army. the wizards you start with in particular can change 
 the outcome of a battle with stunning looking spells and powerful area affect spells as well as 
 casting magic beings on the campaign map which you can then take into battle with you. all of this 
 together makes for a good combination between brute force and cunning magic. The resources system 
 is complicated enough to make it interesting but not so overly complicated that it becomes frustrating. 
 All in all a fun and interesting experience, not a perfect game but still very very good. highly 
 recommended to anybody who enjoys games similar to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drako45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a very enjoyable game for anyone interested in strategy games or fantasy. It really does 
 belong in the category of strategy; smaller and weaker forces (armies) can take out larger more 
 dangerous opponents if the fight is fought intelligently, this makes the game very playable and 
 durable. Playing this game is very addictive, you can spend a lot of time playing it because you 
 can always create more scenarios with the editor that comes with the game. It has some bugs, but 
 by now there should be plenty of patches. Over all I would give this game an 8.7, it is a very 
 great game to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  The original Age of Wonders was something of a cult classic. It didn't set any sales records, but 
 it did quietly develop a loyal following of gamers attracted to its great gameplay and strategic 
 depth. Now the game's sequel, Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's Throne, has arrived, adding new features 
 to the game while trying to preserve the elements that made the original so enjoyable. If you played 
 Age of Wonders, then I'll just tell you right now that you will undoubtedly enjoy the sequel. The 
 gameplay has remained essentially true to the original, with some enhancements and graphical improvements, 
 as well as new units and spells. If you are new to the series, don't worry; Age of Wonders II stands 
 on its own and you won't be confused or at any disadvantage if you missed the first game. At its 
 core, Age of Wonders II is a turn-based game set in a high fantasy world. Play takes place on colorful, 
 animated maps which are home to cities, income and mana producing points, dungeons and ruins, and 
 an assortment of wandering monsters. Many maps also feature a subterranean level as well, effectively 
 doubling the size of the maps and providing you with a potential way to sneak up on less vigilant 
 opponents. As in most strategy games, control of the cities and income points is critical to success, 
 as units are created in the cities and bought with gold from the income producers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chic-warmer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Great Game!!
  Infact, its good enough to be on the top of its genre.. NO KIDDING! Although its garphics are pretty 
 standard, it makes up for it with great gameplay and strategy. This game has pretty much got everthing 
 a good strategy game needs to be at the top of its class. Its very addictive once you gradually 
 understand its interface&gt; takes a little getting used to but you'll get the hang of it with a 
 little patience &amp; BRAINS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I have played. I love it so much. First of all, because Evil &amp; Good 
 is very obvious in the game. The way you build cities &amp; Armies, shatter Evil &amp; distribute 
 Good on the World, it is a very good feeling you feel when you think you want to something for 
 Good. I think this is why Age of Wonders is the most close to my heart till now, even many games 
 is released talking about the same subject but with different way. Thank you very much for this 
 game. It is really Perfect at least to me..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I mentioned Master of Magic, an old game that you can download at www. the-underdogs. org for free 
 along with hundreds of other gems that have fallen through the cracks of the industry, since that 
 is what immediately came to mind when I first played the demo for this game a few weeks ago. The 
 games are very similar in gameplay and interface with the noted exception of Master of Magic being 
 a superior game and Age of Wonders 2 having superior presentation. Then again, the games are separated 
 by about a decade but it is still interesting to see how the apple did not fall very far from the 
 tree. 
  
  The Age of Wonders 2 campaign places your wizard (named Merlin, *groan*) who sits in a tower, naturally, 
 while your armies of soldiers, summoned creatures, and heroes basically kill off everyone else. 
 In this regard, Age of Wonders 2 is not vastly far removed from many other fantasy turn-based strategy 
 games on the market but it is nontheless well put together and very fun.
  
  The campaign has Merlin travel the land in a series of episodes each tied to a particular sphere 
 of magic. The story is sparse and continuity between the episodes is odd but with a little willing 
 suspension of disbelief it is surmountable. For example, you begin in the Fire episode and soon 
 gain a hero who is marginally tougher than a generic knight. At the end of the Fire episode, my 
 hero was deadly, loaded down with artifacts, and did not need any troops with him as they only 
 slowed him down. I had researched all the spells and skills and was wondering how the game was 
 going to challenge me. The answer came when I began the next episode, the Water Sphere. I learned 
 that my hero was absent and replaced with a new one and Merlin had conveniently forgotten all of 
 his skills and was now an amateur Water Wizard instead of a nasty piece of work Fire Wizard. I 
 felt a little cheated.
  
  This pattern of amnesia does serve to artifically pace the game and introduce you to each of the 
 races and spheres of magic so I cannot fault the game too much. I would never have played as a 
 Water Wizard had the game not forced me too. Similarly, I would never willingly use halflings unless 
 I was launching them out of catapults or feeding them to my orcs. I reckon it is good to try new 
 things though.
  
  Economics are very subdued in the game. You only deal with gold and mana. Resource points that 
 produce gold are easily taken but often not worth the effort to garrison as the enemy often captures 
 them then runs off allowing you to recapture them. This give-and-take occurs constantly throughout 
 the game and is irritating but rarely an issue. What is annoying is that the computer adopts a 
 siege mentality whenever you close in on their wizard. The computer will stockpile ballistas and 
 sit behind their walls forcing you to invade. Every level I have played ends with me parking an 
 army or nine outside the enemy's city and hurling men at the walls until it falls. Alternatively, 
 if your hero is stout enough you can park him outside and entice the enemy to attack him. 
  
  The game is challenging as the AI makes very good use of teleporters and underground passes 
 to flank you. However, the computer does not make great choices when it comes to making army stacks 
 or battle tactics. Still, it can definitely keep you occupied on the higher difficulty levels.
 
  
  Graphically, the game has very well detailed maps and the spell effects are good, if not spectacular. 
 Character models have a limited range of animations but are easily recognizable. I would have liked 
 each hero to be distinct instead of a generic hero for each race. On one level, you have two elven 
 heroes who are identical in appearance on the map and in battle. You have to physically select 
 them to see who is who -- adding a hat to one of the models would have made battles and map movement 
 a much simpler affair. 
  
  Sound effects are a little weak but some of the explosive spells are really rocking out my subwoofer. 
 The musical score is unobtrusive and appropriate, none of the tracks really stood out as outstanding 
 or awful. Nowhere near the beauty of Heroes of Might and Magic IV, but music really comes down 
 to personal preference. I did love the death scream of halflings though. A battlefield littered 
 with those fat shoeless freaks is heart-warming no matter whether you won or lost. 
  
  All in all, Age of Wonders 2 is a fun game if you like similar games. It adds interesting elements, 
 is solid in gameplay, and has a good variety of units. Being a few years old, it is easy to find 
 at a reasonable price. Still, if you can handle 1994 era graphics, Master of Magic delivers a better 
 experience. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20648505842410216584325484843111-sonnycX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  Age of Wonders II The Wizard's Throne is a very complex game that may seem too difficult to newcomers 
 to the series. Like in other fantasy strategy games, you create an army to explore a large map, 
 seize resources and treasures, and fight groups of enemy soldiers or wandering monsters. 
  
  Like the original Age of Wonders, the sequel lets you fight each battle in a tactical turn-based 
 combat mode but you'll often find yourself concerned with other things like the progress of your 
 cities and their buildings, researching new magic spells or new abilities. 
  
  Age of Wonders II has a dozen playable races. Each playable race can recruit armies that include 
 priest units, siege engines and other military units.
  The real diversity among the races comes from their different sets of military units. Like in Age 
 of Wonders, the lowest-level units of each side are similar, but the more-powerful units are increasingly 
 divergent, and many of them have interesting and often devastating special abilities. 
  In each turn you can research new abilities and spells, either to learn a new spell or gain an 
 additional wizard's skill.
  
  Age of Wonders II has a lot to offer to everybody who plays it. It may seem difficult for beginners 
 (I know this because i'm also a beginner and it took me forever to learn it but once i've learned 
 it it offered a very satisfying experience) . 
  In the end Age of Wonders II The Wizard's Throne sounds good, looks great and plays great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabioshinichi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  It's a bit old but I still play this game until now. Althought it's a some sort of easy I get a 
 lot of fun playing it. It's easy to learn and has a great, long enough history line with challenges 
 from different types of enemies and great enhanceable heros and units.
  
  The resource management is very simple and easy to control. The research of magics lets you smash 
 down your foes and greatly enhance you heros and units abilities. But the great point in this game 
 is the battle engine! I really love it and nevermore saw it in other games... As it is a turn based 
 style you can control all units at the same time without losing control when you got a lot of them. 
 You gain a great bonus behind walls ans that can shift the battle to your favor when defending! 
 Really the best I've ever seen.
  
  To me, it's a 9 score game that I enjoy always I can. I'm ansiously waiting for a sequel or a similar 
 game with that battle system and history line... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:07 pm PT
Review:  There aren't enough good turn-based games out there, but there is at least one that is superior: 
 "Age of Wonders 2". I found this game to be as challenging, enjoyable, and addictive as my favorite 
 turn-based games of all time: "Civilization" and "Colonization". It has the perfect blend of economics, 
 empire-building, advancement, and fighting that you need to make a great game.
  
  This game is loaded with the decisions and trade-offs that make a good strategy game nailbiting. 
 Should I build a few military units to defend my city in the short term against a rush, or should 
 I build up the structures in the city for the long term? Should I research a good battlefield spell, 
 or one that will increase the income generated by my empire? The magic system is excellent too. 
 The wizards in the game have very powerful abilities, but your ability to use them is highly limited. 
 Sometimes you might be only able to cast one or two spells in a turn, but one spell can turn the 
 tide of a battle. Besides cities, there are lots of important strategic points in the game, like 
 magical relay points that extend your domain (which is the only place that you can use magic) . 
 
  
  Most strategy games of this type don't offer much in the way of tactics. Battles are usually somewhat 
 simple affairs that you don't have much control over. One of the special features that AoW2 has 
 is that you get to play out battles on the battlefield. When a big army of yours tries to capture 
 a city, for example, the view switches to a blow-up of the city, and you command your units one-by-one. 
 The battles are a lot of fun to play out, but you can put them on automatic if you get tired of 
 them. Different units have different strengths and weaknesses, and advantages in certain situations. 
 For instance, when I am attacking an enemy wizard's castle, I have my cannons smash the gate, and 
 then send in the cavalry to race right to the wizard and take him out. Once you figure out how 
 to conduct your units in battle well, you can formulate a high-level strategy for winning them. 
 That is what makes this game such a rare perfect blend of strategy and tactics. 
  
  The game is somewhat complicated, but it is not tedious because of it. You can pick up general 
 concepts and strategies and then dig deeper after that. That is why AoW2 is such a perfect mix 
 of complexity and playability. The interface could use more hot keys, but other than that, it is 
 great and it makes the game managable. That's another way of saying that this game is highly polished.
 
  
  The game's fantasy setting is very well done. There are a lot of different races, and although 
 some units are somewhat redundant, every race has at least one or two unique units that make it 
 special. Probably, the weakest area of Age of Wonders 2 is the lack of strategic variety between 
 races. Every race gets to build the same city structures, and thus, the strategy for winning hardly 
 changes for each race. The maps are beautifully decked out in bright colors, and the game has some 
 great looking units. The wizard portraits look great as well, but the units are kind of small and 
 lacking in detail. The game doesn't look quite as pretty as say, Warcraft 3, but it still looks 
 great. 
  
  The music and sound bites for the game are high quality, but what they lack is variety. Lots of 
 different units share the same sound bites, so much that you might get sick of hearing them after 
 a while. Similarly, music for the game is excellent, but the soundtrack isn't very long, so you 
 will hear it loop a lot during the game's 19 scenarios. That is saying a lot, because each scenario 
 in the single player campaign is as much as 10 hours long. That means you will be playing possibly 
 for months before you finish it. Diplomacy is also a somewhat weak link in "Age of Wonders 2", 
 since most of your missions involve defeating one or more wizards, and diplomacy is almost pointless. 
 
  
  That's about the only fault that I find in this outstanding game. If you are like me and you have 
 been searching for that great turn-based strategy game, then look no further. Prepare for some 
 sleep deprivation, and break out the munchie foods. You're going to need them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortuus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2004 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game has held my interest for quite some time. I have owned it for over a year and in that 
 time, I have played this game for well more than eighty hours. Age of Wonders 2 is a turned based 
 strategy game set in a fantasy world. 
  
  The single player campaign is very straight forward and lacks any real innovation. You play as 
 a wizard named Merlin. Merlin is trying to save his people, the humans, from extinction and trying 
 to restore the human kingdom to it's former glory. To do this, he must dabble in all the different 
 types of magic and restore the balance that was lost.
  Every mission focuses around a certain sphere of magic (earth, air, fire, water, life, death, cosmos) . 
 The story is bland and predictable and certainly not the high point of the game.
  
  The multiplayer (whether against human or computer opponents) is where the fun of the game lies. 
 It is like a very complicated and elaborate game of chess. The strategy can become very interesting 
 when playing against human opponents, although few people play live games anymore. If you want 
 to play against a human, your best bet would be a PBEM (Play By E-Mail) game, where the games data 
 files are sent via email. These games take a long time to complete, but they are still fun none-the-less. 
 In multiplayer games, you can choose to play as any wizard (even a custom made one) , and command 
 any race, and any sphere of magic. The multiplayer turns into an all-out brawl with devastating 
 spells, massive armies, territorial control, and a mix of brutal and sneaky tactics. You can forge 
 alliances and make beneficial trades to make certain of your survival.
  
  Though the game is very good, I still prefer the original over this one. The new graphics are hardly 
 enough to win me over. The first game allowed for twelve simultaneous players while this one only 
 allows for eight. Also, there is just something about the gameplay of Age of Wonders 2 that just 
 doesn't quite live up to the gameplay of the first one.
  
  Age of Wonders and Age of Wonders 2 are two very similar, yet very different games. If someone 
 asked me which they should buy, I would tell them to buy both.
  
  If you are looking for a solid turn-based strategy game and like the fantasy setting, then by all 
 means, pick up this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
